whether the appellant herein and his father had sublet the premises in question in or about 1960 in terms of section 131e of the bombay rents hotel and lodging house rates control act1947.
hereinafter called the rent act is the question involved in this appeal by special leave from the judgment and order of the high court of gujarat dated 21st of august1979.
weaving works and according to the terms of tenancy suit premises were leased for manufacturing cloth in the name of ahmedabad fine.
the said partnership deed records six persons who were to run the business in manufacturing and selling bharat neon signs tubes.
it may be mentioned that the partnership deed exhibit 114 was executed by six persons and at that stage the appellant or his father were not partners in the firm.
the main question in issue in this appeal as well as before the high court in revision was whether there was a genuine partnership at the appellant was a partner.
it is well settled that if there was such a partnership firm of which the appellant was a partner as a tenant the same would not amount to subletting leading to the forfeiture of the tenancy.
this view is now concluded by the decision of this court in madras bangalore transport co west v inder singh and others1986 3 s c c 62 1986.
there was an appeal before the court of small causes bombay and by judgment and order delivered by the court of small causes bombay on 18th of august1977it was held that the learned trial judge had erred in passing a decree for possession on the ground of subletting change of user and breach of terms of tenancy.
it was further alleged by the landlord that the appellant had unlawfully sublet the major part of the premises in question of both the suits to defendant nos 2 to 5 in the original suit and these defendants were running business in partnership for manufacturing of neon signs in the name of bharat neon signs.
for the purpose of the suit no 553 of 1969 with which the appeal is concerned it is relevant to state that the appellant had raised the contention that ahmedabad fine weaving works was not the tenant of the suit premies but the suit premises was tenanted by the father of the appellant girdharlal chimalal in 1938 and he was the original tenant of the premises and appellant subsequently joined the business of his father as a partner and the name of the partnership firm was ahmedabad fine weaving works.
the appellate court so far as the material for the present appeal is concerned held that there was no subletting and there was only carrying on of the business in partnership with defendants nos 2 to 5 in the name of bharat neon signs.
all these tests were borne in mind by the court of small causes bombay in the appeal from the decision of the learned trial judge.
one point was emphasised by mr mehta learned counsel appearing for the respondents that the original first partnership deed did not mention the appellant or his father as a partner.
these deeds were there the partners were crossexamined there was no specific evidence as to from what date the firm started functioning from the particular premises in question.
there was evidence of suit of dissolution of the partnership where none of the partners took the plea that it was a false or a fictitious document.
though the decree in the dissolution suit was not binding in these proceedings inter se between the parties as partners it is a piece of evidence which can not be wholly ignored.
that in the partnership deed which is not necessary to recite the terms the petitioner was completely excluded in operating the bank accounts etc.
it was recited that the work of the partnership would be done by the parties of the fourth fifth sixth seventh and eighth as per advice and instructions of the first second and third.
clauses 6 and 7 of the said partnership deed recited inter alia as follows 6 the year of accounts of our partnership shall be aso vadi 30th day i e diwali and the first account year is decided to be the aso vadi 30th day of samvat year 2017 while settling accounts at the close of the year33 amount from the sum which may remain as net profit after deducting all expenditures viz interest discount rent of the shop rent of the godown insurance brokerage travelling telegrams postage salaries of employees etc shall be carried to reserve fund and thereafter in the sum that remains as net profit the shares of us the partners have been fixed as under 7 while settling accounts at the close of the year if the sum less than rs 1500 falls to the 0 03 shares of the partners of the seventh and eighth parts the amount falling short has to be debited towards the head of expenditure and rs 1500 fifteen hundred only have to be paid in full to each of them two and in those circumstances or if there be loss the parties of the seventh or eighth parts have not been held liable therefore and in the year or losses it has been decided to pay rs 1500 fifteen hundred only to each of them after debiting the same towards the head of expenditure and in the year of losses nothing has to be carried to the reserve fund and the loss has to be borne by us to parties first to sixth parts in the following proportion 8 clause 8 empowered the operating of the bank accounts by partners other than the appellant and his father.
the relevant portion of the partnership deed reads as follows to wit the parties of the first to sixth parts out of us deceased khristi girdharbhai chimanlal and shah virchand keshavji had jointly started the business of manufacturing and selling neon signs tubes in partnership in ahmedabad from 4 10 1960in the name and style of bharat neon signs.
thereof are as under. 1 the entire work of our partnership has to be carried out in the name of bharat neon signs.
2 the work to be carried out by our partnership is of manufacturing and selling neon signs tubes and of obtaining orders therefore.
in any event all these factors were considered by the court of small causes bearing in mind the correct legal principles.
scr 933 1961 indlaw sc 157 had to consider section 351 of the delhi ajmer rent corntrol act1952.
the high court may at any time call for the record of any case under this act for the purpose of satisfying itself that a decision made therein is according to law and may pass such order in relation thereto as it thinks fit.
it was held in the majority judgment by hidayatuiiah j as the learned chief justice then was that though section 35 of the delhi and ajmer rent control act was worded in general terms but it did not create a right to have the case re heard.
the power to hear a revision is generally given to a superior court so that it may satisfy itself that a particular case is decided according to law.
kapur j who delivered a separate judgment however observed that the power under section 351 of the said act of interference by the high court is not restricted to a proper trial according to law or error in regard to onus of proof or proper opportunity of being heard.
the revisional authority could ensure that there was no miscarriage of justice and the principles of law have been correctly borne in mind the facts had been properly comprehended in that light.
if that was done in a particular case then the fact that the revisional authority or the high court might have arrived to a different conclusion is irrelevant.
this principle was reiterated in krishnawati v hans raj1974 2 s c r 524 1973 indlaw sc 208 which was dealing with section 392 of the delhi rent control act1958 in second appeal.
it was observed that under section 392 of the said act the high court could interfere in second appeal only if there was a substantial question of law.
it was sufficient for the rent court to proceed on the finding that the appellant and s were living together as husband and wife whether they were legally married or not.
