it was just the other day that our brothers ranganath misra and m m dutt jj had to give directions in a case vincent panikurbangara v union of india where a public spirited litigant had complained about the unscrupulous exploitation of the indian drug and pharmaceutical market by multinational corporations by putting in circulation low quality and even deleterious drugs.
the price which the manufacturer of barlagan kotone reported to the central government in 1971 was rs 24735 68 per kg.
profiteering in the scarce resources of the community much needed life sustaining food stuffs and lifesaving drugs is diabolic.
t must be remembered that article 39b enjoins a duty on the state towards securing that the ownership and control of the material resources of the community are so distributed as best to subserve the common good.
in particular section 32c enables the central government to make an order providing for controlling the price at which any essential commodity may be bought or sold.
but where the legislature has not chosen to provide for any notice or hearing no one can insist upon it and it will not be permissible to read natural justice into such legislative activity.
it has also been said rule making is normally directed toward the formulation of requirements having a general application to all members of a broadly identifiable class while an adjudication on the other hand applies to specific individuals or situations.
again adjudication determines past and present facts and declares rights and liabilities while legislation indicates the future course of action.
we also wish to clear a misapprehension which appears to prevail in certain circles that price fixation affects the manufacturer or producer primarily and therefore fairness requires that he be given an opportunity and that fair opportunity to the manufacturer or producer must be read into the procedure for price fixation.
2 scr 526 1971 indlaw sc 291 a constitution bench of the court observed that the dominant object and the purpose of the legislation was the equitable distribution and availability of commodities at fair price and if profit and the producer 's return were to be kept in the forefront it would result in losing sight of the object and the purpose of the legislation.
it was to be remembered that the mere fact that some of those were engaged in the industry trade or commerce allegedthat they were incurring loss would not render the law stipulating the price unreasonable.
the cases of panipat sugar mills and anakapalle co operative agricultural society were distinguished on the ground that they were governed by sub section 3c of sec.
the case of premier automobiles was distinguished on the ground that the decision was rendered by invitation and on the agreement of the parties irrespective of technical and legal questions.
the court quoted with approval a passage from secretary of agriculture v central reig refining company 330 us 604 stating suffice it to say that since congress fixed the quotas on a historical basis it is not for this court to reweigh the relevant factors and per chance substitute its notion of expediency and fairness for that of congress.
it was also reiterated that the decision in shree meenakshi mills case was based on a special agreement between the parties and therefore had no relevance to the question before them.
referring to shri meenakshi mills the learned cj reaffirmed the approval accorded to the statement in secretary of agriculture v central reig refining company supra that courts of law could not be converted into tribunals for relief from the crudities and inequities of complicated experimental economic legislation.
panipat sugar and anakappalle society were again referred to and it was pointed out that those cases turned on the language of section 33c of the essential commodities act.
who delivered a separate opinion for himself and for desai j agreed that the judgment in premier automobiles was not to provide a precedent in price fixation case.
1 wlr 1973 that the rules of natural justice do not run in the sphere of legislation primary or delegated was cited with approval and two well known text books writers paul kackson and wades h w r were also quoted.
the former had said there is no doubt that a minister or any other body in making legislation for example by statutory instrument or by law is not subject to the rules of natural justice bates v lord hailsham of st marylebone supra any more than is parliament itself edinburgh and dalkeith rv v wauchope per lord brougham 1842 8 cl f 700 720 british railways board v pickin 1974 1.
in sarkari sasta anaj vikreta sangh v state of madhya pradesh 1981 4 scc 471 1981 indlaw sc 607 it was pointed out that the amendment of the madhya pradesh food stuffs distribution control order was a legislative function and there was therefore no question of affording an opportunity to those who were to be affected by it.
in prag ice and oil mills were quoted with approval in connection with the fixation of prices of food stuffs served in restaurants.
the right to object however seems to be given at the stage of proposals of the tax only as a concession to requirements of fairness even though the procedure is legislative and not quasi judicial.
panipat and anakapalle were both cases where the question was regarding the price payable to a person who was required to sell to the government a certain percentage of the quantity of sugar produced in his mill.
the order made under section 32c which is not in respect of a single transaction nor directed to particular individual is clearly a legislative act while an order made under section 33c which is in respect of a particular transaction of compulsory sale from a specific individual is a non legislative act.
the most famous pre apa attempt to explain the difference between legislative and judicial functions was made by justice holmes in prentis v atlantic coast line co a judicial inquiry said he investigates declares and enforces liabilities as they stand on present or past facts and under laws supposed already to exist.
legislation on the other hand looks to the future and changes existing conditions by making a new rule to be applied thereafter to all or some part of those subject to its power.
the key factor in the holmes analysis is time a rule prescribes future patterns of conduct a decision determines liabilities upon the basis of present or past facts.
according to chief justice burger rulemaking is normally directed toward the formulation of requirements having a general application to all members of a broadly identifiable class.
we may now turn our attention to the two drugs prices control order of 1970 and 1979 both of which were made by the central government in exercise of its powers under section 3 of the essential commodities act.
the hathi committee noticed that in a country like india where general poverty and the wide disparities in levels of income between different sections existed it was particularly important to emphasise the social utility of the industry and the urgent need for extending as rapidly as possible certain minimum facilities in terms of preventive and curative medicines to the large mass of people both urban and rural.
the hathi committee had recommended that a return post tax between 12 to 14 on equity that is paid up capital plus reserves may be adopted as the basis for price fixation depending on the importance and complexity of the bulk drug.
alternatively all formulations other than those marketed under generic names which have an annual sale in the country in excess of rs 15 lakhs inclusive of excise duty may be subjected to price control irrespective of whether or not the total annual turnover of the unit is in excess of rs 1 crore.
the ceiling price will be determined taking into account the production costs and a reasonable return for the units which are the market leaders.
yet another variant of a selectivity according to the hathi committee would be to identify product groups which individually are important and which collectively constitute the bulk of the output of the industry.
paragraph 3 of the 1979 order enables the government with a view to regulating the equitable distribution of any indigenously manufactured bulk drug specified in the first or the second schedule and making it available at a fair price and after making such enquiry as it deems fit to fix from time to time by notification in the official gazette the maximum price at which the bulk drug shall be sold.
paragraph 6 enables the government to fix the maximum sale price of imported bulk drugs specified in first and second schedules.
a note at the end of the proforma requires the exclusion from cost certain items of expenses such as bonus in excess of statutory minimum bad debts and provisions donations and charities loss gain on sale of assets brokerage and commission expenses not recognised by income tax authorities and adjustments relating to previous years.
he urged that the government had always been ready and wilting to give a proper hearing to the parties and in fact gave them a heating in connection with their review applications.
great emphasis was laid on the second clause of paragraph 3 of the 1979 order which provides that in fixing the price of a bulk drug the government may take into account the average cost of production of such bulk drug manufactured by an efficient manufacturer and allow a reasonable return on networth.
it was contended that in any case whatever be the nature of the enquiry and the order contemplated by paragraph 3 the review for which provision made by paragraph 27 was certainly of a quasijudicial character and therefore it was necessary that the manufacturers should be informed of the basis for the fixation of the price and furnished with details of the same in order that they may truly and effectively avail themselves of the remedy of review.
it was stated that the applications of the manufacturers for review of the notifications fixing the prices had not been disposed of for years though time was really of the very essence of the matter.
it was suggested that the delay in disposing of the review applications had the effect of rendering the original notifications fixing the prices unreal and out of date and liable to be struck down on that ground alone.
what is necessary is that the average cost of production by an efficient manufacturer must be ascertained and a reasonable return allowed on net worth.
it is a hearing which follows a subordinate legislative activity intended to provide an opportunity to affected persons such as the manufacturers the industry and the consumer public to bring to the notice of the subordinate legislating body the difficulties or problems experienced or likely to be experienced by them consequent on the price fixation whereupon the government may make appropriate orders.
from the legislative nature of the activity of the government it is clear that the government is under no obligation to make any disclosure of any information received and considered by it in making the order but in order to render effective the right to seek a review given to an aggrieved person we think that the government if so requested by the aggrieved manufacturer is under an obligation to disclose any relevant information which may reasonably be disclosed pertaining to the average cost of production of the bulk drug manufactured by an efficient manufacturer and the reasonable return on net worth.
for example the manufacturer may require the government to give information regarding the particulars detailed in form No 1 of the fourth schedule which have been taken into account and those which have been excluded.
the manufacturer may also require to be informed the elements which were taken into account and those which were excluded in assessing the free reserves entering into the calculation of net worth.
in vrajlal manilal co v union of india anr 1964 indlaw sc 194 supra the court held that the union of india when disposing of an application for review under rule 59 of the mines concession rules functioned as a quasi judicial authority and was bound to observe the principles of natural justice.
the decision rendered without disclosing the report of the state government and without affording reasonable opportunity to the appellants to present their case was contrary to natural justice was therefore void.
in shivaii nathubhai v union of india ors 1960 indlaw sc 430 supra it was decided by the court that the power of review granted to the central government under rule 54 of the mineral concession rules required the authority to act judicially and its decision would be a quasi judicial act and the fact that rule 54 gave power to the central government to pass such order as it may deem just and proper did not negative the duty to act judicially.
in swadeshi cotton mills it was observed that in cases where owing to the compulsion of the fact situation or the necessity of taking speedy action no pre decisional hearing is given but the action is followed soon by a full post decisional hearing to the person affected there is in reality no exclusion of the audi alteram partem rule.
we mentioned that the price fixed by the government may be questioned on the ground that the considerations stipulated by the order as relevant were not taken into account.
the learned counsel argued that they were unable to bring these facts to the notice of the government as they were not furnished the basis on which the prices were fixed.
