the trial court sentenced the appellant to death under section 302 ipc and to undergo rigorous imprisonment for life and pay a fine of rs 10000 in default of payment to undergo further r i for 3 years under section 3762f ipc.
while the learned additional sessions judge made a reference to the high court for confirmation of death sentence under section 366 cr.
in the opinion of one learned judge the circumstantial evidence on which rests the prosecution case was not sufficient to record a finding of guilty against the appellant on any of the charges framed against him.
in view of the difference of opinion the learned acting chief justice assigned the case for hearing by a third judge under section 392 of cr.
kumari s a young child aged about 5 years was last seen at about 4 p m on 18th march 1991 and thereafter she did not return home.
at about 7 a m on 19th march 1991 kishori lal pw4 informed bd pw2 the unfortunate father of s that dead body of a girl was lying near mohalla basera on the outskirts of village kotputli.
bd rushed to the place only to find that the dead body was of none else than his own daughter section blood was oozing out from her mouth and private parts.
at 7 25 a m on 19 3 1991 first information report was lodged by bd at police station kotputli.
the dead body was sent for post mortem examination which was performed at 9 30 a m on the same day by a medical board of three doctors.
all injuries found on the person of the victim could be around 6 of 24 hours old prior to the time of post mortem examina tion.
slides of vaginal swab were prepared for cyto chemical analysis for blood and seminal stains.
and in confirmation of the information led the police to a dry well wherefrom an underwear and baniyan wrapped in a newspaper dated 18 3 1991 were recovered.
it needs no reminder that legally estab lished circumstances and not merely indignation of the court can form the basis of conviction and the more serious the crime the greater should be the care taken to scrutinize the evidence lest suspicion takes the place of proof.
in dhananjoy chatterjee 's case 1994 indlaw sc 1743 supra the decision of this court in sharad birdhichand sarda v state of maharashtra 1984 4 scc 116 1984 indlaw sc 432 was relied on.
in the later case it was also held that a false explanation or false plea taken by the accused can be used as an additional link in the chain of circumstantial evidence subject to satisfication of three essential conditions namely i various links in the chain of evidence led by the prosecution have been satisfactorily proved ii the said circumstance points to the guilt of the accused with reasonable definiteness and iii the circumstance is in proxim ity to the time and situation.
i last seen together on the point of last seen together there is solitary testimony of a child witness shalu pw7 aged about 4 years on 23 3 1992 the date of her examination in the court.
she stated that accompanied by phukla another young girl a cousin of hers and s the deceased she had gone to purchase balloon from the shop of goma.
the statement of shahu was recorded during investigation on 25 3 1991 i e about six days after the date of incident.
the fact remains that the testimony of shalu pw 7 aged 4 years even if taken at its face value does not constitute such a circumstance as to draw an incriminating inference against the accused and connect him with the crime.
abnormal conduct of accused kalu ram pw5 stated that two or three days after the date of dead body of s having been found.
there the accused had enquired from them as to what was the punishment awardable to an offender who was found to have been committed rape on a girl and killed her.
on a pertinent question the witness stated that while making such a query there was no change in the facial expression of the accused that is he had remained normal.
without going into the question as to whether the statement of kalu ram pw5 is to be believed or not in view of the same having not been supported by santosh pw9 let us assess the intrinsic value of such testimony as a piece of incriminating evidence.
the police appears to have embarked upon a search akin to a combing operation and in that process several suspected characters were called and interrogated.
harish chand sharma pw21 stated that between 19th and 25th march 1991 the accused subhash was called at the police station several times for making enquiries.
he did not remember and was therefore not in a position to tell how many number of times the accused subhash was called for interrogation or making enquiries.
on seeing the case diary he stated that on 21 3 1991 the accused was definitely called twice on the same day though there is no mention of what enquiries were made from him.
placed in such situation if a villager unaware of the law happens to ask a person who he feels knows the things better than what he himself does as to what would be the period of incarceration to be suffered by any person for such an offence the impulse for inquiry may be outcome of a feeling of nervousness or mere inquisitiveness such an enquiry is not necessarily suggestive of the working of a criminal mind.
there is not investigation directed towards finding out and no evidence worth its name collected and adduced in the court to show that the underwear and baniyan were of the accused.
shri sushil kumar jain the learned counsel for the accused appellant has placed reliance on shankarlal gyarasilal dixit v state of maharashtra air 1981.
this court held that the presence of blood stain of b group measuring 0 5 cm.
the high court has gone completely amiss in holding that a plea of alibi was taken by the accused and that was found to be false.
although the dead body of the victim was found on the outskirts of the village however there is no material available on record to fix the place and the likely time at which rape was committed on s and then she was murdered.
the accused appears to have been engaged as a causal not regular gate keeper at hira moti a local talkies.
the proprietor of the cinema hall was examined to state that on 18th and 19th march the accused had taken leave from his job and during those days he was not present on duty.
the accused did not avail the opportunity and stood short by simply stating that the statement of cinema owner was not correct.
in law this term is used to express that defence in a criminal prosecution where the party accused in order to prove that he could not have committed the crime charged against him offers evidence that he was in a different place at that time.
the plea taken should be capable of meaning that having regard to the time and place when and where he is alleged to have committed the offence he could not have been present.
we are clearly of the opinion that the accused appellant has not taken a plea of alibi and therefore the question of finding it false and then drawing an inference adverse to him does not arise at all.
according to harish chand sharma the accused was arrested on 3 4 1991 vide exbt.
kalu ram pw5 accompanied by a friend santosh pw9 had gone to see a movie in cinema talkies heera moti two days after the date of the incident and there the accused was present on his duty.
in shankarlal gyarasilal dixit 's case 1980 indlaw sc 47 supra this court cautioned human nature is too willing when faced with brutal crimes to spin stories out of strong suspicions.
