these appeals arising out of a judgment and order dated 26 4 2000 passed in writ petition no 1188 of 1997 by the high court of madhya pradesh indore bench involving similar questions of law and fact were taken up for hearing together and are being disposed of by this common judgment.
respondents had also mentioned in their claim that there was a proposal to hand over the colony of oda project to indore municipal corporation.
as regard the application of the madhya pradesh industrial employment standing orders act 1961 for short the 1961 act and the rules framed there under known as m p industrial employment standing order rules 1963 for short the 1963 rules it was observed that although there was no specific pleadings raised in this behalf by the respondents therein nor any question having been referred to the labour court by the state government touching the said issue it committed an error in granting relief to them on the basis thereof on its own motion.
dr rajiv dhawan learned senior counsel appearing on behalf of the appellants in civil appeal no 337 of 2002 and mr m n rao learned senior counsel appearing on behalf of the appellants in civil appeal no 335 of 2002 took us through materials on records and contended that the appellants herein became permanent employees of the respondents having regard to the provisions contained in section 2 of the 1961 act and order 2i and 2vi of the standard standing orders as set out in the annexure appended to the 1963 rules defining permanent employees and the temporary employees.
placing reliance on several documents which have come into existence at a subsequent stage dr dhawan would contend that vacancies in fact had arisen after passing of the judgment of the high court and thus the services of the appellants should be regularized there against.
it was urged that the expression clear vacancies has to be read in the context of period for which the concerned workman was required to work namely six months.
the learned counsel would argue that the job was required to be performed for six months for which somebody else could have been appointed so as to attract the provisions of the 1961 act and the 1963 rules.
dr dhawan would furthermore contend that the findings of fact had been arrived at by the labour court that the appellants of civil appeal no 337 of 2002 were appointed by the authority and not only their work was being taken in the project but also in other works and thus mere posting of the appellants to the said project would not disentitle them from the benefit of the said act.
the learned counsel would submit that the sufficient materials were brought on records to show that vacancies were available and as the appellants worked for a period of more than six months they became permanent employees in terms of the act.
our attention was also drawn to the application dated 22 10 1991 filed by one o p mandloi before the chairman of the indore development authority disclosing his educational qualifications and enclosing therewith the mark sheets and degrees obtained by him in civil engineering and also secondary school examination certificate to show his date of birth.
it was urged that there does not exist any controversy that oda was to continue before 30 6 1997 and as such the appellants could not have been absorbed by the respondent authority.
it is therefore constitutionally obliged to strictly comply with the requirements of articles 14 and 16 thereof before making any appointment.
it is also not in dispute that the respondent authority has been constituted under madhya pradesh nagar tatha gram nibesh adhiniyam 1973 adhiniyam section 47 whereof mandates that all appointments to the posts of officers and servants included in the state cadre mentioned in section 76 b of the development authority services must be made by the state government and the appointments to the posts of officers and servants included in the local cadre in the said services by the concerned town and country development authority.
the proviso appended to section 47 of the adhiniyam further mandates that no post shall be created in any authority without the prior sanction of the state government.
concededly the respondent authority before making any appointment neither intimated the employment exchange about the existing vacancies if any nor issued any advertisement in relation thereto.
indisputably the conditions precedent for appointment of the officers and servants of the authority as contained in the service rules had not been complied with.
the appointments of the appellants were therefore void ab initio being opposed to public policy as also violative of articles 14 and 16 of the constitution of india.
jt 2004 6 sc 110 2004 indlaw sc 606 a three judge bench of this court of which we were members upon taking into consideration a large number of decisions held although we do not intend to express any opinion as to whether the cooperative society is a state within the meaning of article but it is beyond any cavil of doubt that the writ petition will be maintainable when the action of the cooperative society is violative of mandatory statutory provisions.
jt 2004 8 sc 531 2004 indlaw sc 729 a division bench of this court opined no person illegally appointed or appointed without following the procedure prescribed under the law is entitled to claim that he should be continued in service.
the appointees have no right for regularization in the service because of the erroneous procedure adopted by the concerned authority in appointing such persons.
however having regard to the facts and circumstances of the said case some directions were issued presumably in terms of article 142 of the constitution.
in niadar and another vs delhi administration and another 1992 4 scc 112 1988 indlaw sc 244 again no law has been laid down.
the 1961 act was enacted to provide for rules defining with sufficient precision in certain matters the conditions of employment of employees in undertakings in the state of madhya pradesh.
under sub s 1 of section 6 the state government may by notification apply standard standing orders to such class of undertakings and from such date as may be specified therein.
the statute rules and regulations formed by the state govern the terms and conditions of service of the employees of the respondent.
they might have been subjected to the provisions of the employees provident fund and might have been granted the benefit of leave or given some employment code and their names might have found place in the seniority list amongst others but thereby they can not be said to have been given a permanent ticket.
the so called seniority list which is contained in annexure p 27 whereupon strong reliance has been placed by dr dhawan merely itself goes to show that it was prepared in respect of office muster employees.
the said seniority list was not prepared in terms of the classification of employees within the meaning of the 1961 act and the rules framed there under but was based on the date of joining probably for the purpose of maintenance of records.
it is not the case of the appellants that they had been working as technical supervisors and clerks in respect of which service book may be maintained instead of issuance of a ticket.
the standing orders governing the terms and conditions of service must be read subject to the constitutional limitations wherever applicable.
the only provision as regard recruitment of the employees is contained in order 4 which merely provides that the manager shall within a period of six months lay down the procedure for recruitment of employees and notify it on the notice board on which standing orders are exhibited and shall send copy thereof to the labour commissioner.
in absence of any specific directions contained in the schedule appended to the standing orders the statute and the statutory rules applicable to the employees of the respondent shall prevail.
in m p vidyut karamchari sangh vs m p electricity board 2004 9 scc 755 2004 indlaw sc 198 a three judge bench of this court held that a regulation which is not inconsistent with the provisions of the 1961 act and the rules can be issued by a statutory authority.
furthermore the labour court having derived its jurisdiction from the reference made by the state government it was bound to act within the four corners thereof.
the labour court in absence of any pleadings or any proof as regard application of the 1961 act and the 1963 rules had proceeded on the basis that they would become permanent employees in terms of order 2ii and 2vi of the annexure appended thereto.
