these two appeals involve identical questions and therefore are disposed of by this common judgment after noticing the factual position so far as they are relevant.
the state questioned correctness of the judgment before the high court which as noted above held the g o ms and the govt.
there was no material to show existence of any overriding public interest to rule out application of the aforesaid doctrine there was no scope for retrospective withdrawal.
in response learned counsel for the respondent state submitted that the appellants have failed to adduce any evidence or material to show that were in any way induced by any governmental action to set up industries.
No 1294 dated 24 10 1975 granted exemption from purchase tax on sugarcane in favour of sugar mills established in co operative and public sectors in the form of annual subsidy equivalent to purchase tax on sugarcane.
there was no scope for any mis understanding that it applied to any private sector participation in the sphere of sugar manufacturing.
the commercial productions were started in case of appellants in c a No 86062002 i e ponni sugars erode ltd v govt.
of tamil nadu ors on 27 1 1984 and in c a 86052002 i e bannari amman sugars ltd v commercial tax officer.
the appellants only made representation to government subsequently claiming exemption at par with the cooperative and public sector mills.
the respondents have established their units prior to the government orders granting the subsidy and they have no vested right to claim exemption.
the grant of subsidy is a concession and the government has got good reasons for modifying the scheme in public interest.
with reference to the files produced certain factual conclusions were arrived at the correctness of those form the core challenge in these appeals.
the doctrine of promissory estoppel has assumed importance in recent years though it was dimly noticed in some of the earlier cases.
the leading case on the subject is central london property trust ltd v high trees house ltd 1947 1 k b 130.
the rule laid down in high trees case supra again came up for consideration before the king 's bench in combe v bombe 1951 2 k b 215.
therein the court ruled that the principle stated in high trees 's case supra is that where one party has by his words or conduct made to the other a promise or assurance which was intended to affect the legal relations between them and to be acted on accordingly then once the other party has taken him at his word and acted on it the party who gave the promise or assurance can not afterwards be allowed to revert to the previous legal relationship as if no such promise or assurance had been made by him but he must accept their legal relations subject to the qualification which he himself has so introduced even though it is not supported in point of law by any consideration but only by his word.
the principle enunciated in the high trees case supra was also recognized by the house of lords in tool metal manufacturing co ltd v tungsten electric co ltd 1955.
that principle was adopted by this court in union of india v indo afghan agencies ltd air 1968.
so far as this court is concerned it invoked the doctrine in indo afghan agencies 's case 1967 indlaw sc 411 supra in which is was inter alia laid down that even though the case would not fall within the terms of section 115 of the indian evidence act 1872 in short the evidence act which enacts the rule of estoppel it would still be open to a party who had acted on a representation made by the government to claim that the government should be bound to carry out the promise made by it even though the promise was not recorded in the form of a formal contract as required by article 299 of the constitution.
dixon j an australian jurists in grundt v great boulder gold mines prorietary ltd 1939 59 clr 641 aust laid down as under it is often said simply that the party asserting the estoppel must have been induced to act to his detriment.
although substantially such a statement is correct and leads to no misunderstanding it does not bring out clearly the basal purpose of the doctrine.
this means that the real detriment or harm from which the law seeks to give protection is that which would flow from the change of position if the assumptions were deserted that led to it.
the principle set out above was reiterated by lord denning in high trees 's case supra.
its object is to interpose equity shorn of its form to mitigate the rigour of strict law as noted in anglo afghan aencies 's case1967 indlaw sc 411 supra and sharma transport represented by d p sharma v government of a p and others 2002 2 scc 188 2001 indlaw sc 19917.
the rule of promissory estoppel can be invoked only if on the basis of representation made by the government the industry was established to avail benefit if of exemption.
it was held that the doctrine of promissory estoppel represents a principle evolved by equity to avoid injustice.
a person may have a legitimate expectation of being treated in a certain way by an administrative authority even though he has no legal right in private law to receive such treatment.
the doctrine of legitimate expectation has an important place in the developing law of judicial review.
it is however not necessary to explore the doctrine in this case it is enough merely to note that a legitimate expectation can provide a sufficient interest to enable one who can not point to the existence of a substantive right to obtain the leave of the court to apply for judicial review.
it is generally agreed that legitimate expectation gives the applicant sufficient locus standi for judicial review and that the doctrine of legitimate expectation to be confined mostly to right to a fair hearing before a decision which results in negativing a promise or withdrawing an undertaking is taken.
the doctrine does not give scope to claim relief straightway from the administrative authorities as no crystallized right as such involved.
while the discretion to change the policy in exercise of the executive power when not trammelled by any statute or rule is wide enough what is imperative and implicit in terms of article 14 is that a change in policy must be made fairly and should not give impression that it was so done arbitrarily or by any ulterior criteria.
actions are amenable in the panorama of judicial review only to the extent that the state must act validity for discernible reasons not whimsically for any ulterior purpose.
the meaning and true import and concept of arbitrariness is more easily visualized than precisely defined.
a question whether the impugned action is arbitrary or not is to be ultimately answered on the facts and circumstances of a given case.
this court 's observations in g b mahajan v jalgaon municipal council air 1991 sc 1153 1990 indlaw sc 438 are kept out of lush field of administrative policy except where policy is inconsistent with the express or implied provision of a statute which creates the power to which the policy relates or where a decision made in purported exercise of power is such that a repository of the power acting reasonably and in good faith could not have made it.
the point to note is that the thing is not unreasonable in the legal sense merely because the court thinks it to be unwise.
in hindustan development corporation 's case1993 indlaw sc 1085 supra it was observed that decision taken by the authority must be found to be arbitrary unreasonable and not taken in public interest where the doctrine of legitimate expectation can be applied.
as was observed in punjab communications ltd v union of india of others air 1999 sc 1801 1999 indlaw sc 1548 the change in policy can defeat a substantive legitimate expectation if it can be justified on wednesbury reasonableness.
its uniqueness lies in the fact that it covers the entire span of time present past and future.
as observed in attorney general for new south wale v quinn 1990 64 australian ljr 327 to strike the exercise of administrative power solely on the ground of avoiding the disappointment of the legitimate expectations of an individual would be to set the courts adrift on a featureless sea of pragmatism.
if a denial of legitimate expectation in a given case amounts to denial of right guaranteed or is arbitrary discriminatory unfair or biased gross abuse of power of violation of principles of natural justice the same can be questioned on the well known grounds attracting article 14 but a claim based on mere legitimate expectation without anything more can not ipso facto give a right to invoke these principles.
it can be one of the grounds to consider but the court must lift the veil and see whether the decision is violative of these principles warranting interference.
as cautioned in attorney general for new south wale 's case the courts should restrain themselves and respect such claims duly to the legal limitations.
if the state acts within the bounds of reasonableness it would be legitimate to take into consideration the national priorities and adopt trade policies.
in determining whether there is any unfairness involved the nature of the right alleged to have taken infringed the underlying purpose of the restriction imposed the extent and urgency of the evil sought to be remedied thereby the disproportion of the imposition the prevailing condition at the relevant time enter into judicial verdict the reasonableness of the legitimate expectation has to be determined with respect to the circumstances relating to the trade or business in question.
sc 1823 1964 indlaw sc 103 held that the provisions of the article were only directory and not mandatory in character and if they were not complied with it could still be established as a question of fact that the impugned order was issued in fact by the state government or the governor.
in shrijee sales corporation and anr v union of india 1997 3 scc 398 1996 indlaw sc 1561 it was observed that once public interest is accepted as the superior equity which can override individual equity the principle would be applicable even in cases where a period has been indicated for operation of the promise.
moreover the government is competent to rescind from the promise even if there is no manifest public interest involved provided no one is put in any adverse situation which can not be rectified.
1999 1 scc 573 1997 indlaw sc 1219 it was further held that the government could change its industrial policy if the situation so warranted and merely because the resolution was announced for a particular period it did not mean that the government could not amend and change the policy under any circumstances.
