he allegedly misdeclared both the value and description of goods upon procuring fake and false bills through one prabhjot singh.
the officers of the directorate of revenue intelligence dri searched the factory as well as the residential premises of appellant and that of prabhjot singh.
the consul economicconsulate general of india at dubai allegedly confirmed the existence of a parallel set of export invoices.
on the aforementioned allegations an order of detention was issued on 5 4 2005 appellant moved for issuance of a writ of habeas corpus before the high court of judicature of punjab and haryana.
the said writ petition was dismissed by an order dated 23 11 2005 by a learned single judge.
a letters patent appeal concededly which was not maintainable was filed thereagainst which was dismissed by reason of the impugned judgment.
this appeal however has been pressed as a proceeding under the smugglers and foreign exchange manipulators forfeiture of property act1976 for short safemahas been initiated against appellant.
20 12 2004the authorities of the dri stated that transactions after 11 10 2003 were not under scrutiny.
the learned additional solicitor general who appeared on behalf of respondent has drawn our attention to a long list of dates showing that searches were conducted and statements of a large number of persons had to be recorded.
the final order of detention was preceded not only on the basis of raids conducted in various premises recording of statements of a large number of witnesses carrying on intensive inquiries both within india and outside india obtaining test reports from three different laboratories but also the fact that despite notices appellant and his associates did not cooperate with the investigating authorities.
learned counsel would contend that keeping in view the nature and magnitude of an offence under cofeposa a distinction must be made between an order of detention passed under cofeposa vis a vis other acts as per the law laid down by this court in rajendrakumar natvarlal shah v state of gujarat and others 1988 3 scc 153 1988 indlaw sc 71 and in that view of the matter the high court must be held to have arrived at a correct decision.
we must also notice that in the meantime on 20 12 2004the authorities of the dri had clearly stated that transactions after 11 10 2003 were not under the scrutiny stating in our letter mentioned above your office was requested not to issue the depb scripts to m s girnar impex limited and m s siri amar exports only in respect of the pending application if any filed by these parties up to the date of action i e 11 10 2003 as the past exports were under scrutiny being doubtful as per the intelligence received in this office.
we may also place on record that sen j in rajendrakumar natvarlal shah 1988 indlaw sc 71 suprawhile laying down various stages of the procedures leading to an order of detention opined that rule as to unexplained delay in taking action is not inflexible and a detention under cofeposa may be considered from a different angle.
the question came up for consideration recently in rajinder arora v union of india and others 2006 4 scc 796 2006 indlaw sc 87 wherein it has been held furthermore no explanation whatsoever has been offered by the respondent as to why the order of detention has been issued after such a long time.
the question as regard delay in issuing the order of detention has been held to be a valid ground for quashing an order of detention by this court in t d abdul rahman v state of kerala and others air 1990 sc 225 1989 indlaw sc 205 stating the conspectus of the above decisions can be summarised thus the question whether the prejudicial activities of a person necessitating to pass an order of detention is proximate to the time when the order is made or the live link between the prejudicial activities and the purpose of detention is snapped depends on the facts and circumstances of each case.
no hard and fast rule can be precisely formulated that would be applicable under all circumstances and no exhaustive guidelines can be laid down in that behalf.
serajul v state of west bengal 1975 2 scc 78 1974 indlaw sc 475this court opined there was thus delay at both stages and this delay unless satisfactorily explained would throw considerable doubt on the genuineness of the subjective satisfaction of the district magistrate burdwan recited in the order of detention.
in abdul salam alias thiyyan s o thiyyan mohammad detenu no 962general prison trivandrum v union of india and others 1990 3 scc 15 1990 indlaw sc 994 whereupon the learned additional solicitor general has placed strong reliance this court found that there had been potentiality or likelihood of prejudicial activities and thus or mere delay as long as it is explained the court may not strike down the detention.
in the instant case we have noticed hereinbefore that the authorities of dri themselves categorically stated that the activities of appellant after 11 10 2003 were not in question and in fact all the bank accounts were defreezed.
although learned additional solicitor general may be correct in his submissions that ordinarily we should not exercise our discretionary jurisdiction u art 136 of the constitution of india by allowing appellant to raise new grounds but in our opinion we may have to do so as an order of detention may have to be considered from a different angle.
it may further be true that appellant had remained in detention for the entire period but it is one thing to say that the writ of habeas corpus in this circumstances can not issue but it is another thing to say that an order of detention is required to be quashed so as to enable the detainee to avoid his civil liabilities under safema as also protect his own reputation.
so far as the question of non placement of material documents before the detaining authority is concerned we may notice the following dates i by a letter dated 5 7 2002the authorities of dri stated that appellant stood exonerated for earlier years after detailed examination.
by a letter dated 20 12 2004the authorities of dri stated that transactions after 11 10 2003 were not under scrutiny and by letters dated 28 2 2005 and 7 3 2005the bank accounts of appellant were defreezed.
v by orders dated 31 8 2004 and 28 10 2004the civil judge directed release of documents to appellant.
we have noticed hereinbefore that learned additional solicitor general contended that appellant obstructed the proceedings by initiating various civil litigations.
the question has been considered by this court in rajinder arora 2006 indlaw sc 87 supra stating admittedly furthermore the status report called for from the customs department has not been taken into consideration by the competent authorities.
a division bench of this court in k s nagamuthu v state of tamil nadu ors 2005 9 scale 534 2005 indlaw sc 748 struck down an order of detention on the ground that the relevant material had been withheld from the detaining authority which in that case was a letter of the detenu retracting from confession made by him.
