ujjagar singh the appellant herein a resident of village bangawali tehsil malerkotla was tried and convicted by the additional sessions judge sangrur for the murder of his niece mukhtiar kaur and was awarded the death penalty.
jora singh also met inspector harjinder pal singh pw14 at 4 40 p m near the hospital who recorded his statement at that place and with his endorsement exhibit p a sent it to police station dhuri where the formal fir was registered at about 4 45 p m with the special report being delivered to the illaka magistrate at dhuri itself at 6 20 p m the same evening.
puran singh had died about 20 years earlier leaving behind his wife two sons and a daughter mukhtiar kaur.
the two sons and the wife also died long before the incident and mukhtiar kaur the sole surviving member of this branch of the family had been married to balwinder singh pw9 about 9 or 10 years earlier.
puran singh had however transferred 30 or 35 bighas of agricultural land falling to his share after the death of his father in the name of the appellant 's sons by a collusive decree in the year 1994 and the suggestion was that this transaction had been objected to by mukhtiar kaur who was demanding that the land be returned to her.
it appears that mukhtiar kaur 's relations with her in laws had got strained and she had left her matrimonial home and come to live with ujjagar singh her uncle 7 or 8 months earlier and the suggestion was that mukhtiar kaur had been killed by the appellant with his licensed gun and he had thereafter attempted to commit suicide.
having recorded the aforesaid facts in the fir pw14 inspector harjinder pal singh reached the place of incident and lifted one spent 12 bore cartridge case shaktiman make from near mukhtiar kaur 's dead body and one dbbl gun from the place where ujjagar singh appeared to have been shot and another spent cartridge case was recovered from the right barrel of the gun.
after completion of the investigation at the spot mukhtiar kaur 's dead body was sent for its post mortem examination.
dr harwinder kaur aforesaid also took swabs from the vagina of the deceased and as per the chemical examiner 's report dated 2 1 2003 semen was found on the swab taken from the vagina and from the underwear that mukhtiar kaur had been wearing at the time of her death.
on the completion of the investigation a charge sheet under sections 302 376 and 309 of the ipc was filed against the accused and as he pleaded not guilty he was brought to trial.
he also deposed that mukhtiar kaur had told him some time earlier that the accused had been beating her and had also committed sexual intercourse with her and that at about 11 p m on 10 11 2002 karam singh pw10 had informed him as to what had transpired on which he along with his father hamir singh pw12 and several others had rushed to bangawali.
the prosecution also relied on the statements of dr vijay kumar pw6 of the civil hospial dhuri who testified that the appellant had been brought to the hospital at about 2 45 p m on 10 11 2002 with a serious gun shot injury dr ripan miglani pw15 of the dayanand medical college hospital ludhiana who deposed that he had been admitted to the department of neuro surgery with a serious gun shot injury and dr sanjay uppal pw16 a plastic surgeon who disclosed that the appellant had been under his treatment for almost 5 weeks and the burnt area around the firearm injury had been removed by him.
balwinder singh her husband was addicted to vices and used to beat her due to which she used to remain under depression and sick generally and used to come to me as my daughter.
my house kothi is situated on the outer skirts of village bangawali and door planks had not been fixed so far to rooms.
he has pointed out that there was absolutely no evidence to suggest that mukhtiar kaur had been subjected to rape and in this view of the matter the very basis for the imposition of the death penalty was not made out.
he has also pointed out that there were no eye witnesses to the incident and the 4 witnesses i e jora singh and others who had reached the place of incident and carried the injured appellant to the hospital had also resiled and as the prosecution story now rested on circumstantial evidence alone it was imperative for the investigating officer to have taken the finger prints from the weapon and that in any case the recovery of the spent cartridges and the gun were clearly suspicious as the weapon had been sent to the laboratory after an inordinate delay.
we find from the medical evidence and from the chemical examiner 's reports that the vaginal swab and clothes taken from the dead body did indicate the presence of semen.
there is however absolutely no evidence to suggest even assuming that the intercourse had been committed by the appellant that he had done so without mukhtiar kaur 's consent or against her will.
it is also significant that the investigators had made no attempt whatsoever to have the appellant medically examined to ascertain his capacity to perform sexual intercourse.
the learned state counsel relying on the statement of pw14 inspector harjinder pal singh has however submitted that the examination had not been possible as the appellant had received a very serious gun shot injury and was hanging between life and death.
we are further of the opinion that even assuming for a moment that sexual intercourse between the two had indeed taken place it can not be said from the evidence before us that it was without the consent or against the wishes of mukhtiar kaur.
he has also relied on the judgment of balu sonba shinde v state of maharashtra 2002 7 scc 543 2002 indlaw sc 1923 to contend that it was open to the accused to take advantage insofar as possible from the statement of a witness though declared hostile and the four witnesses having disowned the prosecution story and having given a different version the appellant was entitled to derive such benefit as possible in this situation.
the learned state counsel has however emphasized that both the trial court and the high court had for good reasons opined that the circumstances made out a case for conviction and the accused having given a counter version some obligation lay on him as well to explain the circumstances against him inasmuch that admittedly he and the victim were alone in the house at the time of the incident.
reliance for this argument has been placed on the decision of raj kumar prasad tamarkar v state of bihar anr 20071.
in mahmood v state of u p 1976 1 scc 542 1975 indlaw sc 643 it has been observed that in a case dependent wholly on circumstantial evidence the court must be satisfied athat the circumstances from which the inference of guilt is to be drawn have been fully established by unimpeachable evidence beyond a shadow of doubt bthat the circumstances are of a determinative tendency unerringly pointing towards the guilt of the accused and cthat the circumstances taken collectively are incapable of explanation on any reasonable hypothesis save that of the guilt sought to be proved against him.
certainly it is a primary principle that the accused must be and not merely may be guilty before a court can convict and the mental distance between may be is long and divides vague conjectures from sure conclusions.
mr goburdhan has also cited mahmood v state of u p 1976 1 scc 542 1975 indlaw sc 643 shankarlal gyarasilal dixit v state of maharashtra 1981 2 scc 35 1980 indlaw sc 47 sharad birdhichand sarda v state of maharashtra 1984 4 scc 116 1984 indlaw sc 432 omwati smt and ors v mahendra singh.
it must nonetheless be emphasized that whether a chain is complete or not would depend on the facts of each case emanating from the evidence and no universal yardstick should ever be attempted.
