this appeal by special leave has been preferred against the judgment and order dated 23 february 2005 of bombay high court aurangabad bench by which the appeal preferred by the appellants was dismissed and their conviction under section 304 b read with section 34 ipc and sentence of 7 years ri imposed thereunder by the learned sessions judge aurangabad was affirmed.
the deceased bhimabai was daughter of pw 1 tukaram eknath tambe resident of village sanjkheda.
appasaheb son of sheshrao palaskar about two and half years prior to the date of incident which took place on 15 september 1991.
according to the case of prosecution a sum of rs 5000 and some gold ornaments had been given at the time of marriage of bhimabai.
for about six months bhimabai was treated well but thereafter the accused started asking her to bring rs 1000 1200 from her parents to meet the household expenses and also for purchasing manure.
her father pw 1 tukaram along with some of his relatives went to the house of the accused and tried to persuade them not to ill treat bhimabai.
a few days before nag panchami festival bhimabai came to her parental home and complained that the accused were not giving her proper food clothing and even footwear.
she also told her parents that her husband had asked her to bring an amount of rs 1000 1200 for the purpose of household expenses and manure.
the case of the prosecution futher is that in the evening of 15 september 1991 a person came from village palshi on a motorcycle and informed pw 1 tukaram that bhimabai was unwell.
there he saw that bhimabai was lying dead and froth was coming out of her mouth which indicated that she had consumed some poisonous substance.
on the basis of the said accidental death report pw 6 sandeepan kamble police sub inspector visited the house of the accused held inquest on the dead body of bhimabai and thereafter sent the same for post mortem examination.
pw 1 tukaram lodged the fir of the incident at 7 00 p m on 16 september 1991 at p s chikalthana on the basis of which case crime No 144 of 1991 was registered against the appellants under sections 498 a 306 and 304 b ipc.
after completion of investigation charge sheet was submitted against the appellants and in due course the case was committed to the court of sessions.
the appeal preferred by the appellants was dismissed by the high court by the judgment and order dated 23 february 2005.
the post mortem examination on the body of deceased bhimabai was conducted by a team of two doctors of department of forensic medicine and toxicology medical college aurangabad namely dr s m jawale and dr h v godbole on 16 september 1991.
the doctors did not find any sign of external or internal injury on the body of the deceased and in their opinion the cause of death was insecticide poisoning.
the specific case of the prosecution is that bhimabai ended her life by consuming poison because of harassment caused to her by the appellants for or in connection with demand of dowry.
1 tukaram father of the deceased has given details of the prosecution version of the incident in his statement in court.
when she had visited her parental home on the last occasion she had said that her husband appasaheb had asked her to bring rs 1000 1200 for domestic expenses and for purchasing manure as he had no sufficient money.
bhimabai had complained to him that she was not being given proper food clothings and even footwear and occasionally the appellant No 1 used to beat her.
the witness has further deposed that on the date of incident a man came from village palshi on motorcycle and informed that he should immediately go there as bhimabai was not well.
she has specifically stated that for a period of six months after the marriage bhimabai was treated well and thereafter she had started complaining about the harassment being caused to her.
p c which was recorded very next day of the incident i e on 16 september 1991 she did not state that cause of ill treatment was a demand for money and a consequent beating.
she replied that she did not know why there was no mention in the said statement that the cause for ill treatment was a demand for money and a consequent beating.
in the very next paragraph she stated as under it is not true to suggest that in my statement before the police i never said that ill treatment was as a result of demand for money from us and its fulfillment.
in his cross examination he admitted that he did not make detailed enquiries as to what was the cause of death and where the incident had taken place.
he has further deposed that bhimabai had come to his house about six months earlier and had said all was not well between her and her husband but she had not given any specific details.
in his examination in chief pw 1 has said that whenever his daughter came to her parental home she used to complain that she was being subjected to harassment by the appellants on account of some domestic reasons and further that her husband appellant no 1 had told her that while coming back from her parental home she should bring rs 1000 1200 for expenses and for manure as he had no sufficient money.
pw 5 sumanbai has deposed that bhimabai was receiving ill treatment as a result of domestic cause and to a specific question put by the court as to what she meant by domestic cause she gave a reply that there was a demand for money for defraying expenses of manure etc.
p c which was recorded on the very next day of the death of bhimabai this witness did not state that the cause for ill treatment was a demand for money and a consequent beating.
accepting the statements of father and mother on their face value that utmost which can be held is that the appellant no 1 had asked his wife bhimabai to bring money for meeting domestic expenses and for purchasing manure.
two essential ingredient of section 304 b ipc apart from others are i death of women is caused by any burns or bodily injury or occurs otherwise than under normal circumstances and ii women is subjected to cruelty or harassment by her husband or any relative of her husband for or in connection with any demand for dowry.
