aggrieved by the decision of customs excise and gold control appellate tribunal cegat dated 11 4 2000the appellants assessee have come by way of civil appeals under section 35l of the central excise act1944.
appellants were engaged in the manufacture of biscuits classifiable under sub heading 1905 11 of the central excise tariff.
under show cause notices it was alleged that the appellants herein assessee have sold the biscuits under the brand name meghrajwhich was a registered trade mark of kay aar biscuits p ltd who was using the said trade mark on manufacture of biscuits themselves and therefore the appellants were not eligible to the benefit of ssi notification no 193 ce dated 28 2 1993 as amended by notification no 5994 ce dated 1 3 1994.
the above show cause notices were issued by the department demanding differential duty for the period april 1994 to june 1994 amounting to rs 374948 plus short paid duty for the period april 1995 to may 1995 amounting to rs 92992 the said demand was based on an agreement detected by the department.
that agreement was between madan verma director of a company known as m section kay aar biscuits p. ltd ghaziabad and m s rich food products p ltd noida.
it was declared that m s kay aar biscuits p ltd was the owner of the registered trade mark meghraj.
the said agreement m s kay aar biscuits p ltd gave permission to m s rich food products pvt. ltd to use its trade mark for the manufacture of wafers alone.
he came to the conclusion vide his orders that the trade name meghraj was in the form of a logo printed on the wrapper of the biscuits and therefore the appellants were not entitled to the benefit of notification no 193 ce dated 28 2 93 as amended by notification no 5994 dated 1 3 94 consequently the adjudicating authority called upon the appellants to pay differential duty for the period april 1994 to june 1994 amounting to rs 374948 plus short paid duty for the period april 1995 to may 1995 amounting to rs 92992.
aggrieved by the decision of the adjudicating authority the assessee preferred appeals to the commissioner a the said appeals were rejected on the ground that the appellants were using the brand name meghraj of another manufacturer m s kay aar biscuits p ltd on their products biscuits and therefore they were not entitled to the benefit of exemption under notification no 193 ce as amended.
this argument was rejected by the commissioner a saying that the appellants were using the brand name meghraj on their products.
according to the commissioner athe appellants used the trade name meghraj in the form of a logo which was printed on the wrapper.
before the commissioner ait was argued in the alternative that the logo belonged to m section kay aar biscuits p ltd.
that the same was registered ssi unit that m s kay aar biscuits p ltd was lying closed since 1 3 93 and therefore the appellants have been using that logo of m s kay aar biscuits p ltd who was eligible for exemption under notification no 193 ce as amended.
to complete the chronology of events it may be pointed out that after the impugned decision of the tribunal dated 11 4 2000the appellants herein moved an application for rectification on 12 5 2000 rom no 722000 in that application it was urged on behalf of the appellants herein that the said brand name meghraj did not belong to m s kay aar biscuits p ltd that the department has failed to discharge its burden to prove that the trade name meghraj belonged to m s kay aar biscuits p ltd that a mere agreement between m section ltd and m section rich food products p ltd would not be sufficient to prove that m s kay aar biscuits p ltd was the lawful owner of the brand name.
it was further pointed out that in fact the appellants had applied for ownership of the brand name meghraj vide application dated 30 9 91 to the registrar trade marks under the trade marks act and that the said application for registration was pending before the competent authority and since the above arguments were not recorded in the impugned order of the cegat dated 11 4 2000 the same warranted rectification.
by order dated 8 12 2000cegat rejected the above rectification application made by the appellants.
one more fact needs to be mentioned that on 30 6 2000 the registrar of trade marks appears to have issued registration certificate on 30 6 2000 registering the trade mark meghraj in favour of the appellants with effect form 30 9 91 it appears that issuance of this certificate was mentioned before the cegat which rejected the rectification application on 8 12 2000.
in the present case as stated above m s kay aar biscuits p ltd entered into an agreement on 22 11 89 with m s rich food products p ltd under that agreement the director of m s kay aar biscuits p ltd declared that his company was the owner of the registered trade mark meghraj.
this aspect is important since one of the arguments advanced by the appellants herein before the commissioner a was that the trade mark belonged to m s ltd which was registered ssi unit lying closed since 1 3 1993.
he has not been examined even on the question of alleged transfer of the trade mark in favour of the appellants.
on behalf of the appellants it has been vehemently argued that m s kay aar biscuits p ltd was never the registered owner of the trade mark meghraj.
it was urged that merely because an agreement stood entered into on 22 11 89 between m s ltd.
it was urged that a false declaration was made by m s kay aar biscuits p ltd under the above agreement on 22 11 89.
it was urged that a mere agreement between two parties can not constitute ownership of the trade mark in favour of m s it was urged that in any event m s kay aar biscuits p ltd had stopped its production in 1993 that the company had become defunct that the appellants herein had applied to the registrar of trade marks for registration of the mark meghraj and vide registration certificate dated 30 6 2000 the registrar has recognized the appellants as owner of the trade mark with effect from 30 9 91 in the circumstances the appellants submitted that the demand for differential duty was unwarranted.
this court has held that the object of the exemption notification was neither to protect the owners of the trade mark nor the consumers from being misled.
these are considerations which are relevant in disputes arising out of infringement passing of actions under the trade marks act.
the object of the notification is to grant benefits only to those industries which otherwise do not have the advantage of a brand name.
applying the ratio of the above judgment to the present case it is clear that grant of registration certificate under the trade marks act will not automatically provide benefit of exemption to the ssi unit.
in the case of commissioner of central excise chandigarh v bhalla enterprises 2004.
elt 225 2004 indlaw sc 996scthis court held that the assessee will not be entitled to the benefit of exemption if it uses on goods in question same similar brand name with intention of indicating a connection with the goods of the assessee and such other person or uses the name in such manner that it would indicate such connection.
applying the above test to the facts of the present case madan verma is a common director in the two companies.
he has filed an affidavit enclosing the registration certificate dated 30 6 2000.
however in that affidavit he has not stated as to on what basis in the agreement of 23 11 89 signed by him he had declared that m s ltd is the owner of the registered trade mark meghraj.
the department has rightly placed reliance on the agreement of 23 11 89 in the circumstances the burden was on the assessee appellants herein to satisfy the adjudicating authority that there was no intention of indicating a connection with the goods of the assessee and such other person.
before us it has been urged that m s ltd is non functional since 1 3 93 and therefore in any event appellants were entitled to use the trade mark meghraj.
in the present case there is no evidence from the side of the appellants indicating abandonment of the trade mark by m s although madan verma the director of m s kay aar biscuits p ltd has filed his affidavit enclosing the registration certificate he has nowhere stated that m s ltd has abandoned the trade mark.
the burden is on the appellants particularly when the department is relying upon the agreement dated 23 11 89 between m s lastly we are required to examine the retrospective effect of the registration certificate dated 30 6 2000 with effect from 30 9 91 at the outset we may reiterate that the object of the exemption notification was neither to protect the owners of the trade mark nor the consumers from being misled.
the object of the exemption notification no 193 ce was to grant benefits to those industries which do not have the advantage of a brand name.
however since retrospective nature of the registration certificate dated 30 6 2000 is repeatedly being raised in this court we would like to examine the case law in this regard.
this question has been decided by the bombay high court in the case of sunder parmanand lalwani and others v caltex india ltd air 1969 bombay 24 1965 indlaw mum 1419 in which it has been held vide paras 32 and 38 as follows a proprietary right in a mark can be obtained in a number of ways.
the first trade marks act in england was passed in 1875 even prior thereto it was firmly established in england that a trader acquired a right of property in a distinctive mark merely by using it upon or in connection with goods irrespective of the length of such user and the extent of his trade and that he was entitled to protect such right of property by appropriate proceedings by way of injunction in a court of law.
he could do the latter after complying with the other requirements of the act including the filing of a declaration of his intention to use such mark.
see observations of llyod jacob j in 1956 rpc 1 in the matter of vitamins ltd 's application for trade mark at p 12and.
particularly the following a proprietary right in a mark sought to be registered can be obtained in a number of ways.
the particular mode of acquisition of proprietorship relied upon by the applicant in this case is of his user for the first time in india in connection with watches and allied goods mentioned by him of the mark caltexwhich at the material time was a foreign mark belonging to degoumois co of switzerland and used by them in respect of watches in switzerland.
before the deputy registrar and before mr justice shah proprietorship was claimed on the basis that the applicant was entitled to it as an importer 's mark.
in short it was a competition between a foreign trader and the indian importer for the proprietorship of that mark in this country.
we have already reached a conclusion that so far as this country is concerned degoumois co have totally disclaimed any interest in the proprietorship of that mark for watches etc.
on reading the above quoted paragraphs from the above judgment with which we agree it is clear that the effect of making the registration certificate applicable from retrospective date is based on the principle of deemed equivalence to public user of such mark.
in a given case like the present case where there is evidence with the department of the trade mark being owned by m s ltd and where there is evidence of the appellants trading on the reputation of m s ltd which is not rebutted by the appellants assesseeissuance of registration certificate with retrospective effect can not confer the benefit of exemption notification to the assessee.
