interpretation of the provisions of s 461b of the trade and merchandise marks act1958 hereinafter called and referred to for the sake of brevity as the said act is involved herein.
first respondent is the registered proprietor of a trade mark field marshal for diesel engines since 1964 bearing no 228867 one m s jain industries got the trade mark field marshal registered under clause 7inter alia for flour mills centrifugal pumps couplings for machines pulleys included in class 7 and valves parts of machines the said registration was renewed for the periods 13 5 1972 and 12 5 1979 13 5 1979 and 12 7 1986 and 13 7 1986 and 12 7 1993 appellant is said to have commenced its business of manufacturing and selling centrifugal pumps also under the mark field marshall.
respondent no 1 thereafter filed a suit in the delhi high court for grant of a decree of permanent injunction being suit no 2408 of 1985 alleging infringement of the said mark andor claiming right of passing off in respect thereof.
an ex parte order of injunction was passed on 19 12 1985 against the defendant appellant herein to the following effect.
the plaintiff shall comply with the requirements of order 39 rule 4 of the code of civil procedure.
it claimed user of the said mark since 1963 and sought for rectification of the register by expunging the expression circulation and centrifugal pumps from the specification of goods.
indisputably appellant filed an application in form tm 24 on 17 6 1986 the assistant registrar trade marks passed an order on 10 11 1986 certifying that the trade mark field marshal brand word per se is registered under no 228867 in part a of the register as of the date 13th.
ganga ram anil kumar hufsunil kumar and sumitra rani trading as thukral mechanical works railway road sirhind punjab are registered as subsequent proprietors of this mark as from 30th may1986 by virtue of agreement dated 30th may1986 and.
in the said c o no 9 of 1986 filed by the first respondent against m s jain industries despite service of notice nobody appeared on behalf of the defendant 16 1 1987 was the date fixed in the said suit.
appellant 's counsel appeared on that date and inter alia contended that presently it was the registered owner of the trade mark which was sought to be cancelled.
statement of shri hemant singh counsel for m s thakural mechanical works without oath.
on the basis of the said statement the following order was passed this petition has been filed by m s pm diesels pvt ltd. against m s jain industries and the dy.
the notice was served upon the respondent 1a reply has been filed by m s thakural mechanical works bringing out there in that they are now the registered proprietors of said.
the cause of action therefor was stated to have arisen in the following circumstances that the cause of action for the present petition arose in favour of the petitioner and against the respondents in the month of january 1987 when the respondent informed this honourable court that they have been recorded as subsequent proprietors of the impugned registered trade mark no 228867 in class 7 in c o no 9 of 1986whereupon the petitioner withdrew the said earlier petition c o no 9 of 1986 with permission of the court to file the present petition because of the changed circumstances.
the injunction matter in suit no 2408 of 1985 came up for hearing before a learned single judge of the high court.
by an order dated 19 1 1988having regard to the provisions contained in the said act the learned judge opined that appellant having become the registered proprietor of the said trade mark no case for grant of injunction has been made out the interim order of injunction passed on 19 12 1985 was vacated and the defendants were permitted to use their registered trade mark subject to the following conditions a defendants will not use the logo style of the word field marshal of which logo and style the plaintiff is the proprietor under the copyright act.
c the defendants shall maintain proper accounts of the sale of centrifugal pumps under the trade mark field marshal and shall file them in court as and when directed.
the second rectification application filed by the first respondent however was transferred to the intellectual property appellate board.
a learned single judge of the delhi high court however refused to stay the operation of the order of the board dated 27 10 2004 an appeal was preferred there against.
the core question which arises for our consideration is as to whether in the aforementioned facts and circumstances of the case the application under s 461b was maintainable.
before adverting thereto we may take notice of the relevant statutory provisions ss 461b481482 and 56 read as under section 46 removal from register and imposition of limitations on ground of non use 1 subject to the provisions of section 47a registered trade mark may be taken off the register in respect of any of the goods in respect of which it is registered on application made in the prescribed manner to a high court or to the registrar by any person aggrieved on the ground either a b that up to a date one month before the date of the application a continuous period of five years or longer had elapsed during which the trade mark was registered and during which there was no bona fide use thereof in relation to those goods by any proprietor thereof for the time being provided that except where the applicant has been permitted under sub s 3 of s 12 to register an identical or nearly resembling trade mark in respect of the goods in question or where the tribunal is of opinion that he might properly be permitted so to register such a trade mark the tribunal may refuse an application u cl a or cl b in relation to any goods if it is shown that there has been before the relevent date or during the relevant period as the case may be bona fide use of the trade mark by any proprietor thereof for the time being in relation to goods of the same description being goods in respect of which the trade mark is registered.
section 56 power to cancel or vary registration and to rectify the register 1.
indisputably the scope of the provisions for removal from register in terms of s 46 and 56 of the act stand on different footings.
the meantime as a result of the ex parte ad interim injunction granted on 19th december 1985 by this court in suit no 2408 of 1985there was no question of thukral using the trademark field marshal till the injunction was vacated on 19th january1988.
the act was enacted to provide for the registration and better protection of trademarks and for the prevention of the use of fraudulent marks of merchandise.
it is in the aforementioned situation we are called upon to determine the meaning of the words for the time being occurring in s 461b of the act.
it may mean the moment or existing position as was held by this court in the case of jivendra nath kaul v collector district magistrate and anr 1992.
3 scc 576 1992 indlaw sc 1107 or in the context of cl 22 of art 366 of the constitution as has been held in h h maharajadhiraja.
maharana shri bhagwat singhji bahadur of udaipur v union of india and anr air 1971.
there can not be any doubt or dispute that the registration of a trade mark confers a very valuable right.
when the applicant before the board establishes the fact in regard to non user of the mark for a period of more than five years on the part of the registered owner the latter may show that his case falls within the purview of sub s 3 of s 46.
the question which therefore arises is as to who can prove that he had the bona fide intention to use the trade mark on the date of application for registration.
if the assignee has obtained assignment for bona fide use he may not be fastened with any liability owing to non user on the part of his predecessor.
had the intention of the parliament been that sub s 3 covers cases falling under cl b and clause ahaving regard to the similarity of the expressions used there was no reason as to why it could not be stated so explicitly.
that the appellant was an infringer both of the right of m s jain industries as also the first respondent and thus its use was not bona fide in a case of this nature can not be accepted.
for the purpose of making out such a case both the original registrants as also the assignee were required to be impleaded as parties.
this clause corresponds to s 46 of the existing act and provides for removal of a trade mark from the register on the ground of non use.
under s 461it is proposed to clarify that the five years period will start from the date on which the trade mark is actually entered on the register.
