this matter is a classic illustration of the confusion which has emerged on account of the postponement of in part commencement of patents amendment act2005.
this is what has exactly happened in this case resulting into utter confusion with regard to pending fao no 29306 filed by respondent no 3 in the high court u s 116 of the indian patents.
span diagnostics limited respondent no 3 herein is a public limited company established in 1972 to indigenously develop and manufacture a comprehensive range of ready made diagnostic reagents made by clinical pathology laboratories.
on 14 6 2000 j mitra company pvt ltd. 3 appellant herein filed its application for grant of patent.
after scrutiny the said application stood notified by the patent office on 20 11 2004.
explanation for the purposes of this clause an invention relating to a process for which a patent is claimed shall be deemed to have been publicly known or publicly used in india before the priority date of the claim if a product made by that process had already been imported into india before that date except where such importation has been for the purpose of reasonable trial or experiment only b that the invention so far as claimed in any claim of the complete specification is obvious and clearly does not involve any inventive step having regard to the matter published as mentioned in cl b or having regard to what was used in india before the priority date of the applicant 's claim c that the subject of any claim of the complete specification is not an invention within the meaning of this act or is not patentable under this act d that the complete specification does not sufficiently and clearly describe the invention or the method by which it is to be performed e that the applicant has failed to disclose to the controller the information required by s 8 or has furnished the information which in any material particular was false to his knowledge f that in the case of a convention application the application was not made within twelve months from the date of the first application for protection for the invention made in a convention country by the applicant or a person from whom he derives title.
2 save as otherwise expressly provided in sub section 1an appeal shall lie to a high court from any decision order or direction of the controller under any of the following provisions that is to say section 15section 16section17section 18section.
60section 61section 63sub s 3 of section 69section 78section 84section 86s 883section 89section 93s 96 and s 97.
act2002 was promulgated on 25 6 2002 however it was not brought into force immediately.
it may be noted that in the said amendment act2002no provision was made pertaining to post grant opposition.
vide s 47 of the patents amendment act2002 entire chapter xix stood substituted.
ss 116 and 117a were reworded which read as under s 116 1 subject to the provisions of this act the appellate board established u s 83 of the trade marks act1999 shall be the appellate board for the purposes of this act and the said appellate board shall exercise the jurisdiction power and authority conferred on it by or under this act.
provided that the technical member of the appellate board for the purposes of this act shall have the qualifications specified in sub s 2.
2 a person shall not be qualified for appointment as a technical member for the purposes of this act unless he.
b has for at least ten years functioned as a registered patent agent and possesses a degree in engineering or technology or a masters degree in science from any university established under law for the time being in force or equivalent or c has for at least ten years been an advocate of a proven specialized experience in practicing law relating to patents and designs.
an appeal shall lie to the appellate board from any decision order or direction of the controller or central government under section 15section.
78sub ss 1 to 5 of section 84section 85section 88section 91s 92 and s 94.
however s 25 was brought into force vide notification dated 20 5 2003 even as on 20 5 2003 vide s 25 only one right to oppose a patent at the pre grant stage was available and appeal against an order passed by the earlier lay before the high court under the then existing s 116 of the patents.
the legislature enacted the patents amendment act2005 even here not all provisions were simultaneously brought into force.
for the purposes of this clause an invention relating to a process for which a patent is claimed shall be deemed to have been publicly known or publicly used in india before the priority date of the claim if a product made by that process had already been imported into india before that date except where such importation has been for the purpose of reasonable trial or experiment only e that the invention so far as claimed in any claim of the complete specification is obvious and clearly does not involve any inventive step having regard to the matter published as mentioned in cl b or having regard to what was used in india before the priority date of the applicant 's claim f that the subject of any claim of the complete specification is not an invention within the meaning of this act or is not patentable under this act g that the complete specification does not sufficiently and clearly describe the invention or the method by which it is to be performed h that the applicant has failed to disclose to the controller the information required by s 8 or has furnished the information which in any material particular was false to his knowledge i that in the case of convention application the application was not made within twelve months from the date of the first application for protection for the invention made in a convention country by the applicant or a person from whom he derives title j that the complete specification does not disclose or wrongly mentions the source or geographical origin of biological material used for the invention k that the invention so far as claimed in any claim of the complete specification is anticipated having regard to the knowledge oral or otherwise available within any local or indigenous community in india or elsewhere but on no other ground and the controller shall if requested by such person for being heard hear him and dispose of such representation in such manner and within such period as may be prescribed.
e that the invention so far as claimed in any claim of the complete specification is obvious and clearly does not involve any inventive step having regard to the matter published as mentioned in cl b or having regard to what was used in india before the priority date of the claim h that the patentee has failed to disclose to the controller the information required by s 8 or has furnished the information which in any material particular was false to his knowledge i that in the case of a patent granted on convention application the application for patent was not made within twelve months from the date of the first application for protection for the invention made in a convention country or in india by the patentee or a person from whom he derives title j that the complete specification does not disclose or wrongly mentions the source and geographical origin of biological material used for the invention k that the invention so far as claimed in any claim of the complete specification was anticipated.
having regard to the knowledge oral or otherwise available within any local or indigenous community in india or elsewhere but on no other ground.
3 a where any such notice of opposition is duly given under sub section 2the controller shall notify the patentee.
c every opposition board constituted under cl b shall conduct the examination in accordance with such procedure as may be prescribed.
on receipt of the recommendation of the opposition board and after giving the patentee and the opponent an opportunity of being heard the controller shall order either to maintain or to amend or to revoke the patent.
similarly under the patents amendment act2005appeal was restricted to the post grant opposition orders and that appeal lay before the appellate board and not to the high court.
w e f 1 1 2005 but when it came to filing of first appeal for some unknown reasons the amended section 117a which provided for only one statutory appeal and that too against post grant orders passed by the controller was not brought into force.
the result is that although the legislature intended to provide for only one statutory appeal to the appellate board by reason of s 61 of the patents amendment act2005 not being brought into force till 2 4 07 a strange situation developed.
the legislature intended to provide for only one statutory appeal to the appellate board but by not bringing s 61 into force till 2 4 07appeals filed during the interregnum as in this case became vulnerable and liable to be dismissed as misconceived as is contended by the appellant.
act2005 as the amended ss 116 and 117a were brought into force only vide notification dated 2 4 07 one more point needs to be noted.
section 117 g of the principal act was substituted vide patents amendment act2005 it reads as under section 117g transfer of pending proceedings to appellate board all cases of appeals against any order or decision of the controller and all cases pertaining to revocation of patent other than on a counter claim in a suit for infringement and rectification of register pending before any high court shall be transferred to the appellate board from such date as may be notified by the central government in the official gazette and the appellate board may proceed with the matter either de novo or from the stage it was so transferred.
on reading amended section 117 g it becomes clear that all appeals against any order or decision of the controller had to be transferred to the appellate board from such date as may be notified by the central government in the official gazette.
