in our view although the high court had set aside the concurrent findings of fact arrived at by the tribunals below under the karnataka land reforms.
the appellants in this appeal claiming to be the tenants of agricultural land bearing survey no 1251measuring 3 acres 11 gunthas.
accordingly they prayed for rejection of the application filed by the father of the appellants claiming occupancy rights under the act.
initially the land tribunal allowed the application of the father of the appellants and feeling aggrieved a writ petition was filed against the said order.
feeling aggrieved the respondent no 4 filed an appeal before the appellate authority which was also dismissed.
a revision petition thereafter was moved before the high court and the high court by the impugned judgment had set aside the concurrent findings of fact and rejected the application filed by the father since deceased of the appellants holding inter alia that the appellants or their father had failed to prove the tenancy in respect of the scheduled land.
it is true that the high court while exercising its revisional power under section 121a of the act had set aside the concurrent findings of fact of the land tribunal as well as of the appellate authority even then examining the findings of the high court and considering the power conferred on it in the revisional jurisdiction under section 121a of the act we do not find any reason to interfere with the impugned order of the high court in the exercise of our power u art 136 of the constitution.
while setting aside the findings of the tribunal the high court at paragraph 7 of the impugned judgment made the following findings it is an undisputed fact that the revision petitioner has mortgaged the land in dispute in favour of the 5th respondent rajashankar in the year 1968 and after the expiry of the mortgage period since the 5th respondent failed to deliver back the possession of the land in dispute to him he filed the suit for redemption and obtained a decree for redemption.
to prove this fact he relied upon the entries in the r t c extract for the years 1968 to 1974 wherein his name is shown as the person in cultivation of the land in dispute.
even in respect of the said claim he failed to produce any documentary evidence evidencing the said lease of land in dispute from gundu rao.
thus there is no consistent stand regarding the year of commencement of tenancy or under whom gondappa the father of the respondents 3 and 4 became the tenant.
again the high court while setting aside the findings of fact also made the following findings but in the instant case since the respondents 3 and 4 failed to produce any evidence to show that their father was cultivating the land in dispute as a tenant under the 5th respondent mortgagee and even when the entries in the r t c extract produced do not support the claim of tenancy set up by the father of the respondents 3 and 4the question of drawing presumption of deemed tenancy in his favour under s 4 of the act does not arise.
in the present case also the respondents 3 and 4 failed to prove that their father was cultivating the land in dispute from the year 1968 as a tenant under the respondent no 5 and that after the death of their father they continued as tenants in respect of the land in dispute.
since the respondents 3 and 4 failed to produce any documentary evidence to show that their father was put in possession of the land in dispute by the 5th respondent mortgagee as a tenant and that they are continuing as tenants in respect of the said land after the death of their father i find that they are not entitled to grant of occupational rights.
the earlier decision of this court reported in ilr 1996 kar page 2340 that when a person fails to prove that he is cultivating the land as tenant he can not be granted occupational right notwithstanding the fact that he might be in possession of the land and cultivating the same is applicable to the facts of the present case on all fours.
from a careful examination of the findings given by the high court as quoted hereinabove in upsetting the concurrent findings of fact arrived at by the tribunals below we are not in a position to hold that the high court was not justified in setting aside the concurrent orders of the tribunals below in the exercise of its revisional power under section 121a of the act.
from a plain reading of section 121a of the act under which revisional jurisdiction can be exercised it would be clear that the high court while exercising such power is entitled to re appreciate the evidence when it finds that the conclusion arrived at by the appellate authority runs contrary to the materials on record and when it finds that there is no evidence to support the conclusion of the appellate authority or when it finds that the reasons given by the appellate authority are absolutely perverse and can not be supported by the evidence on record.
it would also be clear from a plain reading of section 121a of the act that the high court is also entitled to interfere with the orders of the tribunals below when the material evidence on record was ignored or a finding was such that no court would come to such conclusion or that the decision of the tribunals below was manifestly unjust.
reading the aforesaid provisions viz. section 121a of the act and s 115 of the code we have no hesitation in our mind to hold that the revisional power exercised by the high court under section 121a of the act is wider than the one exercised by the high court in its revisional jurisdiction u s 115 of the code.
therefore under section 121a of the act in the presence of any of the abovementioned circumstances the high court is empowered to look into the legality of the orders impugned in deciding the question whether the appellants could be held to be the tenants under the respondent nos 3 or 4.
keeping the aforesaid principles in mind as to when the high court would be justified in the exercise of its power under section 121a of the act to examine the legality of the orders of the tribunals below in an appropriate case let us now examine the findings of the high court while setting aside the concurrent findings of fact of the tribunals below.
in our view on a careful examination of the findings of the high court which were based on consideration of the material evidence on record it is difficult for us to hold that the high court was not justified in setting aside the concurrent findings of fact of the tribunals below in the exercise of its jurisdiction under section 121a of the act.
we have already noted the findings made by the high court in the impugned judgment on the question whether the appellants could be held to be the tenants on the evidence and materials on record.
while doing so in our view the high court was justified in coming to the conclusion that the evidence and material on record would clearly establish that the appellants were not able to prove that they were the tenants in respect of the scheduled land under the respondents.
