this appeal is directed against the judgment and order of the high court of gujarat dated 28 2 1986 allowing the respondent s writ petition and quashing order of discharge from service and directing his reinstatement in service.
the respondent joined service as technical assistant with the gujarat state electricity board hereinafter refined to as the board he was promoted to the post of deputy engineer.
while he was posted at surat as deputy engineer he was transferred to ukai subdivision under the order of the superintending engineer dated 29th march1974 pursuant to the order of transfer he was relieved from his duties at surat on 30th march1974 to enable him to join at ukai.
meanwhile the chief engineer by his order dated 27th may1974 discharged the respondent from service with effect from 31st march1974 in accordance with service regulation no 113 the respondent challenged the validity of the order of his discharge from service by means of a writ petition under article 226 of the constitution before the high court of gujarat.
a learned single judge of the high court quashed the order of termination on the findings that the order of discharge was issued m violation of the basic principles of natural justice as no opportunity was afforded to the respondent before discharging him from services under regulation no 113.
the learned single judge granted a declaration in respondent s favour holding the order void and illegal but having regard to recalcitrant attitude of the appellant and his continued conduct of disobedience of the orders of his superior authorities he refused to grant consequential reliefs regarding reinstatement or payment of back wages.
the respondent as well as the appellant board both preferred letters patent appeals against the order of learned single judge.
a division bench of the high court dismissed the appeal preferred by the appellants but it allowed the respondent s appeal.
sh b k mehta advocate appearing for the appellants and sh.
vimal dave advocate appearing for the respondent were fully heard.
the hearing was adjourned to enable sh.
vimal dave to obtain instructions from the respondent.
we refused to hear the counsel as we had already completed hearing.
in the absence of any stay of the transfer order a public servant has no justification to avoid or evade the transfer order merely on the ground of having made a representation or on the ground of his difficulty in moving from one place to the other.
the respondent lost his service as he refused to comply with the order of his transfer from one place to the other.
there is no dispute that the respondent was holding a transferable post and under the conditions of service applicable to him he was liable to be transferred and posted at any place within the state of gujarat.
the division bench of the high court held that no warning as contemplated by service regulation no 113 had been issued to the respondent nor he had been afforded any opportunity of showing cause before the impugned order of discharge was passed and consequently the order of discharge was null and void being contrary to service regulation no 113 itself.
on perusal of the material on record we are of the opinion that the view taken by the high court is not sustainable as there is sufficient material on record which shows that warning had been issued to the respondent before the order of discharge was issued.
the sequence of events and the correspondence which ensued between the officers of the board and the respondent clearly show that the respondent disobeyed the order of transfer and he remained absent from duty in an unauthorised manner without obtaining sanction of leave.
the division bench of the high court has held that since no warning was issued to the respondent action taken under service regulation no 113 was not in accordance with law.
a warning need not be in any particular form.
the object and purpose of the warning as contemplated by the regulation is to remind the delinquent employee that his continued unauthorised absence from duties was liable to result in discharge of his service.
we do not agree with the view taken by the division bench.
therefore even if the letter dated 24 4 1974 was not served on the respondent the order of discharge as contemplated by regulation no 113 is sustainable in law.
but even otherwise the division bench committed error in holding that the board had raised the question of service of the letter dated 24 4 1974 for the first time before the division bench in the letters patent appeal.
in this view we are of the opinion that the division bench was totally wrong in holding that no opportunity was afforded to the respondent to meet the case set up by the board that the letter dated 24 4 1974 was served on the respondent.
there is presumption of service of a letter sent under registered cover if the same is returned back with a postal endorsement that the addressee refused to accept the same.
no doubt the presumption is rebuttable and it is open to the party concerned to place evidence before the court to rebut the presumption by showing that the address mentioned on the cover was incorrect or that the postal authorities never tendered the registered letter to him or that there was no occasion for him to refuse the same.
the burden to rebut the presumption lies on the party challenging the factum of service.
in the instant case the respondent failed to discharge this burden as he failed to place material before the court to show that the endorsement made by the postal authorities was wrong and incorrect.
mere denial made by the respondent in the circumstances of the case was not sufficient to rebut the presumption relating to service of the registered cover.
we are therefore of the opinion that the letter dated 24 4 1974 was served on the respondent and he refused to accept the same.
consequently the service was complete and the view taken by the high court is incorrect.
in view of the above discussion we therefore hold that the respondent s failure to join his duties at ukai resulted in unauthorised absence and his failure to join his duties in spite of the repeated reminders and letters issued to him constituted sufficient valid ground for taking action under regulation no 113 we further hold that before issuing the order of discharge the respondent was not only warned but he was also afforded an opportunity to explain as to why disciplinary action should not be taken against him.
the respondent acted in an irresponsible manner in not complying with the order of transfer which led to his discharge from service in accordance with the service regulation.
no 113 the learned single judge as well as the division bench both erred in law in setting aside the order of discharge.
we accordingly allow the appeal set aside the order of the single judge as well as division bench and dismiss the respondent s petition.
there would be no order as to costs.
now since the order of discharge is held to be valid the amount paid to the respondent is liable to be recovered from him but having regard to the facts and circumstances of the case and the hardship which could be caused to the respondent we direct the appellant not to recover the amount already paid to the respondent.
