this appeal by special leave is directed against order dated 13 7 2005 passed by the division bench of the bombay high court.
dismissing letter patents appeal preferred by the appellant against the order of the learned single judge who dismissed his writ petition and confirmed the orders passed by the state minister for revenue in the proceeding r t s 3402 pra kra 309 l 6 dated 18th october2002.
it is the appellant s case that his father shri nawoosingh panjumal panjwani was a displaced person who migrated from pakistan to india during the period of partition and the appellant s family while in pakistan was having agricultural land over there admeasuring 4 acres 10 gunthas.
after migration the family took shelter at refugee camp of pimpri pune in maharashtra.
in view of enactment of displaced persons compensation and rehabilitation act1954 by the union of india the immovable properties left behind by muslims who had migrated to pakistan were acquired and the same was distributed to displaced persons as a compensation pool.
accordingly father of the appellant was allotted a land admeasuring 2 acres 5 gunthas bearing revenue survey nos 351 and 1182 situated at village lonavala taluka maval district pune.
prem hasmatraj lalwani in the year 1980.
the survey nos 1182 and 351being evacuee properties were allotted to the appellant in the year 1956 later on it was found that the appellant is in possession of more area and therefore the said order was modified on 6 5 1982 and excess area was granted to the appellant on payment of rs 31360 which appellant had paid on 17 5 1982 in government treasury and thereby the deputy collector and assistant settlement commissioner pune granted the excess land to the appellant and thereafter the dispute started between the parties.
however in the facts of the conflicting claims the appellant made grievance to the deputy collector and the deputy custodian of evacuee properties in respect of the mutation made in favour of the respondent gulabai and other respondents and therefore by order dated 18 9 1984 the deputy collector and deputy custodian of evacuee properties pune directed the sub divisional officer haveli sub division to take up the case in revision under section 257 of maharashtra land revenue code and pass necessary orders.
therefore the rts appeal no 128 of 1987 was preferred before the collector which was disposed off by the additional collector on 13 7 1993 by the said order the order of the third sub divisional officer was maintained.
the directions were issued by the collector to the tahsildar to place the appellant in possession of the property as per the orders of the deputy collector and the deputy custodian of evacuee properties.
collector pune dismissed the said appeals and confirmed the order of the sub divisional officer maval.
aggrieved by the said order of the additional collector respondent no 2 preferred rts revision no 330 of 2001 under section 257 of maharashtra land revenue code1966 before the additional commissioner pune division pune.
the said revision was decided by the additional commissioner pune by order dated 22 11 2001 and the said revision was dismissed.
appellant challenged the order dated 19 10 2002 passed by the minister by filing a writ petition which was dismissed by learned single judge of the bombay high court.
thereafter the appellant filed letters patent appeal which was also dismissed by the division bench holding that when the state minister for revenue entertained the matter he was possessed of jurisdiction under section 257 of the maharashtra land revenue code and therefore the order passed by him under the said authority is within his jurisdiction power and competence.
thus in short we find that the scheme under maharashtra land revenue code is quite different scheme and it permits more than one revision.
thus viewed from any angle we find that the state minister for revenue when he entertained the matter state minister for revenue was possessed of jurisdiction under section 257 of the maharashtra land revenue code and therefore the order passed by him under the said authority is within his jurisdiction power and competence.
referring the decision of the bombay high court in the case of sambappa vs state of maharashtra 2002 scc on line bombay 1222learned counsel submitted that when the sub divisional officer additional collector and additional commissioner had concurrently recorded finding in favour of the appellant by observing that the revenue record is not in consonance with the factual aspect and they have directed to correct the revenue entries in such a case the second revisional authority exceeded its jurisdiction in entertaining the said application and interfering with the finding of fact.
section 257 makes it clear that a revisional authority has to consider only the legality and propriety of the decision.
learned counsel relied upon the decision of this court in the case of state of kerala vs k m charia abdulla co air 1965.
sc 1585 1964 indlaw sc 353 and hari shankar vs rao girdhari lal chowdhury air 1963 sc 698 1961 indlaw sc 157.
that a second revision to the high court under section 482 of the cr.
srivastava then contended that the high court correctly analysed and appreciated the scheme of the code vis a vis judicial review in revenue matters.
state of rajasthan and others2005.
it is therefore clear that in revenue matters the state government is the supreme revenue authority.
it uses the word or.
the language and the words used in the said provision suggest that jurisdiction of the state government is concurrent with the jurisdiction of other revenue officers in deciding the revision.
hence even if one party goes to the commissioner in revision the state government can still be approached under section 257 for revision.
the power of revision exercised by any revenue officer including the commissioner is a proceeding by a subordinate officer and the state government can satisfy itself as to the legality and propriety of any decision including the order passed in revision by the revenue officers.
further in view of the fact that state government itself appoints the revenue officers including the commissioner under the scheme of the code and all revenue officers are subordinate to the state government as per section 11 of the act and even the chief controlling authority in all matters connected with the land revenue in his division is vested with the commissioner they are subject to the superintendence direction and control of the state government as provided under section 5 of the code.
the aforesaid provision makes it clear that even if the decision is considered to be final the state government s power to call for and examine the record and proceedings of subordinate officers is saved.
in other words the state government in exercise of its revisional as well as general power of superintendence and control can call for any record of proceedings and consider the legality and propriety of the orders passed by the revenue officers under section 247 or 257 of the code.
from perusal of the entire scheme of the code including section 257it is manifest that the revisional powers are not only exercisable by the state government but also by certain other revenue officers.
there is nothing in the code to suggest that if these revisional powers are exercised by a revenue officer who has jurisdiction it can not be further exercised by a superior revenue officer or by the state government.
a fair reading of sections 257 and 259 suggests that if revisional powers are exercised by a revenue officer having jurisdiction to do so further revisional power can be exercised by the superior officer or by the state government.
a similar question came for consideration before this court in the case of ishwar singh vs 2 scc 334 under the rajasthan cooperative societies act1965 in that ac t by section 128 power was conferred upon the state government and the registrar to call for and examine the records of any enquiry or proceedings of any other matter of any officer subordinate to them for the purpose of satisfying themselves as to the legality or propriety of any decision or order passed by such officer.
it was submitted by the counsel that section 128 related to two authorities i e the state government and the registrar.
if one authority exercises revisional power the other authority logically can not have exercised such power.
hence it was argued that second revision was not maintainable.
therefore under chapter xiii a clear distinction is made between the state government and the registrar.
the test is whether the two authorities with concurrent revisional jurisdiction are equal in rank.
it is therefore not correct as contended by learned counsel for the appellant that the two authorities i e the state government and the registrar are interchangeable.
the power of the government and the registrar in terms of section 128 excludes matters which are covered by section 125 i e revision by the tribunal.
considering the entire scheme of the code and the provisions contained in sections 257 and 259we are of the definite opinion that the minister concerned of the state government can entertain second revision to satisfy the legality and propriety of the order passed by the revenue officer.
the division bench of the bombay high court has elaborately discussed the question and passed the impugned order holding that section 257 confers jurisdiction to the state government to entertain its revision against the order passed by any revenue officer either in appeal or in revision.
we find no infirmity in the impugned order passed by the high court.
hence this appeal has no merit which is accordingly dismissed.
before parting with the order we must make it clear that in view of the request made by the appellant before the high court not to enter into the merit of the case since the party may prosecute their remedies in the civil court for adjudication we have not expressed any opinion with regard to the merit of the case of the parties.
the parties may prosecute their remedies in civil court in accordance with law.
