This is an appeal by special leave in an industrial matter.
It is said that on June 21, 1958, Sankaran came drunk to they mill and abused the Engineer, the Secretary and others and threatened them with physical violence.
On July 8, 1958, the appellant terminated the services of Sankaran under r. 18 (a) of the Standing Orders without holding any departmental inquiry and the order was communicated to Sankaran the same day.
In that order the appellant informed Sankaran that the proposed inquiry, if conducted, would lead to further friction and deterioration in the rank and file of the employees in general and also that maintenance of discipline in the undertaking would be prejudiced if he was retained in the service of the appellant, and therefore it considered that no inquiry should be held.
A dispute was then raised by the union which was referred to the industrial tribunal for adjudication by the Government of Kerala in October 1958.
It further held that the appellant had intended to take disciplinary action against the workman but subsequently departmental proceedings were dropped and action was taken under r. 18(a) of the Standing orders.
The tribunal was of the view that this was a colourable exercise of the power given under r. 18(a) to the appellant and therefore its action could not be upheld as a bona fide exercise of the power conferred.
In the result the order of discharge was set aside and Sankaran was ordered to be reinstated.
The claim thus put forward on behalf of the appellant is that it is entitled under r. 18(a) of the Standing orders which is a term of contract between the appellant and its employees to dispense with the service of any employee at any time by just giving 14 days notice or paying 12 days wages.
We are of opinion that this claim of the appellant cannot be accepted, and it is too late in the day for an employer to raise such a claim for it amounts to a claim "to hire and fire" an employee as the employer pleases and thus completely negatives security of service which has been secured to industrial employees through industrial adjudication for over a long period of time now.
