It then moved the High Court under section 66 (2) of the Act and the High Court directed the Tribunal to refer the following question for determination by it: "Whether, on the facts and in the circumstances of the case, the assessee is not entitled to relief under section 25 (4) of the Indian Income tax Act, and to what extent?"
(3) of that section will throw useful light on the matter 96 in question and so we set both these sub sections out below: section 25 (3) Where any business, profession or vocation on which tax was at any time charged under the provisions of the Indian Income tax Act, 1918, .
is discontinued, then, unless there has been a succession by virtue of which the provisions of sub section (4) have been rendered applicable no tax shall be payable in respect of the income, pro fits and gains of the period between the end of the previous year and the date of such discontinuance.
(4) Where the person who was at the commencement of the Indian Income tax (Amendment) Act, 1939 carrying on any business, profession or vocation on which tax was at any time charged under the provisions of the Indian Income tax Act, 1918, is succeeded in such capacity by another person, the change not being merely a change in the constitution of a partnership, no tax shall be payable by the first mentioned person in respect of the income, profits and gains of the period between the end of the previous year and the date of such succession Both these sub sections gave a further right to the assessee but with that right we are not concerned and shall, there fore, make no more reference to it.
The second condition of the applicability of section 25(4) is that business must have been carried on at the commencement of the Indian Income tax Act (Amendment) Act, 1939, that is, April 1, 1939, by the person claiming the relief.
It appears that a firm bearing the same name as that of the appellant, that is, Sait (or Shah) Nagjee Purshotham and Company was started in 1902 and was reconstituted by an agreement of partnership dated December 6, 1918.
On the last mentioned date it carried on business in piece goods, yarn, and other articles at Calicut with branches in Madras and Bombay.
The partnership agreement of December 6, 1918 was between the following six persons, Purushotham, Nagjee, Narayanjee, Krishnajee, Maneklal and Bhagwanjee.
Its case is that under annexure C I an outsider Hemchand was admitted as partner in some of the businesses of the existing partner ship, namely, the umbrella and soap businesses and by the other instrument, annexure C 11, the other existing businesses of that partnership, e.g., in yarn, piece goods, money lending etc., were, continued by the subsisting partners mentioned above.
The contention of the respondent, on the other hand, is that these two instruments show that the business of the existing firm had been split up into two and transferred to two different owners, namely, two newly constituted firms with different partners, some of whom were no doubt common, and this amounted to a discontinuance of the business of the old firm.
We next have an instrument of October 30, 1943, also "Styled an agreement of partnership, to which Narayanjee, Maneklal, Jayanand, Leeladhar and Prabhulal were parties.
It refers to the two "agreements of partnership of May 30, 1939" and certain retirements of partners and admission of new partners and provides that the parties to the instrument had agreed to carry on "as one single partnership" the busi nesses carried on previously by the two partnerships referred to in the instruments of May 30, 1939.
The last instrument to which we have to refer is the agreement of February 7, 1948 between Maneklal, Jayanand, Leeladhar and Prabhulal as partners of the appellant firm and a limited company formed to take over the business.
It is on this instrument that the appellant, which is the firm constituted by Maneklal, Jayanand, Leeladhar and Prabhulal, claimed relief under section 25(4) in its assessment for the years 1948 49 and 1949 50.
There is no doubt that as a result of the instrument of February 7, 1948 the Company succeeded to the business that was being carried on by the firm of Nagjee, Purushotham and Company as then constituted as aforesaid, as bankers, piece goods and yarn merchants and as soap and umbrella manufacturers and sellers.
(2) Narayanjee(3) Maneklal and (4) Hemchand(hereinafter called the partners) witnesseth asfollows: Whereas Partners 1 to 4 have been carrying on a business as partners from the beginning of Samvat 1994 (=October November 1937) in 101 the manufacture and sale of Soaps under the name of 'The Vegetable Soap Works ' Proprietor Sait Nagjee Purushotham & Co., and in the manufacture and sale of umbrellas in Calicut with branches at Madras and Bombay under the name and style of Sait Nagjee Purushotham & Co., Soap and Umbrella Merchants at Calicut and Madras and in the name of Sha Nagjee Purushotham & Co., at Bombay hereinafter called the Firm; And whereas it is thought advisable to reduce the terms of the said partnership into writing for the proper and better conduct of the business; The Partners have agreed and also hereby agree to the following: (1) The Firm shall continue to be as of old namely Sait Nagjee Purushotham & Co., Soap and Umbrella Merchants.
The Firm shall continue to do business in the manufacture and sale of soaps under the name of the 'Vegetable Soap Works ' and in umbrellas under the name of 'Sait Nagjee Purushotham & Co., S oap and Umbrella Merchants as aforesaid with Head Office at Calicut and branch at Madras under the same name and branch at Bombay under the name of 'Sha Nagjee Purushotham & Co. .
(8)It is always understood by the Partners herein that the Firm of Sait Nagjee Purushotham 102 & Co., Bankers, Piece goods and Yarn mer chants, Calicut, the partners whereof are the: Partners 1 to 3 herein shall advance as, heretofore all funds that are necessary for the conduct of this Partnership Such advances shall be deemed as loan by the firm of Sait Nagjee Purushotham & Co., Bankers, Piece goods and Yarn Merchants to the., Firm .
1, 2 and 3 in writing the Partnership, shall not borrow any amount from any one other than the Firm Sait Nagjee Purushotham & Co., Bankers, Piece goods and Yarn merchants referred to in para 8 above.
1 to 3 herein are the Partners of the Firm of Sait Nagjee Purushotham & Co., Bankers, Piece goods and Yam merchants, Calicut. "
hereinafter called the Partners witnesseth as follows: Whereas under the Agreement of Partnership dated the 6th day of December 1918 (1) Purushotham (2) Nagjee.
settled the claims in full of the partners who ceased to exist and agreed to carry on and continue and are continuing the existing partnership business under the name and style of 'Sait Nagjee Purushotham & Co. ' Bankers, Piece goods and Yarn Merchants, hereinafter called the 'Firm '; and Whereas it is thought advisable and prudent to reduce into writing the terms and conditions agreed upon orally by them the Partners agree and have agreed to the following terms and regulations stipulated hereunder.
(2) The Agreement of Partnership dated the 6th day of December 1918 is hereby revoked and the affairs of the Firm shall be regulated and governed by the Regulations agreed upon orally and reduced into writing in this Deed and the terms and conditions of the revoked deed shall not in future apply to the 'Firm ' except such as have been repeated in this Deed.
(20) All the partners hereby agree that they in their individual capacity are and shall be Partners also along with Hemchand Veerjee Sait in a Partnership business in Soaps and Umbrellas carried on in Calicut and Madras under the name and style of Sait Nagjee Purushotham and Co., Soap and Umbrella Merchants and in Bombay under the name and style of Shah Nagjee Purushotham & Co., the terms and conditions whereof are embodied in an Agreement of Partnership dated 30 5 1939 signed by all the Partners.
