Appeals from the judgment and decree dated May 2, 1960, of the Rajasthan High Court in Civil Second Appeal Nos.
It was also the practice in that State that when permits for export were issued, export duties had to be paid in advance, though the actual export was made later.
Consequently, in June 1947 the respondent applied for and was granted a permit for export of 15,000 maunds of chuni, and in connection therewith he deposited Rs.
The respondent however was not able to export the entire quantity of 15,000 maunds for which the permit was granted; he could only export 4,572 maunds and 20 seers of chuni before December 2, 1947.
By May 15, 1949, the United State of Rajasthan was formed including the Matsya Union into which the former State of Dholpur had merged on March 17, 1948.
The United State of Rajasthan eventually became the Part B State of Rajasthan on January 26, 1950 when the Constitution came into force.
As the United State of Raja sthan into which the former State of Dholpur came to be merged in 1949 never recognised the obligations of the former State of Dholpur it was not bound to refund the amount due to the respondents.
It is not in dispute that on this merger, provision was made for the continuance of the laws in the covenanting State till such time as they were modified by the new State.
In March 1949, the United State of Rajasthan was formed by Covenant entered into by fourteen Rulers of Rajasthan, including these who had formed the Former State of Rajasthan.
At this time also article 372 of the Constitution continued the existing laws subject to their being altered or repealed by the new State.
The appeals of the State to the District Judge were substantially dismissed while the appeal in the fourth suit by the plaintiff was substantially allowed.
The two learned Judges composing the Division Bench disagreed on this question of the liability of the State of Rajasthan under article 295(2) in respect of the liability of the former State of Dholpur.
Thereupon there was a reference to a Full Bench on the question of liability which was formulated by the learned Judges thus: "Whether the expression 'Government of the corresponding State ' used in article 295(2) of the Constitution with reference to Rajasthan properly means the Government of the United State of Rajasthan which was the only Indian State in existence at the time of the commencement of the Constitution or it also includes the Government of any of the Covenanting States which had integrated with the United State before the Constitution came into operation. "
The only question that has been raised before us on behalf of the appellant is about the liability of the State of Rajasthan under article 295(2) of the Constitution in respect of the obligations of the former State of Dholpur, which came to be 179 included in the State of Rajasthan on account of political changes to which we have already referred.
(1)That case dealt with the Covenant creating the State of Pepsu and particularly article VI thereof The covenant in the State of Pepsu was more or less similar in terms to the Covenant in the United State of Rajasthan.
