Appeal by special leave from the judgment and order dated March 20, 1957, of the Patna High Court in Civil Revision No.
The short question which arises in this appeal is whether the term "wages" as defined by section 2(vi) of the (No.
4 of 1936) (hereinafter called 'the Act ') includes wages fixed by an award in an industrial dispute between the employer and his employees.
This question has to be answered in the light of the definition prescribed by section 2(vi) before it was amended in 1958.
The subsequent amendment expressly provides by section 2(vi) (a) that any remuneration payable under any award or settlement between the parties or order of a Court, would be included in the main definition under section 2(vi).
The point which we have to decide in the present appeal is whether the remuneration payable under an award was not already included in the definition of wages before the said definition was amended.
It is common ground that between the appellant, Sasamusa Sugar Works Ltd., and its workmen, the respondents, an award had been made by an Industrial Tribunal fixing the pay of the employees at Rs.
In spite of the award and the agreement, the appellant paid its employees only As.
/ 10 / per day and that led to the present claim made by the respondents under section 15 of the Act.
The respondents contended before the payment of wages authority that the refusal of the appellant to pay to them wages at the rate awarded, in substance, amounted to an illegal deduction from their wages and on that basis, they asked for an order from the authority directing the appellant to pay to the respondents the said prescribed wages.
It urged that section 15 of the Act was inapplicable, because the rates of wages fixed by the award did not fall within the definition of wages prescribed by section 2(vi) and it also argue,, that the claim of the respondents was barred by limitation.
421 The authority has found that section 2(vi) includes wages prescribed by the Industrial Tribunal, and so, it has rejected the appellants ' contention that the applications made by the respondents were incompetent under section 15 of the Act.
The appellant challenged the correctness of the conclusion of the authority that the applications made by the res pondents were competent under section 15 of the Act before the Patna High Court by filing a petition under article 226 of the Constitution.
The High Court has affirmed the finding of the authority and held that section 15 was applicable to the case, because the wages prescribed by the award did amount to wages as defined by section 2(vi) of the Act.
It is this order which the appellant seeks to challenge before us by its present appeal by special leave.
