Appeal from the judgment and decree dated July 27, 1959 of the Allahabad High Court in Income tax Reference No.
This appeal pursuant to a certificate granted by the Allahabad High Court under section 66A(2) of the Income tax Act (hereinafter referred to as the Act) is directed against the judgment of the High Court in a reference under the Act, answering the question referred to it in the negative.
The question referred by the Appellate Tribunal is: "Whether on a true interpretation of clause (viii) of subsection 3 of section 4 of the indian Income tax Act the sum of Rs.
36,396/ received by the assessee as an allowance during the previous year of the assessment year 1949 50 is revenue income liable to tax under the Indian Income tax Act, 1922?"
The relevant facts stated in the Statement of the case are as follows: The assessee is a Hindu undivided family headed by one Sri Trivikram Narain Singh who is a descendant of one Sri Babu Ausan Singh who was the original founder and owner of what is known as Ausanganj State in the district of Benaras.
The disputes between the Jagirdars and Zamindars ultimately ended in 1837 by a compromise between the British Government and the then Jagirdar Hat Narain Singh whereby the British Government 702 granted a pension of Rs.
By this arrangement the revenue or land collections of Jagir became payable by the Zamindars direct to the Government and by the grant of the pension, Babu Hat Narain Singh and his successors no longer remained the proprietors of the Parganas or the Jagir and became entitled to merely a pension.
The pension was paid regularly from year to year by the Government to Babu Har Narain Singh and his heirs.
During the previous year of the assessment year 1949 50, the assessee received a sum of Rs.
He observed that "in fact this income arose from a statutory obligation of the Government to pay it, and although the Government recouped this from the person with whom the land was settled, land in the genealogical tree of Malikana appears in the second degree, its immediate and effective source is the Government 's statutory obligation to pay it, and this obligation is not land within the meaning of Income tax Act, vide C.I.T.v.
The Income tax Officer appealed to the Income tax Appellate Tribunal.
36,396/ was chargeable to tax under the Act as the income was not agricultural income for "although the pension was determined with respect to the quantum of the rent collection the rent collections or the land could not be said to be the immediate source of the pension.
The source of the pension was a liability undertaken by the Government for extinguishing the proprietary rights of the Jagirdar and when the immediate source of the income was not land or rent collections from land, it is difficult to hold that the receipt of the assessee was agricultural income within the meaning of Section 4(3)(viii) of the Income tax Act. "
