Appeal by special leave from the Award dated September 20, 1963 of the Central Government Industrial Tribunal, Bombay in Reference CG IT 25 of 1962. section V. Gupte, Solicitor General, M. Rajagopalan and K. R. Choudhuri, for the appellants.
and the matter in dispute was stated to be : "Whether the existing system of work of the shore crew of the Prince 's and Victoria Docks under which each shift consists of 8 hours ' normal duty, 2 hours ' variable recess and 12 hours ' overtime needs any modification?
Reference in this judgment will be made to the Prince 's and Victoria Docks, the Alexandra Docks, Butcher Island and the Flotilla Crew.
From the facts appearing on the record it appears that the Trustees first introduced a two shift system of work in the Alexandra Docks on June 30, 1953 and the same system was extended to the Prince 's and Victoria Docks on December 15, 1953.
When the two shift system began, each shift of 12 hours was broken up into 8 hours ' duty, 2 hours ' variable recess and 2 hours ' overtime.
In 1956 the workmen, who were then represented by the Port Trust General Workers ' Union, made a demand for a fixed recess of two hours.
The Trustees agreed to accept the hours of rest at fixed hours in the Alexandra Docks but at the Prince 's and Victoria Docks they kept it variable agreeing to fix it as near the middle of the duty hours as possible.
Under this arrangement the shore crew working at the Prince 's and Victoria Docks were informed each day what the period of rest would be on the following day.
In explanation of this difference it may be pointed out that the Alexandra Docks work on a system of lock gates which enables the depth of water at the docks to be artificially regulated but the Prince 's and Victoria Docks, being tidal, work only at high tide.
It was thus possible to fix rest hours at the Alexandra Docks for half the crew different from the rest hours of the other half so that a part of the crew was always available on hand.
As the lock gates control the depth of water in the Alexandra Docks, fixed hours of rest could be maintained from day to day except in the monsoon months when the, storm gates had some time to be closed.
Thus the 12 hours ' shift at the Alexandra Docks was 8 hours ' of duty, 3 hours ' overtime and one hour variable recess.
At these docks 8 hours ' duty, 2 hours ' rest at variable times and 2 hours ' overtime were prescribed.
The claim of the shore crew at the Prince 's and Victoria Docks and Butcher Island for reducing the hours of rest and increasing overtime to three hours was not accepted because the amount of work in the, opinion of the Trustees did not justify the change.
