Appeal by special leave from the judgment and order dated October 7, 1965 of the Punjab High Court (Circuit Bench) at Delhi in Civil Writ No.
On May 19, 1965 Mr. D. section Dang, Secretary of the Company Law Board issued an order on behalf of the Company Law Board made under section 237 (b) of the appointing 4 persons as Inspectors for investigating the affairs of the Barium Chemicals Ltd., appellant No.
I before us, since its incorporation in the year 1961 and to report to the Company Law Board inter alia "all the irregularities and contravention in respect of the provisions of the or of any other law for the time being in force and the person or persons responsible for such irregularities and contravention. "
The order was made by the Chairman of the Board, Mr. R. C. Dutt on behalf of the Board by virtue of the powers conferred on him by certain rules to which we shall refer later.
On June 4, 1965 the Company preferred a writ petition under article 226 of the Constitution in the Punjab High Court for the issue of a writ of mandamus or other appropriate writ, direction or order quashing the order of the Board dated May 19, 1965.
Apart from the relief of quashing the order of May 19, 1965 the appellants sought the ' issue of a writ restraining the Company Law Board and the Inspectors from giving effect to the order dated May 19, 1965 and also sought some other incidental reliefs.
The order of the Board was challenged on 5 grounds which are briefly as follows: (1) that the order was made mala fide; (2) that in making the order the Board had acted on material extraneous to the matters mentioned in section 237(b) of the ; (3) that the order having in fact been made at the instance of the shareholders is invalid and on a true construction of section 237 this could not be done; (4) that the order was invalid because it was made by the Chairman of the Board and not by the Board; and (5) that the provisions of section 237(b) are void as offending articles 14 and 19(1) (g) of the Constitution.
The allegations of mala fides were denied on behalf of the respondents.
The High Court rejected the contentions urged before it on behalf of the appellants and dismissed the writ petition.
The appellants thereafter sought to obtain a certificate of fitness for appeal to this Court; but the High Court refused to grant such a certificate.
2 was appointed Managing Director of the Company from December 5, 1961 and his appointment and remuneration were approved by the Central Government on July 30, 1962.
L. A. Mitchell Ltd., of Manchester in pursuance of a collaboration agreement between it and the company entered in October, 1961 and approved by the Central Government in November of that year.
Pearwn, & Co. Ltd.), to which a. person named Lord Poole belonged.
It would appear that as the work of setting up of the plant was being delayed the Company sent a notice to M/s Mitchell Ltd. , on April 2, 1965 in which the Company stated that if the plant was not completely installed and got into running order by June 1, 1965 the Company will have to make alternative arrangements and that it would hold M/s.
As a result of the notice Lord Poole visited India in April/May, 1965.
2 Balasubramanian was negotiating with a German firm named Kali Chemie A. G. of Hanover for obtaining their collaboration.
The firm of T. T. Krishnamachari & Sons approached appellant No.
2 for the grant of sole selling, agency of the products of the plant to be established in collaboration with Kali Chemie.
2 did not agree to this with the result that the company 's negotiations with Kali Chemie broke down.
The appellants also say that T. T. Krishnamachari & Sonswere later a so granted a licence to set up a plant for manufacturing barium chemicals but that on appellant No.
On this part of the case the appellant 's contention is that the Chairman of the Company Law Board Mr. R. C. Dutt made the order for investigation into the affairs of appellant No.
T. T. Krishnamachari & Sons was revoked and as they were not even given sole selling agency for the sale of the products of barium chemicals Mr. T. T. Krishnaniachari wanted action to be taken under this provision either for penalising appellant No.
320 A lengthy argument was addressed before us by Mr. Setalvad bearing on the question of mala fides in the course of which he referred us to certain documents.
He also wanted us to bear in mind the sequence in which certain events occurred and said that these would indicate that the former Finance Minister must have been instrumental in having an order under section 237(b) made by the Chairman of the Board.
Our learned brother Shelat has dealt with this aspect of the matter fully in his judgment and as we agree with him it is not necessary to say much on the point.
We would, however, like to refer to and deal with one aspect of the argument bearing on the question of mala fides.
Mr. Setalvad points out that the Company Law Board had decided in December 1964 to take action against appellant No.
Krishnamachari & Sons would have got the sole selling agency of the products of barium chemicals.
T. T. Krishnamachari & Sons would have secured the sole monopoly for sale of the products of barium chemicals.
One more point was urged in connection with this aspect of the argument and it is that the appellants were not given an opportunity to cross examine Mr. T. T. Krishnamachari and Mr. Dutt.
its discretion the High Court has re 321 fused permission to cross examine them.
In such a case it would not be appropriate for this Court while hearing an appeal by special leave to interfere lightly with the exercise of that discretion.
Mr. Setalvad said that as the appellants had made out a prima facie case of mala fides in their affidavits, and as these allegations had been denied by the respondents, the High Court was in error in refusing permission to the appellants to cross examine the persons who swore the affidavits on the side of the respondents.
There is nothing to show that the High Court thought that a prima facie case of mala fides had been made out.
The court has to find the facts and if it finds that it can do so without cross examination it is not compelled to permit cross examination.
Coming to the second point, it would be desirable to repro duce section 237 which reads thus: "Without prejudice to its powers under section 235 the Central Government (a) shall appoint one or more competent persons as inspectors to investigate the affairs of a company and to report thereon in such manner as the Central Government may direct, if (i) the company, by special resolution, or (ii) the Court, by order, declares that the affairs of the company ought to be investigated by an inspector appointed by the Central Government; and (b) may do so if, in the opinion of the Central Government, there are circumstances suggesting (i) that the business of the company is being conducted with intent to defraud its creditors, members or any other persons, or otherwise for a fraudulent or unlawful purpose, or in a manner oppressive of any of its members, or that the company was formed for any fraudulent or unlawful purpose; or (ii) that persons concerned in the formation of the company or the management of its affairs have in connection therewith been guilty of fraud, misfeasance or other misconduct towards the company or towards any of its members; or (iii) that the members of the company have not been given all the information with respect to its 322 affairs.
which they might reasonably expect, including information relating to the calculation of the commission payable to a managing or other director, the managing agent, the secretaries and treasurers, or the manager of the company. "
In view of the fact that the Central Government, by virtue of the powers conferred by sections 10 E and 637 delegated its powers under section 237 to them Company Law Board we shall read section 237 as if in place of the words "Central Government" there are the words "Company Law Board" or for brevity 'Board '.
(b) of section 237 requires two things: (1) the opinion of the Board and (2) the existence of circumstances suggesting one or more of the matters.
He contends that though the opinion of the Board is subjective the existence of circumstances set out in the sub cls.
The Attorney General disputes this construction and contends that the clause is incapable of a dichotomy and that the subjective process embraces the formation of an opinion that circumstances suggestive of any of the matters comprised in sub cls.
Once it is conceded that the formation of an opinion by the Board is intended to be subjective and if the provision is constitutional which in our view it is the question would arise: what is that about which the Board is entitled to form an opinion?
The opinion must necessarily concern the existence or non existence of facts suggesting the things mentioned in the several sub clauses of cl.
(b) thereof confers, a discretion upon the Board to appoint an Inspector to investigate the affairs of a company.
The discretion conferred to order an investigation is administrative and not judicial since 323 its exercise one way or the other does not affect the rights of a company nor does it lead to any serious consequences as, for instance, hampering the business of the company.
Now, if it can be shown that the 'Board had in fact not formed an opinion its order could be successfully challenged.
But, Mr. Setalvad says, since the grounds have in fact been disclosed in the affidavit of Mr. Dutt upon which his subjective satisfaction was based it is open to the court to consider whether those grounds are relevant or are irrelevant because they are extraneous to the question as to the existence or otherwise of any of the matters referred to in sub cls.
In paragraph 5 Mr. Dutt has set out that the petition is liable to be dismissed summarily being grounded on facts which are, false, speculative and lacking in material particulars.
In paragraph 9 Mr. Dutt has categorically stated that the order of May 19, 1965 was passed after careful and independent examination of the material by the Chairman and that it was issued in proper exercise of the powers conferred upon it.
In paragraph 10 Mr. Dutt has taken the plea that the petition was liable to be dismissed as it had not been made bona fide but for extraneous reasons and to create prejudice with a view to thwart statutory investigation.
Then follows paragraph 14 upon which Mr. Setalvad has founded an argument that the grounds disclosed therein being extraneous the order is invalid.
In this paragraph Mr. Dutt has admitted some of the facts stated in paragraphs 1 to 19.
However, from the Memoranda received by the Board referred to in paragraph 5 and other examination it appeared inter alia that: (i) that there had been delay, bungling and faulty planning of this project, resulting in double expenditure.
2: (ii) Since its flotation the company has been continuously showing losses and nearly 1/3rd of its share capital has been wiped off; (iii)that the shares of the company which to start with were at a premium were being quoted on the Stock Exchange at half their face value; and (iv)some eminent persons who had initially accepted seats on the Board of Directors of the company had subsequently severed their connections with it due to differences with Petitioner No.
Moreover the expression "inter alia" used by Mr. Dutt would show that the conclusions set out by him specifically are not the only ones which could be drawn from the material referred to by, him in paragraph 5 of his affidavit.
Turning to paragraph 16 of the affidavit we find that Mr. Dutt has clearly reiterated that there was ample material before the Board on which it could and did form the opinion that there were circumstances suggesting that as stated in the order of May, 19, 1965, the business of the company was being conducted with intent to defraud creditors, members and other persons and further that the persons concerned in the management of the affairs of the company had in connection therewith been guilty of fraud, misfeasance and other misconduct towards the company and its members.
In this state of pleadings it would not be right to construe the affidavit of Mr. Dutt to mean that the only conclusions emerging from the material before the Board are those that are set out in paragraph 14 of his affidavit.
Apart from this we do not think that the conclusions set out in paragraph 14 are extraneous to the matters indicated in the order of May 19, 1965.
What is said therein is that there are circumstances suggesting that the business of the appellants is being conducted with intent to defraud its creditors, members and others, and that.
the persons concerned with the management of the affairs of the company have been guilty of fraud, misfeasance and other misconduct towards the company and its members.
Now, the first of its conclusion is to the effect that the materials show that there was delay , bungling, faulty planning of the project and that this resulted in double expenditure for which the collaborators had put the responsibility upon the Managing Director, that is, appellant No.
Similarly could not the fact that the company was continuously showing losses since its flotation and that 1/ 3rd of its 326 share : capital had ,been wiped out could have been suggestive of fraud to the Board.
It would furthermore be difficult for the shareholders to find out the facts leading to the poor financial condition of a company.
The Government thought it right to take power to step in where there was reason to suspect that the Management may not have been acting in the interests of the shareholders who would not be able to take the steps against a powerful body like the Managementand to take steps for protection of such interests.
As we have said, the section gives the exploratory power only.
The powers are exercised for ascertaining facts and, therefore, before they are finally known, all that is necessary for the exercise of the powers is the opinion ,of the Board that there are circumstances which suggest to it that fraud and other kinds of mismanagement mentioned in sub cls.
Coming to the third point of Mr. Setalvad pointed out that four ex Directors of the Company who had resigned submitted a 327 memorandum to Mr. T. T. Krishnamachari while he was holding the office of Finance Minister in which grave allegations were made concerning the affairs of the Company and the management of the Company by the second appellant.
was the outcome of this memorandum and that by ordering it the Board has in effect enabled the ex Directors who continue to be shareholders to circumvent the provisions of sections 235 and 236 of the .
Section 235 deals with "Investigation of affairs of company on application by members or report by Registrar".
Clause (a) of this section provides that in the case of a company having a share capital the investigation can be ordered either on the application of not less than 200 members or of members holding not less than one tenth of the total voting power therein.
Section 236 provides that such application has to be supported by such evidence as the Board (reading 'Board ' for 'Central Government ') may require.
It also empowers the Board to require the applicants to furnish security for such amount, not exceeding one thousand rupees as it may think fit, for the payment of the costs of the investigation.
It is clear from the counter affidavit of Mr. Dutt and particularly from paragraph 5 thereof that the Board had before it not only two sets of memoranda dated May 30, 1964 and July 9, 1964 respectively from four ex Directors of the Company alleging serious irregularities and illegalities in the conduct of the affairs of the Company but also other materials.
The Board points out that over a long period beginning from September 1961 the Department had been receiving various complaints in regard to the conduct of the affairs of the Company.
In his /S5SCI 23 328 affidavit the Chairman of the Board Mr. Dutt has stated further in paragraph 5(b) as follows: "The material on the file was further examined in the light of the Regional Director 's recommendation by the two Under Secretaries of the Board (Sarvashri M. K. Banerjee C. section section and K. C. Chand, I. R. section at the head.
The matter was then considered by the Secretary of the Company Law Board in charge of investigation (Shri D. section Dang, I.A.S.)
Then again in paragraph 5(c) he has stated as follows: "Accordingly, the matter was put up to me at the end of November 1964 and after consideration of all the material on record, I formed the opinion that there were circumstances suggesting the need for action under section 237(b) of the ".
As already stated the appellant had challenged the provisions of section 237(b) on the ground that they are violative of the fundamental rights under articles 14 and 19(1)(g) of the Constitution.
Our brother Shelat has dealt with this attack on the provisions fully and we agree generally with what he has said while dealing with the contentions.
We would, however, like to add that the com pany being an artificial legal person cannot, as held by this Court in The State Trading Corporation of India Ltd., vs Commercial Tax Officer Visakhapatnam & Ors.
We agree with our learned brother that the action proposed under section 237(b) being merely, exploratory in character the fundamental right of Balasubramanian to carry on business is not affected thereby.
Since that is so, the question whether the pro visions of the aforesaid section are a reasonable restriction on the exercise of the right under article 19(1)(g) does not arise for consideration.
329 of procedure prescribed in the order dated February 6, 1964.
The validity of this rule is challenged, by Mr. Setalvad on the ground that this amounts to sub delegation of a delegated power and is ultra vires the Act.
Clause (a) of sub section (1) of section 637 read with section 10(E)(1) empower the Central Government to delegate its powers under section 237 to the Company Law Board.
By notification dated February 1, 1964 the Central Government has delegated, amongst other powers and functions, those conferred upon it by section 237 upon the Company Law Board.
By another notification of the same date the Central Government has made and published rules made by it in exercise of its powers under section 642(1) read with section 10E(5) rule 3 of which reads thus: "Distribution of business; The Chairman may, with the previous approval of the Central Government, by order in writing, distribute the business of the Board, among himself and the other member or members, and specify the cases or classes of cases which shall be considered jointly by the Board. "
By order dated February 6, 1964 the Chairman of the Company Law Board specified the cases and classes of cases to be considered jointly by the Board and distributed the remaining business between himself and other members of the Board.
Amongst the matters allocated to the Chairman is the appointment of an Inspector under section 237 to investigate the affairs of a company.
In this connection he has referred us to sub section 4A of section 10E which was subsequently added but not made retrospective by an amendment of the Act which confers an express power on the Central Government to enable the Chairman to distribute the powers and functions of the Board.
According to the learned Attorney General this provision was enacted only to make what was implicit in section 10E(5) read with section 642(1) clear and that the distribution of the work of the Board being merely a matter of procedure the order of the Chairman allocating the power under section 237(b) to himself did not amount to sub delegation of the power of the Board.
Bearing in mind the fact that the power conferred by section 237(b) is merely administrative it is difficult to appreciate how the allocation of business of the Board relating to the exercise of such power can be anything other than a matter of procedure.
He acts in the name of the Board and is no more than its agent But even if he is looked upon as a delegate of the Board and, therefore, a sub delegate vis a vis the Central Government he would be as much subject to the control of the Central Government as the Board itself.
For sub section (6) of section 10E provides that the Board shall, in S5SCI 23(a) 330 the exercise of the powers delegated to it, be subject to the control of the Central Government and the order distributing the business was made with the permission of the Central Government.
Bearing in mind that the maxim delegatus non potest delegare sets out what is merely a rule of construction, sub delegation can be sustained if permitted by an express provision or by necessary impli cation.
Where, as here, what is sub delegated is an administrative power and control over its exercise is retained by the nominee of Parliament, that is, here the Central Government, the power to make a delegation may be inferred.
To sum up, then, our conclusions may be stated thus: The discretion conferred on the Central Government by section 237(b) to order an investigation and delegated by it to the Company Law Board is administrative, that it could be validly exercised by the Chairman of the Board by an order made in pursuance of a rule enacted by the Central Government under section 642(1) read with section 10E(5), that the exercise of the power does not violate any fundamental right of the company, that the opinion to be formed under section 237(b) is subjective and that if the grounds are disclosed by the Board the Court can examine them for considering whether they are relevant.
Though the order could successfully be challenged if it were made mala fide, it has not been shown to have been so made.
We are concerned in this appeal with the legality of an order of the Chairman, Company Law Board, May 19, 1965, (purporting to be under section 237(b) of the ) declaring that the affairs of the Barium Chemicals Ltd. be investigated.
