Appeal from the judgment and order dated October 22, 1965 of the Bombay High Court Nagpur Bench in Special Civil Application No.
The appellant had in this petition prayed for the issue of a writ quashing the resolution dated April 6, 1964, passed by the Standing Committee, Zila Parishad, Nagpur, and for a writ of mandamus directing the Standing Committee not to interfere with the right of the appellant to impose and collect the octroi duty pursuant to its resolution dated February 25, 1963.
On June 1, 1959, the Bombay Village Panchayat Act, 1958 (Bombay Act III of 1959) hereinafter referred to as the Act came into effect in Vidharba region, and by virtue of this Act the appellant was deemed to be a Panchayat under the Act.
The resolution, after reciting the need 215 for levying octroi duty and the relevant statutory provisions, concludes: ".
it passes the resolution to levy minimum octroi tax on the goods coming within its local limits as per the Schedule No.
There fore matter of Octroi Rules, calling for objections for the tax and taking of decisions thereon after the consideration, number of the octroi posts and place etc.
On January 26, 1963, a public notice was issued under r. 3(b) of the Maharashtra Village Panchayats Taxes and Fees Rules, 1960 hereinafter referred to as the Fees Rules.
After setting out the previous resolutions and the publication of the notice by beat of drum, and the various objections received, it concludes: "Having considered all these above objections and suggestions and having given a satisfactory explanation for the same, this Committee unanimously resolves that as per the above resolution octroi should be levied on all the goods coming into the limits of the Panchayat,as per schedule I item 1,and levy the minimum octroi as per the rules in Schedule I item 2.
3 was passed fixing octroi limits and number of octroi nakas and their places.
On March 18, 1963, the Panchayat wrote to the Collector, Nagpur, seeking his approval to the octroi limits, number of octroi nakas and their places.
This decision was communicated to the Company by letter dated September 19, 1963, stating that the appeal "has been rejected by the Samiti as per its resolution dated 4th September, 1963, because the same was not filed within limitation as per the provisions of Bombay Village Panchayat Act and Rule 5 of Taxes and Fees Rules of 1960. "
The Company thereupon filed an appeal before the Standing Committee, Zila Parishad, Nagpur hereinafter, referred to as the Standing Committee on October 22, 1963.
While the appeal was pending, the Tehsildar Ramtek on January 14, 1964, approved the octroi limits and the number and location of octroi nakas within the limits of the jurisdiction of the Panchayat under r. 21 of the Fees Rules.
The High Court held that the Panchayat Samiti could not dismiss the appeal of the Company as being barred by limitation because r. 5 of the Fees Rules was ultra vires the powers of the rule making authority.
The High Court did not deal with the question whether the company 's tea was imported into the limits of the Panchayat for consumption, use or sale because it felt that sufficient facts had not been found by the Standing Committee.
