Appeals by special leave from the judgment and order dated ' March 6, 1967 of the Orissa High Court in O.J.C.
The Orissa Superior Judicial Service (senior branch) is a combined cadre consisting of officers holding purely judicial posts as well as posts which are essentially administrative in character.
It consists of eight district and sessions judges, two additional district and sessions judges, secretary to government in law department, superintendent and legal remembrancer, law department, deputy secretary to government in the law department, member administrative tribunal and the Registrar of the Orissa High Court, in all 15 in number.
Out of these, the district and sessions judges and additional district and sessions judges were discharging purely judicial functions.
Obviously when the Governor promulgated the Orissa Superior Judicial Service Rules 1963, he proceeded on the basis that the power to transfer the district judges and addl.
The High Court was repeatedly requesting the government to send back judicial officers working in administrative posts as district judges or as addl.
a district and sessions judge, was posted as member sales tax tribunal on 31 1 62.
In February 1965, the High Court took a policy decision to the effect that as a general rule, judicial officers working in special posts whether cadre or non cadre, outside their regular line, should be recalled to the regular line after the completion of three years.
in the interest of the service as well as the officers, so that "Officers may not deteriorate by remaining out of touch from regular judicial work for continuously long periods and the service will not suffer by being deprived of the services of senior and experienced officers in manning the posts in the regular judicial line. "
Therein this Court held that power to transfer judges presiding over courts vested with the High Court under article 235 of the Constitution.
By its order dated October 10, 1966, the High Court ordered the following transfers: (a) Shri K.B.
Patro, the then law secretary as district and sessions judge of Ganjam Boudh, (c) Shri T. Misra, district and sessions judge, Ganjam Boudh, as superintendent and legal remembrance and ex officio additional law secretary to the government of Orissa, (d) Shri K.K.
Bose, the then superintendent and legal remembrance and additional law secretary as district and sessions judge of Mayurbhanj Keonjhar.
Mohanti, district and sessions judge, Bolangir Kalahandi, as deputy secretary to the law department, a post which was vacant then, and (f) Shri P.C.
Dey, member sales tax tribunal, as district and sessions judge, Bolangir Kalahandi.
Panda, Shri T. Misra and Shri P. K. Mohanti handed over charge of the posts they were holding and reported themselves at the secretariat for assuming charge of the posts to which they were posted.
Further it directed Shri Patro, Shri Bose and Shri Dey to continue in the posts they were holding.
Consequently, the sessions divisions of Ganjam Boudh, Mayurbhanj Keonjhar and Bolangir Kalahandi were without district and sessions judges for several days.
It is at this stage the petitions which have given rise to those appeals were filed by some of the advocates practising in one or the other of the sessions divisions mentioned above, praying for a writ of mandamus against the government as well as the concerned officers to implement the transfers ordered by the High Court on October 10, 1966 and also a writ of quo warranto against Shri B.K.
Dey requiring them to show cause under what authority they were holding the posts of the law secretary the superintendent and legal remembrancer and member sales tax tribunal, respectively.
alternative before it, the government implemented the orders in question on March 6 1967, on the very day the decision of the High Court was rendered.
Dey had no authority to act as law secretary, superintendent and legal remembrancer and member sales tax tribunal, respectively, on and after October 10, 1966, and (2) commanding the State of Orissa, the Chief Secretary to the government of Orissa, the Home Secretary to the government of Orissa, Shri P.C.
Bose and Shri Patro to implement the transfers ordered by the High Court on October 10, 1966.
Shri Sarjoo Prasad learned counsel for the High Court of Orissa at the very commencement of his arguments conceded that the order of the High Court holding that those officers had no authority to hold the posts in question is unsustainable.
As mentioned earlier, member, sales tax tribunal, was an ex cadre post.
Dey it must be assumed that his services were placed by the High Court at the disposal of the government for being posted as member sales tax tribunal.
AS seen earlier, he was holding the post in question ever since 1962.In those circumstances, the High Court was entitled to recall him and post him as a district and sessions judge.
As seen earlier, the cadre of the superior judicial service (senior branch) consisted of not only the posts of district and sessions judges and addl.
