Appeal by special leave from the Award, dated January 11, 13, 1964 of the Industrial Tribunal, Orissa, Cuttack in Industrial Dispute Case No.
workmen of Orient Paper Mills Ltd., Brajrajnagar, have come up in this appeal by special leave against an award of the Industrial Tribunal, Orissa.
An industrial dispute between these workmen and the management of Orient Paper Mills Ltd. (hereinafter referred to as "the Company") was referred by the State Government under section 10(1) (d) of the Industrial Disputes Act (hereinafter referred to as "the Act") for adjudication by the Tribunal enumerating 30 different items of dispute.
The first matter related to fixation of wages, including minimum wages, and this was covered by items Nos.
In the course of the hearing of the appeal, learned counsel appearing on behalf of the workmen further gave up some of the points which were the subject matter of the items mentioned above, so that in this judgment we need deal with only those points which were argued by him in support of the appeal.
The first and the main point argued with regard to wages was that the Tribunal, after holding that there was no identical industry in this region comparable with the Company, came to.
the view that there were other industries in the region in which minimum wages were higher than the minimum wages paid by the Company, but failed to fix the minimum wages in the award in accordance with the minimum wages being paid in those industries.
vs Workmen(1) where it was held : "It is now well settled that the principle of industry cum region has to be applied by an Industrial Court, when it proceeds to consider questions like wage structure, dearness allowance and similar conditions of service.
In applying that principle, industrial courts have to compare wage scales prevailing in sinular concerns in the region with which it is dealing, and generally speaking similar concerns would be those in the same line of business as the concern with respect to which the dispute is under consideration.
3 started production only in April, 1960, while the J.K. Paper Mills at Rayagada started production in 1961 62.
In fact, learned counsel was unable to urge that this finding of fact suffered from any error at all.
It was held that such a case: "there should be greater emphasis on the region part of the industry cum region principle, though it would be the duty of the industrial court to see that for purposes of comparison such other industries in the region are taken into account as are as nearly similar to the concern before it as possible.
Though, therefore, in a case where a particular concern is already paying the highest wages in its own line of business, the industrial courts would be justified in looking at wages paid in that region in other lines of business, it should take care to see that the concerns from other lines of business taken into account are such as are as nearly similar as possible, to the line of business carried on by the concern before it.
In the light of these views which were brought to the notice of the Tribunal, the Tribunal proceeded to consider the minimum wages paid by three Collieries, Orient Colliery, Ibe Colliery and Himgiri Rampur Colliery, the Rourkela Steel Plant, the Cement Factory at Rajgangpur and the Indian Aluminum Company, Hirakud which the Tribunal found were situated not very far away from the place where the Company had its factory.
The Tribunal then also took into account the minimum wages being paid by other Paper Mills situated outside the region and thereafter recorded its own decision in the following words : "The conclusion that flows from these figures is that the lowest paid worker in the Paper Mill at Brajrajnagar gets more than what is paid as minimum wage in the other two Paper Mills of Orissa, but it is less than what is paid to the lowest paid worker in some of the Paper Mills outside the State.
On the basis of this finding of fact, the Tribunal held that, if the minimum wage in the Company is to be fixed more on the basis of the minimum wage prevailing in other industries in that region which, in its opinion, would be appropriate under the circumstances of the case, then, a revision was really necessary.
We think that the criticism of learned counsel for the workmen that the Tribunal committed an error at this stage in merely holding that the facts found by it justified a revision and in not proceeding to fix minimum wages on the basis of the other industries in the region, is fully justified.
It is to be noted that there is no mention in the award of the Tribunal that the Company at any stage put forward the case that the Collieries, the Steel Plant, the Cement Factory, and the Aluminjure Company were concerns which were not comparable with the Company.
In fact, the Tribunal also accepted them as being comparable 'and that is why, in its conclusion, the Tribunal held that, in its opinion, it would be appropriate under the circumstances of the case to fix the minimum wage in the Company on the basis of the minimum wage prevailing in other industries in that region.
Having come to this view, it is clear that, to give full effect to the principle laid down by this Court the case of French Motor Car Co.(1), the Tribunal should have proceeded to fix the minimum wage in the Company on the basis of the average minimum wage prevailing in these concerns.
On their basis, it appears to us that there will be full justification for fixing the minimum wage in the Company at Rs.
In this connection, we may take notice of the fact that, in the written statement of the workmen, the minimum wages prevailing in these concerns were (1) [1963] Supp.
672 shown at figures lower than those mentioned by the Tribunal; but it appears that those lower figures were given, because the, wages mentioned in the written statement were based on a lower Price Index.
The Tribunal considered the minimum wages in these concerns on the basis of the prevailing Price Index of 441 a ' Sambalpur taking 100 as the basic Price Index for the year 1939 Even when fixing the minimum wage ,for the Company on the basis of the alternative calculation made by the Tribunal, the Tribunal has proceeded on the assumption that the minimum wage is being fixed for the Price Index No.
441 prevailing at the time of the award taking 100 as the basic index for the year 1939 In these circumstances, we think that the minimum wage in the Company should have been fixed by the Tribunalmensera, following the principle laid down by this Court in the case of French Motor Car Co.(1).
