Appeal by special leave from the judgment and order dated September 11, 1964 of the Madras High Court in Tax Case No.
C. J. M/s Amarchand Sobhachand 'a firm registered under the Indian Income tax Act, 1922, carried on business at Madras in drugs, chemicals, mercury, camphor and silk yam and as money lenders.
There were two partners of the firm Mohanlal Sagmal and Seshmal Sobhachand, and Ramniklal and Lakshmichand minors were admitted to the benefits of the partnership, each with 7/32 share in the profits.
The appellants had for a long time business relations with a firm styled "Bhojaji Sobhachand" carrying on business at Bombay as importers of yam and also as agents and adathias.
Sobhachand, one of the partners of Bhojaji Sobhachand with 16% share in the profit and loss is the father of Seshmal, Ramniklal and Lakshmichand, partners of the appellants.
The Income tax Officer disallowed their claim holding that : "these transactions were mere accommodations which can have no bearing to the regular business carried on by the assessee. "
The Income tax Appellate Tribunal accordingly confirmed the order of the Appellate Assistant Commissioner.
The assessee firm then applied to the Tribunal to refer the following question to the High Court of Madras "Whether on the facts and in the circumstances of the case the disallowance of the bad debt of Rs.
The Tribunal rejected the application, but pursuant to an order made by the High Court of, Madras under section 66(2) submitted a statement of the case on the following question "Whether on the facts and in the circumstances of the case, the Tribunal was right in law in holding that the debt of Rs.
2,68,385/ due to the appellants was not a bad and doubtful debt in its money lending business not a debt representing loss sustained in the other business.
Section 10(2) (xi) of the Indian Income tax Act, 1922, as in force at the relevant time provided : "(2) Such profits or gains shall be computed after making the following allowances, namely : (xi) When the assessee 's accounts in respect of any part of his business, profession or vocation are not kept on the cash basis, such sum, in respect of bad and doubtful debts, due to the assessee in 807SupCI/71 418 respect of that part of his business, profession or vocation, and in the case of an assessee carrying on a banking or money lending business, such sum in respect of loans made in the ordinary course of such business as the Income tax Officer may estimate to be irrecoverable but not exceeding the amount actually written off as irrecoverable in the books of the assessee, Provided.
