From the judgment and order dated the 8th February, 1967 of Le Delhi High Court in Civil Writ No.
Whether the Federation of Indian Chambers of Commerce and Industry, New Delhi (Respondent 1) is a "commercial establishment" within the meaning of s.2(5) of the Delhi Shops ,and Establishments Act, 1954 (for short the Act) is the sale question that falls for determination in this appeal by certificate directed against the judgment dated February 8, 1967 of the High Court of Delhi.
The facts bearing on this question may now be stated: Respondent 1 (hereinafter referred to as the Federation) is a Company registered under section 26 of the Indian Companies Act, 1913.
The primary objects of the Federation as given in the Memorandum of Association are "(a) To promote Indian business in matters of inland and foreign trade, transport, industry and manufactures, finance and all other economic subjects and to encourage Indian banking, shipping and insurance.
(b) To encourage friendly feeling end unanimity among business community and association on all subjects connected with the common good of Indian business.
(e) To take all steps by lawful means which may be necessary for promoting supporting or opposing legislation or other action affecting the aforesaid economic interests and in general to take the initiative to assist and promote trade commerce and industry.
(f)To provide for arbitration in respect of disputes arising, in the course of trade, industry or transport or other business matters, and to secure the services 350 of expert technical and other men to that end if necessary or desirable.
(zl) To establish a Trust or Trusts and/or appoint Trustees thereof from time to time and vest the funds or the surplus income or any property of the Federation in the Trustees who shall hold and deal with the funds, surplus income or property in such manner as the Committee may decide.
The Chief Inspector of Shops and Establishments, Delhi (Appellant 2 herein) called upon the Federation to register its establishment 'he under the Act The Federation failed to comply with the direction and contended that it was not an "establishment" as defined in section 2(9) of the Act.
From the side of the present appellant, at first a half hearted attempt was made to show that the Federation is carrying on a profession as it is "tendering advice to all businessmen and traders".
352 It was then contended that the activities of the Federation carried on in the premises in question amounted to "work in connection with, or incidental or ancillary" to trade or business in general within the latter part of the definition of "commercial establishment".
This contention was also rejected with the observation that since the earlier part of the definition refers to "some particular business or trade carried on in a premises" the words "any work in connection with or incidental or necessary thereto" obviously refer to such particular business or trade and not to trade or business in general '.
The main object of the Act as stated in its preamble is "regulation of hours of work, payment of wages, leave, holiday, terms of service and other conditions of work of persons employed in shop, commercial establishment, establishments for, public entertainment or amusement and other establishments and to provide for certain matters connected therewith."
