Appeal by Special Leave from the Judgment and order dated the 22nd July 1974 of the Madras High Court at Madras in Criminal Appeal No.
This appeal by special leave is directed against the 4 judgment and order of the, High Court of Madras convicting the appellant (hereinafter to be described as the accused) under section 302 IPC and sentencing him to death.
709 The police had submitted charge sheet under section 302/34 IPC against the present accused and accused Jabamani Nadar alias Kanyakumari Comrade alias Ramu and Thamizharasan alias Ramaswami, who was shown as an absconder.
The High Court acquitted accused Jabamani Nadar alias Kanyakumari Comrade alias Ramu and accepted the reference in respect of the present accused.
The younger brother of the deceased, Pandurangam (PW 4), who is a leper, was also sleeping on the eastern parapet of the sluice of the north Boothagudi channel, which is shown at No.
Pandurangam woke up at about 11.15 P.M. On hearing the shout of his deceased brother crying "younger brother: Karunakaran is running after stabbing me with knife.
The electric lights were burning in the vicinity He also saw two persons running ahead of accused Karunakaran.
A crowd gathered and Pandurangam was asked to lodge information at the police station which he did.
The doctor (PW 16) who held the postmortem examination found nine injuries two of which he described as incised and four as punctured incised, two more as punctured and the remaining one as a vertical incised wound.
These were on the left upper arm, left fore arm, on the left side of the epigastrium, on the left side of the anterior axillary line, on the left mid axillary line, on the right side of the epigastrium and on the left side of the back.
Even so, later on four eye witnesses were produced implicating not only the present accused but also two other accused.
The High Court after appreciating the entire evidence rejected the evidence of these eye witnesses, namely, PW 1, 2, 3 and 5 and described them as "a bunch of liars", "unashamed liars and perjurers".
