Appeal by special leave from the judgment and order dated the 20th December 1962 of the High Court of Judicature at Bombay in Civil Appeal No.
The question that arises in this appeal by special leave is whether Shri Vithal Sukhamai Sansthan at Amalner, (East Khandesh) was a private Devasthan or a public religious trust.
Although the origin of the Sansthan is dipped somewhat in antiquity and direct testimony was lacking, it has never been disputed that Sakharam Maharaj constructed a temple in the year 1817 at Amalner and installed the aforesaid deity according to religious rites.
He also acquired certain properties and the said temple with the properties constituted Shri Vithal Rukhamai Sansthan of Amalner.
29 of 1950) (briefly the Act) an application under section 18 of that Act was filed by three persons Bhaskarrao Chimanrao Deshmukh, Ramrao Sahebrao Deshmukh and Ramkrishna Tryambak Deshpande, as constituted attorneys of Vasudeobuwa who was described in the application as the "owner" of the property.
At the close of the enquiry the Assistant Charity Commissioner by his order of August 25, 1956, held the Sansthan to be a public trust and ordered its registration as a public trust under the Act.
The applicants thereupon filed an appeal under section 70 of the Act before the Charity Commissioner, Bombay, who by his order of August 31, 1957, affirmed the decision of the Assistant Charity Commissioner.
The learned District Judge reversed the decision of the Charity Commissioner by his order of October 16, 1959, and declared the Sansthan to be a private property and not a public trust.
The High Court by its order of 19/20th December, 1962, set aside the order of the District Judge and held the Sansthan to be a public trust under the Act and restored the order of the Charity Commissioner.
The learned District Judge relied mostly on the documentary evidence for his conclusion in favour of the appellant.
The High Court particularly relied upon an admission of the appellant 's witness, Ramkrishna Deshpande, when he stated that "we cannot prevent people from going to the temple as the temple is meant for the Darshan by the public".
Before we proceed further, it may be appropriate to note the definitions of 'public trust ' and 'temple ' in section 2(13) and section 2(17) respectively of the Act which read as follows: section 2(13): "Public trust ' means an express or constructive trust for either a public religious or charitable purpose, or both and includes a temple, a math, a wakf, church syna gogue, agiary or other place of public religious worship, a dharmada or any other religious or charitable endowment. "
Relying upon the above definitions Mr. Bal submits that there is absolutely no evidence in this case about dedication to the public or public user of the temple as a matter of right.
623 and 624 measuring 14.5 acres of land in the name of the holder as Devasthan Shri Vithal Rukhamai, Manager Balkrishnabuwa, Guru Govindbuwa, Amalnairker.
There are significant recitals in the Sanad to the following effect: "It is hereby declared that the said land shall be continued for ever by the British Government as the endowment property of Shri Vithal Rukhamai of Kasabe Amalnair Talooka Amalnir on the following conditions, that is to say, that the managers thereof shall continue faithful subjects of the British Government, and .
The Sanad being an ancient Royal grant is a very important piece of evidence to show that although Sakharam Maharaj, the founder of the temple, had already been succeeded by Guru Govindbuwa and the latter by Balkrishnabuwa, the land had been held in the year 1860 61 in the name of the Devasthan.
In the absence of anything to the contrary of a convincing nature, a grant by the Government in favour of the temple describing the property to be in charge of a manager leads to an unerring inference that the property is a public religious endowment.
