Appeal by Special Leave from the Award of the Industrial Tribunal, Gujarat in Reference (II) No.
631 of 1976 Appeal by Special leave from the Award of the Industrial Tribunal, Gujarat in Ref.
1951 of 1975 is directed against the award of the Industrial Tribunal Gujarat, dated September 24, 1975, in the dispute between the Alembic Glass Industries Ltd., Baroda, and its workmen, while appeal No.
Speaking broadly, the dispute in both cases related to the workmen 's demand for 10 days sick leave, with retrospective effect, and ,its accumulation over a period of three years i.e. upto 30 days.
In the case of the Alembic Glass Industries Ltd., it was contended that the Act provided more than adequate sickness benefits, and any additional 82 benefit would place unproductive financial burden on the industry and would have an all round adverse effect on other industries.
The Tribunal, inter alia, awarded 7 days sick leave with full pay and dearness allowance to the workmen of that Company in a year, with the facility of accumulation upto 21 days.
It was stated before the Tribunal, on behalf of the workmen of Jyoti Ltd., that the arguments advanced and the contentions made in the case of the Alembic Glass industries may be considered as those made in their case also.
The award was on the lines of the earlier award in the case of the Alembic Glass Indus tries case, except .that the direction regarding 7 days sick leave was given retrospective effect from January 1, 1975.
The controversy in these cases is whether the benefits admissible under the Act in the matter of the grant of sick leave are such as to justify the rejection of the workmen 's demand and the setting aside of the Tribunal 's awards in that respect.
It has been argued by the learned counsel for the appel lants that as the benefits of sections 47 and 49 of the Act are already admissible to workmen in Baroda with effect from December 14, 1969, and they are quite adequate, the Tribunal committed an error 83 of law in granting the additional benefits mentioned above.
Reference in this connection has been made to section 61 of the Act which provides that when a person is entitled to any of the benefits provided by the Act, he shall not be enti tled to receive any similar benefit admissible under the provisions of any other enactment.
It is difficult to see however how the benefit that the workmen will get under this Act can affect the question of sickness leave being provided for the workmen.
It provides in section 46(1)(a) for periodical treatment of any insured person in case of his sickness if certified by a duly appointed medical practitioner.
Section 56 of the Act pro vides for medical benefits to the insured workmen or in certain cases to the members of his family.
It appears to us clear however that in providing for periodical payments to an insured worker in case of sickness (sickness benefit) or for medical treatment or attendance to him or the members of his family, the legislature did not intend to substitute any of these benefits for the workmen 's right to get leave on full pay on the ground of sickness. "
