Appeal from the Judgment and order dated 3 2 1978 of the Andhra Pradesh High Court in Crl.
The appellant was acquitted by the learned Additional Sessions judge, Chittoor of an offence under Section 302, Indian Penal Code.
The acquittal was reversed by the High Court of Andhra Pradesh and the appellant was convicted under Section 302 Indian Penal Code and sentenced to suffer imprisonment for life.
After about one and a half months the, accused asked his mother in law and brother in law to send his wife to his place.
P. W. 1 affixed his thumb impression on the report exhibit P. 1 prepared by P. W. 9.
When the Police officers went to the village, they 366 found the accused tied to a pole.
The Medical Officer, P. W. 12 who conducted the autopsy, found on the dead body a stab wound over the left axila 6 cms.
below the arm pit 1.75 cms x 0.5 cm.
The stab injury had gone through the third intercostal space and through the upper lobe of the left lung in an upward and medial direction.
P. W. 13 the Medical officer who examined the accused found several abrasions and contusions on the person of the accused.
The Learned Sessions Judge held that the prosecution had failed to establish any motive and that the evidence of the prosecution witnesses was 'discrepant, conflicting and improbable. '
He thought that the prosecution had made an attempt to improve its case which was originally based on circumstantial evidence to made it appear as if P.W.
He referred to the evidence of me Doctor who stated that the injury found on the deceased could have been caused even if she was standing.
The learned Sessions Judge thought that when there were two divergent versions given by the prosecution and the defence and when two views were possible, the benefit of doubt should be given to the accused.
The High Court reversed the finding of acquittal.
1 to 3 and that the discrepancies noticed by the learned Sessions 367 Judge were of a minor character.
The High Court observed that the learned Sessions Judge had magnified the importance to be attached to minor discrepancies.
4 and 5 who came to the scene soon afterwards, the High Court convicted the accused under Section 302 and sentenced him as aforesaid.
In this appeal the learned Counsel for the appellant argued that the accused had no motive to kill his wife and that his version was more probable than the version of the prosecution.
He submitted that the version of the accused that the occurrence took place at about 10 p.m. was substantiated by what was mentioned in exhibit P. 15 the wound certificate given by P.W.
He also contended that two views were possible on the evidence and the accused was entitled to the benefit of doubt.
We have perused the relevant evidence as well as the judgments of the Sessions Judge and the High Court.
The High Court was well justified in commenting that the discrepancies on the basis of which the Trial Court rejected the evidence of P. Ws.
The High Court was also right in holding that the medical evidence supported the prosecution version and not the defence version.
According to the accused the deceased received the injury when she placed herself between P. W. 1 and himself.
We may also refer here to the comment of the learned Counsel for the appellant that realizing that the motive would assume considerable importance if the case was one based on circumstantial evidence, the prosecution tried to make P. W. 3 depose as if she had witnessed occurrence.
In cross examination she stated that she did not remember if she had told the Police that the accused made a gesture as if he was stabbing the deceased.
We are unable to discover any good reason to reject the evidence of P. Ws.
We are afraid the learned Sessions Judge allowed himself to be assailed by airy and fanciful doubts.
The learned Counsel for the appellant advanced the usual argument submitted in all cases where an order of acquittal is reversed, namely, that where two views of the evidence are possible, the accused is entitled to the benefit of the doubt arising from the two views and that where the Trial Court has taken a possible view and acquitted the accused, the High Court should not interfere with the order of acquittal merely because another view is also possible.
