Appeal by Special Leave from the Award dated 20 12 1978 of the Industrial Tribunal Maharashtra in Reference (IT) No.
This appeal by special leave has been preferred by Tata Consultancy Engineers against an award dated 20th December, 1978 of the Industrial Tribunal, Maharashtra, Bombay revising the wage scales of certain categories of employees and granting various other benefits.
These workmen are members of the Tata Consultant Employees Union.
They served a Charter of Demands in July, 1974, on the appellant, and as their demands were not accepted and conciliation proceedings proved fruitless, the State Government made a reference of the dispute under section 10(1) (d), Industrial Tribunal, Maharashtra for adjudication.
170 The Union filed a statement before the Tribunal claiming an upward revision of the wage scales and dearness allowance and an increase from fifteen years to twenty years in the span for earning annual increments.
The claim of the Union was resisted by the appellant, who maintained that the existing wage scales were fair and reasonable on a region cum industry basis and that it would not be possible for the appellant to bear the additional financial burden if the demands of the Union were accepted.
Nothing those facts, the Tribunal observed that compared with the increased paying capacity of the appellant, an inference drawn from the prosperity enjoyed by the appellant over the years, there was definite need for revising the wage scales.
It was pointed out that the dearness allowance and house rent allowance granted by the appellant made little impact in neutralising the cost of living.
In proceeding to revise the wage structure the Tribunal took into account the two principles involved in the process, the financial capacity of the industry to bear the burden of an increased wage bill, and the prevailing wage structure on an industry cum region basis.
Wage scale statements were filed by the parties before the Tribunal pertaining to several engineering consultancy organisations but in the absence of pertinent information concerning the strength of their labour force, the extent of their business, the financial position for some years, the capital invested, the precise nature of the business, the position regarding reserves, dividends declared and future prospects of the company, the Tribunal found that it was unable to rely on them as comparable concerns.
Holding it impossible in the circumstances to apply the principle of industry cum region basis, the Tribunal turned to a consideration of the financial capacity of the company to bear an additional burden.
171 in this connection, it proceeded on the footing that the appellant was a separate and independent division of Tata Sons Limited and had no "functional integrality" with the other divisions.
Having regard to the net profits earned by the appellant from 1968 to 1977 it found that the acceptance of the demands of the Union would result in an increased burden of Rs.
For the purpose of determining the financial capacity of the appellant, the Tribunal followed Unichem Laboratories vs Their Workmen(1) where it was held that the gross profits should be computed without making deductions on account of taxation, development rebate and depreciation.
Revising the figures on that basis, it computed the annual gross profits for the years 1968 to 1977 and determined the annual average at Rs.
The Tribunal took note of the elaborate scales of wages already existing in the wage structure of the appellant and decided "to modify the existing structure of the scales with flat increases in each category. "
But it rejected the demand of the Union for dearness allowance on the basis of a slab system, because that would have imposed an unacceptable burden on the appellant 's financial capacity and there was no reason why the existing scheme of dearness allowance should be disturbed when a substantial increase was being made in the level of the basic wage.
Taking into account the circumstance that besides the staff of 306 workmen represented by the Union there were several other employees who would also have to be paid, the Tribunal considered it fair, in paragraph 23 of the award, to give a flat increase of Rs.
It rejected the demand of the Union 172 for abolishing the Efficiency Bar, but the span of 15 years for earning increment was expanded in some grades to 20 years and some adjustments were also made in specific grades.
The Tribunal also noted that after the salaries of the employees had been fixed in the respective scales, senior employees would have to be given some more increments in the new scales according to their completed years of service.
Taking all these factors into consideration, it made an award dated 20th December, 1978 prescribing the following revision in the existing scales of wages: Grade & Category Existing Grade/ Revised Grade/ Scale Scale I Peon/Helper/ Rs.
The Tribunal maintained the existing schemes of dearness allowance and house rent allowance, and observed that in view of the revised basic wages there would be a resultant increase in the dearness allowance and house rent allowance.
The revised wage scales, the Tribunal directed, should take effect retrospectively from 1st January, 1976.
It also laid down the principle enabling the actual fitment of the workmen in their respective wage scales as on that date and also provided for the number of increments to which they would be entitled having regard to the period of completed service.
173 Two days after the award was made, an application was made by the Union stating: "In the said award, your Honour has observed, at the end of para 22, "In view of the increase that is being allowed in the basic pay, I do not propose to revise the existing scheme of Dearness Allowance. "
When the award is sent for publication, a necessary corrigendum be made in the award and the aforesaid words after the figures Rs.
The fitment has also to be done only after the flat increase is added to the present basic salary of each employee.
The workmen have filed an appeal by special leave, Civil Appeal No.
Considering the appeal of Tata Consulting Engineers first, the contention of learned counsel for the appellant is that having regard to the financial capacity of the appellant the Tribunal erred in making the wage scales retrospective and, in any event, in ranging the retrospectivity back to 1st January, 1976.
No dearness allowance was paid until the beginning of 1977 and the house rent allowance also was introduced about that time.
The cost of living had gone on increasing from 1972 onwards and, as the Tribunal has found, the dearness allowance and house rent allowance made no appreciable impact in neutralising the increasing cost.
During all these years, the appellant had continued to enjoy increasing profits; nonetheless the emoluments received by the workmen did not receive the impress of the appellant 's growing prosperity.
The Charter of Demands was presented by the Union in July, 1974 and when conciliation proceedings failed the State Government made the reference to the Industrial Tribunal in 1975.
The Tribunal has referred to various considerations which prevailed with it in giving retrospectivity to the revised pay scales.
In making the application of 22nd December, 1978, the Union invoked the jurisdiction of the 175 Tribunal under rule 31 of the Industrial Disputes (Bombay) Rules, 1957.
The Labour Court, Tribunal or Arbitrator may correct any clerical mistake or error arising from an accidental slip or omission in any award it or he issues. "
It is only a clerical mistake or error which can be corrected, and the clerical mistake or error must arise from an accidental slip or omission in the award.
Is the instant case one where the amendment made by the Tribunal in the original award can be said to correct a mere clerical mistake or error arising from an accidental slip or omission?
The terms of reference in the State Government 's order required the Tribunal to revise the scales of pay and dearness allowance, and there was no mention of giving any ad hoc increase in the basic pay of individual workman.
The sufficiency of the existing pay scales was considered in detail, and regard was had to their original structure and the accretions made subsequently by way of dearness allowance and house rent allowance.
For the purpose of restructuring the pay scales the Tribunal ruled on the paying capacity of the appellant, both with reference to the profits of the preceding year as well as the prospects of the future.
A clear statement of its intention is found in paragraph 22 of the award, where the Tribunal stated: "I only propose to modify the existing structures of the scales with flat increases in each category."
176 No ad hoc increase to the pay of each individual workman was intended.
It will be noted that the pay scales of different categories were being restructured, and the flat increase envisaged there related to an increase in the general pay scales of different categories.
That the increase was pertinent to the general pay scales in the revised wage structure is patently clear from a comparison of the existing pay scales and the revised pay scales.
The comparative table of existing pay scales and the revised pay scales has been reproduced earlier.
The revised pay scales of all categories, except the category of Draughtsmen, shows an increase of Rs.
100/ in the initial pay fixed in each scale, the increase in the case of the category of Draughtsmen being Rs.
The amendment made by the Tribunal has the effect of providing a second increase, this time to each individual workmen.
If, as the Tribunal has stated in the amendment order, the increase in paragraph 23 was intended to apply to each individual workmen, there is nothing in the body of the award to form the foundation on which the actual figures in the restructured pay scales can be made to rest.
