Judgment and Order dated 6.1.1971 of the Allahabad High Court in Wealth Tax Reference No.
The appeal under section 29(1) of the (hereinafter called the Act) is directed against the judgment and order of the High Court of Allahabad dated 6th of January 1971.
The questions involved before the Allahabad High Court in the reference under section 27(1) of the Act were as follows: (1) Whether, on the facts and in the circumstances of the case, the Tribunal right ly held that the assessee did not make valid gifts aggregating Rs.
(2) Whether, on the facts and in the circumstances of the case, the Tribunal right ly held that the assessee did not validly assign Rs.
(3) Whether, on the facts and in the circumstances of the case, the Tribunal tight ly held that the sum of Rs.
1,50,000 was properly included in the assessee 's net wealth?
(4) Whether, on the facts and in the circumstances of the case, the Tribunal right ly held that the assessee did not make valid gifts aggregating Rs.67,560/ (5) Whether, on the facts and in the circumstances of the case, the Tribunal right ly held that the sum of Rs.67,560/12/ was rightly included in the net wealth of the assessee?
On that day, the assessee had addressed a letter to the Company stating that he had decided to gift away for love and affection various sums to the following persons: 125 Ved Prakash Gupta .
50,000 By that letter the assessee had directed the Company to debit his account to the extent of Rs.
It appears further that copies of this letter were sent to one Om Prakash Gupta and Ved Prakash Gupta.
There was no dispute that instructions of the assessee were car ried out by the Company and relevant debit and credit en tries were made in the respective accounts.
On the same day i.e. on ist January, 1957, Om Parkash Gupta wrote to the assessee, his father, thanking him for the gift of Rs.25,000 made in his favour and the gift of Rs.50,000 in favour of his son Pravin.
A similar letter was written by Ved Prakesh thanking the assessee, his father, for the gift of Rs.25,000 made to him and Rs.50,000 gifted to his son.
It must be mentioned, however, that the company i.e. Messrs Tika Ram and Sons.
But it appears that it was admitted position that Tika Ram & Sons had a cash balance of Rs.4000 only on 1.1.1957 and it did not have any overdraft facilities with any bank.
1,50,000 was validly gifted by him to his sons and grand sons and hence the amounts had been wrongly included in his net wealth by the Income Tax Officer and the Appellate Assistant Commissioner.
It was his contention that Tika Ram & Sons carried on the business of banking and hence the gifts were valid.
But there was no evidence that Tika Ram and Sons were carrying on any banking business.
The main question therefore that falls for consid eration is whether gifts in question made by transfer en tries in the books of debtor company were valid gifts even though the debtor company was not carrying on business of banking and had no cash in hand for the amount in question on that date.
Gift is defined in section 122 of the as transfer of certain existing mova ble or immovable property made voluntarily and without consideration by 126 one person, called the donor, to another, called the donee, and accepted by or on behalf of the donee.
Section 123 of the said Act deals with how transfers are effected and stipulates, inter alia, that for the purpose of making a gift of movable property as in this case, the transfer must be effected either by a registered instrument signed by the donor and attested or by delivery.
The next contention was regarding the inclusion of net wealth a sum of Rs.67,560/12/ standing to the credit of the assessee in the books of M/s Pearls & Beads.
The assessee claimed to have gifted the said amounts by transfer entries in the books of M/s Pearls & Beads on 30th March, 1957.
The High Court in view of the decision of the Division Bench of the Allahabad High Court in the case of Gopal Raj Swarup vs Commissioner of Wealth tax, Lucknow, answered the first question in the negative and so far as the second question is concerned, it declined to answer as it did not arise in view of the answer given to the first question and the questions Nos.
In the case of banking companies or other firms and companies who have overdraft facilities, even if the sums are not in credit of the donor and are not with such companies or firms, gifts might be possible by adjustment of the book entries.
But in the cases of non banking companies or firms, if these companies or firms do not have overdraft facilities, it is not possible to make valid gift if sums or funds are not available.
It is possible in certain circumstances for a donor to make a valid gift by instructing a firm or a company or a H.U.F.
in which the donor has an account to give effect to the gift by debiting his account and crediting the account in the name of the donee.
But in such cases 127 merely books entries would not suffice.
This position of law has been referred to and reiterated by the Bench decision of the Delhi High Court in the case of India Glass Agency vs Com missioner of Income Tax, New Delhi, Justice Ranganathan of the Delhi High Court after referring to several authorities has observed that book entries may be sufficient only when circumstances make it clear that the gift was genuine and the firms where accounts transfer are effected must have sufficient cash in hand or sufficient provision for overdraft facility upon the basis of which it would honour the instructions given by the assessee.
