237 From the Judgment and Order dated 4.8.1986 of the Cal cutta High Court in F.M.A.T.
We grant special leave and proceed to dispose of the appeal.
A hundred and thirty two years ago, in 1854, 'the wise Indian Chief of Seattle ' replied to the offer of 'the great White Chief in Washington ' to buy their land.
"The white man 's dead forget the country of their birth when they go to walk among the stars.
The Great Chief sends word he will reserve us a place so that we can live comfortably to ourselves.
His father 's grave and his children 's birth right are forgotten.
He treats his mother, the earth, and his brother, the sky, as things to be bought, plundered, sold like sheep or bright beads.
The air is precious to the red man, for all things share the same breath the beast, the tree, the man, they all share the same breath.
"This we know: The earth does not belong to man; man belongs to the earth.
"Even the white man, whose God walks and talks with him as friend to friend, cannot be exempt from the common destiny.
That destiny is a mystery to us, for we do not understand when the wild buffalo are all slaughtered, the wild horses are tamed, the secret corners of the forest heavy with scent of many man and the view of the ripe hills blotted by talking wires.
Today society 's interaction with nature is so extensive that the environmental question has assumed proportions affecting all humanity.
Industrialisation, urbanisation, explosion of population, overexploitation of resources, depletion of traditional sources of energy and raw materials and the search for new sources of energy and raw materials, the disruption of natural ecological balances, the destruc tion of a multitude of animal and plant species for economic reasons and sometimes for no good reason at all are factors which have contributed to environmental deterioration.
It is said that approximate ly 1,000 bird and animal species are facing extinction at present.
So it is that the environmental question has became urgent and it has to be properly understood and squarely met by man.
In India, as elsewhere in the world, uncontrolled growth and the consequent environmental deterioration are fast assuming menacing proportions and all Indian cities are afflicted with this problem.
The question raised in the present case is whether the Government of West Bengal has shown such lack of awareness of the problem of environment in making an 242 allotment of land for the construction of a Five Star Hotel at the expense of the zoological garden that it warrants interference by this Court?
On the other hand, if relevant considerations are not borne in mind and irrele vant considerations influence the decision, the Court may interfere in order to prevent a likelihood of prejudice to the public.
Whenever a problem of ecology is brought before the Court, the Court is bound to bear in mind article 48A of the Constitution, the Directive Principle which enjoins that "The State shall endeavour to protect and improve the envi ronment and to safeguard the forests and wild life of the country," and article 51A(g) which proclaims it to be the fundamental duty of every citizen of India "to protect and improve the natural environment including forests, lakes, rivers and wild life, and to have compassion for living creatures. "
When the Court is called upon to give effect to the Directive Principle and the fundamental duty, the Court is not to shrug its shoulders and say that priorities are a matter of policy and so it is a matter for the policy making authority.
The least that the Court may do is to examine whether appropriate consideration are borne in mind and irrelevancies excluded.
However the Court will not attempt to nicely balance relevant considerations.
When the question involves the nice balancing of relevant considerations, the Court may feel justified in resigning itself to acceptance of the decision of the concerned authority.
There is in Calcutta a zoological garden located in Allipore, now almost the heart of Calcutta, on either side of Belvedere Road, one of Calcutta 's main arterial roads, fortynine acres on one side and eight acres on the other.
The main zoo is in the fortynine acres block of land.
It is this giving away of land, that was challenged before the High Court and is now challenged in this Court in this appeal by two citizens of Calcutta, one of them the Secretary of the Union of workmen of the zoological garden and the other a life 243 member of the zoo, both of whom claiming to be lovers of wild life and well wishers of the zoo.
In January 1979, the Director General of Tourism, Gov ernment of India, addressed a letter to the Chief Secretary, Government of West Bengal conveying the resolution of the Tourism Conference which was presided over by the Union Minister of Tourism and attended by several State Ministers and requesting that land in good locations may be made available for construction of hotels in a drive to encourage tourism.
The Govern ment found that there was some litigation connected with the Chowringhee properties and, therefore, it would not be possible to convey the Chowringhee properties to the Taj Group of Hotels.
was interested in a property known as the Hastings House Property and that the Taj Group of Hotels who considered the Hastings House property unsuitable may be offered four acres out of the eight acres of Begumbari land.
On the same day the Taj Group of Hotels wrote to the Government of West Bengal stating that the proposed land could be seriously considerd for construction of a Hotel.
Thereafter the Chief Minsiter along with the Minister of Tourism and the Minister for Metropolitan Development visited the site accompanied by the Director of the Zoo who apparently knew about the pro posal right from the start.
A note was then prepared by the secretary, Metropoli tan Development Department and put up to the Chief Minister for his approval.
The note suggested that the Hastings House property may be offered to the I.T.D.C.
On January 7, 1981 a memorandum was prepared for the consideration of the Cabinet explaining the need for more Five Star Hotels in Calcutta and the benefits flowing out of the construction and establishment of such Five Star hotels.
Group and the Begumbari property to the Taj Group of Hotels.
In regard to the Begumbari property, it was stated: "From the property of the Zoological Gardens on the Belvedere Road it is possible to carve out about four acres of land currently used for dumping garbage and also for 244 growing grass for the elephants.
It will be necessary and in any case advisable to shift the dumping ground, while ade quate space can be made available for growing grass else where in the same area. "
It was stated that the Finance and Tourism Department had agreed to the proposal to lease the properties to the I.T.D.C.
It was stated that though the Forest Department had suggest ed that Salt Lake was a better place for establishing a Five Star Hotel, there was no demand for a Five Star Hotel in that area and the request for a hotel in Salt Lake was confined to a Three Star Hotel.
and to the Taj Group and for the constitution of a suitable Committee to undertake negotiations with the two groups.
On February 12, 1981, the Cabinet took a decision ap proving the proposal contained in the last paragraph of the Cabinet Memorandum, thus clearing the way for negotiations with the Taj Group.
Meanwhile, it appeared that the Public Undertakings Committee appointed by the West Bengal Legislative Assembly submitted a port on February 14, 1981 about the zoo in which they stated.
The zoo proper is about 40 acres on the Western side, while the eastern part comprises the Zoo Hospital, audiovisual centre acquari um, Zoo store and Staff quarters.
The Commit tee was informed that now adays migratory birds were coming less in number though previ ously more foreign birds used to come here and in the opinion of the Managing Committee, the main reason for this was due to air and sound pollution.
* * * * * *The Commit tee came to learn that a big hotel was pro posed to be constructed on the plot of land where fodder for elephant are being grown to meet at least a portion of the elephants food.
Moreover, the staff quarters, hospitals for animals and the morgue are also situated near the said plot of land.
245 would have to be shifted to the main Gardens resulting in unhealthy atmosphere for the zoo animals and also hampering the beauty of the zoo Gardens.
The Committee also referred to a proposal to establish a 'Subsidiary Zoo ' some slight distance from Calcutta City and the request said to have been made for the allotment of 200 acres of land for that purpose.
It was suggested that the Government may consider abandoning the proposal to set up a hotel on the Eastern side of the Zoo.
The Chief Town Planner also visited the site at the request of the Secretary, Metropolitan Development Depart ment.
The Chief Town Planner thought that two to 21/2 acres of land only might be made available for the hotel.
On March 19, the Taj Group submitted a proposal to the Government containing fairly detailed information about the tourism industry and its needs, the situation in Calcutta, the realities of hotel construction, the facts relating to what had been done in other cities, the benefits flowing out of the construction of hotels and their own proposals for constructing a hotel in the four acres of land in Belyedere Road.
The first alternative was the payment of annual rent on the basis of the valuation of the land, the second alternative was based on the concept of nett sales, nett sales being defined as sales after deducting all taxes and levies and service charges.
The Metropolitan Development Department expressed a preference for the second alternative and sug gested the constitution of a Committee.
The Taj Group was invited to send the financial projection on the basis of the second alternative.
In the meanwhile, WEBCON, a West Bengal Government Consultancy Undertaking, was asked to examine the proposals and to advise the Government.
The WEBCON submitted its report on July 14, 1981 and on the request of the Committee of Secretaries a further report was submitted on July 22, 1981.
Among other things the report also suggested various financial alterna tives and recommended the second alternative based on nett sales as the best.
It is to be mentioned here that even by February 21, 1981 the proposal to lease out the Begumbari land to the Taj Group of Hotels had become public knowledge and newspapers carried reports on the same.
On June 9, 1981, the Secretary of the Animal Husbandary and Veterinary Services Department complained to the Secre tary of the Metropolitan Development Department that they were not aware of the decision to lease the Begambari land.
The Secretary, Metropolitan Development Department made an endorsement on the letter to the effect that the Minister for Animal Husbandry and Veterinary services had himself visited the site.
While so, the Managing Committee of the Zoo, on June 11, 1981, passed a resolution expressing itself against the proposal to construct a hotel on land belonging to the Zoo.
The Resolution said, "The proposal for soil testing of zoo land in the Begumbari Compound for the purpose of construction of Five Star Hotel was discussed in the meeting.
The Committee resolved that construction of a multistories buildings in the near vicinity of the zoo will be highly detrimental to the animals of the Zoo, its ecological balance and adversely affect the bird migration which is one of the greatest attractions of the zoo.
The area proposed to be taken for Hotel construction is already used by the zoo for fodder cultivation, burial ground for dead animals, animal hospital, operation theater, quarantine area, segrega tion wards, postmortem room and nursery both for zoo animals and horticultural section.
Procurement of green fodder for the large number of harvivorous animals of the zoo is already a serious problem for the zoo and any disturbance to fodder cultivation will aggravate the situation.
The Committee is of a opinion that no portion of Zoo land can be parted with for any other 247 purpose.
Shri Ashoka Basu, M.L.A., Shri K.P.
The Minister for Metropolitan Development submitted a note to the Chief Minister on the resolution of the Managing Committee of the Zoo.
He pointed out that even if four acres out of the eight acres of Begumbari land was given to the Taj Group, there would still remain sufficient land for accommodation of the facilities.
He added that the Managing Committee 's resolution was not binding on the Government and suggested that the Director of the Zoo might be asked to allow the Taj Group to undertake soil testing etc.
In June 25, 1981, the Managing Committee of the Zoo met again and passed another Resolution by which they withdrew their earlier objections.
"In view of the letter issued to the Zoologi cal Gardens, Alipore and the Cabinet decision regarding the land of Begumbari Compound and in consideration of the assurance conveyed through Shri Ashoka Bose, Chief Whip and Member that the State Government will give to the Garden adjacent lands and matching grants for the purposes of shifting of the Depart ments of the Zoo within the said compound, the members do not press their objections as contained in the resolution of the Managing Committee held on 11.6.81.
This was passed by the majority of the members present, the President Justice Shri R.K. Banerjee dissenting. "
On June 29, 1981, the Director of the Zoo wrote to the Secretary of the Animal Husbandry and Veterinary Services Department stating his objections to the Proposal to lease the land for construction of a hotel.
He stated, 248 "It appears that a total of four acres of Begumbari land is proposed to be taken for hotel construction.
It may be mentioned that this four acres of land proposed to be taken is the only area available there and it is presently covered by structures of hospital buildings, Research Laboratory, Operation Theatre, Segregation Wards, Quarantine areas, post mortem room, burial ground for dead animals.
In addition there are flower nursery, dumping ground and fodder cultivation area.
It is not at all possible to carve out from this four acres of land without disturbing these structures and services nor it is true that adequate space can be made available in this site for these essential services.
It may also be stated in this connection that the Zoo cannot be run for a single day without these essential services, i.e. (i) burial ground for dead animals, a number of which die of infectious and commu nicable diseases, (2) quarantine area for keeping animals coming to the Zoo, at least for 15 days before being shifted to the Zoo proper, (3) isolation wards away from Zoo Hospital and quarantine area for treatment of animals suffering from infectious and conta gious diseases.
(4) post mortem room for carrying out p.m. findings, (5) dumping ground for dumping huge garbages coming out of the Zoo daily, (6) fodder cultivation area for growing fodder for the harbivorous animals and (7) pathological laboratory for carrying pathological tests of animals and birds.
"As per clause 11 of the Alipore Zoological Garden (Management) Rules, 1957, the disposal of properties and funds are vested in the Managing Committee of he Garden.
Presumably as a consequence of the letter from the Director of the Zoo there was a note by the Secretary, Animal Husbandry and Veterinary Services Department suggest ing the postponement of the implementation of the Cabinet decision till the necessary facilities then available at Begumbari land were shifted to other land of the same extent within a reasonable distance from the Zoological Garden, as 249 these facilities were originally linked with the Zoo.
He pointed out that the Metropolitan Development Department had not consulted the Animal Husbandry Department before the Cabinet note was prepared and circulated.
So the practical problems of the Zoo did not receive detailed consideration earlier.
The note also pointed out that immediate transfer of the four acre plot of land would mean discontinuance of existing hospital facilities, research laboratory, operation theatre, segregation wards, quarantine facilities etc.
A reference was also made to the report of Public Undertakings Committee.
On September 9, 1981 a detailed memorandum was prepared for cabinet discussion.
Two alterna tive financial proposals were set out.
A reference was made to the Committee of Secretaries who negotiated with the Taj Group of Hotels.
Note was taken of the suggestion of the Negotiation Committee that the overall development plan for the environmental beautification, widening of approach roads, landscaping of Tolley 's Nullah were responsibilities of the State Government and estimated to cost Rs.
Stress was laid on the direct and indirect economic activities which would be generated by the establishment of a Five Star Hotel.
It was also mentioned that the Ministers, Incharge of Tourism, Animal Husbandry, Land Revenue and Finance had seen the note and agreed to it.
On September 10, 1981 the Cabinet took the final decision to grant a ninety nine years lease of the Four acres of Begumbari land to the Taj Group of Hotels.
On September 28, 1981 the Government of West Bengal officially conveyed its acceptance of the proposal of the Taj Group of Hotels for the construction of a Five Star Hotel.
On January 7, 1982, there was a joint meeting of the Establishment and Finance sub committees of the Zoo and it was decided to recommend to the Committee of management that the demarcated area of four acres may be relinquished in favour of Animal Husbandry and Veterinary Services Department subject to the requirement that the Zoo will continue to get the services and facilities in the existing structures until they were reconstructed on the adjacent land.
On January 11, 1982 the Managing Committee endorsed the view of the sub committees and this was communicated to the Government.
On January 15, 1982, the Government of West Bengal wrote to the Land Acqui sition Officer, with 250 copies to the Taj Group of Hotels, directing the Land Acqui sition Officer to give possession of the land to the Taj Group of Hotels subject to their later executing a proper long term lease.
It was mentioned in the letter that the construction of the hotel should not be started till the lease deed was executed and registered.
It was further expressly stipulated as follows: "The Alipur Zoological Garden will continue to get the services and facilities from the existing essential structures which fall within the demarcated in the annexed sketch map till such time when these essential struc tures i.e. hospital and operation theatre are reconstructed on the adjacent land occupied by the Zoological Garden.
The India Hotels Co. Ltd. will find out in consultation with and with the concurrence of the Animal Husbandry and Veterinary Services Department of this Government and the authorities of the Alipore Zoological Garden the period of time required for reconstruction of the essential structures standing on the land proposed to be leased out to the said company.
It will also let this department have in consultation with and with the concurrence of the Animal Hus bandry and Veterinary Services Department of this Government and the Alipore Zoological Garden a plan and estimate for reconstruction of the aforesaid essential structures on the land adjacent to the land proposed to be leased out, so that all these points are incorporated in the deed of lease between the said company and the State Government in this Department for the said land measuring four acres.
"As agreed by the said company during the various meetings its representatives had with various departments of this Government, the company will either place the necessary fund in the hands of Animal Husbandry and Veterinary Services Department or the Zoo Garden authorities as the case may be, for reconstruction of the aforesaid essential structures or reconstruction the aforesaid essential structures under its own supervision to the satisfaction of the the Zoo Garden authorities or Animal Husbandry and Veterinary Services Department as the case may be, such funds will in either case be advanced or deemed to be advanced by the Company without interest to 251 be adjusted against dues of the State Govern ment in accordance with the terms and condi tions of the lease. "
It is to be noted here that though the stipulation was that the cost of new construction was to be initially met by Taj Group of Hotels and later to be adjusted against the rent payable by Taj Group, the Taj Group later agreed to waive such reimbursement.
We are also told that an extent of 288 square meters out of the plot given to the Taj Group was carved out and given back for accommodating part of the reconstructed structures.
Pursuant to the letter dated January 15, 1982 possession was given to Taj Group on January 16, 1982.
Thereafter an expert Committee was consti tuted to supervise the construction Of alternative facili ties.
At that stage the writ petition out of which the present appeal arises was filed on February 26, 1982.
Ini tially the relief sought was primarily to restrain the Zoo authorities from giving effect to the two resolutions dated January 7, 1982 and January 11, 1982 to hand over the four acres to the Animal Husbandry Department of the Government.
Subsequent to the filing of the Writ Petition, a lease deed was executed by the Taj Group of Hotels in favour of the Government.
The writ petition was therefore, amended and a prayer for cancellation of the lease deed was added.
First a learned Single Judge dismissed the Writ Petition.
On appeal, a Division Bench of the High Court confirmed the judgment of the learned Single Judge.
Indira Gandhi, Prime Minister of India wrote to Shri Jyothi Basu, Chief Minister of West Bengal expressing the hope that he would not allow the Calcutta Zoo to suffer in any manner and would leave in intact.
She drew the Chief Minister 's attention to the fact that 'apart from ' reduction in the already inadecu ate space for the Zoological Garden construction of a Five Star Multystoreyed Building would disturb the inmates and adversely affect birds migration which was a great attrac tion. '
She also mentioned that the expert Committee of the Indian Board for Wild Life also unanimously disapprove the idea.
On August 21, 1982 the Chief Minister sent his reply pointing out that the 252 four acres of land were agreed to be relinquished by the Committee of management of the Zoological Garden on condi tion that alternate arrangements were made for shifting the existing structures which were necessary for the Zoo from the plot in question to the adjacent plot.
The Chief Minister assured the Prime Minister that the existing structures would be relocated on the adjacent land and until that was done the Zoo would continue to get their services and facil ities from the existing structures.
The Chief Minister further drew the attention of the Prime Minister to the fact that the hotel was likely to be a six storeyed one and would not be the only tail building near the Zoo.
There were already a large number of high rise residential buildings around the Zoo.
There was no report that the existing multistoreyed buildings had any adverse affect on the migratory birds or the animals.
The Chief Minister also pointed out that the lessee and their experts on wild life has assured them that in any case adequate precaution would be taken in regard to illumination of the hotel and the layout of the surrendings so that no disturbance would be caused to the flight path of the birds or animals.
Tata wrote to the Prime Minister pointing out that their Hotel management had discussed the matter at length with represen tatives of the Wild Life fund who were satisfied that the proposed hotel would cause no disturbance to the birds.
He had again gone thoroughly into the project with special reference to its possible impact on the birds or environment and had also visited Calcutta in that connection.
He was satisfied that the project could not possibly disturb birds using the lake or interfere with their free movement.
He gave his reasons as follows: "The four acre plot assigned to the Hotel Company by the State Government is not within the boundaries of the area belonging to the Zoological Gardens but on the other side of Belvedere Road, an important thoroughfare parallel to the main boundary of the zoo and some 700 feet from the main part of the lake.
It forms part of an area belonging to the State Government which the Zoo authorities have upto now been allowed to use to look after sick animals of the Zoo and as labour quarters.
"The hotel is planned to be built away from the frontage of that plot of Belva dere Road and to be low rise structure, the Highest point of which will not exceed 75 feet.
"Dr. B. Biswas, a renowned ormitholo gist, who recently retired as Professor Emeri tus of the Zoological Survey of India, whom the Taj Management consulted, confirmed that a 75 feet high building on the location would not worry birds landing on the lake or climb ing out of it.
In fact, as the grounds of the zoo between the lake and Belvedre Road are covered with high trees, the climbing or descent angle which the birds have to negoti ate to get over the trees is already steeper that it will be between the lake and the proposed hotel.
"As regards the objection that arise from the hotel itself from vehicular traffic to and from the hotel would disturb the birds, the hotel will be totally airconditioned so that no noise will emanate from it, while noise from the heavy traffic on Belvedere Road does not seem to have bothered the birds upto now.
"Regarding the fear that lights emanating from the hotel or illuminate of signs of the hotel would disorient the birds and possibly cause them to hit the building the Management of the Hotel Company has taken a firm decision that there will be no bright lights or noon signs emanating from the hotel."
Shri Tata further suggested that if necessary the Prime Minister could appoint a small advisory Committee consisting of Shri Pushpa Kumar, Director of the Hyderabad Zoo consid ered to be the finest zoo in India and one of the best in Asia, Dr. Biswas, Mrs. Anne Wright and the Chairman of the Managing Committee of the Zoological Garden to advise on the subject.
Indira Gandhi 254 wrote to Mr. Tata expressing her happiness that the Hotel was not going to upset the Zoo animals and welcoming his offer to help the State Government to improve the Zoo 's facilities.
Singhvi, learned counsel for the appellants made the following submission before us; The Begumbari land was statutorily vested in the Managing Committee of the Zoological Garden and that the Committee could not be di vested by an executive decision without proper procedure being followed.
The land could not be leased to the Taj Group of Hotels without inviting tenders from willing per sons and without complying with the requirements of para graphs 166 and 167 of the Land Manual.
In taking a decision to take away the land from the Zoo and to lease the same to the Taj Group of Hotels, relevant considerations had been ignored and irrelevant considerations had been taken into account.
The decision was taken without considering the impact on the Zoo and without consulting various interested authorities and institutions.
Several authorities and insti tutions like the Director of the Zoo, the Managing Committee of the Zoo, the Public Undertakings Committee of West Ben gal, the Indian Wild Life Board, leading ornithologists of the country, etc.
had disapproved the taking away of the land from the Zoo and leasing it to the Taj Group of Hotels.
The attention of the government was not focussed on these questions as evident from the fact that the Cabinet Memorandum hardly refers to any of the objections.
Shri Dipankar Gupta, learned counsel for the Taj Group of Hotels and Shri Gooptu learned counsel for the State of West Bengal argued that the former facilities available in the four arce plot of land were not displaced but were replaced and preserved by better facilities in the adjacent plot of land.
Nor was there any obstruc tion to the flight of the visiting birds as the 255 hotel was to be constructed at a distance of 700 feet from the lake and was to rise to a maximum height of 75 feet, being a medium rise and not a high rise building.
On the other hand there was going to be an environmental improve ment of the area as the dumping ground, burial ground and the semi dilapidated buildings were to be replaced by a hotel surrounded by broad roads and a very large number of trees proposed to be planted by the hotel management.
It could only be done by negotiation between the persons coming forward with proposals to estab lish Five Star Hotels.
The matter had been considered at great length by the Committees of Secre taries appointed by the Government as well as by WEBCON and they had recommended the acceptance the nett sales arrange ment in preference to the arrangement of rent based on land cost.
We are unable to agree with the submission of Dr. Singhvi, learned counsel for the appellants, that the Gov ernment of West Bengal decided to grant the lease of the Begumbari land to the Taj Group of Hotels without applying their mind to very important relevant considerations.
Much of the argument on this question was based on the assumption that the decision to lease the Begumbari land to the Taj Group of Hotels was taken on February 12, 1981.
and the Taj Group of Hotels in regard to leasing the Hastings House property and the Begumbari land.
It was on September 10, 1981 that the Cabinet finally took the decision to lease the Begumbari land to the Taj Group.
If there was any decision on February 12, 1981 in regard to leasing the Begumbari land it could at best to characterised as purely tentative and it could not by any stretch of imagination be called an irrevocable or irrevers ible decision in the sense that the Government was powerless to revoke it or that it had created any rights in anyone so as to entitle that person to question any reversal of the tentative decision.
At that stage, the Government of West Bengal appeared to have been on the search for two suitable plots of land which could be offered, one to the I.T.D.C.
and the other to the Taj Group of Hotels for the construction of Five Star Hotels.
The record 256 shows that these two chain hoteliers wer the only hoteliers and, they certainly were leading hoteliers of the country who had come forward to negotiate with the West Bengal Government regarding the construction of Five Star Hotels.
The city of Calcutta was noticeably lacking in the 'Five Star Hotel amenity ' to attract tourist, local and foreign, and the Government of West Bengal was anxious to do its best to promote the tourist industry which it was hoped, would provided direct and indirect employment, earn foreign exchange and confer other economic benefits to the people of the State.
The Government was anxious that more Five Star Hotels should be established at Calcutta and the Taj Group was willing to establish one.
It was the suggestion for the All India Tourism Conference presided over by the Union Minister for Tourism that State Government should make plots in good locations available at concession al rates for construction of hotels in order to promote the Tourist Industry.
It does not require much imagination to say that location is among the most important factors to be considered when constructing a Five Star Hotel, particularly if it is to promote tourism.
After excluding Salt Lake and after considering some properties in Chowringhee, the Government felt that two properties, the Hastings House property and the Begumbari property could be thought of as meeting the requirements.
Since the Hastings House property, was not found acceptable by the Taj Group, it was decided to negotiate with them in regard to construc tion of a Five Star Hotel on the Begumbari land.
We find it difficult to treat this decision to negotiate with the Taj Group in regard to construction of a Five Star Hotel on the Begumbari land as a final decision to part with the land.
The prominent use to which the land was evidently put at the time was as a dumping ground for refuse and rubbish and for growing fodder for elephants.
This was noticed and mentioned in the note prepared for the consideration of the Cabinet and it was suggested that separate provision would have to be made for them.
The Government was not unmindful of the interests and requirements of the Zoologi cal Garden though at that stage no detailed investigations had 257 apparently been made.
They expressly refer to it in their report dated February 14, 1981 made two days after the Cabinet decision.
Earlier we have extracted the report of Public Undertakings Committee.
The substance of the objection of the Public Undertakings Committee was that the facilities available in the Begumbari land would be left unprovided for if the land was given to the proposed hotel.
The available facilities were mentioned as Staff quarters, hospital for animals, burial ground for animals, fodder for elephants etc.
It was also said that if the hospital and the burial ground were to be shifted to the main garden it would result in an unhealthy atmosphere for the animals and the zoo and would detract from the beauty of the Zoo Garden.
The assumption of the Public Undertakings Committee that the hospital and the burial ground were to be shifted to the main garden was baseless, since, there was never any such proposal.
A modern zoo hospital for animals has been constructed in the remaining extent of Begumbari land replacing the old hospital which was housed in a semi dilapidated building.
It would be stretching credibility to suggest that it is necessary to grow fodder in the Begum bari land to feed the elephants in the zoo.
The Chief Town Planner who was deputed to visit the site at the request of the Secretary, Metropolitan Development Department and who visited the Zoo accompanied by the Director of the Zoo reported that 2 to 21/2 acres of land might be made avail able for the hotel.
The hospital as we have already mentioned has since been conveniently and comfortably accommodated in a new building and the proposal is to move the dumping ground elsewhere.
The Managing Com mittee of the Zoo also initially expressed its opposition to the proposal to construction hotel on land belonging to the Zoo.
The Committee 's objections were two fold: (1) A muliti storied building in the vicinity of the Zoo will disturb the 258 animals and the ecological balance and will affect the bird migration (2) the land was already used for various pur poses, that is, fodder cultivation, burial ground for ani mals, hospital, operation theatre, quarantine area, post martom room and nursery.
It would be impossible, according to the Committee to accommodate these essential services within the campus of the main Zoo.
The objections of the Managing Committee were first brought to the notice of the Minister for Metropolitan Development who submitted a note to the Chief Minister pointing out that even if four acres of land out of the eight acres of Begumbari land was given to the Taj Group, there would still remain sufficient land for accommodating the existing facilities.
