1765 of 1987 From the Judgment and order dated 8/9.7.1987 of the Bombay High Court in W.P.
Penalty for wrongful withholding of property (1) If any officer or employee of a company (a) wrongfully obtains possession of any property of a company; or D (b) having any such property in his possession wrongfully withholds it or knowingly applies it to purposes other than those expressed or directed in the articles and authorised by this Act; he shall, on the complaint of the company or any creditor or contributory thereof, be punishable with fine which may extend to one thousand rupees.
The only question involved in this special leave petition is as to the scope and effect of sub section (1) of section 630 of the Act.
On a literal construction of the term 'officer or employee ' occurring in sub section (1) of section 630 of H 172 the Act, the High Court of Calcutta in Amritlal Chum vs Devi Ranjan Jha & Anr., held that it refers only to the existing officers and employees of a company.
property of a company wrongfully taken possession of by a present officer or employee of the company.
The High Court of Bombay, on the other hand, has placed a beneficent construction on the provisions contained in section 630 and according to it, the term 'officer or employee ' in sub section (1) of section 630 must be interpreted to mean not only the present officers and employees of a company but also to include past officers and employees of the company.
It is also of the view that the words 'any such property ' in ck (b) qualify the words 'any property of a company ' appearing in cl.
See: Harkishan Lakhimal Gidwani vs Achyut Kashinath Wagh & Anr., , Govind T. Jagtiani vs Sirajuddin section Kazi & Anr., [ which have since been followed in a series of cases referred to by the learned Single Judge (Ashok Agarwal, J.).
The issues involved in the special leave petition are of considerable importance to the corporate sector as many of the business organisations, both in the public as well as the private sector, are required to provide residential accommodation to their officers and employees as a condition of their service to attract better talent and have of necessity to purchase residential flats in multi storeyed buildings in large cities and towns for the use of such officers and employees during the course of their employment, and the question is whether the provisions contained in sub section (1) of section 630 which provide for the launching of a prosecution against an officer or employee of a company for wrongful possession of such property under cls.
(a) and (b) of sub section (1) of section 630 and for the recovery of such property by the issue of process under sub section (2), also extends to past officers and employees of the company and whether the Court trying the offence has the power to issue a process under sub section (2) against such officer or employee.
At the conclusion of the hearing we had by a short order dismissed the special leave petition and held that the view expressed by the learned Single Judge following the earlier decisions of the High Court in Harkishan Lakhimal Gidwani and reiterated in Govind T. Jagtiani was to be preferred to the view to the contrary expressed by the High Court of Calcutta in Amritlal Chum.
As the respondent Shipping Corporation of India, a public sector undertakings, was in dire need of the flat in question which is situate in a posh locality like the Cuffe Parade in 173 Bombay, for the use of its senior executive, we could not accede to the request of the learned counsel for the petitioner to refer the case to a bench of three judges and heard learned counsel for the parties at quit some length on August 27,1987 and dismissed the special leave petition.
The petitioner Baldev Krishan Sahi was an Under Secretary to the Government of India in the Ministry of Shipping & Transport and on May 21, 1974 accepted employment as Joint Manager in the Mogul Line Limited, a Government of India undertaking, after obtaining release from government service.
151 in Jolly Maker Apartment III at 119, Cuffe Parade and the petitioner being the senior most executive was allotted the flat for his residence.
Prior to that i.e. On September 26, 1984 he addressed a letter requesting the company to permit him to continue to live in the company 's premises during the period of his accumulated leave after his retirement i.e. for a period of six months, undertaking to vacate the flat as early as possible.
It appears that the company on humanitarian grounds acceded to this request and permitted the petitioner to stay on in the company 's flat for six months after his retirement and in accordance with the company 's rules, he was required to pay compensation for the use of the premises.
After the expiry of the said period of six months, the company addressed a letter dated April 26, 1985 requesting the petitioner to vacate the premises stating that if he failed to do so, he would be liable to pay higher compensation as per the company 's rules.
Since the petitioner failed to vacate the flat, the company initiated proceedings for his eviction under the Public Premises (Eviction of Unauthorised occupants) Act, 1971.
The Estate officer by order dated December 2, 1985 directed the eviction of the petitioner.
The petitioner carried an appeal to the City Civil & Sessions Court, Bombay but the same was dismissed by the Principal Judge, City Civil Court by his order dated January 16, 1986.
He then preferred a revision to the High Court and the High Court by its order dated January 28, 1986 allowed the same, set aside the eviction order and directed the Estate officer to give a personal hearing to the petitioner.
A few days thereafter i.e. On March 7, 1986 the petitioner instituted a suit being Civil Suit No.
In view of this, the company was constrained to lodge a complaint against the petitioner under section 630 of the Act in the Court of the Additional Chief Metropolitan Magistrate, 37th Court, Esplanade, Bombay alleging that he was wrongfully withholding the flat in question which had been given to him for his residence during the period of his employment and and thereby committed an offence punishable under section 630.
