From the Judgment and Order dated 17.11.1980 of the Bombay High Court in Special Civil Appeal No.
This appeal by special leave arises from the judgment and order of the High Court of Bombay dated 17th of November, 1980.
The main question involved in this appeal is whether the appellant was a licensee or a tenant and also incidentally the question whether the Court of Small Causes, Bombay had jurisdiction to deal with the eviction petition in this case.
They filed ejectment proceedings against one 1060 Sugrabhai Mohammed Husain, their tenant and obtained a decree.
The agreement is described as an agreement of 'leave and licence ' entered into between the respondent on the one hand and the appellant on the other wherein the respondent had been described as the 'licensor and the appellant had been described as the licensee ' and the recitals therein recite that the licensor was seized and possessed of and was otherwise well entitled as the monthly tenant of the workshop premises situated at 231, Ripon Road, Cooperative Building, Bombay, being the premises in dispute, and whereas the licensee had approached the licensor to allow him to occupy and use the said premises for the purpose of carrying out his business of workshop for a period of five years and whereas the licensor had agreed to allow the licensee to use the premises under the said leave and licence of the licensor for a period of five years from 1st of September, 1965 till 31st of August, 1970, that agreement was being executed.
it was stated that the licensor gave and granted his 'leave and licence ' to the licensee to use and occupy the said premises for the period of five years.
Clause 2 of the said agreement recites that the licensee had agreed to use the premises as above and merely for the purpose of workshop business.
The licensor was entitled to terminate the agreement earlier notwithstanding the fact that the period of the agreement might not have expired.
It is further stipulated that the licensee would be entitled to keep the keys of the said premises with him and shall be at liberty to work in the said premises for twenty hours subject to restriction of rules and regulations imposed by the Municipal or any other local authority or authorities.
It is further mentioned in the said agreement that it was agreed by the licensee that if he commits any default of any terms and conditions or fails to pay the compensation for two months or if the licensee at any time puts up false or adverse claim of tenancy or sub tenancy the licensor shall be entitled to terminate the agreement and cancel and revoke and withdraw the leave and licence granted earlier and shall be entitled to take possession forthwith of the said premises.
It is further stipulated that the licensee shall pay the electric charges in respect of consumption of electricity and the rent of the said premises should be paid by the licensor only.
On or about 9th November, 1970, the respondent herein filed an ejectment proceeding against the appellant under section 41 of the .
It is well to refer to section 41 of the said Act which is in Chapter VII and deals with summons against person occupying property without leave and provides that when any person has had possession of any immovable property situate within the local limits of the Small Cause Court 's jurisdiction and of which the annual value at rack rent did not exceed two 1062 thousand rupees, as the tenant, or by permission, of another person, or of some person through whom such other person claims, and such tenancy or permission has been determined or withdrawn then a suit can be filed by a summons against the occupant calling upon him to show cause therein.
On or about 9th of November, 1970 the owner of the premises filed an ejectment proceeding against one Sugrabhai Mohammed Husain and obtained a decree.
The trial Judge in the instant case passed a decree in ejectment petition filed by the respondent and ordered the appellant to vacate the premises before 31st of January, 1975.
The submission was that there was sub tenancy by the respondent in favour of the appellant as a monthly tenant of the business with the articles and machinery belonging to the appellant and not to the respondent.
was used; this is intriguing as we find that it intrigued Vaidya, J. because he stated in his judgment dated 9th of December, 1975 what the expression "B.C."
