They will be found correctly stated in the judgment under appeal and may briefly be stated thus: Prior to 1965, in the High Court of Allahabad, Bench Secretaries were on a higher pay scale than that of Section Officers.
In 1965 the State Government appointed a Pay Rationalisation Committee with wide ranging reference.
The High Court suggested "that in view of financial exigencies the Government may grant for the time being pay scale to 10 PG NO 292 Bench Secretaries as admissible to Section Officers. "
The report did not accept the claim of Bench Secretaries for giving them pay scale equal to Section Officers or Private Secretaries.
The following remarks of the Pay Commission would be pertinent: "9 Bench Secretaries (Sakna Suchiv) A memorandum from the Bench Secretaries given to us states that the post which are at present in the scale of Rs.
They have claimed that their duties are equivalent to Private Secretaries of Hon 'ble Judges and have demanded the same pay scale which is given to Private Secretaries and the Section Officers.
Section Officers have to prepare a lengthy and original notes in complicated and important matters.
the pay scale recommended by the Pay Rationalisation Committee, the nature of duties and responsibilities and the fact that every Hon 'ble Judge will have one Private Secretary in the scale of Rs.500 1,000 we feel that the Bench Secretaries cannot be given the same scale of pay which is being given to Superintendents or the Section Officers.
It will be seen that the Pay Commission refused to equate Bench Secretaries with Section Officers in view of their differential duties.
They have to prepare lengthy original notes in complicated matters.
So far as Bench Secretaries are concerned, the Committee suggested: "(1) For this post the recommendations made by the Pay Commission need not have any amendments.
(2) It should be appropriate for the Bench Secre taries to accept 10 promotional posts in the pay scale of Rs.500 1,000 as recommended by the Pay Commission. "
The Anomalies Committee also thus rejected the claim of Bench Secretaries for placing them at par with Section Officers.
It however, suggested that ten posts of Bench Secretaries should be upgraded and placed in the pay scale of Rs.500 1,000 The Government accepted that recommendation and issued an order dated July 2,1976 The order inter alia states: Judicial (High Court) Section, Lucknow dated 2nd July, 1976.
Of Scale Permanent Temporary Posts Scale Post Post Posts in higher scale 1.
Bench Rs.400 15 48 3 10 Rs.500 25 Secre 475 EB 20 700 EB 40 tary 575 EB 25 900 EB 50 750 1000 2.
The basic pay in the pay scale mentioned in aforesaid column 7 of the concerned employee will be fixed according to the guiding principles of para 4 under fundamental rule 22 of the Financial Handbook Part II Volume 2 4 and the appointments in the pay scale of Rs.500 1000 will be made according to seniority subject to unfit.
In this connection, I have also been directed to say that the nomenclature of posts of 10 Bench Secretaries appearing in column 5 of the said table shall be Bench Secretaries Grade I and the nomenclature of rest Bench Secretaries of equal pay scale will be Bench Secretaries Grade II and the posts of Bench Secretaries Grade I and Grade II will be of the same duties and responsibilities.
Sd/ (Ramesh Chandra Deo Sharma) PG NO 295 Joint Secretary" It was then the turn of Bench Secretaries Grade II, They complained that there was no valid reason to give higher pay scale only to ten Bench Secretaries and step motherly treatment to the rest of their colleagues.
In order to give effect to the said Government order the Chief Justice framed rules called the Allahabad High Court Officers and Staff (Conditions of Service and Conduct) Rules, 1976 ("The Rules ).
Thereunder Bench Secretaries Grade I and Grade II were classified as Class II and Class III posts respectively.
Permanent Upper Division Assistants and permanent Lower Division Assistants having not less than ten years service are made eligible for selection.
Rule 16 provides that the posts of Bench Secretaries Grade I shall be filled up by promotion from amongst permanent Bench Secretaries Grade II.
That Pay Commission also did not disturb the categorisation of Bench Secretaries into Grade I and Grade II.It however, gave marginal benefits by increasing the number of posts of Grade I from 10 per cent to 30 per cent of the total cadre strength.
The reason given by the Pay Commission is as follows: "Bench Secretary 26.38 Fifty two posts of Bench Secretaries are in the pay scale of Rs.400 750 and ten posts in the scale of Rs.500 1,000.
For appointment on these posts a limited competitive examination is held from amongst Upper Division Assistants, PG NO 296 Lower Division Assistants with ten years of service preferably Law Graduates.
The minimum pay scales of the Bench Secretaries is comparatively higher than the pay scale of Upper Division Assistants though they are appointed through a competitive examination.
It is limited to only Upper Division Lower Division Assistants of the High Court.
Keeping in view the fact that vacancies in Upper Division/Lower Division Assistants are filled up by promotion from Routine Grade Assistants, it is clear that this is a second promotion for those who come directly from Lower Division Assistants and a third promotion for those who are promoted first to Upper Division Assistant and then a Bench Secretary.
We, therefore, recommend: "(1) 30% of the total posts of Bench Secretaries in the pay scale of Rs.770 1000;and (2) Two posts in the scale of Rs.1420 1900 as is admissible to Assistant Secretaries of the Secretariat."
Finally the Bench Secretaries Grade I moved the High Court on judicial side with an application under Article 226 of the Constitution.
As to the Pay Commission recommendations the High observed: "Rejection of petitioner 's demand for equating them PG NO 297 at least with Section Officers by comparing them with absence of administrative control exercised by Section Officer in the Secretariat was ignoring history of Bench Secretaries being a different class both before and after independence and the nature of duties performed by them . "
