The petitioners are carpenters 1st and 2nd grade employed at the Wood Working Centre of the Himachal Pradesh State Handicrafts Corporation (the "Corpo ration").
In this petition under Article 32 of the Constitution, they are seeking enforcement of their fundamental right to have "equal pay for equal work".
They demand payment in terms paid to their counterparts in regular services.
They want the same pay of the regular employees as carpenters or in the alternative, the minimum wages prescribed by the Deputy Commissioner for like categories of workmen.
The Government has not fixed the mini mum wages payable to the petitioners engaged in the Corpora tion or other like industries, but the Corporation has adopted the minimum wages payable for similar work in the construction industry.
They are given bonus under the Bonus Act and provident fund benefits under the Employees ' Provident Fund Act.
The Corporation has clearly stated that there are no regular employees of the petitioners ' categories in its establishment and, as such, the question of payment to the petitioners, the pay admissible to regular employees does not arise.
The main object of the Corporation as seen from the Memorandum of Associa tion is to preserve the traditional arts and crafts and also to popularise handicrafts and handloom items 665 in the State of Himachal Pradesh and other parts of the country and abroad.
Upto 31st March, 1987, the Corporation has imparted training to as many as 1662 persons in different areas like carpet weaving, handloom weaving, painting, metal crafts, wood carving, etc.
It is thus a service oriented organisation helping the village artisans and craftsmen to produce and market their products on remunerative prices.
It is said that the village artisans and craftsmen make different items on a piece rate basis and in some cases, they execute the work in their own homes.
Nonetheless, for the purpose of preserv ing and promoting traditional arts and crafts, the Corpora tion has been kept alive.
Perhaps, for the first time, this Court in Randhir Singh vs Union of India, ; has innovated that it is a constitu tional goal capable of being achieved through constitutional remedies.
The Court found that the petitioner therein performed the same func 666 tions and duties as other drivers in the service of Delhi Administration.
The Court, therefore, directed the Central Government to fix the pay scale of the petitioner on par with his counterparts doing identical work under the same employer.
In the immediate aftermath of the decision in Randhir Singh case, there were bumper cases filed in this Court for enforcement of the right to "equal pay for equal work", perhaps little realising the in built restrictions in that principle.
vs J.P. Chaurasia, ; and (ii) Meva Ram Kanojia vs All India Institute of Medical Sciences and Anr., ; In Chaurasia case the question arose whether it was permissible to have two different pay scales in the same cadre of Bench Secre taries of the Allahabad High Court who were for all practi cal purposes performing similar duties and having same responsibilities.
The Court held that the principle of "equal pay for equal work" has no mechanical application in every case of similar work.
It is, therefore, not impermissible to provide two different pay scales in the same cadre on the basis of selection based on merit with due regard to experience and seniority.
