From the Judgment and Order dated 4.7.85 & 21.6.84 of the Customs Excise and Gold (Control) Appellate Tribunal, New Delhi in Appeal Nos.
These appeals under Section 35L(b) of the Central Excises & Salt Act, 1944 (hereinafter called 'the 979 Act ') are against the order Nos.
450 452 of 1985A dated 4th July, 1985, 473/184A and 474/84A both dated 21st June, 1984 passed by the Customs, Excise & Gold (Control) Appellate Tribunal (hereinafter referred to as 'the Tribunal ').
There it manufactures and sells fusel oil/Styrene Monomer falling under Tariff Item No.
The case of the appellant is that the said fusel oil is a com pletely manufactured article and after completion of its manufacture, it is stored in storage tanks duly approved for this purpose.
It is at this stage that the quantity of fusel oil/Styrene Monomer manufactured, according to the appel lant, is entered in the RG 1 Register maintained for goods manufactured by the appellant.
It is also the case of the appellant that the said fusel oil/Styrene Monomer manufac tured by it is sold in bulk and delivered to the customers at the appellant 's factory.
773 whereunder the appellant had cleared 2.4 KI of fusel oil in drums supplied by the buyer.
Replies were duly filed to the said show cause notices by the appellant contending, inter alia, that as the drums were supplied by the buyer, value thereof could not be included in the assessable value.
The Tribunal held that at the time of removal the goods were delivered from the factory in packed condition and the containers were not returnable by the buyer, there fore, the value had to be included in the assessable value.
On behalf of the appellant, Shri Salve contended that the Tribunal had failed to appreciate the admitted factual position that the fusel oil/Styrene Monomer manufactured by the appellant is sold in bulk and is capable of being so sold.
It was contended that in any event under the Act and the Rules, the duty of excise is payable by the manufacturer on the manufactured goods.
The said sub section does not contemplate, accord ing to the appellant, the inclusion of the cost of packing in the value of goods when the packing is supplied by a customer to a manufacturer on its own cost.
It was contended by Shri Salve, appearing on behalf of the appellant, that on a correct analysis of section 4(4)(d), the duty being on the activity of manufacture whatever is necessary to bring the goods into existence alone can be taken into account for duty purposes.
Reliance was placed by Shri Salve as well as by the learned Attorney General, appearing on behalf of the revenue, on the relevant provisions of the Act and the position as explained by this Court in Union of India & Ors.
vs Bombay Tyre International Ltd., ; 981 Shri Salve has, however, contended that so far as this Court is concerned, this question is concluded by the deci sion of this Court in Collector of Central Excise vs Indian Oxygen Ltd., Learned Attorney General, however, contended that this decision did not deal with the present controversy.
The said decision, according to learned Attorney General, was concerned with the rentals of certain oxygen gas cylinders supplied by the assessee.
Reference was made to the decision of this Court in K. Radha Krishaiah vs Inspector of Central Excise, Gooty & Ors., Shri Salve referred to and relied on the decision of tile High Court of Bombay in the case of Govind Pay Oxygen Ltd. vs Asstt.
Collector of Central Excise, Panaji & Ors., as also the decision of the Karnataka High Court in Alembic Glass Industries Ltd. vs Union of India & Ors., Learned Attorney General urged before us that the question whether for determining the assessable value of the excisable goods sold by the assessee in drums or containers provided by its customers (the asses see itself provided such drums/containers on payment of price in Civil Appeals Nos.
It was submitted that while deter mining the scope and nature of levy, as contemplated under section 3 of the Act, of central excise and the measure of such levy as provided in section 4 of the Act the principles laid .down in Union of India vs Bombay Tyre International Ltd., (supra), should be followed and reliance was placed on the several decisions of this Court which we will refer to later.
Learned Attorney General emphasised that it is a well settled principle of construction that in taxing statutes one has only to look merely at what is clearly stated.
Dave, Assistant Collector of Central Excise, ; at 568 to emphasise the point that percentages of sales do not in any manner affect determination of the assessable value of the excisable goods.
4339 41/86, in respect of which show notice was issued as to why value of drums should not be included in the assessable value of fusel oil and Styrene Monomer, 90% of Styrene Mono 982 mer had been sold directly in tanks and only 10% of Styrene Monomer had been sold in drums and the show cause notice on 20th October, 1983 had been issued relating to clearance of fusel oil in 45 drums but the said drums had been supplied by the buyer.
Relying on the two decisions referred to hereinbe fore, learned Attorney General emphasised that percentages of sales would not in any manner affect determination of the assessable value of the excisable goods.
4339 of 1986 sold only 10% of the excisable goods to its buyer where drums were supplied by the buyers themselves and that 90% of the sales were through tankers belonging to the customers would not in any manner affect the question or determination of the assessable value of the excisable goods inasmuch as the 10% of its sales to whole sale buyers were in drums supplied by the buyers at the time of removal.
According to the learned Attorney General, the fact that 90% of the goods were supplied in tankers and not in containers had no relevance at all and the 10% represent ed the entire quantity of excisable goods delivered in packed condition.
Learned Attorney General contended that the decision of Indian Oxygen Ltd. 's case (supra) cannot be relied on in view of the facts of this case.
In that case, the learned Attorney General contended the only question which arose was whether the rental charges received by the assessee for the gas cylinders lent by it to its customers could be included in the assessable value and whether inter est earned on deposits made by the customers for the securi ty of the cylinders supplied by the assessee could also be included in the assessable value of the excisable goods.
Learned Attorney General submitted that the decisions of the Bombay and Karnataka High Courts were wrong as they are contrary to the decision of this 983 Court in Bombay Tyre International 's case (supra).
Reference was made both by the learned Attorney General and Shri Salve to the observations of this Court in Union of India vs Godfrey Phillips India Ltd., [1985] Supp.
It states, inter alia, that manufacture includes any process incidental or ancillary to the comple tion of manufactured product.
It is, therefore, necessary to bear in mind that a process which is ancillary or incidental to the completion of the manufactured product, that is to say, to make the manufacture complete would be "manufacture".
Section 3 of the Act provides that there shall be levied and collected in such manner as maybe pre scribed duties of excise on all excisable goods other than salt which are produced or manufactured in India.
The relevant provi sion of section 4 of the Act deals with the manner as to how the value is to be computed and section 4(4)(d) stipulates as follows: ""value" in relation to any excisable goods, (i) where the goods are delivered at the time of removal in a packed condition, includes the cost of such packing except the cost of the packing which is of a durable nature and is returnable by the buyer to the assessee.
In this sub clause "packing" means the wrapper, container, bobbin, pirn, spool, reel or warp beam or any other thing in which or on which the excisable goods are wrapped, contained or wound; (ii) does not include the amount of the duty of excise, sales tax and other taxes, if any, payable on such goods and, subject t9 such rules as may be made, the trade discount (such discount not being refundable on any account whatsoever) allowed in accordance with the normal practice of 984 the wholesale trade at the time of removal in respect of such goods sold or contracted for sale; (Explanation.
For the purposes of this sub clause, the amount of the duty of excise payable on any excisable goods shall be the sum total of (a) the effective duty of excise payable on such goods under this Act; and (b) the aggregate of the effective duties of excise payable under other Central Acts, if any, providing for the levy of duties of excise on such goods , and the effective duty of excise on such goods under each Act referred to in clause (a) or clause (b) shall be, (i) in a case where a notification or order providing for any exemption (not being an exemption for giving credit with respect to, for reduction or duty of excise under such Act on such goods equal to, any duty of excise under such Act, or the additional duty under Section 3 of the (51 of 1975), already paid] on the raw material or component parts used in the production or manufacture of such goods) from the duty of excise under such Act is for the time being in force, the duty of excise computed with refer ence to the rate specified in such Act in respect of such goods as reduced so as to give full and complete effect to such exemption; and (ii) in any other case, the duty of excise computed with reference to the rate specified in such Act in respect of such goods. "
The expression "place of removal" has been defined under section 4(4)(b) of the Act to mean a factory or any other place or premises of production or manufacture of the excisable goods; or a warehouse or any other place or prem ises wherein the excisable goods have been permitted to be deposited without payment of duty, from where such goods are removed.
It is in relation to Section 4(4)(d) that it is contended that except the cost of packing which is of a durable nature and is returnable by the buyer to the asses see to the buyer, in respect of all other costs of packing, the costs should be included in the value of the 985 excisable goods.
The explanation to the said sub section defines the expression "packing" as the wrapper, container, bobbin, pirn, spool, reel or warp beam or any other thing in which or on which the excisable goods are wrapped, contained or wound.
The provisions of these two sections must be judged in the light of the principles laid down by this Court in Union of India vs Bombay Tyre International, (supra).
