From the Judgment and Order dated 26.7.1988 of the Allahabad High Court in Review Application No.
Under that scheme the ex military officials were appointed on Contract basis for a fixed term which could be extended from time to time subject to the suitability of the official concerned but not beyond 58 years of age.
Pursuant to the said scheme the State of Uttar Pradesh appointed the respondent as the Secretary, Zila Sainik Board, Unnao on 20th of August, 1979.
The respondent was required to furnish his acceptance of the terms and conditions contained in the said order includ ing the above term relating to the period of appointment and on his accepting the terms and conditions he was appointed as the Secretary in the District Soldiers Board in the district of Unnao in the State of Uttar Pradesh '.
Again the term was extended upto 30th of August, 1985 by an order dated 1st June, 1983.
The Governor is therefore pleased to accord his sanction to extend the period of the contract upto the period mentioned under para 5 subject to the condi tion that their service tenure shall expire on completion of 58 years of age in case the same is completing earlier during the extended period.
Name and Date of Date of Recommen place of appoint expiry dation appoint ment of con extend ment tract the contract 1to 12 13 Ex Pilot 21.8.79 31.3.83 1.4.83 Arun Govil, 30.8.85 Unnao 14 to 21 242 2.
During the extended period of the contract conditions of service of officers shall remain same as are mentioned under their Appointment Order.
The respondent aggrieved by the said order of termina tion filed a Writ Petition on the file of the High Court of Allahabad in Writ Petition No.
The High Court further issued a direction to the effect that the respondent was entitled to salary upto the period he was entitled to remain in service.
In the Penultimate paragraph of the judgment the High Court further stated: "It is open for the opposite parties to con sider the claim of the petitioner for continu ation in service or of fresh appointment and no observations in this regard are being made by this Court. "
243 The respondent who was not satisfied by the order allow ing the Writ Petition as stated above preferred a Review Petition before the High Court contending that he was enti tled to be reinstated in service on the pronouncement of the Judgment on 24.3.
