The property, which is the subject matter of the present dispute, originally formed part of an extent of land situat ed on Mount Road, Madras, bearing door Nos.
In 1956, the Life Insurance Corporation of India (LIC) stepped into the shoes of these two insurance companies and became the owner of the property.
They claimed, there fore, that they were entitled to relief under the Madras 550 City Tenants ' Protection Act and that the Rent Controller Court had no jurisdiction to fix a fair rent.
So far as item 2 was concerned, it appears that, at the time of the hearing, it was conceded before the Rent Controller that the respondents were tenants of the entire properties covered by the lease deed and that they had not constructed any of the premises thereupon.
64/1969 on the original side of the Madras High Court against the tenants for recovery of arrears of rent on the basis of the fair rents fixed, which were computed at Rs.98,250.97 in respect of the two items of property.
87 of 1972 claiming protection under the Madras City Tenants ' Protection Act but this suit and further appeals therefrom have been dismissed.
87 of 72 by a common judgment dated 23.10.1972), the contention urged on behalf of the tenants was that, since the subject matter of the lease under exhibit P 1 was only a vacant site, the Rent Controller had no juris diction to fix the fair rent in respect thereof and that, therefore, the claim in the suit for arrears of rent, based on the Rent Controller 's order in respect of the premises covered by exhibit P 1 had to fail.
After referring to the terms of the sale deed (exhibit P 3), the superstructure constructed on the land was held to have been conveyed to the vendee under the sale deed dated 30 7.
In view of this finding, it was held that the Rent Controller had no jurisdiction to entertain the application for fixation of fair rent in respect of the property which was only a vacant piece of land.
In conse quence, it was held, the LIC could not maintain the suit for recovery of rent based on the order made by the statutory tribunal under the Rent Control Act and claim the difference between the so called fair rent and the contract rent.
1979, is from the order of the Division Bench rejecting the appellant 's claim for arrears of rent in respect of item No.
1 of the property set out in Schedule A to the plaint based on the difference between the fair rent fixed by the Rent Controller and the rent payable therefore under exhibit P 1.
552 The questions to be decided in this appeal, on the above facts, boil down to these: (1) Was the LIC the vendee only of a vacant piece of land with no title to the buildings standing on the site in item 17 (2) It is open for the tenants to contend that the order of the Court of Small Causes in the earlier rent control proceedings deciding to the contrary and fixing the fair rent of item 1 at Rs.994 p.m. should be completely ignored as an order passed totally without jurisdiction, although it has become final as be tween the parties?
In our view, the conclusion of the learned Single Judge that the lease exhibit P 1, executed by the co owners of the property in favour of one of them, was invalid, was erroneous.
S.5 of the , clearly envisages transfers of property by a person to "one or more living persons or to himself, or to himself and one or more other living persons".
141) and Rye vs Rye, The observations of Lord Denning, extracted by the learned Judges, are quite apposite to the situation in the present case.
Once this objection is out of the way, the question is whether the construction put upon the leased land by the lessees formed part of the 553 property conveyed to the L.I.C.
But, he submitted, even the decision of a Tribunal or a Court of limited jurisdiction cannot be called in question so long as it acts within the scope of the jurisdiction conferred on it by the relevant statutes.
He, therefore, invited us to peruse the provisions of the Tamil Nadu Build ings (Lease and Rent Control) Act, 1960 (hereinafter re ferred to as the Rent Control Act).
Under the said Act, he pointed out, a petition for fixation of fair rent under section 4 could be filed by either a landlord or a tenant: (Raval & Co. vs Rarnachandran, ; This is 554 what the LIC purported to do when it filed H.R.C.
The Rent Controller and, on appeal, the Court of Small Causes were therefore, called upon to give their decision on this question which was completely within their statutory jurisdiction and this decision certainly constitutes res judicata between the parties: see also, Explanation VIII to section 11 of the Code of Civil Procedure.
It was, therefore, not open to the High Court to entertain a collateral attack on the validity of binding nature or correctness of the order of the Court of Small Causes and to consider and determine afresh the issue as to whether the L.I.C.
In support of his contention, counsel referred to Krish namurthy vs Parthasarathy, AIR 1949 Madras 780 reversing the decision in the same case reported in AIR 1949 Madras 387.
The appellant landlord had filed an eviction petition under the Rent Control Act without giving notice under section 111(h) of the (which, in those days, was considered to be a condition precedent even to the filing of an eviction petition under the Rent Control Act) and ob tained an order of eviction.
We agree with the learned Judge that this Court can entertain a suit to set aside an order of the Rent Controller if the Rent Controller exceeded the powers con ferred on him.
After reference to certain other decisions of the Court, it was observed: "If a lessor brings a suit for eviction, he is to prove the existence of a lease, the relationship of lessor and lessee between himself and the defendant and the determination of the lease.
That being so, if the Rent Controller did not decide that question properly, the matter would have to be raised in appeal to the Court of Small Causes and would give this Court no jurisdiction to entertain a suit by the defeated party; for such a suit would be barred by section 12(4) of the Act.
413 556 a writ petition was filed to challenge the validity of an order passed by the Rent Controller on the ground that the circumstances for the invocation of section 13(b) of the Bombay Rent, Hotel .Rates and Lodging House Rates (Control) Act, 1944 had not been fulfilled.
The jurisdiction of the Rent Controller, (xxx) is a statutory jurisdiction which is vested in the Rent Controller by the terms of the Act it self.
Sri Krishnamoorthy Iyer also contended that even if it may be an arguable question as to whether the decision in the earlier petitions constitutes res judicata or not and it may plausibly be argued that it does not constitute res judicata, the question for our consideration really is whether the order passed in the 557 earlier eviction petition can be treated as a nullity being passed by a court totally without jurisdiction.
Shri K. Parasaran, appearing for the respondents, sought to support the High Court 's judgment on various grounds.
The peti tion for fixation of fair rent was dismissed by the learned First Additional Rent Controller on the ground that the lease has been taken under two separate deeds and that a single petition was not maintainable.
Of course, the finding in that case that the building belongs to the Corporation cannot operate as res judicata because the tenant had no opportunity to file an appeal against that finding since the application for eviction had ultimately been dismissed.
When the matter came back to the Court of Small Causes, the learned Judge, in his order dated 9.4.69, went into the issue at length and came to the conclusion that the superstructure belonged to Indian Automobiles and had not been conveyed to the L.I.C He held, therefore, that the claim by India Automobiles in the eviction petition of title to the superstructure would amount to a denial of title but that the denial was bona fide.
Sri Parasaran also sought to explain the reasons why the respondents did not prefer any appeal or revision from the order of the Court of Small Causes in H.R.A.
534/66 He submitted that the law then prevalent in Tamil Nadu as laid down in the decisions of the Madras High Court in Palaniappa Chettiar and Others vs Vairavan Chettiar, [1963] 76 L.W.
551, was that the Rent Control Act would apply even in cases where the landlord had leased out only a vacant site and the tenant had put up his own construction thereon.
It was only this limited aspect eviction on the ground of non bona fide denial of title that was under consideration of the Court under section 10(2)(vii) of the Act read with the proviso to section 10(1) and the Court 's observa tions on the question of title were one on a collateral issue.
He contended that it is a basic proposition, well settled by authority, that a tribunal of limited jurisdiction like the Rent Controller (this expression will, hereinafter, also include a Court of Small Causes disposing of an appeal from him) cannot be clothed with jurisdiction to decide far reaching questions of title to immovable property.
