This appeal arises from a suit brought by the appellant in the court of the Subordinate Judge, Mysore, as the sole executor of the will alleged to have been executed by one Lakshmamma on August 22, 1945, (exhibit A).
According to the case set out by the appellant in his plaint Annaji lyengar bad made a gift of properties, items 1 and 2, in favour jointly of Lakshmamma and Sadagopalachar under a registered deed of gift on February 16, 1902 (exhibit D).
Alternatively it was alleged by the appellant that even if survivorship did not apply and so her son Narayana lyengar acquired interest to half the share in the properties covered by the gift deed, he had during his lifetime sold away considerable properties of his father and mother much above the value of his half share and in consequence the remaining properties which represent Lakshmamma 's half share became her absolute properties.
The appellant thus claimed that Lakshmamma was entitled to make a will and asked .or a declaration in that behalf and consequential reliefs so as to give effect to the terms and dispositions of the will.
According to her, the gift deed (exhibit D) did not provide for devolution of interest by survivorship; she pleaded that Lakshmamma had transferred all her interests in the properties comprised in the gift deed in favour of her husband Sadagopalachar who then became their sole owner.
The learned judge ' rejected the plaintiffs case that Narayana lyengar had disposed of his properties equivalent to his right under the gift deed of Annaji (exhibit D) and held that he was the owner of the properties which had.
As a result of these findings the learned judge declared that Lakshmamma was the full owner of half the share in the scheduled properties and that respondent I under the will had only a life interest in respect of the said half share in items 1 and 2.
As a con sequence of this declaration the decree passed by the learned judge directed respondent I to put the appellant in possession of Lakshmamma 's half share in items 3, 4 and 5; it also ordered respondent 1 to pay.
Though the dispositions in the will have occupied a small portion of the document it contains elaborate arguments in support of the averment of the testatrix that she was entitled to make a will in respect of all the properties mentioned in the will.
4,000 which was paid to respondent 1 on Narayanan 's death; and 436 in regard to Narayanan 's illness which ultimately resulted in his death the will adds that the testatrix herself had provided separate money for his medicinal and family expenses and that she had given Narayanan Rs.
