The Judgment of the Court was delivered by RAY, J. I have had the advantage of deciphering the two draft judgments prepared by my learned brothers Shetty and Verma, JJ.
Yet considering the great impor tance of the questions involved in this matter, I deem it just and proper to consider the same and to express my own views.
First of all whether a Judge of the Supreme Court or a Judge of a High Court is a public servant within the meaning of Section 2 of the Prevention of Corruption Act, 1947.
Section 2 of the Prevention of Corruption Act interprets a public servant as meaning a public servant as defined in section 21 of the Indian Penal Code i.e. Act 45 of 1860.
Section 21 of the Indian Penal Code states that a public servant denotes a person falling under any of the descrip tion mentioned therein: "Third Every Judge including any person empowered by law to discharge, whether by himself or as a member of any body of persons any adjudicarory functions. "
Thus, the definition of a public servant is very wide enough to include Judges of the Supreme Court as well as Judges of the High Court.
Section 77 of the Indian Penal Code provides immunity to the Judges in respect of any act done by a Judge when acting judicially in the exercise of any power which is, or which in good faith he believes to be, given to him by law.
The next question is whether a judge of the Supreme Court or a Judge of High Court including the Chief Justice of the High Court can be prosecuted for having committed the offence of criminal misconduct as referred to in clause (e) of sub section 1 of section 5 of the Prevention of Corrup tion Act, 1947.
Provisions of clause (e) of section 5(1) are as follows: 217 "if he or any person on his behalf is in possession or has, at any time during the period of his office, been in possession, for which the public servant cannot satisfactorily account, of pecuniary resources or property disproportionate to his known sources of income. "
Therefore, it is clear that a Judge will be liable for committing criminal misconduct within the meaning of clause (e) of sub section (1) of section 5 of the said Act if he has in his possession pecuniary resources or property dis proportionate to his known sources of income for which the public servant (or a Judge as the public servant) cannot satisfactorily account.
Section 6(1)(c) specifically enjoins that no court shall take cognizance of an offence punishable under Section 5 of this Act, alleged to have been committed by a public servant i.e. the Judge of the High Court includ ing the Chief Justice of the High Court as in the present case, except with the previous sanction under clause (c) in the case of any other person, of the authority competent to remove him from his office.
So to initiate a proceeding against a Judge of a Supreme Court for criminal misconduct failing under Section 5(1)(e), previous sanction of the authority who is competent to remove a Judge including Chief Justice of the High Court from his office, is imperative.
A Judge of the Supreme Court as well as a Judge of the High Court is a constitutional functionary appointed under Article 124 and under Article 217 of the Constitution re spectively.
Sub article 2 of Article 124 further provides that every Judge of the Supreme Court shall be appointed by the President by warrant under his hand and seal after consultation with such of the Judges of the Supreme Court and of the High Courts in the States as the President may deem necessary for the purpose and shall hold office until he attains the age of sixty five years.
Article 217 provides that every Judge of a High Court shall be appointed by the President by warrant under his hand and seal after consultation with the Chief Justice of India, the Governor of the State, and in the case of appointment of a Judge other than the Chief justice, the Chief Justice of the High Court.
Sub article 4 of the said article 124 further enjoins that a Judge of the Supreme Court shall not be removed from his office except by an order of the President passed after an address by each House of Parliament supported by a majority of the total member ship of that House and by a majority of not less than two thirds of the members of that House present and voting has 218 been presented to the President in the same session for such removal on the ground of proved misbehaviour or incapacity.
Sub article (5) also provides that Parliament may by law regulate the procedure for the presentation of an address and for the investigation and proof of the misbehaviour or incapacity of a Judge under clause (4).
Article 2 18 states that provisions of clauses (4) and (5) of Article 124 shall apply in relation to a High Court.
On a plain reading of the provisions of sub article 4 of Article 124, a Judge of the Supreme Court can only be re moved on the ground of proved misbehaviour or incapacity by an order of the President passed after an address by each House of Parliament supported by a majority of the total membership of that House and by a majority of not less than two thirds of the members of that House present and voting, has been presented to the President in the same session for such removal on the ground of proved misbehaviour or inca pacity.
In other words, the President cannot on its own remove a Judge of the Supreme Court unless an address by each House of Parliament supported by a majority of the total membership of that House and by a majority of not less than two thirds of the members of that House present and voting, is passed and presented to him for removal of the Judge on the ground of proved misbehaviour or incapacity.
Without such an address by each of the House of the Parliament, the President is not empowered under the Constitution to order removal Of a Judge of the Supreme Court from his office.
Article 2 18 lays down that a Judge of the High Court may be removed from his office by the President in the manner provided under clauses (4) and (5) of Article 124.
So viewing the aforesaid constitutional provisions for removal of a Judge for proved misbehaviour or incapacity, it is imperative that each House of the Parlia ment shall make an address to the President after the same is supported by a majority of the total membership of that House and by a majority for not less than two thirds of the members of that House present and voting.
Unless that ad dress is presented to the President in the same session for such removal, the President is not empowered under the Constitution to make the order for removal of the Judge of the Supreme Court of India or of the Judge of the High Court on the ground of proved misbehaviour or incapacity.
Of course, the power of the President to remove a Judge of the Supreme Court or of the High Court is to be 219 exercised by the President in the manner expressly laid down in clause 4 of Article 124.
In the case of Union of India vs Sankalchand, AIR 1977 (SC) 2328 it has been observed by majority of the Constitution Bench that there is no need or justification, in order to uphold or protect the independ ence of the judiciary, for construing Article 222(1) to mean that a Judge cannot be transferred from one High Court to another without his consent.
"The power to transfer a High Court Judge is conferred by the Constitution in public inter est and not for the purpose of providing the executive with a weapon to punish a Judge who does not toe its line or who, for some reason or the other, has fallen from its grace.
The executive possesses no such power under our Constitution and if it can be shownthough we see the difficulties in such showing that a transfer of a High Court Judge is made in a given case for an extraneous reason, the exercise of the power can appropriately be struck down as being vitiated by legal mala fides.
The power to punish a High Court Judge, if one may so describe it, is to be found only in article 2 18 read with article 124(4) and (5) of the Constitu tion, under which a Judge of the High Court can be removed from his office by an order of the President passed after an address by each House of Parliament, supported by a majority of the total membership of that House and by a majority of not less then two thirds of the members of that House present and voting, has been presented to the President in the same session for such removal on the ground of proved misbehaviour or incapacity.
Thus, if the power of the President, who has to act on the advice of the Council of Ministers, to transfer a High Court Judge for reasons not bearing on public interest but arising out of whim, caprice or fancy of the executive or its desire to bend a Judge to its own way of thinking, there is no possibility of any interference with the independence of the judiciary if a Judge is transferred without his consent.
If there is one principle which runs through the entire fabric of the Constitution, it is the principle of the rule of law and under the Constitution, it is the judiciary which is entrusted with the task of keeping every organ of the State within the limits of the law and thereby making the rule of law meaningful and effective.
It is to aid the judiciary in this task that the power of judicial review has been conferred upon the judiciary and it is by exercising this power which constitutes one of the most potent weapons in armoury of the law, that the judi ciary seeks to protect the citizen against violation of his constitutional or legal rights or misuse of abuse of power by the State or its officers.
The judiciary stands between the citizen and the State as a bulwark against executive excesses and misuse or abuse or power by the executive and there it is absolutely essential that the judiciary must be free from executive pressure or influence and this has been secured by the Constitution makers by making elaborate provisions in the Constitution to which detailed reference has been made in the judgments in Sankalchand Sheth 's case (AIR 1977 SC 2326) (supra).
namely fearlessness of other power centres economic or political, and freedom from prejudices acquired and nourished by the class of which the Judges belong.
This is the principle of independence of the judi ciary which is vital for the establishment of real participatory democracy, maintenance of the rule of law as a dynamic concept and delivery of social justice to the vulnerable sections of the community.
The third most crucial question that fails for consider ation in this case is who is the competent authority to remove a Judge either of the, Supreme Court or of the High Court from his office in order to enable that authority to grant sanction for prosecution of the Judge under the provi sions as enjoined by Section 6 of the Prevention of Corrup tion Act, 1947.
Section 6 has been couched in negative terms to the following effect: "No Court shall take cognizance of an offence punishable under Section 16 1 or Section 164 or Section 165 of the Indian Penal Code (45 of 1860), or under sub section (2) or sub section (3A) of Section 5 of this Act, alleged to have been committed by a public servant, except with the previous sanction, .
In order to launch a prosecution against a Judge either of the Supreme Court or of the High Court or the Chief Jus tice of the High Court previous sanction of the authority competent to remove a Judge from his office is mandatorily required.
The question, therefore, arises who is the author ity competent to grant sanction.
The Judge of the Supreme Court or the Judge of the High Court is appointed under the provisions of Article 124 or under the provisions of Article 217 respec 222 tively.
A Judge of the Supreme Court shall be appointed by the President by the warrant under his hand and seal after consultation with such Judges of the Supreme Court and of the High Court in the State as the President may deem neces sary for the purpose and shall hold office until he attains the age of 65 years.
Similarly, a Judge of the High Court shall be appointed by the President by the warrant under his hand and seal after consultation with the Chief Justice of India, the Governor of the State, and in case of an appoint ment of the Judge other than the Chief Justice, the Chief Justice of the High Court and shall hold office except in the case of an additional judge till he attains the age of 62 years.
It is, therefore, evident that a Judge of the Supreme Court as well as a Judge of the High Court is a constitutional functionary as has been observed by this Court in the decisions cited hereinbefore and to maintain the independence of the judiciary and to enable the Judge to effectively discharge his duties as a Judge and to maintain the rule of law, even in respect of lis against the Central Government or the State Government.
The Judge is made total ly independent of the control and influence of the executive by mandatorily embodying in article 124 or article 217 that a Judge can only be removed from his office in the manner provided in clause (4) and (5) of article 124.
Thus, a Judge either of the High Court or of the Supreme Court is inde pendent of the control of the executive while deciding cases between the parties including the Central Government and State Government uninfluenced by the State in any manner whatsoever.
It is beyond any pale of doubt that there is no master and servant relationship or employer and employee relationship between a Judge of the High Court and the President of India in whom the executive power of the Union is vested under the provisions of Article 53 of the Consti tution.
The President has not been given the sole power or the exclusive power to remove a Judge either of the Supreme Court or of the High Court from his office though the Presi dent appoints the Judge by warrant under his hand and seal after consultation with such of the Judges of the Supreme Court and of the High Court in the States as he may deem necessary for that purpose and in case of the appointment of the Judge of the High Court, the President appoints a Judge by warrant under his hand and seal after consultation with the Chief Justice of India, the Governor of the State and in a case of appointment of a Judge other than the Chief Jus tice, the Chief Justice of the High Court.
The only mode of removal of a Judge from his office on the ground of proved misbehaviour or incapacity is laid down in clauses (4) and (5) of Article 124.
It is has been eloquently and vehemently urged on behalf of the appellant that since the Judge of the Supreme Court as well as of the High Court is a constitu tional functionary and 223 there is no employer and employee relationship or master and servant relationship between the Judge and the President of India and for that the Central Government or the State Government there is no authority to remove the Judge from 'his office by the executive except by taking recourse to procedure of impeachment as envisaged in Article 124(4) and (5) of the Constitution of India.
It has been further urged in this connection that if it is assumed that the President has the power to remove a Judge of the Supreme Court or of the High Court from his office it will do away with the independence of the judiciary and will being the judiciary under the control of the executive indirectly in as much as under Article 74 of the Constitution of India, the President while exercising his executive power has to act on the aid and advice of the Council of Ministers with the Prime Minis ter at the Head, as has been held by this Court in Shamsher Singh & Anr.
It has been, therefore, urged that Section 6(i)(C) of the Prevention of Corruption Act, 1947 is not applicable to the case of a Judge of the Supreme Court or of the High Court No prosecution can be launched against a Judge of the Supreme Court or of the High Court under the provisions of the said Act except in the mode envisaged in Article 124, clauses 4 and 5 of the Constitution for removal of the Judge.
The FIR in question, which has been lodged against the appellant should be quashed and set aside Section 2 of the Prevention of Corruption Act denotes a public servant as defined in Section 21 of the Indian Penal Code (45 of 1860).
It has been noticed hereinbefore that the third clause particularly of Section 21 of the Indian Penal Code includes every Judge including any person empowered by law to dis charge whether by himself or as a member of any body of persons any adjudicatory functions.
Therefore a Judge of the High Court or of the Supreme Court comes within the defini tion of public servant and he is liable to be prosecuted under the provisions of 'the Prevention of Corruption Act.
It is farthest from our mind that a Judge of the Supreme Court or that of the High Court will be immune from prosecu tion for criminal offences committed during the tenure of his office under the provisions of the Prevention of Corrup tion Act.
In these circumstances the only question to be consid ered is who will be the authority or who is the authority to grant sanction for prosecution of a Judge of the High Court under section 6(1)(c) of the said Act.
The Judge as a con stitutional functionary being appointed by the President can only be removed by mandatory procedure provided under Arti cle 124 of the Constitution and in no other manner.
The has been enacted by Parliament to regulate 224 the procedure for the investigation and proof of the misbe haviour or incapacity of a Judge of the Supreme Court under clause (5) of subsection 1 of Article 124 of the Constitu tion.
The said Act and the Rules made thereunder only provide for removal of a Judge on the ground of proved misbehaviour or inability.
It does not provide for prosecution of a Judge for offences under section 5(1)(e) of the Prevention of Corruption Act.
As the commons acquired direct control over ministers, there was no need to employ the cumbersome machinery of impeachment and there has been no impeachment since 1805.
As impeachment of political offenders might involve not only deprivation of office but other penalties, the royal prerogative of pardon does not extend to prevent ing impeachment but extends to pardoning punishments in flicted on an impeachment.
In England, offices held during good behaviour may in the event of misconduct be determined by impeachment.
In practice, however, an address to the Crown for the removal of a judge must originate in the House of Commons; the procedure is judicial and the judge is entitled to be heard.
This power to remove by impeachment or address, a person holding office during good behaviour, is an essential counterpart to the independence secured to the holders of high office by making their tenure one of good behaviour instead of at pleasure.
Under article II, section 4, U.S. Constitution, the President, VicePresident and 'all civil officers of the United States can be removed from office on impeachment for, and convic tion of, "Treason, Bribery or other high Crimes and misde meanours".
Since the President of the United States who is the, highest executive authority of the State, an impeach ment has been provided for and in fact, President Johnson was impeached in 1867 for high crimes and misdemeanours.
(Seervai 's Constitutional Law of India, Third Edition, Vol.
It has been urged further that under Article 361, the President and the Governor have been given protection from being answerable to any court for the exercise and perform ance of the powers and duties of his office or for any act done or purporting to be done by him in the exercise and performance of those powers and duties.
Clause 2 of the said Article further provides that no criminal proceedings what soever shall be instituted or Continued against the Presi dent, or the Governor of a State, in any court during his term of office.
No such immunity from criminal prosecution has been provided for in the case of a Judge of the High Court or of the Supreme Court.
It has, therefore, been urged that the High Court should ensure modalities for launching prosecution against a Judge under the said Act.
Undoubtedly, respect for the judiciary and its public credibility and dignity has to be maintained in order to ensure respect for the Judges in public and also for the decisions rendered by the judges.
It is, therefore, necessary to evolve some method commensurate with the grant of sanction in cases of serious allegation corruption and acquisition or the posses sion of disproportionate assets which the Judge cannot satisfactorily account for 'or possession of property dispro portionate to the sources of income of the Judge.
If these things are allowed to go unnoticed it will create a serious inroad on the dignity respect, and credibility and integrity of the High Office which a Judge of the Supreme Court and of the High Court occupies resulting in the erotion on the dignity and respect for the high office of the Judges in the estimation of the public.
As has been suggested by my learned Brother Shetty, J. that the President is given the power to appoint the Judges of the Supreme Court as well as of the High Court by warrant under his hand and seal and similarly even after passing of an address by both the Houses of the Parliament in the manner provided in Article 124, clauses (4) and (5) and placed before the President, a Judge cannot be removed from his office unless and order to that effect is passed by the President.
The President, therefore, has the power to appoint as well as to remove a Judge from his office on the ground of 226 proved misbehaviour or incapacity as provided in Article 124 of the Constitution.
The President, therefore, being the authority competent to appoint and to remove a Judge, of course in accordance with the procedure envisaged in Article 124, clauses (4) and (5) of the Constitution, may be deemed to be the authority to grant sanction for prosecution of a Judge under the provisions of Section 6(1)(c) in re spect of the offences provided in section 5(1)(e) of the Prevention of Corruption Act, 1947.
In order to adequately protect a Judge from frivolous prosecution and unnecessary harassment the President will consult the Chief Justice of India who will consider all the materials placed before him and tender his advice to the President for giving sanction to launch prosecution or for filing FIR against the Judge concerned after being satisfied in the matter.
The President shall act in accordance with advice given by the Chief Justice of India If the Chief Justice of India.
If the chief Justices of opinion that it is not a fit case for grant of sanction for prosecution of the Judge concerned the Presi dent shall not accord sanction to prosecute the Judge;This will save the Judge concerned from unnecessary harassment as weal as from frivolous prosecution against him as suggested by my learned brother Shetty, J. in his judgment.
Similarly in the case of Chief Justice of the Supreme Court the Presi dent shall consult such of the Judges of the Supreme Court as he may deem fit and proper and the President shall act in accordance with the advice given to him by the Judge or Judges of the Supreme Court.
The purpose of grant of previ ous sanction before prosecuting a public servant i.e. a Judge of the High Court or of the Supreme Court is to pro tect the Judge from unnecessary harassment and frivolous prosecution more particularly to save the Judge from the biased prosecution for giving judgment in a case which goes against the Government or its officers though 'based on good reasons and rule of law.
197 1 SC 1132, wherein it has been observed: "It seems to us that whoever drafted the Impeachment Motion drafted it with a view to bring the facts within the meaning of the express "misbehaviour" in Article 124(4) for he must have realised that to say that a Judge has committed errors, even gross errors, cannot amount to "misbehaviour".
The contention that frivolous prosecution can be launched against a Judge for giving a judgment against the Central Government or any of its Officers is of no avail in as much as such decision does not amount to misbehaviour within the meaning of the Article 124 of the Constitution.
227 It is also necessary to mention in this connection that the appellant resigned his post of Chief Justice when FIR was lodged by the CBI and so he ceased to be a public serv ant on the date of lodging the FIR against him by the CBI.
Antulay; , before a Constitution Bench of this Court where it has been observed: "Section 6 bars the Court from taking cogni zance of the offences therein enumerated alleged to have been committed by a public servant except with the previous sanction of the competent authority empowered to grant the requisite sanction .
Section 6 creates a bar to the court from taking cogni zance of offences therein enumerated except with the previous sanction of the authority set out in clause (a) (b) & (c) of sub sec.
The object underlying such provision Was to save the public servant from the harassment of frivolous or unsubstantiated allegations.
Bansi vs State of Maharashtra), ; Existence thus of a valid sanction is a pre requisite to the taking of cognizance of the enumerated offences alleged to have been committed by a public servant.
If it is con templated to prosecute public servant who has committed such offences, when the court is called upon to take cognizance of the offence, a sanction ought to be available otherwise the court would have no jurisdiction to take cognizance of the offence.
Therefore, when the offence is alleged to have been committed the accused was a public servant but by the time the court is called upon to take cognizance of the offence committed by him as public servant, he has ceased to be public servant, no sanction would be necessary for taking cognizance of the offence against him.
Therefore at the time of filing the FIR the appellant ceases to be a public servant and so no sanction under Sec.
In these circumstances the judgment and order of the High Court dismissing the application under Secll.
This appeal by certificate under Articles 132(1) and 134(1)(e) of the Constitution has been filed by the former Chief Justice of the Madras High Court against the Full Bench decision of the same High Court refusing to quash the criminal proceedings taken against him.
The central issue is whether the Judges could be prosecuted for offence under the Prevention of Corruption Act, 1947 ( 'the Act ').
The background of the case in the barest outline is as follows: The appellant started his life as an Advocate in the High Court of Madras.
The complaint in this regard was made to the Delhi Special Police Establishment ("CBI").
It was alleged in the First Information Report that taking into consideration the sources of income of the appellant as a Judge and Chief Justice of the High Court and the mode and style of his living with the probable expenses required during the period of his Judgeship/Chief Justiceship, it is reasonably be lieved that the appellant cannot satisfactorily account fox the possession of assets which are far disproportion he to his known source of income.
On 28 February 1976, a copy of the First Information Report was personally taken by the Investigating Officer to Madras and it was filed before the Court of Special Judge, Madras.
The appel lant on coming to know of these developments proceeded on leave from 9 March 1976 and subsequently retired on 8 April 1976 on attaining the age of superannuation.
On 15 December 1977, a final report under Section 173(2) of the Code of Criminal 'Procedure (Cr.
The report under Section 173(2) is generally called as the charge sheet, and we would also prefer to term it as the charge sheet.
The charge sheet inter alia states that the appellant after assuming.
office as the Chief Justice of Madras gradually commenced accumulation of disproportionate assets etc.
The appellant has thereby committed the offence of criminal misconduct under clause (e) of Section 5(1) which is punish able under Section 5(2) of the Act.
The particulars of the disproportionate assets and the income of the appellant during the aforesaid period have been fully set out in the charge sheet.
On perusing the charge sheet the learned Special Judge appears to have issued process for appearance of the appellant but the appel 230 lant did not appear there.
The Full Bench of the High Court by majority view has dismissed his case.
However, in view of the importance of the Constitu tional questions involved in the case the High Court granted certificate for appeal to this Court.
It was inter alia, contended that the Judges of the High Court and Supreme Court shall not be answerable before the ordinary criminal courts but only answerable to Parliament.
The Judge shall hold office until the age of super annuation subject to earlier removal for proved misbehaviour or incapacity.
This protection to Judges will be defeated if they are compelled to stand trial for offence committed while discharging duties of their office even before retire ment.
Even the Parliament or the State Legislatures are not competent to make laws creating offences in matters relating to discharge of Judge 's duties.
Any such law would vitiate the scheme and the federal structure of the Constitution particularly the scheme of Article 124(4) read with Article 2 17 and 2 18.
Though the definition of "public servant" under Section 21 of the Indian Penal Code may include a Judge of the Higher Judiciary, since the Judge is not 'employed in connection with the affairs of the Union or State ', the definition Should be narrowed down only to Judges other man the Judges of the Higher Judiciary.
Alternatively, it was claimed that even assuming that all the allegations against the appellant are true, it will not constitute an offence under clause (e) of Section 5(1) of the Act since ingredients of the offence are not present in the case.
The last and 231 perhaps the most important contention urged before the High Court was regarding the necessity to obtain prior sanction from the competent authority for prosecution of the appellant as required under Section 6 of the Act.
On the last aspect relating to the requirement of prior sanction for prosecution of the appellant, the learned Judge, held that since the appellant has retired from serv ice and was no longer a 'public servant ' on the date of filing the charge sheet, the sanction for his prosecution required under Section 6 of the Act is not warranted.
The third Judge Mr. Justice Balasubramanyan in a separate judg ment has concurred with the majority views on most of the questions.
He observed that clause (e) of Section 5(1) of the Act places the burden of establishing unsatisfactory accounting squarely on the prosecution.
The learned Judge, however, was careful enough to modulate his reasoning so that it may be in conformity with the constitu tional protection guaranteed to the accused under Article 20(3) of the Constitution, Article 20(3) provides that no person accused of any offence shall be compelled to be a witness against himself.
The learned Judge said that in view of Article 20(3) the Investigating Officer has no power to compel the accused to give his explanation for his dispro portionate assets, but he must necessarily ask the public servant for an account.
the accused appellant has voluntarily submitted his statement of assets and income to the Investi gating Officer in the course of investigation.
In this regard counsel sought to support the views expressed by Balasubramanyan, J., in his dissenting judgment.
The second proposition relates to the inapplicability of the Act to Judges of the High Courts and Supreme Court.
The essence of the submissions made on this aspect is based on the special status and role of Judges of the higher judiciary and in the need to safeguard judicial independence consistent with the constitutional provisions.
For a proper consideration of the submissions made by counsel on both sides the attention may be drawn to the relevant provisions of the Act.
For the purposes of this Act, "public servant" means a public servant as defined in Section 21 of the Indian Penal Code. "
[(1)] Where in any trial of an of fence punishable under section 16 1 or section 165 of the Indian Penal Code (or of an offence referred to in clause (a) or clause (b) of sub section (1) of section 5 of this Act punisha ble under subsection (2) thereof), it is proved that an accused person has accepted or obtained, or has agreed to accept or attempted to obtain, for himself or for any other per son, any gratification (other than legal remuneration) or any valuable thing from any person, it shall be presumed unless the contrary is 233 proved that he accepted or obtained, or agreed to accept or attempted to obtain, that grati fication or that valuable thing, as the case may be, as a motive or reward such as is mentioned in the said section 161, or, as the case may be, without consideration or for a consideration which he knows to be inadequate.
(2) Where in any trial of an offence punisha ble under section 165A of the Indian Penal Code (or under clause (ii) of sub section (3) of section 5 of this Act) it is proved that any gratification (other than legal remunera tion) or any valuable thing has been given or offered to be given or attempted to be given by an accused person, it shall be presumed unless the contrary is proved that he gave or offered to give or attempted to give that gratification or that valuable thing, as the case may be as a motive or reward such as is mentioned in section 161 of the Indian Penal Code or, as the case may be without consider ation or for a consideration which he knows to be inadequate.
(3) Notwithstanding anything contained in sub sections (1) and (2) the court may decline to draw the presumption referred to in either of the said sub sections, if the gratification or thing aforesaid is, in its opinion, so trivial that no inference of corruption may fairly be drawn."
Section 5 provides: "5(1) A public servant is said to commit the offence of criminal misconduct (a) if he habitually accepts or obtains or agrees to accept or attempts to obtain from any person for himself or for any other per son, any gratification (other than legal remuneration) as a motive or reward such as is mentioned in section 161 of the Indian Penal Code, or (b) if he habitually accepts or obtains or agrees to accept or attempts to obtain for himself or for any other person, any valuable thing without consideration or for a con 234 sideration which he knows to be inadequate, from any person whom he knows to have been, or to be, or to be likely to be concerned in any proceeding or business transacted or about to be transacted by him, or having any connection with the official functions of himself or of any public servant to whom he is subordinate, or from any person whom he knows to be inter ested in or related to the person so con cerned, or (c) if he dishonestly or fraudulent|y misap propriates or otherwise converts for his own use any property entrusted to him or under his control as a public servant or allows any other person so to do, or (d) if he, by corrupt or illegal means or by otherwise abusing his position as public servant, obtains for himself or for any other person any valuable thing or pecuniary advan tage (or) (e) if he or any person on his behalf is in possession or has, at any time during the period of his office, been in possession, for which the public servant cannot satisfactorily account, of pecuniary resources or property disproportionate to his known sources of income.
(2) Any public servant who commits criminal misconduct shall be punishable with imprison ment for a term which shall not be less than one year but which may extend to seven years and shall also be liable to fine: Provided that the court may, for any special reasons recorded in writing, impose a sentence of imprisonment of less than one year.
(3) Whoever habitually commits (i) an offence punishable under section 162 or section 163 of the Indian Penal Code, or (ii) an offence punishable under section 165 A of the Indian Penal Code, shall be punishable with imprisonment for a term which 235 shall not be less than one year but which may extend to seven years, and shall also be liable to fine: Provided that the court may, for any special reasons recorded in writing, impose a sentence of imprisonment of less than one year.
(3A) Whoever attempts to commit an offence referred to in clause (c) or clause (d) of sub section (1) shall be punishable with imprisonment for a term which may extend to three years, or with fine, or with both.
(3B) Where a sentence of fine is imposed under subsection (2) or sub section (3), the court in fixing the amount of fine shall take into consideration the amount or the value of the property, if any, which the accused person has obtained by committing the offence or where the conviction is for an offence referred to in clause (e) of subsection (1), the pecuniary resources or property referred to in that clause for which the accused person is unable to account satisfactorily.
No court shall take cognizance of an offence punishable under section 161 (or section 164) or section 165 of the Indian Penal Code, or under sub section (2) (or sub section 3A) of section 5 of this Act, alleged to have been committed by a public servant, except with the previous sanction, (a) in the case of a person who is employed in connection with the affairs of the (Union) and is not removable from his office save by or with the sanction of the Central Government (of the) State Government; (b) in the case of a person who is employed in connection with the affairs of (a State) and is not removable from his 236 office save by or with the sanction of the Central Government (of the) State Government (c) in the case of any other person, of the authority competent to remove him from his office.
(2) Where for any reason whatsoever any doubt arises whether the previous sanction as re quired under sub section (1) should be given by the Central or State Government or any other authority, such sanction shall be given by that Government or authority which would have been competent to remove the public servant from his office at the time when the offence was alleged to have been committed.
Notwithstanding anything contained in the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1898, no police officer below the rank (a) in the case of the Delhi Special Police Establishment, of an Inspector of Police; (b) in the presidency towns of Calcutta and Madras, of an Assistant Commissioner of Po lice; (c) in the presidency towns of Bombay, of a Superintendent of Police; and (d) elsewhere, of a Deputy Superintendent of Police, shall investigate any offence punishable under Section 161, section 165 or section 165A of the Indian Penal Code or under section 5 of this Act without the order of a Presidency Magistrate or a Magistrate of the first class, as the case may be, or make any arrest there for without a warrant: Provided that if a police officer not below the rank of an Inspector of Police is autho rised by the State Government in this behalf by general or special order, he may also investigate any such offence without the order of a Presi 237 dency Magistrate or a Magistrate of the first class, as the case may be, or make arrest therefor without a warrant: Provided further that an offence referred to in clause (e) of sub section (1) of Section 5 shall not be investigated without the order of a police officer not below the rank of a Superintendent of Police.
The Act was intended to suppress bribery and corruption in public administration and it contains stringent provi sions.
Section 4 raises presumption unless the contrary is proved by the accused in respect of offence punishable under section 161 or section 165 of the Indian Penal Code or of an offence referred to in clause (a) or clause (b) of section 5(1) of the Act.
Section 5 of the Act creates offence of criminal misconduct on the part of a public servant.
The public servant defined under section 2 means a public serv ant as defined in Section 21 of the IPC.
Section 5(2) pro vides punishment for such an offence of criminal misconduct up to a term of 7 years or with fine, or with both.
We will have an occasion to consider the provisions of Section 6 in detail and for the present we may deal only with the condition prescribed by the Section for a Court to take cognizance of an offence The condition prescribed therein is the previous sanction of a competent authority.
It may be of importance to remember that the power to take cognizance of an offence is vested in the Court of competent jurisdiction.
Nor it was meant to afford protection to public servant from criminal prosecution for such offences.
It is only to protect the honest public servants from frivolous and vexatious prosecution.
The competent authority has to examine independently and impartially the material on record to form his own opinion whether the offence alleged is frivolous or vexatious.
The competent authority may refuse sanction for prosecution if the offence alleged has no material to support or it is frivolous or intended to harass the honest officer.
But he cannot refuse to grant sanction if the material collected has made out 238 the commission of the offence alleged against the public servant.
There seems to be another reason for taking away the discretion of the investigating agency to prosecute or not to prosecute a public servant.
Clause (a) of Section 6(1) covers public servants employed in connection with the affairs of the Union.
The prescribed authority for giving prior sanction for such persons would be the Central Govern ment.
Clause (b) of Section 6(1) covers public servants employed in connection with the affairs of the State.
The authority competent to give prior sanction for prosecution of such persons would be the State Government.
Clauses (a) and (b) would thus cover the cases of public servants who are employed in connection with the affairs of the Union or State and are not removable from their office save by or with the sanction of the Central Government or the State Government.
Section 6 is thus all embracing bringing within its fold all the categories of public serv ants as defined under Section 21 of the IPC.
Mr. Kapil Sibal learned Counsel for the appellant stressed the need to read clause (c) in "ejusdem generis" to clauses (a) and (b).
239 If there is no relationship of master and servant, as be tween public servant and the authority to appoint him, clause (c) has no application to the public servant.
It is true that the relationship of master and servant as is ordinarily understood in common law does not exist between the Judges of higher judiciary and the Government.
There is thus a fundamental distinction between the master and servant relationship between the Government and the Judges of High Courts and the Supreme Court. "
The application of the ejusdem generis rule is only to general word following words which are less general, or the general word following particular and specific words of the same nature.
It also includes every person in the service or pay of the Government or remunerated by fees or commis sion by the Government.
From the very com mencement of the IPC "Every Judge" finds a place in the categories of "public servant" defined under Section 21 of IPC.
It was specifically denoted in the third category of public servant under Section 21 of IPC.
The Fourth term of reference made to the Committee reads: "to suggest changes in law which would ensure speedy trial of cases of bribery, corrup tion and criminal misconduct, and make the law otherwise more effective."
It was represented to the Committee by the public that corruption has increased to such an extent that people have started losing faith in the integrity of public administration.
"We heard from all sides", the Committee reported, "that corruption has, in recent years, spread even to those levels of administration from which it was conspic uously absent in the past."
While examining the Fourth term of reference extracted above, the Committee in Section 7 of its report considered the question of amendments to the IPC.
Under paragraph 7.6 of the Report, the Com mittee has suggested that the present definition of 'public servant ' under Section 21 of the IPC requires to be en larged.
It has stated, among others that 'a further category should be added to include all persons discharging adjudica tory functions under any Union or State Law for the time being in force. '
Under para 7.7, the Committee recommended that the third category under Section 21 of the IPC may be amended as stated below: "Third Every Judge including any person en trusted with adjudicatory functions in the course of enforcement of any law for the time being in force. "
This recommendation led to the enactment of Anti Corrup tion Laws (Amendment) Act 1964 (Act No.
'public servant ' The words 'public serv ant ' denote a person falling under any of the descriptions hereinafter following, namely; Third Every Judge including any person empow ered by; law to discharge, whether by himself or as a member of any body of persons, any adjudicatory functions. "
It will be seen that the Parliament has not only retained the expression "Every Judge" in the original enumeration of public servant under Section 21 of the IPC but also enlarged the expression to include any person empowered by law to discharge any adjudicatory functions.
"Judge" The word "Judge" denotes not only every person who is officially designated as a Judge, but also every person who is empowered by law to give, in any legal proceeding, civil or criminal, a definitive judgment, or a judgment which, if not appealed against, would be definitive, or a judgment which, if confirmed by some other authority, would be definitive, or 242 who is one of a body of persons, which body of persons is empowered by law to give such a judgment. "
He squarely falls within the purview of the Act provided the second requirement under clause (c) of Section 6(1) is satisfied The second requirement for attracting the provisions of clause (c) of Section 6(1) to a Judge of the superior Judi ciary is that for the purpose of granting sanction for his prosecution, there must be an authority and the authority must be competent to remove the Judge.
The High Court Judge retires at 62, while the Supreme Court Judge retires at 65.
Establishment and constitution of Su preme Court XXXXX XXXXX XXXXX (4) A Judge of the Supreme Court shall not be removed from his office except by an order of the President passed after an address by each House of Parliament supported by a majority of the total membership of that House and by a majority of not less than two thirds of the members of that House present and voting has been presented to the President in the same session for such removal on the ground of proved misbehaviour or incapacity.
243 (5) Parliament may by law regulate the proce dure for the presentation of an address and for the investigation and proof of the misbe haviour or incapacity of a Judge under clause (4).
Article 2 18 provides that the provisions of clauses (4) and (5) of Article 124 shall apply in relation to a High Court as they apply in relation to the Supreme Court.
In exercise of the power vested under clause (5) of Article 124, the Parliament has passed the prescribing the procedure for presentation of an address and for the investigation and proof of misbehaviour or incapacity of a Judge.
Section 3(1) provides for giving notice of a motion for presenting an address to the President praying for the removal of a Judge, (a) in the case of a notice of motion given in the House of the People, it should be signed by not less than one hundred members of that House; (b) in the case of a notice given in the Council of States, it should be signed by not less than fifty mem bers of that Council.
Section 3(2) states that if the motion referred to in sub section (1) is admitted, the Speaker or, as the case may be, the Chairman shall constitute a Committee for making an investigation into the grounds on which the removal of a Judge is prayed for.
The section further provides that the Committee shall frame definite charges against the Judge on the basis of which the investigation is proposed to be held and the Judge shall be given a reasonable opportunity of presenting a written statement of defence.
There are Rules called the Judges (Inquiry) Rules, 1969 formed under the Judges (En quiry) Act prescribing procedure for holding an inquiry against the Judge.
Section 6 provides that if the report of Committee contains a finding that the Judge is not guilty of any misbehaviour or does not suffer from any incapacity, then, no further step be taken in either House of Parliament Section 6(2) states that if the report of the Committee contains a finding that the Judge is guilty of any misbeha viour or suffers from any incapacity, then, each House of Parliament shall take further steps.
That address praying for removal of the Judge must be adopted by each House of Parliament in accordance with the provisions of clause (4) of Article 124.
Clause (4) of Article 124 provides that the address must be passed by each House of Parliament supported by a majority of the total membership of that House and by a majority ofi not less than two thirds of the members of that House present and voting.
Counsel for the appellant while referring to the afore mentioned provisions of the Constitution pointed out that the power to remove a Judge is not vested in any single individual or authority.
No single person or authority is competent to take even cognizance of any allegation of misconduct of a Judge, or to take legal action for his removal.
The grant of sancricrequires consid eration of material collected by the investigation agency and Parliament cannot properly consider the material.
It would be reasonable to presume that the Legislature while enacting clause (c) of Section 6(1) of the Act could not have intend ed Parliament to be the sanctioning authority.
Mr. Tulsi, learned Additional Solicitor General, on the other hand, emphasised on the role of the President in relation to removal of a Judge.
He pointed out that the order of the President for removal of a Judge is imperative under clause (4) of Article 124 of the Constitution and the President could be the proper authority under clause (c) of Section 6(1) of the Act.
Such, then, put quite shortly, were the contentions addressed to us on the authority competent to grant sanction for prosecution of Judges of the superior judiciary.
The composition of Parlia ment consisting of the President and two Houses (Article 79) makes it unsuitable to the task.
The nature of transacting business or proceeding in each House renders it impractica ble.
Article 121 provides "that no discussion shall take place in Parliament with respect to the conduct of any Judge of the Supreme Court or of a High ' Court in the discharge of his duties except upon a motion for presenting an address to the President praying for the removal of the Judge as hereinaf ter provided. "
On no other occasion the con duct of a Judge in the discharge of duties could be the subject matter of discussion in the two Houses of Parlia ment.
Without discussion, it would be difficult for Parlia ment to make an objective judgment with regard to grant of sanction for prosecution.
That does not however, follow that the Judges of superi or Courts are entitled to be excluded from the scope of the Act as contended for the appellant.
The Preamble of the Act indicates that the Act was intended to prevent more effec tively the bribery and corruption by public servants.
J., in S.A. Venkataraman vs The 246 State; , while, analysing the provisions of the Act observed (at 1048): "that the provisions of the Act indicate that it was intention of the legislature to treat more severely than hitherto corruption on the part of a public servant and not to condone it in any manner whatsoev er. "
To quote his own words (at 729): "The Preamble indicates that the Act was passed as it was expedient to make more effec tive provisions for the prevention of bribery and corruption.
The long title as well as the preamble indicate that the Act was passed to put down the said social evil i.e. bribery and corruption by public Servant.
The provisions broadly include the existing offences under sections 161 and 165 of the Indian Penal Code committed by public servants and enact a new rule of presumptive evidence against the accused.
The Act also creates a new offence of criminal misconduct by public servants though to some extent it overlaps on the pre existing offences and enacts a rebuttable presumption contrary to the well known principles of Criminal Juris prudence.
It also aims to protect honest public servants from harassment by prescribing that the investigation against them could be made only by police officials of particular status and by making the sanction of the Government or other appropriate officer a pre condition for their prosecution.
As it is a socially useful measure conceived in public interest, it should be liberally construed so as to bring about the desired object i.e. to prevent corruption among public servants and to prevent harassment of the honest among them."
If the literal meaning of the legislative language used would lead to results which would defeat the purpose of the Act the Court would be justified in disregarding the literal meaning and adopt a liberal construction which effectuates the object of the legislature.
It is not a penal provision but a measure of protection to public serv ants in the penal enactment.
The expression "the authority competent to remove" used in clause (c) of Section 6(1) is to be construed to mean also an authority without whose order or affirmation the public servant cannot be removed.
In this view, the President can be considered as the authority to grant sanc tion for prosecution of a Judge since the order of the President for the removal of a Judge is mandatory, The motion passed by each House of Parliament with the special procedure prescribed under clause (4) of Article 124 will not proprio vigore operate against the judge.
Clause (4) of Article 61 reads as follows: "61(4) If as a result of the investigation a resolution is passed by a majority of not less than two thirds of the total membership of the House by which the charge was investigated or caused to be investigated, declaring that the charge preferred against the President has been sustained, such resolution shall have the effect of removing the President from his office as from the date on which the resolu tion is so passed. "
Similar is the consequence of passing the resolution for removal of the Vice President under Article 67 and the Speaker under Article 248 94 of the Constitution.
Article 67(b) of the Constitution provides that the Vice President may be removed from his office by a resolution of the Council of States passed by a majority of all the then members of the Council and agreed to by the House of People.
The resolution passed in accordance with the procedure prescribed under the respective provi sions for removing the President, Vice President and the Speaker, will ipso facto operate against those authorities.
Clause (4) of Article 124 mandates that "a Judge shall not be removed from his office except by an order of the President passed after an address by each House of Parliament . "
It is said that Section 6 envisages that the authority competent to remove a public servant from the office should be vertically superior in the hierarchy in which the office exists.
Section 6 applies only in cases where there is a vertical hierarchy of public offices and the public servants against whom sanction is sought from the sanctioning author ity.
to remove the public servant from that office and the nature of the office held by the public servant against whom sanction is sought which would indicate a hierarchy and which would therefore, permit inference of knowledge about the functions and duties of the office and its misuse or abuse by the public servant.
That is why the Legislature clearly provided that that authority alone would be competent to grant sanction which is entitled to remove the public servant against whom sanction is sought from the office. "
It seems to us that these observations were not intended to lay down the law that the authority competent to grant sanction for prosecution of public serv ant should be vertically superior in the hierarchy in which the office of the public servant exists.
