Appeals by special leave from the judgment and orders dated August 5, 1955, of the former Travancore Cochin High Court in Income tax Reference Appeals Nos.
These two appeals by special leave raise a common question of law, and that is, whether business losses incurred in the erstwhile State of Cochin could, under the Income tax Act of Travancore, be set off against the business profits made in the erstwhile State of Travancore.
260/ 58 a further question arose whether in the case of 259 that assessee the year ending June 30, 1949, was the previous year for the assessment year 1950 51 with the result that it should be assessed under the Indian Income tax Act of 1922.
The main argument has been confined to the question of applicability of section 32(1) and the first proviso to that section of the Travancore Income tax Act (hereinafter called the Travancore Act).
11,872 for the assessment year 1948 49, its accounting year being the previous calendar year.
The Income tax Officer determined its assessable income to be Rs.
90,947 representing only the profit it made in Travancore State and under section 32(1) proviso (1) of the Travancore Act he refused a deduction of Rs.
79,275 shown as loss from branches situate outside the State of Travancore, in British India and other Indian States.
The assessee 's appeal to the Income tax Commissioner was unsuccessful but the Appellate Tribunal held that the banking business of the assessee being one and indivisible for the purpose of determining the amount assessable to income tax it was entitled to deduct the losses incurred outside Travancore State from the profits accruing and arising in that State.
At the instance of the Commissioner of Income tax the following question was referred to the High Court of Travancore Cochin: Is the aforesaid sum of Rs.
79,275 a loss of the assessee arising outside the Travancore State for purpose of the first proviso to section 32(1) of the Travancore Income tax Act ? "
This question was slightly modified by the High Court 260 which after referring to several decided cases answered the question in favour of the assessee.
260/58 the assessee is a private limited company with its registered office in the former Cochin State.
It was carrying on business at its head office in Cochin State and it also carried on business in Travancore State.
The assessment was made under the Travancore Act and relates to the previous year ending June 30, 1949, the assessment year being 1950 51.
The assesse made a profit in Travancore State and incurred a loss in the State of Cochin and sought to deduct this loss from the profit of Travancore State thus showing a net profit of Rs.
On an application of the assessee the following question was referred to the High Court of Travancore Cochin: " Whether on the facts and in the circumstances of the case the loss of Rs.
It may be stated that the relevant sections of the Travancore Act which govern the two appeals are identically worded with those of the Indian Incometax Act of 1922 (to be called the Indian Act).
Application of the Act 4 4 Head of income charge able to income tax 9 6 Business 13 10 Exemptions of a gene ral nature 18 14 Set off of loss in com puting aggregate in come 32 24 261 It is only necessary to set out section 32(1) of the Travancore Act and the proviso which correspond to section 24(1) and proviso (i) of the Indian Act and which are necessary for the decision of the appeals before us: S.32(1) " Where any assessee sustains a loss of profits or gains in any year under any of the heads mentioned in Section 9 (Section 6) he shall be entitled to have the amount of loss set off against this income, profits or gains under any other head in that year: Provided that where the loss sustained is a loss of profits or gains which would but for the loss have accrued or arisen within British India or in an Indian State and would under the provisions of clause (e) of sub section (2) of Section 18 (Section 14(2)(c) ), have been exempted from tax, such loss shall not be set off except against profits or gains accruing or arising within British India or in an Indian State and exempt from tax under the said provisions ".
So the only difference between the two sections is that in the proviso to section 24(1) of the Indian Act instead of the words "an Indian State" the words "British India or in an Indian State " have to be substituted.
But it has been held that a section framed as a proviso to a preceding section may sometimes contain matter which is in substance a fresh enactment adding and not merely qualifying that which goes before.
Rhondda Urban Council vs Taff Vale Railway (2).
262 proviso falls in the second category and takes the present cases out of section 32(1) of the Travancore Act and imposes a liability to tax on the profits or gains arising in that State, disallowing a deduction of the losses in British India and in States other than Travancore State against profits made in Travancore State: Rhondda Urban Council vs Taff Vale Railway (1) and Harrison vs Ward (2).
It may be mentioned that in the majority of cases decided in India the proviso to section 24(1) of the Indian Act has been construed in a manner contrary to the submissions made on behalf of the Revenue.
From 1922 to 1939 in order to be taxable income, profits and gains had to be received or had to accrue in British India.
In 1939 the idea of 'total world income ' was introduced and the definition of 'total income ' was modified by the Indian Income tax (Amendment) Act (VII of 1939) which also made consequential changes in other sections of the Indian Act.
Under section 2(15) of the Act total income ' was defined to mean the total amount of income, profits and gains computed in the manner laid down in that Act.
The 'total world income ' was defined as including all income, profits and gains wherever accruing or arising except income to which the Act did not apply.
