1020 The defendants, besides contending that the suit was barred on the principle of res judicata and/or constructive res judicata as found in Order 2 Rule 2(3) of the Code of Civil Procedure, averred that on the expiry of the lease at the end of December, 1967 the lease stood terminated by efflux of time and defendant No.
Interfering with the concurrent findings recorded by the two courts below the High Court came to the conclusion that the courts below had applied the wrong test and had based their findings on the question of tenancy and dispossession on mere conjectures.
It also held that the suit was barred by res judicata as well as Order 2 Rule 2(3) of the Code of Civil Procedure.
Lastly it noticed that during the pendency of the suit the Goa, Daman & Diu Agricultural Tenancy Act, 1964 (hereinafter called 'the Act ') was amended by Act 17 of 1976 dated October 14,1976 known as the Fifth Amendment which was brought into effect from April 20, 1976 by which the definition of 'agriculture ' was changed and the expressions 'garden ' and 'garden produce ' were defined by the insertion of sub sections (7A).
On these findings the High Court allowed the appeals and 1021 reversed the decree of the Trial Court with no order as to costs.
It is against this order of the High Court that the present appeal by special leave is preferred.
The first ground on which the High Court dismissed the suit is that the suit was barred by the principle of res judicata in view of the dismissal of the former suit No.
That suit was for a declaration that the plaintiff was a lessee and for an injunction to restrain the defendants from interfering with his possession of the suit property.
The foundation for that suit was that the plaintiff who claimed to be a lessee in respect of the demised property apprehended his forcible dispossession therefrom.
The High Court, in the backdrop of these facts, came to the conclusion that the subject matter of the second suit was directly and substantially in issue in the previous suit between the same parties and hence regardless of the relief claimed the second suit was clearly barred by res judicata.
Section 11 of the Code of Civil Procedure provides that 'no court shall try any suit or issue in which the matter directly and substantially in issue in a former suit between the same parties, or between parties under whom they or any of them claim, litigating under the same title, in a court competent to try such subsequent suit or the suit in which such issue has been subsequently raised, and has been heard and finally decided by such court '.
It is not the finding of the High Court that in the previous suit the question regarding the tenancy of the plaintiff was determined against the plaintiff.
As the record stands the only ground on which the previous suit 1022 was dismissed was the technical ground that a suit for a mere declaration cannot lie without claiming possession once it is found that the plaintiff had lost possession.
It is, therefore, difficult to comprehend how the High Court came to the conclusion that the subject matter of the second suit was directly and substantially in issue in the previous suit.
It would have been a different matter if in the previous suit the court had decided the question of status as lessee against the plaintiff, in which case, perhaps, it could be argued that the second suit based on the factum of tenancy was not maintainable.
It is only when the subject matter of any suit is directly and substantially in issue in the previous suit that the subsequent suit would be barred by res judicata if the competent court trying it had decided the issue regarding tenancy against the plaintiff.
As stated earlier, the first suit was dismissed on a technical ground that the suit for a mere declaration without seeking consequential relief of possession could not lie.
In that suit the issue regarding the status of the plaintiff as a lessee was not settled once for all and hence that issue could not be stated to be barred by res judicata in the subsequent suit brought by the lessee for possession the demised property.
We are, therefore, of the opinion that the High Court was wrong in holding that the second suit was barred by res judicata.
1023 The next contention which found favour with the High Court was based on the language of Order 2 Rule 2(3) of the Code of Civil Procedure.
Sub rule (1) of Rule 2, inter alia, provides that every suit shall include the whole of the claim which the plaintiff is entitled to make in respect of the cause of action.
The High Court is, therefore, clearly wrong in its view that the relief claimed is neither relevant nor material.
Now, in the fact situation of the present case, as we have pointed out earlier, the first suit was for an injunction and not for possession of the demised property.
The first suit was dismissed on the technical ground that since the plaintiff was not in de facto possession no injunction could be granted and a suit for a mere declaration of status without seeking the consequential relief for possession could not lie.
The allegation in the former suit was that the plaintiff was a lessee and his 1024 possession was threatened and, therefore, he sought the court 's assistance to protect his possession by a prohibitory injunction.
When in the course of that suit it was found that the plaintiff had in fact been dispossessed, there was no question of granting an injunction and the only relief which the court could have granted was in regard to the declaration sought which the court held could not be granted in view of the provisions of Specific Relief Act.
Therefore, the subsequent suit was based on a distinct cause of action not found in the former suit and hence we do not think that the High Court was right in concluding that the suit was barred by Order 2 Rule 2(3) of the Code of Civil Procedure.
We are, therefore, of the opinion that the High Court was completely wrong in the view that it took based on the language of Order 2 Rule 2(3) of the Civil Procedure Code.
The definition of the various terms employed in the statute have been set out in section 2 thereof The expression 'agriculture ' is defined in sub section (1A) to include horticulture and raising of food crops, grass or garden produce, but not allied pursuits, meaning thereby rearing or maintaining plough bulls, breeding of livestock, dairy farming, poultry farming, grazing on grounds reserved for the purpose and such other pursuits connected with agriculture as may be prescribed.
'Garden ' means land used primarily for growing 1025 coconut trees, arecanut trees, cashewnut trees or mango trees; 7B.
It will be seen from the aforesaid definitions that land used primarily for growing coconut trees falls within the expression 'garden ' and any produce therefrom would be covered by the expression 'garden produce ' Since garden produce is included within the definition of agriculture in sub section (1A) of section 2 it is clear that land used primarily for growing coconut could be described as agricultural land.
Sub section (11) (i) defines land inter alia to mean land which is used for agriculture or which is capable of being so used but is left fallow.
Section 2(23) defines a tenant to mean 'a person who on or after the date of commencement of this Act holds land on lease and cultivates it personally and includes a person who is deemed to be a tenant under this Act '.
Section 8(1) stipulates that no tenancy of any land shall be terminated and no person holding as tenant shall be liable to be evicted therefrom save as provided under the Act.
