during the year 1948 the appellant made a profit of rs 1197648 11 9.
it paid 24 3 per cent.
below those obtained in 1948.
further the management were unable to secure cotton which resulted in the curtailment of the working hours.
a sum of rs 250000 being the excess reserve for taxation was written back and a sum of rs 1001871 13 5 being the amount of reserve transferred from the investment account was also brought in.
an aggregate sum of rs 1251871 13 5 was thus brought into the balance sheet by these two transfers.
corpus juris secundum volume xi at page 515 ascribes the following meanings to the word bonus an allowance in addition to what is usual current or stipulated a sum given or paid beyond what is legally required to be paid to the recipient something given in addition to what is ordinarily received by or strictly due to the recipient and adds it has been said to carry the idea of something uncertain and indefinite something which may or may not be paid depending on varying circumstances and under particular conditions has been said to imply a benefit accruing to him who offers it and an inducement to the offeree.
it is classified amongst the methods of wage payment.
it has been used especially in the united states of america to designate an award in addition to the contractual wage.
it also gives another meaning of the word bonus viz increased compensation for services already rendered gratuitously or for a prescribed compensation where there is neither express or implied understanding that additional compensation may be granted.
but it nevertheless may also include as here payments made because legally due but which the parties contemplate will not continue indefinitely and in national association of local government officers v bolton corporation 1943.
a c 166 i87 this payment if made can not properly in my opinion be regarded as a mere gratuity.
i do not see why this does not fall within the definition of trade dispute just as much as a dispute as to the rate of wages or salary.
but second the meaning of the word bonus is not given to it by the objection.
it is thus defined by webster.
a premium given for a loan or a charter or other privilege granted to a company as the bank paid a bonus for its charter a sum paid in addition to a stated compensation.
and also in great western garment co ltd v minister of national revenue 1948.
d l r 25 233.
a bonus may be a mere gift or gratuity as a gesture of goodwill and not enforceable or it may be something which an employee is entitled to on the happening of a condition precedent and is enforceable when the condition is fulfilled.
but in both cases it is something in addition to or in excess of that which is ordinarily received.
it generally represents the cash incentive given conditionally on certain standards of attendance and efficiency being attained.
2 l l j 247as.
both labour and capital contribute to the earnings of the industrial concern it is fair that labour should derive some benefit if there is a surplus after meeting prior or necessary charges and the following were prescribed as the first charges on gross profits viz 1 provision for depreciation 2 reserves for rehabilitation 3 a return at 6 per cent.
a return on the working capital at a lesser rate than the return on paid up capital.
bonus is not a deferred wage.
because if it were so it would necessarily rank for precedence before dividends the dividends can only be paid out of profits and unless and until profits are made no occasion or question can also arise for distribution of any sum as bonus amongst the employees.
if the industrial concern has resulted in a trading loss there would be no profits of the particular year available for distribution of dividends much less could the employees claim the distribution of bonus during that year.
i l l j 386 textile mills madhya pradesh v their workmen 1952 2 l l j 625and famous cine laboratory v their workmen 1953.
i l l j 466this was also the basis of the demand of the respondent in the case before us its case being that the appellant had reaped substantial profits during the year 1949.
it is significant to observe that this principle was accepted by the labour appellate tribunal itself.
as at present advised a claim for bonus which had been rested on profits earned should ordinarily be determined on the basis of the profits earned in the year under claim and that the scale of bonus should be determined on the quantum of profits earned in the year.
it however observed but in our opinion that should not be the universal rule.
considerations of social justice can not be disregarded altogether in relations between capital and labour.
because if that theory was accepted a company would not declare any dividends but accumulate the profits build up reserves and distribute those profits in the shape of bonus shares or reduce the capital in which event the workers would not be entitled to claim anything as and by way of bonus.
even on a winding up of a company the property of the company would be applied in satisfaction of its liabilities pari passu and unless the articles of association of the company otherwise provided in distribution amongst the members according to their rights and interest in the company.
a transfer of moneys from these reserves or the undistributed profits would therefore not enure for the benefit of the workers.
it has also got to be remembered that the labour force employed in an industrial concern is a fluctuating body and it can not be predicated of the labour force in a particular year that it represents the past and the present workers so that it can claim to demand bonus out of the reserves or undistributed profits of the previous years.
attempted to give a definition in the following terms social justice connotes the balance of adjustments of the various interests concerned in the social and economic structure of the state in order to promote harmony upon an ethical and economic basis and he stated that there were three parties concerned here viz the employers the labour and the state itself and the conception of social justice had to be worked out in this context.
indeed the full bench of the labour appellate tribunal evolved the abovequoted formula with a view to dispensing social justice between the various parties concerned.
in our full bench decision see 1950 2 l l j 1247 we carefully considered the question of social justice in relation to bonus and there we equated the rights and liabilities of employers and workmen with a view to achieving a just formula for the computation of bonus.
it is also significant to note that even while importing considerations of social justice the labour appellate tribunal was oblivious of the fact that it was by their own acts of indiscipline and strike that the workers of the appellant company themselves contributed to the trading losses incurred by the appellant and it hardly lay in their mouth then to contend that they were none the less entitled to a payment of bonus commensurate with the dividend paid to the shareholders out of the undistributed profits of the previous years.
appeal allowed.
