background facts.
3 and 4 are diploma holders in civil engineering.
allegedly from their salary provident fund was being deducted.
a dispute arose as to whether all the appellants were employed for the purpose of the said project or the appellants in civil appeal no 337 of 2002 were appointed in the year 1991 by the authority for its own job.
an industrial dispute was raised by the appellants herein as their services were not being regularized by the respondent.
1whether non regularisation of the sub engineers as per the listed enclosed is valid and proper.
if no then to which relief they are entitled and what directions should be given to the employer.
2whether it is valid and proper for not giving equal salary to these sub engineers like other sub engineers in accordance with the equal work.
all the employees have been working in the establishment of the respondents for last 5 6 years.
aggrieved by and dissatisfied with the said award the respondent authority herein filed a writ petition before the madhya pradesh high court indore bench which was marked as writ petition no 1188 of 1997.
by reason of the impugned judgment dated 26 4 2000 the said writ petition was allowed.
high court judgment.
it was held that the services of the appellants can not be directed to be regularized in services.
as regard the application of the madhya pradesh industrial employment standing orders act 1961 for short the 1961 act and the rules framed there under known as m p industrial employment standing order rules 1963 for short the 1963 rules it was observed that although there was no specific pleadings raised in this behalf by the respondents therein nor any question having been referred to the labour court by the state government touching the said issue it committed an error in granting relief to them on the basis thereof on its own motion.
despite the same the high court went into the question of applicability of the said act and held that the 1961 act and the 1963 rules had no application.
before the high court various documents were produced by the appellants herein to show the nature of their employment but the same had not been taken on records by the high court.
as regard application of the doctrine of equal pay for equal work it was held to be not applicable as the appellants were not entitled to absorption or classification in terms of the 1961 act and the 1963 rules.
dr rajiv dhawan learned senior counsel appearing on behalf of the appellants in civil appeal no 337 of 2002 and mr m n rao learned senior counsel appearing on behalf of the appellants in civil appeal no 335 of 2002 took us through materials on records and contended that the appellants herein became permanent employees of the respondents having regard to the provisions contained in section 2 of the 1961 act and order 2i and 2vi of the standard standing orders as set out in the annexure appended to the 1963 rules defining permanent employees and the temporary employees.
dr dhawan would furthermore contend that the findings of fact had been arrived at by the labour court that the appellants of civil appeal no 337 of 2002 were appointed by the authority and not only their work was being taken in the project but also in other works and thus mere posting of the appellants to the said project would not disentitle them from the benefit of the said act.
as regard the claim of equal pay for equal work the learned counsel would urge that the high court has failed to consider the same in its true perspective.
drawing our attention also to the pleadings as also the reliefs claimed for by the appellants before the labour court the learned counsel would contend that no contention was raised therein by the appellants as regard their entitlement of permanency in terms of the provisions of the 1961 act and the 1963 rules.
furthermore from the reliefs claimed it would appear that the appellants had inter alia prayed for continuance of their services by the indore municipal corporation which knocks off the very basis of their claim.
statutory.
2 of the standard standing order reads as under 2.
classification of employees.
employees shall be classified as i permanent ii permanent seasonaliii.
i a permanent employee is one who has completed six months satisfactory service in a clear vacancy in one or more posts whether as a probationer or otherwise or a person whose name has been entered in the muster roll and who is given a ticket of permanent employee vi.
i above.
12 of the constitution of india.
concededly the respondent authority before making any appointment neither intimated the employment exchange about the existing vacancies if any nor issued any advertisement in relation thereto.
an illegal appointment can not be legalized by taking recourse to regularization.
a state before offering public service to a person must comply with the constitutional requirements of articles 14 and 16 of the constitution.
all actions of the state must conform to the constitutional requirements.
a daily wager in absence of a statutory provision in this behalf would not be entitled to regularization.
ajay kumar 1997 4 scc 88 1997 indlaw sc 833 jawaharlal nehru krishi viswa vidyalaya jabalpur m p vs.
bal kishan soni and others 1997 5 scc 86 1997 indlaw sc 928.
having regard to the rules which have been made by the appellant corporation regular appointment on the post of medical officer can only be made after the duly constituted selection committee has found the person suitable for such appointment.
in a umarani vs registrar cooperative societies and ors.
case law relied upon by the appellant.
1987 indlaw sc 28778 this court did not lay down any law.
however having regard to the facts and circumstances of the said case some directions were issued presumably in terms of article 142 of the constitution.
application of the act and the rules.
by reason of the provisions of the said act application of standard standing orders to undertakings has been provided in terms whereof the matters to be provided in the standard standing orders have been specified.
1 continue in force as if they were made under this act.
even the appointments to the local cadre must be made by the authority.
had the appointments of the appellants been made in terms of the provisions of the adhiniyam and rules framed thereunder the respondent authority was statutorily enjoined to make an offer of appointment in writing which was to be accepted by the appellants herein.
a ticket of permanent employee was thus required to be issued in terms of order 3 of the standard standing orders.
grant of such ticket was imperative before permanency could be so claimed.
constitution being the suprema lax shall prevail over all other statutes.
for the purpose of this matter we would proceed on the basis that the 1961 act is a special statute.
but in absence of any conflict in the provisions of the said act the conditions of service including those relating to recruitment as provided for in the 1973 act and the 1987 rules would apply.
if by reason of the latter the appointment is invalid the same can not be validated by taking recourse to regularization.
for the purpose of regularization which would confer on the concerned employee a permanent status there must exist a post.
furthermore the labour court having derived its jurisdiction from the reference made by the state government it was bound to act within the four corners thereof.
a demand which was not raised at the time of raising the dispute could not have been gone into by the labour court being not the subject matter thereof.
dr dhawan is not correct in his submission that a separate ticket need not be issued and what was necessary was merely to show that the appellants had been recognized by the state as its employees having been provided with employment code.
for the purpose of obtaining a permanent status constitutional and statutory conditions precedent therefor must be fulfilled.
a distinction is sought to be made by dr dhawan that out of them 27 had been appointed to a project and not in a project.
as noticed hereinbefore the high court s observation remained unchallenged that the project was to be financed by oda.
if the appellants were appointed for the purpose of the project they would be deemed to have been appointed therefor and only because such appointments had been made by the respondent would by itself not entitle them to claim permanency.
furthermore the indore municipal corporation was not a party and thus no employee could be thrust upon it without its consent.
in a umarani 2004 indlaw sc 606 supra this court held that once the employees are employed for the purpose of the scheme they do not acquire any vested right to continue after the project is over.
apex bank ltd vs.
amar singh and others 2003 5 scc 388 2003 indlaw sc 331.
however it has been seen that even services of one of them had been requisitioned only for the project work.
adverse inference.
had the letters of appointment been issued the appellants themselves could have produced the same.
if a document was called for in absence of any pleadings the same was not relevant.
before the high court as also before us the appellants have produced a large number of documents which were not filed before the labour court.
an adverse inference need not necessarily be drawn only because it would be lawful to do so.
2004 air scw 5476.
2004 indlaw sc 829 this court observed in such a factual background in our opinion the industrial court or the high court could not have drawn an adverse inference for the non production of the muster rolls for the year 1990 to 1992 in the absence of specific pleading by the respondents applicants that at least during that period they had worked for 240 days continuously in a given year.
as stated above between the period 1987 to 1990 as a matter of fact till end of the year 1990 the respondents have not been able to establish the case of continuous work for 240 days.
considering these facts in our view drawing of an adverse inference for the non production of the muster rolls for the years 1991 92 is wholly erroneous on the part of the industrial court and the high court.
at this stage it may be useful to refer to a judgment of this court in the case of muncipal corporation faridabad vs siri niwas jt 2004 7 sc 248 2004 indlaw sc 719 wherein this court disagreed with the high court s view of drawing an adverse inference in regard to the non production of certain relevant documents.
a court of law even in a case where provisions of the indian evidence act apply may presume or may not presume that if a party despite possession of the best evidence had not produced the same it would have gone against his contentions.
equal pay for equal work.
for the purpose of invoking the said doctrine the nature of the work and responsibility attached to the post are some of the factors which were bound to be taken into consideration.
furthermore when their services had not been regularized and they had continued on a consolidated pay on ad hoc basis having not undergone the process of regular appointments no direction to give regular pay scale could have been issued by the labour court.
conclusion.
for the reasons aforementioned we do not find any merit in these appeals which are dismissed accordingly.
appeals dismissed.
