at that time jage ram a 1 and his sons rajbir singh.
additionally madan and rakesh attacked the complainant with lathi blows on shoulder and left elbow respectively and caused several other injuries to the complainant party.
injured sukhbir was vomiting in the hospital and later on he was referred to general hospital gurgaon as his condition deteriorated.
a ct scan disclosed that large extra dural haematoma was found in the frontal region with mass effect and sukhbir needed urgent surgery and he was operated upon and the large extra dural haematoma was removed.
dr pardeep kumar pw 2 also examined the other injured persons pw 5 jagdish and pw.
6 mange ram.
in the trial court prosecution examined nine witnesses including jagdish pw5 mange ram pw6 and dr prem kumar pw2 and dr hiiol kanti pal pw9.
neuro surgeon pw8 investigating officer and other witnesses.
first accused jage ram pleaded that on the date of occurrence complainant party jagdish and his sons mange ram and sukhbir forcibly trespassed into the land belonging to the accused and attempted to forcibly cut the pullas.
he has denied that rajesh and usha had seen the incident.
raju section.
307 ipc and imposed sentence of imprisonment for five years as well the fine of rs 500 was confirmed by the high court.
both the sentences were ordered to run concurrently.
high court modified the sentence of madan a 3 rakesh a 4 section 323 ipc and sentenced them to undergo rigorous imprisonment for six months two counts respectively.
in this appeal the appellants assail the correctness of the impugned judgment.
307 ipc.
additionally the learned counsel contended that the defence plea of private defence was not considered by the courts below in proper perspective.
in the wordy altercation second accused rajbir.
2 dr pardeep kumar in his evidence stated that he has examined pws 5 and 6 and noted the injuries on the body of pws 5 and 6 and issued wound certificates.
evidence of pws 5 and 6 is amply corroborated by medical evidence.
cogent and convincing grounds are required to discard the evidence of injured witnesses.
in the light of the fact that pws 5 and 6 were injured witnesses courts below tested their evidence for its credibility and recorded concurrent findings that pws 5 and 6 are trustworthy witnesses.
appellants have raised the contention that the prosecution failed to adduce evidence that a 2 rajbir attempted to commit murder of sukhbir.
dr pardeep kumar pw 2 who examined sukhbir found during his medico legal examination a lacerated wound in the middle of the top of the skull.
injured sukhkbir was found vomiting in the hospital and he was examined by a neuro surgeon dr hilol kanti pal pw 9 of safdarjung hospital delhi on 19 11 1994 i e the day after the incident.
further pw 9 has stated that during the ct scan it was revealed that a large extra dural haemotoma was present in the frontal region with mass effect and to avoid further deterioration of his condition he was operated upon by frontal trephine craniopmy an haemotoma measuring about 125 ml was evacuated.
as noted by the high court it is thus brought on evidence that had not surgical assistance been given to sukhbir he would have definitely died.
although the nature of injury actually caused may be of assistance in coming to a finding as to the intention of the accused such intention may also be adduced from other circumstances.
in the case of state of m p vs kashiram ors.
air 2009.
2009 4 scc 26 2009 indlaw sc 92 the scope of intention for attracting conviction section 307 ipc was elaborated and it was held as under.
it is not essential that bodily injury capable of causing death should have been inflicted.
307 ipc is unassailable.
for the conviction section 307 ipc courts below imposed upon the 2nd appellant rigorous imprisonment of five years while imposing punishment courts have an obligation to award appropriate punishment.
in the light of the above considering the case in hand the occurrence was of the year 1994 when the complainant party was cutting pullas the accused asked them not to cut the pullas which resulted in the wordy altercation.
in the heat of passion the accused have caused injuries to the complainant party.
he surrendered on 5 1 2012 and is stated to be in custody since then for more than three years.
having regard to the facts and circumstances of the case in our considered view the period of sentence of five years may be reduced to three years apart from directing the second appellant rajbir.
as noticed above injured sukhbir sustained grievous head injuries and was deeply comatose and was in a state of shock and trauma.
for inflicting blows on pw 5 jagidsh with jaily a 1 jage ram was convicted section 325 ipc and sentenced to undergo rigorous imprisonment for one year.
a 3 and a 4 have also given lathis blows to pw 5 and were convicted section 323 ipc and sentenced to undergo rigorous imprisonment for three months by the high court.
having regard to the fact that the occurrence was of the year 1994 considering the other facts and circumstances of the case the sentence of imprisonment imposed on jage ram a 1 madan a 3 and rakesh a 4 is reduced to the period already undergone by them.
307 ipc is confirmed and the sentence of imprisonment of five years is reduced to the period already undergone and additionally the second accused shall pay a compensation of rs 750000 to the injured witness sukhbir.
compensation amount of rs 500000 deposited in this court by the 2nd appellant shall be paid to the injured witness sukhbir.
bail bonds of accused a1 a3 and a4 shall stand discharged.
appeal allowed.
