act 1992 for short the act in misc.
application nos.
the appellants herein who are related to one harshad section mehta since deceased purchased nine residential flats in a building called madhuli apartments in worli area of mumbai.
the appellants herein and the said.
however out of the said 29 entitles only late harshad mehta and two of his younger brothers were cited as accused in various criminal cases filed against them.
proceedings before the special court.
before the learned special court the parties herein filed several applications which can be sub divided in three categories as would be noticed shortly hereinafter.
a chartered accountants firm was appointed by the learned special judge by an order dated 17 september 2003 to represent all notified entities in the family of late harshad mehta for the purpose of ascertaining their tax liabilities.
application No 41 of 1999 seeking permission of the special court for sale of residential premises commonly known as madhuli of eight notified entities.
application being 4 of 2001 was filed by the custodian praying for the sale of commercial premises.
applications praying for lifting of attachment on their residential premises on the ground that the same had been purchased much prior to 1 april 1991 and the same had no nexus with any illegal transactions in securities.
alternatively it was prayed that since their asset base was greater than genuine liabilities the said residential premises should be released from attachment.
impugned judgment.
4 of 2001 and 41 of 1999.
the misc.
applications filed by the appellants herein for release of the residential flats as well as the commercial premises from attachment were dismissed.
it was directed in case all adult members of the family of late shri harshad metha who are presently occupying the abovereferred flats file an undertaking in this court within a period of four weeks from today undertaking to vacate the flat occupied by them and hand over peaceful possession thereof to the custodian within a period of four weeks from the date on which the custodian sends them communication asking them to vacate the flats on sale of the flats being sanctioned by the court.
the custodian shall permit the members of family of late shri harshad mehta to occupy the flats during the time that the process of the sale of the flats goes on.
in case no such undertakings are filed by the adult members as directed above within the aforesaid period the custodian shall stand appointed as receiver of the flats which are described in exh.
contentions of the parties appellants 9.
mr mahesh jethmalani learned senior counsel appearing on behalf of the appellants in assailing the said judgment of the learned special court inter alia raised the following contentions i some of the entities having their asset base much more than actual liability the impugned judgments are unsustainable.
a copy of the auditor s report having only been supplied during pendency of these appeals the learned special judge committed a serious error in passing the impugned judgment relying on or on the basis thereof.
civil appeal No 2795 of 2004 and the kedarnath jute mfg.
co ltd v the commissioner of income tax.
even in the case of dr pratima mehta wherein some excesses has been shown if the interest is calculated for the last over 13 years of the amount received the liabilities would exceed the assets.
the assets of the harshad mehta group are valued at rs 972 crores apart from the income tax dues whereas the aggregate amount of income tax dues exceed rs 13800 crores.
hitesh mehta and dr pratima mehta who are medical practitioners by profession having affirmed affidavits admitting that the share broking and investment businesses which were part of family businesses were undertaken and conducted by late harshad mehta and they had no knowledge thereabout nor were they involved therewith.
even before this court the sale of commercial properties had not been questioned.
a large number of commercial properties having already been sold and third party rights having been created this court should not interfere with the impugned judgment.
the act.
2 to deal with the situation and in particular to ensure speedy recovery of the huge amount involved to punish the guilty and restore confidence in and maintain the basic integrity and credibility of the banks and financial institutions the special court trial of offences relating to transactions in securities ordinance 1992 was promulgated on the 6th june 1992.
provided that no contract or agreement shall be cancelled except after giving to the parties to the contract or agreement a reasonable opportunity of being heard.
section 5 provides for establishment of the special court.
any prosecution in respect of any offence referred to in sub s 2 of section 3 pending in any court is required to be transferred to the special court.
section 9 a which was inserted by act 24 of 1994 with effect from 25th january 1994 confers all such jurisdiction powers and authority as were exercisable immediately before such commencement by any civil court in relation to the matter specified therein.
section 11 of the act reads as under discharge of liabilities.
provisions.
it was enacted for dealing with an extra ordinary situation in the sense that any person who was involved in any offence relating to transaction of any security may be notified whereupon all his properties stand attached.
but at the stage when liabilities are required to be discharged the notified person may inter alia raise a contention inter alia for the purpose of establishing that the properties held and possessed by them are sufficient to meet their liabilities.
indlaw sc 732 v custodian and others 1998 5 scc 1 wherein the following questions were framed what is meant by revenues taxes cesses and rates due.
at what point of time should the taxes have become due.
does the special court have any discretion relating to the extent of payments to be made under section 112a from out of the attached funds property.
as regard question No 1 it was held in the present case the words taxes due occur in a section dealing with distribution of property.
it must refer to an ascertained liability for payment of taxes quantified in accordance with law.
in other words taxes as assessed which are presently payable by the notified person are taxes which have to be taken into account under section 112a while distributing the property of the notified person.
taxes which are not legally assessed or assessments which have not become final and binding on the assessee are not covered under section 112a because unless it is an ascertained and quantified liability disbursement can not be made.
in the context of section 112 therefore the taxes due refer to taxes as finally assessed.
so far as question No 4 is concerned this court despite upholding the contention of the custodian that no question of any reopening of tax assessments before the special court would arise and the liability of the notified person to pay the tax will have to be determined under the machinery provided by the relevant tax law observed but the special court can decide how much of that liability will be discharged out of the funds in the hands of the custodian.
he may not in these circumstances explain transactions before the income tax authorities in case his position is prejudicially affected in defending criminal charges.
but if the assessment is a best judgment assessment the special court may examine whether for example the income which is so assessed to tax bears comparison to the amounts attached by the custodian or whether the taxes so assessed are grossly disproportionate to the properties of the assessee in the hands of the custodian applying the wednesbury principle of proportionality.
since the appellant s petition of objection had been filed much beyond the period prescribed under that section the special court was right in rejecting the petition in limine.
the appeal is accordingly dismissed but without any order as to costs.
the appellants herein are notified persons in terms of the provisions of the act.
such attachment being automatic no finding was required to be arrived at that the same had been acquired either during the notified period or the appellants were involved in offences in transactions in securities.
in tejkumar balakrishna ruia v a k menon and another 1997 9 scc 123 1996 indlaw sc 2403 this court held in our view the terms of sub s 3 of section 3 are clear.
neither the words on and from the date of notification nor the word property lead to the conclusion that what is attached is not only that property which the notified person owned or was possessed of on the date of the notification but also all such property as he might acquire at any time thereafter.
the intention to attach property which did not belong to the notified person on the date of the notification but which he might acquire later would had it been there have been clearly expressed and sub s 3 would have stated that such property would stand attached the moment it was acquired by the notified person.
even to say that such interpretation would reduce a notified person to beggary would not be accurate because the alms that he received being his property would stand attached.
the apprehension expressed by the special court does not appear to be well founded if what a notified person obtains by way of purported income or gift or inheritance is really his own money such money would upon establishment of the fact stand attached automatically under the provisions of section 33.
iiwhether individual liabilities of the appellants ought to have been separately considered by the special court as not a part of harshad mehta group.
before adverting to the questions raised herein we may notice that both the parties have raised several contentions before us which have not precisely been raised before the learned special judge.
it is not in dispute that the said applications are pending for consideration before the special court.
it is no doubt true that the law of limitation bars a remedy but not a right.
lucknow and others.
air 1968 all 246 1967 indlaw all 16 but as observed hereinbefore.
although a remedy is barred a defence can be raised.
a special statute providing for special or no period of limitation must receive a liberal and broader construction and not a rigid or a narrow one.
the intent and purport of parliament enacting the said act furthermore must be given its full effect.
although we do not intend to enter into the correctness or otherwise of the said contention of the appellants at this stage however there can not be any doubt whatsoever that they being notified persons all their properties would be deemed to be automatically attached as a consequent thereto.
l s synthetics ltd 2004 indlaw sc 715 supra.
however the contention of the appellants that the properties held by them otherwise are sufficient to meet their liabilities was required to be gone into as in our considered opinion there can not be a any dispute that the appellants have such a right.
lifting the corporate veil.
the custodian in a case of this nature may however show that the transactions entered into apparently by harshad mehta were intimately connected with acquisition of properties in the name of others.
however nexus between several persons in dealing with the matter may be established by the custodian.
the fact however remains that the copies of the documents books of accounts and other records on the basis whereof the auditors appointed by the court filed their reports had not been shown to the appellants herein on the premise that they were in know of the things.
as the said question has not been gone into by the learned judge special court it is necessary that the same be considered and appropriately dealt with.
in para 14 of the sur rejoinder the appellants denied the asset and liability position as arrived at by the custodian.
several charts have been filed before us by the appellants to show i liabilities have been exaggerated by the custodian.
no credit for rs 1227 crores released to revenue on interest are given by the custodian.
ii liabilities have been shown in relation to unperformed contracts.
it is open to the appellants herein to show that even if they continued to be notified the custodian was not right in clubbing all the individual members of the family as a single entity styled as harshad mehta group.
it is interesting to note that the properties belonging to the mother of harshad mehta has since been released from attachment.
the learned special court despite such a contention having been raised by the appellants in their affidavit in reply did not advert thereto.
it is furthermore not in dispute that pursuant to or in furtherance of the directions issued by the learned special court the accounts of all entities be it corporate or individual were drawn up separately which approach had not been dis approved by the auditor appointed by the special court.
even in the rejoinder filed by the custodian e g paragraphs 14 20 21 and 22 before the special court such contentions have been raised.
our attention has also been drawn to a letter dated 7 october 2003 addressed by all the appellants to the office of the custodian wherein the attention of the custodian was drawn to the fact that all the documents relied upon by him had not been permitted to be inspected and he was requested to forward a report prepared by the chartered accountants in respect of the individual addressors of the letters.
the appellants herein contended that the custodian did not furnish the requisite particulars thereof and inspection was refused on the grounds stated therein.
the amount of priority demand of income tax liabilities comes to rs 18297576248.
in arriving at the said finding no contention of the parties raised in their respective affidavits had been adverted to nor any material filed before it was analysed.
the custodian in terms of the directions issued by the learned special court had affirmed an affidavit putting on record the assets and liabilities of each of the members of the so called harshad mehta group on an individual basis.
allegedly therein it was shown that the individuals had received large loans advances credits from the harshad mehta group and there had been intermingling of the assets to the tune of crores of rupees.
before us mr desai had filed a chart for showing the same.
the learned judge merely accepted the figures mentioned in the affidavit of the custodian and relied thereupon in the judgment without discussing the contentions and arguments raised on behalf of the appellants herein.
it is true that horrendous figures as regard the liabilities of harshad mehta have been projected before us but the same had been shown to be of the entire group.
if the liabilities of the individual entities are not treated as that of the group for one reason or the other indisputably liability of those who have nothing to do with the dealings of harshad mehta either in their individual capacities or as directors of some company or otherwise must be dealt with separately.
his death has also forced upon him bankruptcy.
on the other hand the contention of the custodian is that the appellants had not only taken huge loans or advances from harshad mehta in one capacity or the other but also even transactions and shares were made by harshad mehta on their behalf.
further contention of the custodian is that even dr hitesh mehta and dr pratima mehta have admitted that they had no knowledge about the transactions.
the learned judge proceeded on the basis that the assets and liabilities joint and collective of all those who are related with harshad mehta as also the corporate entities in which he was a director or had some other interest must be considered as a group.
even in this behalf it was necessary for the special judge to assign sufficient and cogent reasons.
a question may further arise as to whether the learned judge was correct in considering the individual liabilities of the notified parties as the liabilities of the group.
if those individuals who had no connection with harshad mehta could not have been proceeded against for meeting the liabilities of harshad mehta jointly or severally a clear finding was required to be arrived at.
only because there had been large intermingling and flow of funds from harshad mehta and inter se within the group the same by itself may not justify the conclusion that all of their assets were required to be sold irrespective of their individual involvement.
it was thus necessary for the learned special court to arrive at a firm conclusion as regard the involvement of the individuals with harshad mehta if any and the extent of his liability as such.
furthermore the question as regard liability of the parties should have been determined at the stage of section 9 a of the act.
he has proceeded on the basis that even if the assets and liabilities of all individuals is taken on an individual basis the liabilities would exceed assets in the case of each individual and corporate entity.
it does not appear that claims inter se between the entities within the so called group had ever been taken into consideration.
such claims may also be preferred.
the act confers wide power upon the custodian and the learned special court and in that view of the matter having regard to the principles of natural justice the judgment and order of the learned judge special court should have furthermore been supported by sufficient and cogent reasons.
tax liability.
it is furthermore not in dispute that in a large number of cases the appellate authorities have set aside best judgment assessments.
but in this case the orders of assessment have been set aside.
so long such orders of assessment are not passed by the competent assessing authorities it can not be said that the appellants are liable to pay a huge amount by way of income tax dues on the basis of such orders of assessment which have since been set aside.
deepika mehta rs 120 crores even after deducting the amount set aside by itat.
it exceeds rs 63 crores.
late harshad mehta rs 11829 crores.
the learned special court having not arrived at such a finding this court is not in a position to go into the correctness or otherwise thereabout.
in any view of the matter the learned judge special court having not dealt with the question as regard the mode and manner of disbursements of the amount so far as the tax liabilities of the appellants are concerned elaborately the same requires fresh determination in the light of the decision of this court in harshad shantilal mehta.
1998 indlaw sc 732 supra.
such subsequent events could also be taken into consideration for the purpose of review.
in board of control for cricket in india and another v netaji cricket club and others 2005 4 scc 741 2005 indlaw sc 1243.
however the finalization shall be subject to the result of these appeals.
in the former event even if such a decree is set aside the interest of the bona fide purchaser in an auction sale is saved.
see zain ul abdin khan v muhammad asghar ali khan 15 ia 12 1887 indlaw pc 13.
in janak raj v gurdial singh and anr.
but for such protection the properties which are sold in court auctions would not fetch a proper price and the decree holder himself would suffer.
the learned judge special court may therefore proceed to pass an appropriate order as regard confirmation of the sale of such properties.
residential property.
in these appeals we are concerned with sale of eight residential flats in a building known as madhuli.
the flats however during pendency of these appeals have been sold in auction.
one of the flats being flat.
conclusion.
in view of our foregoing discussions we are of the opinion that i the contention of the appellants that they being not involved in offences in transactions in securities could not have been proceeded in terms of the provisions of the act can not be accepted in view of the fact that they have been notified in terms thereof.
as regard the tax liabilities of the appellants herein we would request the learned judge special court to consider the matter afresh in the light of the observations made hereinbefore.
the appellants shall be entitled to take the help of a chartered or cost accountant and may make notes therefrom for their use in the pending proceeding.
the parties shall file their respective documents within one week thereafter.
such documents should be supported by affidavits.
such hearing in the peculiar facts and circumstances of this case should continue from day to day.
the learned judge special court shall take up the matter relating to confirmation of the auction sale in respect of the commercial properties immediately and pass an appropriate order thereupon within four weeks from the date of receipt of copy of this order.
