in order to appreciate the issue requiring determination a few relevant facts may be stated.
the appellant m s bharat petroleum corporation limited is a government of india undertaking under the administrative control of the ministry of petroleum natural gas and is engaged in refining distributing and selling of petroleum products all over the country.
accordingly on 29th june1998 an addendum was signed between the parties whereby the validity period of charter party was extended for one month with an option for two further extensions for a period of 15 days each.
in response to the said tender the respondent and other vessel owners submitted their bids.
the appellant intervened in the said matter.
it was clearly stated that since the tender was not finalized the owners will be guided by the existing terms and conditions.
some other objections not relevant at this stage were also indicated.
as such all said and done oil co ordination committee s proposal was not accepted.
nevertheless some suggestions to resolve the controversy were given.
admittedly the vessels continued to be chartered by the appellant beyond the date of this letter.
thereafter for almost two months there was no communication between the parties.
kindly confirm in order to draw up a suitable agreement accordingly.
emphasis supplied.
the respondent was asked to convey their acceptance to the said suggestion.
it appears that the respondent did not respond to the said suggestion by the appellant but all the same its vessel continued to be on charter with the appellant.
the name of the arbitrator was also communicated to the appellant.
on the basis of the pleadings of the parties the arbitral tribunal framed as many as eight issues.
however arguments were heard only on the following three issues.
issue no 1 whether the hon ble arbitral tribunal has no jurisdiction to adjudicate upon the dispute between the claimant and the respondent for the period september1998 to august1999.
in respect of the vessel jag praja for the reasons stated in para 1 of the written statement.
issue no 2 whether there is any common practice that if the vessel is not re delivered at the end of the period mentioned in the time charter the vessel would be governed by the charter party under which originally it was chartered.
the learned tribunal found issue no 2 in the negative and issue no 5 in the affirmative.
the respondent challenged the said award before the high court.
by the impugned order the learned single judge has set aside the said award inter alia holding that arbitral tribunal has the jurisdiction to adjudicate the disputes between the parties as the vessel continued to be hired by the appellant for the period subsequent to 31st august1998 on the same terms and conditions as were contained in the charter party dated 6th may1997only subject to the revision or modification of the rate of hire to be determined by the oil co ordination committee.
admittedly after 31st august1998re delivery of vessel did not take place and therefore in terms of clause 23the vessel continued to be hired on the same terms and conditions except the term as to the hire charges on which there was disagreement between the parties.
correctness of this order of the high court is questioned in this appeal.
shyam divan learned senior counsel appearing on behalf of the respondent on the other hand submitted that notwithstanding the fact that the period fixed originally under the charter party or under the addendum dated 29th june1998 had come to an end the subsequent conduct of the parties goes to show that charter of the vessel by the appellant beyond 31st august1998 continued to be governed by the terms and conditions stipulated in charter party dated 6th may1997 and therefore an arbitration agreement did exist between the parties.
learned counsel argued that even otherwise till the vessel was not re delivered in terms of cls 4 and 23 of charter party dated 6th may1997the said agreement could not come to an end.
the state of gujarat anr 1974 indlaw sc 253.
in our view the principle of sub silentio is clearly attracted in the present case.
october1998 yet again while responding to appellant s fax dated 31st december1998whereby the respondent was required to sign a provisional charter party by 4th january1999vide their letter dated 4th january1999the respondent pointed out to the appellant that usual practice is that pending finalization of the new charter the existing terms and conditions of the charter party continue to apply and therefore they were willing to sign the agreement as contemplated by the appellant based on the existing terms and conditions.
it was suggested that an agreement may be signed between them for the period from 1st september1998 until the matter was finally decided by the appellant under the tender on the existing terms and conditions with the charter hire being provisionally paid on ad hoc basis at 90 of the rate which was prevailing under the existing charter party.
as noted hereinabove there was no response by the appellant to respondent s letter dated 4th january1999 though it appears that vide their letter of even date the appellant did suggest to the respondent that as a token of formal agreement the said letter may be jointly signed by the charterers and the vessel owners.
admittedly no such agreement was signed between the parties.
january1999coupled with the fact that they continued to use the vessel manifestly goes to show that except for the charter rate there was no other dispute between the parties.
4 2 charterers to load last three cargoes clean and re deliver the vessel in clean condition.
final voyage should the vessel be on her voyage towards the port of redelivery at the time of payment of hire is due payment of hire shall be made for such length of time as owners and charterers may agree upon as being estimated time necessary to complete the voyage less any disbursements made or expected to be made or expenses incurred or expected to be incurred by charterers for owners account and less the estimated amount of bunker fuel remaining at the termination of the voyage and when the vessel is redelivered any overpayment shall be refunded by the owners or underpayment paid by charterers.
it is clear from the pleadings and issue no 2framed by the arbitral tribunal that it was respondent s consistent stand that since the hired vessel had not been re delivered at the end of the time charter party the vessel would be governed by the terms and conditions in the charter party dated 6th may1997.
the learned arbitral tribunal overlooked this aspect of the matter.
but it was still in existence for some purposes viz the effect of vessel s non re delivery as per the prescribed mechanism and its continued use beyond the stipulated time.
and thus the arbitration clause in the said charter party operated in respect of these and other allied purposes.
in view of the foregoing discussion we do not find any infirmity in the view taken by the high court that charter party dated 6th may1997 had not come to an end by efflux of time and it got extended by the conduct of the parties warranting interference.
having come to the conclusion that an arbitration agreement existed between the parties the question which remains to be considered is whether the disputes between the parties should be referred to the same arbitral tribunal which had come to the conclusion that in the absence of any arbitration agreement it did not have jurisdiction to entertain and try the claims and counter claims.
accordingly we constitute an arbitral tribunal consisting of justice m jagannadha rao presiding arbitratorjustice d p wadhwa and justice s n variava former judges of this court to adjudicate upon the claim counter claim by the parties subject to their consent and such terms and conditions as they may deem fit and proper.
resultantly the appeal being devoid of any merit is liable to be dismissed which we do leaving the parties to bear their own costs.
