act1970 as amended by the patents amendment act1999 w e f 26 3 99.
span diagnostics limited respondent no 3 herein is a public limited company established in 1972 to indigenously develop and manufacture a comprehensive range of ready made diagnostic reagents made by clinical pathology laboratories.
after scrutiny the said application stood notified by the patent office on 20 11 2004.
thus proceedings commenced before the controller of patents in the year 2000 when the appellant herein sought a patent of their device which was opposed by respondent no 3 in the year 2000 by then the patents amendment act1999 had amended the patents act1970 w e f 26 3 99 s 25 of the patents act1970 as amended by patents amendment act1999 dealt with opposition to a patent vides s 25 at that time appeals against decisions made by the controller pertaining to pre grant oppositions under s 25 were maintainable before the high court u s 1162 of the indian patents act1970.
s 116 appeals.
60section 61section 63sub s 3 of section 69section 78section 84section 86s 883section 89section 93s 96 and s 97.
a right of appeal was available to the aggrieved party against orders passed under s 25 the said appellate remedy was available by way of an appeal to the high court.
in 2002the legislature desired an amendment to the law and intended to create an appellate forum to hear appeals against orders passed by the controller consequently patents amendment.
act2002 was promulgated on 25 6 2002 however it was not brought into force immediately.
it may be noted that in the said amendment act2002no provision was made pertaining to post grant opposition.
provided that the technical member of the appellate board for the purposes of this act shall have the qualifications specified in sub s 2.
2 a person shall not be qualified for appointment as a technical member for the purposes of this act unless he.
b has for at least ten years functioned as a registered patent agent and possesses a degree in engineering or technology or a masters degree in science from any university established under law for the time being in force or equivalent or c has for at least ten years been an advocate of a proven specialized experience in practicing law relating to patents and designs.
section 117a 1.
save as otherwise expressly provided in sub section 2no appeal shall lie from any decision order or direction made or issued under this act by the central government or from any act or order of the controller for the purpose of giving effect to any such decision order or direction.
51section 54section 57section 60section 61section 63section.
78sub ss 1 to 5 of section 84section 85section 88section 91s 92 and s 94.
every appeal shall be made within three months from the date of the decision order or direction as the case may be of the controller or the central government or within such further time as the appellate board may in accordance with the rules made by it allow.
act1970 for the reason that the amended ss 116 and 117a were not brought into force.
only certain sections of the patents amendment act2005 were brought into force.
d that the invention so far as claimed in any claim of the complete specification was publicly known or publicly used in india before the priority date of that claim.
for the purposes of this clause an invention relating to a process for which a patent is claimed shall be deemed to have been publicly known or publicly used in india before the priority date of the claim if a product made by that process had already been imported into india before that date except where such importation has been for the purpose of reasonable trial or experiment only e that the invention so far as claimed in any claim of the complete specification is obvious and clearly does not involve any inventive step having regard to the matter published as mentioned in cl b or having regard to what was used in india before the priority date of the applicant s claim f that the subject of any claim of the complete specification is not an invention within the meaning of this act or is not patentable under this act g that the complete specification does not sufficiently and clearly describe the invention or the method by which it is to be performed h that the applicant has failed to disclose to the controller the information required by s 8 or has furnished the information which in any material particular was false to his knowledge i that in the case of convention application the application was not made within twelve months from the date of the first application for protection for the invention made in a convention country by the applicant or a person from whom he derives title j that the complete specification does not disclose or wrongly mentions the source or geographical origin of biological material used for the invention k that the invention so far as claimed in any claim of the complete specification is anticipated having regard to the knowledge oral or otherwise available within any local or indigenous community in india or elsewhere but on no other ground and the controller shall if requested by such person for being heard hear him and dispose of such representation in such manner and within such period as may be prescribed.
e that the invention so far as claimed in any claim of the complete specification is obvious and clearly does not involve any inventive step having regard to the matter published as mentioned in cl b or having regard to what was used in india before the priority date of the claim h that the patentee has failed to disclose to the controller the information required by s 8 or has furnished the information which in any material particular was false to his knowledge i that in the case of a patent granted on convention application the application for patent was not made within twelve months from the date of the first application for protection for the invention made in a convention country or in india by the patentee or a person from whom he derives title j that the complete specification does not disclose or wrongly mentions the source and geographical origin of biological material used for the invention k that the invention so far as claimed in any claim of the complete specification was anticipated.
having regard to the knowledge oral or otherwise available within any local or indigenous community in india or elsewhere but on no other ground.
3 a where any such notice of opposition is duly given under sub section 2the controller shall notify the patentee.
c every opposition board constituted under cl b shall conduct the examination in accordance with such procedure as may be prescribed.
on receipt of the recommendation of the opposition board and after giving the patentee and the opponent an opportunity of being heard the controller shall order either to maintain or to amend or to revoke the patent.
in case the controller issues an order under sub s 4 that the patent shall be maintained subject to amendment of the specification or any other document the patent shall stand amended accordingly.
similarly under the patents amendment act2005appeal was restricted to the post grant opposition orders and that appeal lay before the appellate board and not to the high court.
here also s 25 of the patents act1970 as amended by patents amendment act2005.
as stated vide patents amendment.
on 19 10 2006 when fao no 29306 was filed in the high court chapter xix of the parent act as amended vide patents amendment.
amendment act2002 and the patents amendment.
act2005 as the amended ss 116 and 117a were brought into force only vide notification dated 2 4 07 one more point needs to be noted.
section 117 g of the principal act was substituted vide patents amendment act2005 it reads as under section 117g transfer of pending proceedings to appellate board  all cases of appeals against any order or decision of the controller and all cases pertaining to revocation of patent other than on a counter claim in a suit for infringement and rectification of register pending before any high court shall be transferred to the appellate board from such date as may be notified by the central government in the official gazette and the appellate board may proceed with the matter either de novo or from the stage it was so transferred.
on reading amended section 117 g it becomes clear that all appeals against any order or decision of the controller had to be transferred to the appellate board from such date as may be notified by the central government in the official gazette.
according to the appellant this was a structural change in the principal act.
further according to the appellantpre grant opposition was filed by respondent no 3 under s 251 on 21 3 05 according to the appellant though the patents amendment act2005amended s 25 by enacting the amendment on 4 4 05 the said amendment was brought into force w e f 1 1 2005 and therefore it was open to respondent no 3 to challenge the grant of patent by invoking s 252 of the patents act1970 according to the appellant with the change in the structure of the act providing for only one statutory appeal and that too only against the order granting patent under s 254the appeal filed by respondent no 3 against pre grant opposition order was not maintainable on 19 10 06 by which time as stated above s 25 stood restructured providing for a dichotomy between pre grant opposition and post grant opposition.
as stated above quite often the commencement of an act is postponed to some specific future date or to such date as the appropriate government may by notification in the official gazette appoint.
at times provision is made for appointment of different dates for coming into force of different parts of the same act.
an act can not be said to commence or to be in force unless it is brought into operation by legislative enactment or by the exercise of authority by a delegate empowered to bring it into operation.
previously the only provision of challenge by an interested party was a pre grant challenge under s 25 1 as it then stood.
the legislature intended to have a dichotomy between pre grant opposition and post grant opposition.
however the legislature intended that there shall be only one statutory appeal against grant of patent.
it is during this interregnum that respondent no 3 filed its fao no 29306 in the high court under section 116as.
on 19 10 06 the old law prevailed under which an appeal lay before the high court.
no 29206 and fao.
no 3 we are informed that there are hardly one or two matters of this nature which are pending.
accordingly the two civil appeals filed by the appellant herein stand disposed of with no order as to costs.
