at that time jage ram a 1 and his sons rajbir singh.
raju a 2 rakesh a 3 and madan a 4 armed with jaily pharsi and lathis respectively entered the land where the complainant was working with his sons and asked them not to cut the pullas as it was jointly held by both the parties.
in the fight the accused persons started inflicting injuries to the complainant and his sons rajbir.
additionally madan and rakesh attacked the complainant with lathi blows on shoulder and left elbow respectively and caused several other injuries to the complainant party.
jagdish and his injured sons raised alarm hearing which rajesh and usha came to rescue them and on seeing them the accused persons fled away.
a ct scan disclosed that large extra dural haematoma was found in the frontal region with mass effect and sukhbir needed urgent surgery and he was operated upon and the large extra dural haematoma was removed.
6 mange ram.
pw 8 ramesh kumar asi had taken up the investigation.
in the trial court prosecution examined nine witnesses including jagdish pw5 mange ram pw6 and dr prem kumar pw2 and dr hiiol kanti pal pw9.
neuro surgeon pw8 investigating officer and other witnesses.
the accused were examined section 313 cr.
p c about the incriminating evidence and circumstances.
jagdish further claims that he along with rakesh caused injuries to the complainant party in exercise of right of private defence of property.
he has denied that rajesh and usha had seen the incident.
raju a 2 and madan a 3 stated that they were not present on the spot and they have been falsely implicated.
rakesh a 4 adopted the stand of his father jage ram.
raju section.
both the sentences were ordered to run concurrently.
ms vibha datta makhija learned senior counsel appearing for the appellants contended that the evidence of the witnesses suffers from material discrepancy and is self contradictory.
307 ipc.
2 dr pardeep kumar in his evidence stated that he has examined pws 5 and 6 and noted the injuries on the body of pws 5 and 6 and issued wound certificates.
pws 5 and 6 being injured witnesses their evidence is entitled to great weight.
cogent and convincing grounds are required to discard the evidence of injured witnesses.
dr pardeep kumar pw 2 who examined sukhbir found during his medico legal examination a lacerated wound in the middle of the top of the skull.
pw 9 has stated that sukhbir was unconscious since 2 00 p m on 18 11 1994 and was deeply comatose with irregularity of pupils and a laceration was diagnosed on the right front parietal region.
as noted by the high court it is thus brought on evidence that had not surgical assistance been given to sukhbir he would have definitely died.
the burden is on the prosecution that accused had attempted to commit the murder of the prosecution witness.
although the nature of injury actually caused may be of assistance in coming to a finding as to the intention of the accused such intention may also be adduced from other circumstances.
air 2009.
sc 1642.
2009 4 scc 26 2009 indlaw sc 92 the scope of intention for attracting conviction section 307 ipc was elaborated and it was held as under.
it is sufficient to justify a conviction section 307 if there is present an intent coupled with some overt act in execution thereof.
state of m p v saleem 2005 5 scc 554 2005 indlaw sc 413 undue sympathy to impose inadequate sentence would do more harm to the justice system to undermine the public confidence in the efficacy of law and society could not long endure under such serious threats.
it is therefore the duty of every court to award proper sentence having regard to the nature of the offence and the manner in which it was executed or committed etc.
question of awarding sentence is a matter of discretion and the same has to be exercised by the courts taking into consideration all the relevant circumstances.
in the light of the above considering the case in hand the occurrence was of the year 1994 when the complainant party was cutting pullas the accused asked them not to cut the pullas which resulted in the wordy altercation.
the second accused rajbir.
as noticed above injured sukhbir sustained grievous head injuries and was deeply comatose and was in a state of shock and trauma.
learned counsel for the injured witness submitted that for quite some time injured sukhbir was unconscious and thereafter suffering from mental trauma.
raju to pay rs 750000 as compensation to the injured sukhbir.
a 3 and a 4 have also given lathis blows to pw 5 and were convicted section 323 ipc and sentenced to undergo rigorous imprisonment for three months by the high court.
having regard to the fact that the occurrence was of the year 1994 considering the other facts and circumstances of the case the sentence of imprisonment imposed on jage ram a 1 madan a 3 and rakesh a 4 is reduced to the period already undergone by them.
307 ipc is confirmed and the sentence of imprisonment of five years is reduced to the period already undergone and additionally the second accused shall pay a compensation of rs 750000 to the injured witness sukhbir.
raju shall deposit the balance compensation amount of rs 250000 before the trial court within three months from the date of this judgment and on such deposit the same shall also be paid to the injured witness sukhbir.
raju shall undergo default sentence of one year.
the appeal is allowed to the above said extent.
second appellant rajbir.
raju is ordered to be released forthwith if not required in any other case.
bail bonds of accused a1 a3 and a4 shall stand discharged.
