this appeal by special leave is from the judgment and order of the high court of andhra pradesh dated 15th april 1986.
in 1954there was wakfnama by the said sail nawaz jung.
andhra pradesh requested for the requisition of the property named as sail gulshan with a vast extent of land and palaces with roads and surrounded by a compound wail measuring 19 acres and 10 guntas situated in the heart of hyderabad city near sarojini devi hospital.
in this appeal we are concerned with the claim for compensation for the said acquisition by one abdul khader who was a flower picker.
he had claimed rights as a tenant during the requisition.
his claim for compensation for requisition was settled by sharing the rent in or about 1969 the appellant is one of the owners of the property in question deriving their title and right from the said sail nawaz jung.
hereinafter called the central act the gazette notification for the acquisition was issued on 12th march1970 the controversy in this case relates to the question whether abdul khader was a protected tenant under the andhra pradesh telangana area.
act no xxi of 1950.
hereinafter called the andhra pradesh act.
chapter iv of the andhra pradesh act deals with protected tenants and s 34 of the said act provides who is to be considered as a protected tenant and uses the expression that a person shall subject to the provisions of sub ss 2 and 3be deemed to be a protected tenant in respect of the land if he has fulfilled the conditions mentioned in clauses a and b of sub s 1 of s 34 of the said act.
i suspect that somebody has tampered the register and entered the name of sri mohd abdul khader.
hence i suspect the entry and order to cancel the copy of the tenancy issued in favour of sri modh.
sd tahsildar.
hyderabad west taluk.
1the learned single judge vaidya j held inter alia as follows whether the petitioner abdul khader is a protected tenant or whether he has any prima facie interest in the suit property are matters entirely within the sole jurisdiction of the arbitrator who has to be appointed under s 8 of the central act.
in the appeal of abdul khader the proceedings of revenue divisional officer while questioning entry of the name of abdul khader in the register is a genuine one or net and while it is stated that it was entered in the register in such suspicious way by giving serial no 1 a between serial nos 1 and 2 of register being exhibit a 106 and exhibit a 107it ultimately held that abdul khader was a protected tenant under section 37a of the andhra pradesh act.
the order was passed by the district revenue officer who held that abdul khader was not a protected tenant.
he held further that khasra pahani which is the basic record of occupancy period after spot inspections does not find the name of abdul khader and further held that all entries except this entry in the protected tenancy register prepared under section 37a of the andhra pradesh act was supported by an enquiry.
in civil revision petition no 1006 of 1972 which was filed by abdul khader as against others justice r ramachandra raju of the andhra pradesh high court on or about 19th august1974 held that abdul khader was not a protected tenant and directed deletion of entry made in the final record of tenancies as a spurious one.
claim petition was filed by the appellant before the arbitrator claim petition was also filed by abdul khader claiming 60 of compensation as a protected tenant.
there was an award by the arbitrator holding that as this court had left it open to decide whether abdul khader was a protected tenant.
despite the objection exercising the jurisdiction of the arbitrator to go into the question of protected tenant the arbitrator held that abdul khader was a protected tenant.
aggrieved by the aforesaid award the appellant claiming as one of the owners of the property filed a statutory appeal to the high court.
appointed advocate commissioner to record additional evidence.
dr chitale learned counsel for the appellants submitted that the high court should be directed to consider the issues relating to the jurisdiction of the arbitrator appointed and functioning under the requisitioning and acquisition of immovable property act195 i to decide whether a person is protected tenant of an agricultural land or not in the light of ss 99 and 102 of the andhra pradesh telangana area.
after giving our due consideration to the question we are of the view that the high court should determine this question.
in the judgment under appeal which is directed against the award made by the arbitrator formulated the following four issues  1 what is the value of the land 2 who are entitled to the compensation amount 3 whether abdul khader is a protected tenant of sail gulshan of the area 19 02 guntas excluding the land of buildings wells etc and 4 what share is to be apportioned to successors of sail nawaz jung.
a i r 1985 s c 1576 1985 indlaw sc 246 on the question of solarium and interest on the amount awarded.
abdul khader on december 31950 was filed and was marked as exhibit c 1 the document recited permitted to utilise garden fruits flowers and mango.
fruits.
if he was a tenant the high court observed he was a protected tenant under s 34 read with s 37 or under section 37 a of the andhra pradesh act.
a that abdul khader because he was a tenant between january1942 to january1948 for six years therefore was a protected tenant under sub cl ii of cl 1 of s 34 of the andhra pradesh act b that abdul khader held the land from october1943 to october1949therefore was a protected tenant of sail gulshan under sub cl iii of cl 1 of s 34 of act 21 of 1950 in these circumstances the high court held that adbul khader was entitled to 60 of the compensation paid.
aggrieved by the aforesaid decision the appellants being the successor of the owner of the land in question is in appeal before us.
he had claimed rights of a protected tenant.
he had sought to establish his rights which must be found within the four corners of the andhra pradesh act along with other documents because u s 404 of the andhra pradesh act the interest of a protected tenant in the land held by him as a protected tenant formed 60 the rights of the protected tenants have been defined in the andhra pradesh act and relevant provisions of that act namely sections 343737a and 40 in conjunction with the definition under s 2r have to be taken into consideration in the background of the facts and circumstances of the case.
for this reliance was placed on s 102 of the andhra pradesh act which lays down that the act will not apply to lands leased granted alienated or acquired in favour of or by the central government or the state government etc and on s 99 of the act which bars the jurisdiction of civil courts to deal with any question which is under the andhra pradesh act required to be settled to be decided or dealt with by the tahsildar tribunal or collector.
according to the appellant inasmuch as whether abdul khader was a protected tenant had not to be settled by the collector or the tribunal the arbitrator and the high court were in error in going to that question.
by the scheme of the central act compensation was payable to persons who had interest in the land acquired.
determination by the revenue authorities and non determination is not conclusive or decisive.
in the background of the totality of circumstances as manifest in the different orders it appeared to the arbitrator and the court that the entry which was made in favour of abdul khader as the protected tenant was of doubtful validity.
he had jurisdiction to do so.
in that view of the matter we are unable to accept the challenge to the award.
furthermore under s 99 of the andhra pradesh act the bar was not against the arbitrator but against a civil court.
in determining the amount of compensation payable to abdul khader under the central act his interests in the property had to be determined.
in another context the high court of andhra pradesh enunciated the position that it was necessary to determine the interest of the persons claiming compensation.
he has a right to object to the acquisition andor the quantum of compensation.
in that view of the matter we must uphold that decision however unsatisfactory.
let it be.
in the aforesaid view of the matter this appeal must fail and is accordingly dismissed with costs.
appeal dismissed.
