the present appeal arises out of the judgment and order dated 01 07 2002 passed by the high court of bombay at goa in criminal appeal No 6 of 2000 convicting the accused appellant section 302 of the indian penal code for short the the ipc and sentencing him to undergo life imprisonment for the offence by setting aside the order of acquittal passed by the trial court.
facts giving rise to the present appeal may be stated first so as to enable us to appreciate the arguments raised by the parties more effectively.
on 19 04 1988 between 8 30 p m and 8 45 p m satish narayan sawant the appellant accused No 1 along with two other accused persons and also with two delinquent children allegedly formed an unlawful assembly and that in furtherance of the said common object stabbed one rauji dulba sawant the deceased and also assaulted baby dulba sawant pw 1 ashok dulba sawant pw 2 kunda rauji sawant pw 8 and laxmi dulba sawant pw 18 who are the sister brother wife and mother respectively of the deceased.
it is also the case of the prosecution that as a result of the aforesaid stab injuries given to the deceased he expired on the same day i e on 19 04 1988.
two juvenile girls named sarita and sharmila who are the sisters of the appellant were found in the house.
not finding the appellant and accused no 2 in the house dy.
accused No 3 told the appellant not to do anything in the ceremony and insulted the family members of rauji.
as soon as the deceased switched off the light the appellant came from the room and started abusing rauji.
in the meanwhile residents of the locality had gathered in the courtyard and told the accused persons not to assault rauji.
whereupon the police took him to the hospital in the police jeep along with pw 1 pw 2 and pw 8.
the trial court framed charges against all the accused persons for the offence under sections 302 323 143 147 and 149 of the ipc.
the accused pleaded not guilty and claimed to be tried.
after completion of the arguments the trial court reserved the verdict.
the trial court passed an order on 04 08 1998 acquitting all the accused persons from the offences under sections 302 323 143 147 and 149 of ipc.
being aggrieved by the aforesaid judgment and order of acquittal the state filed an appeal in the high court against accused nos.
the high court by impugned judgment convicted appellant.
accused No 1 section 302 ipc and accused nos.
2 and 3 were held guilty of an offence punishable section 323 read with section 34 of the ipc.
he submitted that since there was violation of the provisions of section 162 of the crpc the accused appellant is liable to be acquitted.
she submitted that the high court rightly interfered with the order of acquittal passed by the trial court after critically examining the evidence on record.
2 8 18 and the complainant herself pw 1.
he stated that although the house had electricity connection but was not having the electricity supply.
the issue with regard to the initiation of the investigation without recording the fir was succinctly addressed by this court in the case of state of u p v bhagwant kishore joshi 1964 3 scr 71 1963 indlaw sc 268 observed as follows 17.
investigation in substance means collection of evidence relating to the commission of the offence.
he is also entitled to search the place of the offence and to search other places with the object of seizing articles connected with the offence.
but the main object of investigation being to bring home the offence to the offender the essential part of the duties of an investigating officer in this connection is apart from arresting the offender to collect all material necessary for establishing the accusation against the offender.
no doubt section 5 a of the prevention of corruption act was enacted for preventing harassment to a government servant and with this object in view investigation except with the previous permission of a magistrate is not permitted to be made by an officer below the rank of deputy superintendent of police.
besides the fact of his going to the place of occurrence would not amount to making an investigation.
the ratio of the decision in bhagwant kishore joshi 1963 indlaw sc 268 supra is applicable to the facts of the present case as the police officer merely visited the spot and place of occurrence and made some survey which can not be regarded as investigation.
in animireddy venkata ramana and others v public prosecutor high court of andhra pradesh 2008 5 scc 368 2008 indlaw sc 354 this court while considering a similar case observed as follows 10.
an information received in regard to commission of a cognizable offence is not required to be preceded by a first information report.
duty of the state to protect the life of an injured as also an endeavour on the part of the responsible police officer to reach the place of occurrence in a situation of this nature is his implicit duty and responsibility.
the ratio of the aforesaid decision is squarely applicable to the facts of the present case.
the place of occurrence was in total darkness and even the persons belonging to the complainant side were not available therefore bringing them to the police station where there was sufficient light and recording the complaint at 3 00 a m can not in any manner cast any doubt on the veracity of the prosecution case.
in that view of the matter it can not be said that the fir was in any manner hit by the provisions of section 162 of crpc.
this court has observed as follows in the case of dinesh kumar v state of rajasthan 2008 8 scc 270 2008 indlaw sc 2034 11.
conviction can be made on the basis of such evidence.
reference in this regard may be made to the decision of this court in state of u p v krishna gopal 1988 4 scc 302 1988 indlaw sc 76 anwar v state of haryana 1997 9 scc 766 1997 indlaw sc 2447 ravi kumar v state of punjab 2005 9 scc 315 2005 indlaw sc 170 munivel v state of t n 2006 9 scc 394 2006 indlaw sc 118.
there is cogent and reliable evidence on record to prove and establish that the accused has committed the act of stabbing as a result of which the deceased had died.
before dwelling further into the factual matrix of the case on the basis of which the high court convicted the appellant section 302 ipc it would be useful to briefly recapitulate the law on the point.
section 299 and section 300 ipc deals with the definition of culpable homicide and murder respectively.
section 299 defines culpable homicide as the act of causing death i with the intention of causing death or ii with the intention of causing such bodily injury as is likely to cause death or iii with the knowledge that such act is likely to cause death.
the bare reading of the section makes it crystal clear that the first and the second clause of the section refer to intention apart from the knowledge and the third clause refers to knowledge alone and not intention.
both the expression intent and knowledge postulate the existence of a positive mental attitude which is of different degrees.
the mental element in culpable homicide i e mental attitude towards the consequences of conduct is one of intention and knowledge.
if that is caused in any of the aforesaid three circumstances the offence of culpable homicide is said to have been committed.
section 300 ipc however deals with murder although there is no clear definition of murder provided in section 300 ipc.
it has been repeatedly held by this court that culpable homicide is the genus and murder is species and that all murders are culpable homicide but not vice versa.
section 300 ipc further provides for the exceptions which will constitute culpable homicide not amounting to murder and punishable section when and if there is intent and knowledge then the same would be a case of section 304.
i and if it is only a case of knowledge and not the intention to cause murder and bodily injury then the same would be a case of section 304 part ii.
the aforesaid distinction between an act amounting to murder and an act not amounting to murder has been brought out in the numerous decisions of this court.
in the case of state of a p v rayavarapu punnayya 1976 4 scc 382 1976 indlaw sc 192 this court observed as follows at page 386 12.
in the scheme of the penal code culpable homicides is genus and murder its specie.
all murder is culpable homicide but not vice versa.
speaking generally culpable homicide sans special characteristics of murder is culpable homicide not amounting to murder.
for the purpose of fixing punishment proportionate to the gravity of this generic offence the code practically recognises three degrees of culpable homicide.
the first is what may be called culpable homicide of the first degree.
this is the greatest form of culpable homicide which is defined in section 300 as murder.
the second may be termed as culpable homicide of the second degree.
this is punishable under the first part of section 304.
then there is culpable homicide of the third degree.
this is the lowest type of culpable homicide and the punishment provided for it is also the lowest among the punishments provided for the three grades.
culpable homicide of this degree is punishable under the second part of section 304.
placing strong reliance on the aforesaid decision this court in the case of abdul waheed khan v state of a p 2002 7 scc 175 2002 indlaw sc 1777 observed as follows at page 184 13.
b of section 299 corresponds with cls 2 and 3 of section 300.
the distinguishing feature of the mens rea requisite u cl 2 is the knowledge possessed by the offender regarding the particular victim being in such a peculiar condition or state of health that the internal harm caused to him is likely to be fatal notwithstanding the fact that such harm would not in the ordinary way of nature be sufficient to cause death of a person in normal health or condition.
it is noteworthy that the intention to cause death is not an essential requirement of cl.
only the intention of causing the bodily injury coupled with the offender s knowledge of the likelihood of such injury causing the death of the particular victim is sufficient to bring the killing within the ambit of this clause.
this aspect of cl 2 is borne out by illustration b appended to section 300.
b of section 299 does not postulate any such knowledge on the part of the offender.
instances of cases falling u cl 2 of section 300 can be where the assailant causes death by a fist blow intentionally given knowing that the victim is suffering from an enlarged liver or enlarged spleen or diseased heart and such blow is likely to cause death of that particular person as a result of the rupture of the liver or spleen or the failure of the heart as the case may be.
if the assailant had no such knowledge about the disease or special frailty of the victim nor an intention to cause death or bodily injury sufficient in the ordinary course of nature to cause death the offence will not be murder even if the injury which caused the death was intentionally given.
in cl 3 of section 300 instead of the words likely to cause death occurring in the corresponding cl.
b of section 299 the words sufficient in the ordinary course of nature have been used.
obviously the distinction lies between a bodily injury likely to cause death and a bodily injury sufficient in the ordinary course of nature to cause death.
the distinction is fine but real and if overlooked may result in miscarriage of justice.
the difference between cl.
b of section 299 and cl.
3 of section 300 is one of degree of probability of death resulting from the intended bodily injury.
to put it more broadly it is the degree of probability of death which determines whether a culpable homicide is of the gravest medium or the lowest degree.
the word likely in cl.
b of section 299 conveys the sense of probable as distinguished from a mere possibility.
the words bodily injury sufficient in the ordinary course of nature to cause death mean that death will be the most probable result of the injury having regard to the ordinary course of nature.
for cases to fall within clause 3 it is not necessary that the offender intended to cause death so long as the death ensues from the intentional bodily injury or injuries sufficient to cause death in the ordinary course of nature.
rajwant singh v state of kerala is an apt illustration of this point.
in virsa singh v state of punjab4.
first it must establish quite objectively that a bodily injury is present secondly the nature of the injury must be proved.
this part of the enquiry is purely objective and inferential and has nothing to do with the intention of the offender.
if he can show that he did not or if the totality of the circumstances justify such an inference then of course the intent that the section requires is not proved.
these observations of vivian bose j have become locus classicus.
under clause thirdly of section 300 ipc culpable homicide is murder if both the following conditions are satisfied i e a that the act which causes death is done with the intention of causing death or is done with the intention of causing a bodily injury and b that the injury intended to be inflicted is sufficient in the ordinary course of nature to cause death.
it must be proved that there was an intention to inflict that particular bodily injury which in the ordinary course of nature was sufficient to cause death viz that the injury found to be present was the injury that was intended to be inflicted.
thus according to the rule laid down in virsa singh case4 even if the intention of the accused was limited to the infliction of a bodily injury sufficient to cause death in the ordinary course of nature and did not extend to the intention of causing death the offence would be murder.
illustration c appended to section 300 clearly brings out this point.
c of section 299 and cl.
4 of section 300 both require knowledge of the probability of the act causing death.
it is not necessary for the purpose of this case to dilate much on the distinction between these corresponding clauses.
it will be sufficient to say that cl.
4 of section 300 would be applicable where the knowledge of the offender as to the probability of death of a person or persons in general as distinguished from a particular person or persons being caused from his imminently dangerous act approximates to a practical certainty.
such knowledge on the part of the offender must be of the highest degree of probability the act having been committed by the offender without any excuse for incurring the risk of causing death or such injury as aforesaid.
the above are only broad guidelines and not cast iron imperatives.
in most cases their observance will facilitate the task of the court.
reference in this regard may be made to the decision of this court in ruli ram v state of haryana 2002 7 scc 691 2002 indlaw sc 1927 augustine saldanha v state of karnataka 2003 10 scc 472 2003 indlaw sc 674 state of u p v virendra prasad 2004 9 scc 37 2004 indlaw sc 60 chacko v state of kerala 2004 12 scc 269 2004 indlaw sc 20 section n bhadolkar v state of maharasthra 2005 9 scc 71 2004 indlaw sc 268 and jagriti devi v state of h p jt 2009 8 sc 648.
2009 indlaw sc 859.
there is therefore provocation and the incident happened at the spur of the moment.
that being the factual position we are of the considered view that the present case can not be said to be a case section but it is a case falling under section 304 part ii ipc.
it is trite law that section 304 part ii comes into play when the death is caused by doing an act with knowledge that it is likely to cause death but there is no intention on the part of the accused either to cause death or to cause such bodily injury as is likely to cause death.
accordingly we convict the appellant under section 304 part ii of ipc and sentence him to undergo imprisonment for a period of 7 years.
the appeal stands disposed of in terms of aforesaid order.
appeal disposed of.
