Appeal No 68 of 1964.
By this arrangement the revenue or land collections of Jagir became payable by the Zamindars direct to the Government and by the grant of the pension Babu Hat Narain Singh and his successors no longer remained the proprietors of the Parganas or the Jagir and became entitled to merely a pension.
During the previous year of the assessment year 1949 50 the assessee received a sum of Rs 36396 on account of the aforesaid pension.
He observed that in fact this income arose from a statutory obligation of the Government to pay it and although the Government recouped this from the person with whom the land was settled land in the genealogical tree of Malikana appears in the second degree its immediate and effective source is the Government s statutory obligation to pay it and this obligation is not land within the meaning of Income tax Act vide CITv.
 The High Court held that from the language of the letter of July 7 1837 it was manifest that the right which was conferred 703 was a right to a share of one fourth in the net land revenue collections after deducting costs of Tahsil establishment.
As a consideration for relinquishing the right to the land and the revenue thereof the respondent and his ancestors were given an allowance of Rs 30612 13 0.
 The learned counsel for the respondent Mr A Viswanatha Sastri urges that on its true interpretation the letter dated July 7 1837 showed an arrangement for sharing collections.
But the enquiry should stop as soon as the effective source is discovered.
And rent is not land within the meaning of the definition This Court observed in Mrs Bacha F Guzdar Bombay Commissioner of Income tax Bombay4 as follow Agricultural income as defined in the Act is intended to refer to the revenue received by direct association with the land which is used for agricultural purposes and not by indirectly extending it to cases where that revenue or part thereof changes hands either by way of distribution of dividends or otherwise 1  2 3 16 ITR325 4 705 The same test was adopted by this Court in Maharajadhiraja Sir Kameshwar Singh vs Commissioner of Income tax Bihar and Orissa1 and the Court again looked to the source of the right in order to determine whether income was agricultural income or not.
 It follows from the decisions of the Privy Council and the judgments of this Court cited above that if it is held in this case that the source of the allowance or pension is the arrangement arrived at in 1837.
He refers to the following passage from the speech of Viscount Simon in Commissioner of Inland Revenue vs Wesleyan and General Assurance Society1 It may be well to repeat two propositions which are well established in the application of the law relating to Income tax.
 He therefore asked us to disregard the word pension  in the letter dated July 7 1837 and determine the real character of the payment.
2 707 his estate for a capital sum payable in installments.
