Appeal by special leave from the Award dated September 20 1963 of the Central Government Industrial Tribunal Bombay in Reference CG IT 25 of 1962.
C B Agarwala J B Dadachanji O C Mathur and Ravinder Narain for the respondents.
The Judgment of the Court was delivered by Hidayatullah J.
The appellants are the workmen of the Bombay Port Trust who are and have been represented in this dispute by the Bombay Port Trust Employees  Union.
The respondents to this appeal are the trustees of the Port of Bombay.
The reference was made on a joint application of the parties.
The Port Trust had under its control several docks.
Reference in this judgment will be made to the Prince s and Victoria Docks the Alexandra Docks Butcher Island and the Flotilla Crew.
These represent different areas of work where different groups of workmen were employed.
From the facts appearing on the record it appears that the Trustees first introduced a two shift system of work in the Alexandra Docks on June 30 1953 and the same system was extended to the Prince s and Victoria Docks on December 15 1953.
Previously the shore crew at all these places worked in a single shift and were liable to be called out at 634 any hour of the day or night.
The hours of rest were kept variable as they depended on the tides.
In 1956 the workmen who were then represented by the Port Trust General Workers  Union made a demand for a fixed recess of two hours.
The Trustees apprehended that this was a device to get 4 hours  overtime and rejected the demand.
The General Workers Union was informed that if the demand was pressed a three shift system would be introduced.
The workmen then retraced their steps and accepted a 2 hours  variable recess but requested that it should be as near the middle of the shift as possible.
The Trustees agreed to accept the hours of rest at fixed hours in the Alexandra Docks but at the Prince s and Victoria Docks they kept it variable agreeing to fix it as near the middle of the duty hours as possible.
Rule 25Extra wages for overtime 1 When a worker works in an employment for more than nine hours on any day or for more than forty eight hours in any week he shall in respect of overtime work be entitled to wages a in the case of employment in Agriculture at one and a half time the ordinary rate of wages b in the case of any other scheduled employment at double the ordinary rate of wages.
3 Nothing in this rule shall be deemed to affect the provisions of the  The controversy in the present case is a narrow one.
It is whether the fixing of a two hours  rest and two hours  overtime involves a breach of the two sections of the Act and the two rules quoted here  The workmen claim that under a scheme of 12hour shifts with 8 hours  work overtime should be at least 3 hours if not 4 and by fixing only two hours  overtime the Trustee are B guilty of the breach of the Act and the Rules.
Section 13 of the Act does not itself fix the hours of work or rest or overtime.
That is done by the Rules.
Section 13 only authorises Government to fix the number of hours which shall constitute a normal working day inclusive of on .
or more specified intervals.
The normal working day thus includes a hours of actual duty and b one or more specified intervals.
There may be one interval of rest or there may be more intervals but whatever their number they must be specified.
By interval under section 13 is obviously meant interval of rest and this is clear from Rule 242.
There is no definition of interval either in the Act or the Rules but the provisions of section 13 2 c read with section 13 3 give us an indication of what is meant by an interval of rest.
It means a break in the work during which a workman though present on duty is not called upon to display either physical activity or sustained attention.
As the heading of the Rule shows these are the hours of work.
There is no provision in the Act and the Rules corresponding to section 55 of the Factories 640 Act to which reference will be made hereafter.
In a 12 hour shift the nine hours of work on any day can be spread over 12 hours and the extra hours will necessarily be hours of rest.
The contention of the workmen is that section 13 fixes the number of hours in a normal working day and this number is inclusive of one or more specified intervals.
There is clear antinomy between hours of work and intervals of rest in sub rules 1 and 2 of Rule 24 and the phrase inclusive of one or more specified intervals  governs the normal working day and not the number of hours of work.
A working day of 12 hours is thus made up of hours of work and hours of rest and the number of hours of work which cannot exceed 9 is part of the normal working day which may also include one or more specified intervals of rest.
If work on any day is taken which goes beyond 9 hours the provisions of section 14 apply.
That action speaks of overtime.
Overtime is payable for work in excess of the number of hours constituting a normal working day.
The section so read lays down  Where an employee   works on any day in excess of 9 hours the employer shall pay him for every hour or for part of an hour so worked in excess at the overtime rate    Under Rule 25 1 b this overtime rate is double the ordinary rate of wages.
Average duration of actual work payable at ordinary rate of wages per day thus comes to 8 hours.
He can specify the intervals of rest and spread the 8 hours or 9 hours as the case may be together with intervals of rest over 12 hours in a twelvehour shift.
These periods of rest must not be periods during which the workman is on duty and inaction is due to want of work for him but they must be pre determined periods of inaction during which the workman is neither called upon nor expected to display physical activity or sustained attention.
If he takes work during the extra 4 hours or fails to specify the hours of rest he must pay overtime.
Overtime under section 14 is only payable when the workman works in excess of the number of hours constituting a normal working day.
As in the present case the total number of hours of work in a week is 48 8 hours per day for 6 days overtime is payable for that hour or part of an hour beyond the 8 hours in which the workman is either made to work or the interval is not specified.
The Port Trust can say that it will not take more than two hours extra work on any day and specify the remaining two hours as the intervals for rest.
54Daily hours Subject to the provisions of section 51 no adult worker shall be required or allowed to work in a factory for more than nine hours in any day Provided   55.
2    56.
The periods of work of an adult worker in a factory shall be so arranged that inclusive of his intervals for rest under section 55 they shall not spread over more than ten and a half hours in any day Provided that the Chief Inspector may for reasons to be specified in writing increase the spread over to twelve hours.
There is no provision in the which breaks up the hours of work by interposing a compulsory period of rest as is done by the latter part of section 55 of the .
The reason perhaps is that in some employments time for work depends on some 643 extraneous factors and hours of rest cannot always be fixed to break up those hours.
This is achieved by pres cribing that the hours of work in a six day week shall not exceed 48 although on any particular day the hours of work in a day may go up to 9.
The Trustees cannot be compelled to break up the hours of work by interposing intervals for rest if owing to the nature of the work there is difficulty in giving the intervals for rest in that manner on any particular day.
They point out that in the former there is 3 hours  overtime and in the latter there is 4 hours of overtime in the 12 hour shifts but at the Prince s and Victoria Docks there is 2 hours  overtime only.
The crew at the Prince s and Victoria Docks work in a different way and their case cannot be compared with that of the Flotilla Crew or the crew at the Alexandra Docks.
