AA Peerbhoy and JB Dadachanji for Habib Mohammad Intervener.
AR Sornanatha Iyer Advocate General of Mysore K Ramaseshayya Choudhry with him for the State of Mysore.
2 Nodirection shall be made under sub section 1 for the trial of an offence for which an accused person was being tried at the commencement of this Act before any court but save as aforesaid such direction may be made in re spect of an offence whether such  offence was committed before or after the commencement of this Act.
 Sections 6 to 15 prescribe the special procedure which the court has to follow in the trial of the cases referred to it.
 Before considering whether section 51 infringes to any and what extent the constitutional prohibition under article 14 it is necessary to ascertain the true scope and intendment of the impugned provision.
292 purports to provide for the matters to be tried by a special court and does not in form seek to define the kind or class of offences or cases which the State Government is empowered under the Act to assign to such a court for trial.
The object of the law we assume until the lower Court shall decide otherwise is single to keep up competition and the general language is to be restricted by the specific provi sions and to the particular end.
 The title and the preamble as well as the other specific provisions of the Act here in question show unmistakably that the whole object and purpose of the legislation was to devise machinery for speedier trial of certain offences which must mean trial of cases involving the commission of certain 1 1830 I B  Ad.
2  293 offences as there can of course be no trial of offences in the abstract and the general expressions used in providing for the power to set that machinery in operation must be restricted to that end in accordance with the intention of the legislature for a literal construction of the general language would impute to the legislature an intention to confer an arbitrary power of reference which would be incon sistent not only with the declared object of the statute but also with the constitutional prohibition against discrimina tion which the legislature must be taken to have been aware of when it deliberately re enacted the provisions of the old Ordinance.
294 pledge of the protection of equal laws Yick Wo vs Hopkins 1 that is Jaws that operate alike on all persons under like circumstances.
And as the prohibition under the article is directed against the State which is defined in article 12 as including not only the legislatures but also the Governments in the country article 14 secures all persons within the territories of India against arbitrary laws as well as arbitrary application of laws.
2  4  566 567 568.
 These decisions seem to my mind to reveal a change of approach marked by an increasing respect for the State s regulatory power in dealing with equal protection claims and underline the futility of wordy formulation of so called tests in solving problems presented by concrete cases.
2 299 That is to say the ordinance was what the Privy Council called a colourable legislative expedient which under the guise or pretence of doing what is constitutionally per missible in substance and purpose seeks to effect discrim ination Morgan Proprietary Ltd vs Deputy Commissioner of Taxation for New South Wales 1.
All that the court is expected to see in dealing with equal protection claims is whether the law impugned is palpably discriminatory and in considering such a question great weight ought to be at tached to the fact that a majority of the elected represen tatives of the people who made the law did not think so though that is not of course conclusive.
3 Article 14 is as widely worded as if not more widely worded than its counterpart in the American Consti tution and is bound to lead to some inconvenient results and seriously affect some pre Constitution laws.
Such a classification for such a purpose would be arbitrary and a piece of legislative despotism1 1 Vide Gulf Colorado  Santa Fe Railway Co vs WH Ellis  41 314 Speedier trial of offences may be the reason and motive for the legislation but it does not amount either to a classification of offences or of cases.
A rule was issued on this application also.
A rule of procedure laid down by law comes as much within the purview of article 14 as any rule of substantive law and it is necessary that all litigants who are similar ly situated are able to avail themselves of the same proce dural rights for relief and for defence with like protection and without discrimination2.
A line is drawn artificially between two classes of cases.
333 limited ground upon which the High Court bases its decision these appeals are bound to fail.
 It has not however been urged before us that the addition of these extra words has made any substantial difference in its practical application.
 In order to be a proper classification so as not to offend against the Constitution it must be based on some intelligible differentia which should have a reason able relation to the object of the Act as recited in the preamble.
3  2  350 class legislation but does not forbid classification which rests upon reasonable grounds of distinction.
 It does not take from the states the power to classify either in the adoption of police laws or tax laws or eminent domain laws but permits to them the exercise of a wide scope of discretion and nullifies what they do only when it is without any reasonable basis.
 A difficulty was suggested and discussed in the course of the arguments in case article 14 was to receive a very wide interpretation.
 Bose J We are concerned here with article 14 of the Constitution and in particular with the words equality before the law and equal protection of the law.
But I am not here to consider that.
Agent for Habib Mohammad Intervener Rajinder Narain.
Agent for the State of Hyderabad and for the State of Mysore IntervenersP A Mehta.
