Appeal No 390 of 1966.
Appeal by special leave from the Award dated January 11 13 1964 of the Industrial Tribunal Orissa Cuttack in Industrial Dispute Case No 8 of 1962.
 The Tribunal in giving its decision kept this principle in view but came to the finding of fact that there were no other concerns in the same line of business as the Company in the region which could be compared with the Company.
Even the profits earned were much smaller.
 In the light of these views which were brought to the notice of the Tribunal the Tribunal proceeded to consider the minimum wages paid by three Collieries Orient Colliery Ibe Colliery and Himgiri Rampur Colliery the Rourkela Steel Plant the Cement Factory at Rajgangpur and the Indian Aluminum Company Hirakud which the Tribunal found were situated not very far away from the place where the Company had its factory.
671 Brajrajnagar the minimum wage is above Rs 90 in almost all the cases.
 On the basis of this finding of fact the Tribunal held that if the minimum wage in the Company is to be fixed more on the basis of the minimum wage prevailing in other industries in that region which in its opinion would be appropriate under the circumstances of the case then a revision was really necessary.
By the expression other industries in the region the Tribunal was obviously referring to these concerns.
According to him note should be taken of the fact that at least  in the paper industry in this.
Finally it was argued that other amenities being provided by the Company should also be taken into account when fixing the minimum wage.
673 We may at this stage take notice of the fact that in con sidering the question of minimum wage the Tribunal had in view the total wage packet to be received by each workman and in the opinion of the Tribunal it consisted of three elements.
 In the present case the Tribunal chose the course of leaving it to the workmen to ask for increase in minimum wage on any further rise in Price Index and did not consider it advisable to link the wages with it.
677 Tribunal under section 102 of the Act on the basis of an agreed enumeration of subjects of dispute drawn up by the workmen and the Company together.
At that time the year 1962 63 was still running and the accounts for that year could not possibly have been closed and made available.
