M C Setalvad P Ramachandra Rao Advocate General Andhra Pradesh A Raghubir and A V Rangam for respondent No 1.
All of them were working in various offices located in the cities of Hyderabad and Secunderabad.
On January 19 1969 leaders of all political parties in the Legislature of the Andhra Pradesh State appeared to have met and reached the decision that to Implement what are called Telengana Safeguards  the following measures should be taken  All non domicile persons who have been appointed either directly by promotion or by transfer to posts reserved under the Andhra Pradesh Public Employment Requirement as to Residence Rules 1959 for domiciles of Telengana region will be immediately relieved from service.
All non domicile employees so relieved shall be provided employment in the Andhra region without break in service and by creating supernumerary posts if necessary.
 117 The Government of Andhra Pradesh then passed an order GOMs 36 GA SR Dept on January 21 1969 relieving before February 28 1969 all non domicile persons appointed on or after November 1 1956 to certain categories of posts reserved for domiciles of Telengana under the Andhra Pradesh Public Employment Requirement as to Residence Rules 1959.
3 of article 16 of the Constitution making special provision for requirement as to residence and brought into force on March 21 1959.
For this reason section 3 of the Act is challenged as ultra vires the Constitution.
For the original words of the clause under any State specified in the First schedule or any local or other authority within its territory any requirement as to residence within that State  the present words from under the Government  to Union territory  have been substituted.
120 The clause thus enables Parliament to make a law in a special case prescribing any requirement As to residence within a State or Union territory prior to appointment as a condition of employment in the State or Union territory.
Firstly whether Parliament  while prescribing the requirement may prescribe the requirement of residence in a particular part of the State and secondly whether Par liament can delegate this function by making a declaration and leaving the details to be filled in by the rule making power of the Central or State Governments.
Mr section V Gupte for the petitioners points out that the Constitution is speaking of State and Union territory.
It has already made a declaration that no person shall be disqualified for any office in the territory of India because of his residence in any particular part of India.
He very ingeniously shifts the emphasis to the words any requirement  and contends that the requirement may be also as to residence in the State or any particular part of state.
By the second clause there can be no discrimination among other things on the ground of residence.
It follows therefore that section 3 of the Public Employment Requirement as to Residence Act 1957 in so far as it relates to Telengana and we say nothing about the other parts and Rule 3 of the Rules under it are ultra vires the Constitution.
In view of our conclusion on this point it is not necessary to express any opinion whether delegation to the Central andor State Governments to provide by rules for the further implementing of the law made by Parliament is valid or not.
L12 Sup Cl69 9 122 For the reasons given above we quash the orders passed and declare section 3 of the Public Employment Requirement as to Residence Act 1957 as also Rule 3 of the Rules ultra vires the Constitution.
