N Criminal Appeal No 87 of 1967.
721 Appeal by special leave from the judgment and order dated January 24 1967 of the High Court of Mysore in Criminal Appeal No.
29 of 1965.
A section R Chari and R V Pillai for the appellants.
 These are 14 appellants who appeal against their conviction under section 395 of the Indian Penal Code and sentences of 5 years  rigorous imprisonment and fine of Rs 1000 passed on them.
14 alone have appealed to this Court.
It was a dark night and the assailants were not identified.
In these searches cloth which was undoubtedly stolen at the time of the dacoity was found in their houses.
In this appeal the only contention raised by Mr A section R Chari is that the presumption that they were dacoits ought not to have been drawn since the circumstances do not admit the drawing of such a presumption in the case According to Mr Chari the presumption to be drawn ought to have been one under section 41 1 722 of Indian Penal Code or at the most tinder section 412 of the Indian Penal Code but not of complicity in the crime of dacoity.
According to him there is no other evidence in the case which points to the complicity of the 14 appellants in the crime of dacoity and therefore as they cannot be suspected to be dacoits themselves the only presumption to be drawn is one of receivers of stolen property or as receivers of property which was stolen in a dacoity.
In our opinion the law advocated by Mr Chari is not correct.
It is only when the accused cannot be connected with the crime except by reason of possession of the fruits of crime that the presumption may be drawn.
In what circumstances the one presumption or the other may be drawn it is not necessary to state categorically in this case.
It all depends upon the circumstances under which the discovery of the fruits of crime are made with a particular accused.
It has been stated on more than one occasion that if the gap of time is too large the presumption that the accused was concerned with the crime itself gets weakened.
The reason is obvious.
Disposal of the fruits of crime requires the finding of a person ready to receive them and the shortness of time the nature of the property which is disposed of that is to say its quantity and its character determine whether the person who had the goods in his possession received them from another or was himself the thief or the dacoit.
Immediately afterwards a number of searches were made and the goods were found with various persons who were prosecuted as offenders and they have been presumed to be involved in the dacoity itself.
It may be 723 noticed that from each person a large number of goods of the same type such as 20 choli pieces or ten pieces of cloth were found.
It is impossible to think that within the short time available these goods could have been easily disposed of to receivers of stolen property or could be placed in the custody of friends till such time as the original offenders could take them away The time gap in some cases is as short as two days and in some others it is not more than five days.
In two cases only the time gap is about 19 days.
Even then we think that the time gap is too short for original offenders to have disposed of the property to these appellants Or to have left the goods in their custody till such time as the original offenders could have taken them away.
It must not be forgotton that the offence was committed at night by as many as 20 persons or more.
It is impossible to think that these 20 persons were merely receivers of stolen property from some other 20 persons who were the dacoits.
It is legitimate therefore to raise the presumption in this case that the persons with whom the goods were found were the dacoits themselves.
As regards the sentence the offence no doubt was serious.
But no injury beyond one appears to have been caused.
The sentence of fine will stand.
