Appeals by Special Leave granted by Supreme Court on the 18th January 1954 from the Judgment and Order dated the 18th June 1953 of the High Court of Judicature at Hyderabad in Confirmation Case No 3766 of 1952 53 and Criminal Appeals Nos3946 3956 and 3926 of 1952 53 arising out of the Judgment and Order dated the 2nd June 1952 of the Court of the Sessions Judge at Bidar in Sessions Case No 98 of 1951 52.
J B Dadachanji and Rajinder Narain for the appellant.
Leave to appeal was refused.
Both give substantially the same version of what they saw of the assault.
It is to be noted that the SubInspector does not say that Tukaram brought the report to him but that exhibit 4 the report received from the Police Patel states that Tukaram gave the Police Patel the information.
He says he did not know any names at that time and that is evident from the report.
In the circumstances we think Mahadappa told the truth.
As a matter of fact Subhana does not ascribe any particular blow either to Tukaram or to Nilia though he does describe in detail what the other three did.
All be says about Tukaram and Nilia is thatThe accused present were striking Ramchander Pandurang Bhilia and Tukia were holding axes.
So the part they played was negligible.
But in the absence of anything specific we are not prepared to act on such a vague allegation especially about the persons who are said to have been wrongfully blamed.
In a case like that each would be individually liable for whatever injury he caused but none could be vicariously convicted for the act of any of the others and if the prosecution cannot prove that his separate blow was a fatal one he cannot be convicted of the murder however clearly an intention to kill could be proved in his case Barendra Kumar Ghosh vs King Emperor2 and Mahbub Shah vs King Emperor1.
As their Lordships say in the latter case the partition which divides their bounds is often very thin nevertheless the distinction is real and substantial and if overlooked will result in miscarriage of justice.
2 19241 LR 52 IA 40 49.
But to quote the Privy Council again the inference of common intention should never be reached unless it is a necessary inference deducible from the circumstances of the case.
1097 similarity of the facts in one case cannot be used to determine a conclusion of fact in another.
Pandurang is accordingly only liable for what he actually did.
