The reply is profound It is beautiful.
238 red man.
On June 5 1981 a Committee of Secretaries was formally constituted.
The report of WEBCON is a 246 comprehensive report on various topics connected with the establishment of a Five Star Hotel in Calcutta.
 The Minister for Metropolitan Development submitted a note to the Chief Minister on the resolution of the Managing Committee of the Zoo.
I agree.
This was passed by the majority of the members present the President Justice Shri RK Banerjee dissenting.
The relevant clause of the rule reads as below The Managing Committee shall have custody and disposal of the property and funds of the Gardens and shall be responsible for proper maintenance.
The WEBCON submitted further reports.
Taj Group suggested further modifications.
Thereafter an expert Committee was consti tuted to supervise the construction Of alternative facili ties.
On September 1 1982 Smt.
A modern zoo hospital for animals has been constructed in the remaining extent of Begumbari land replacing the old hospital which was housed in a semi dilapidated building.
Fodder for elephants should not again be considered to be problem.
The Chief Minis ter considered the objections and noted that if further facilities were necessary for the Zoo Government would provide them.
The submission was that neither the Cabinet memorandum of Janu ary 7 1981 nor the Cabinet Memorandum of September 9 1981 revealed that relevant considerations had been taken into account.
265 2nd.
The Bengal Parks Act 1904 was enacted to protect public parks and gardens in Bengal from injury and to secure the public from molestation annoyance while resorting to such parks and gardens.
In Rash Bihari Panda vs State of Orissa supra the Government offered the option to purchase kendu leaves to certain old contractors on the same terms as in the previous year.
Because of the pendency of this matter valuable time has been lost and if further time is lost the respondent No 5 may not have any further interest in the matter.
