1977 by the Life Insurance Corporation of India hereinafter referred to as the Corporation  which pro vides that an employee belonging to Class I or Class II appointed to the service of the Corporation on or after 1st September 1956 shall retire on completion of 58 years of age but the competent authority may if it is of the opinion that it is in the interest of the Corporation to do so direct such employee to retire on completion of 50 years of age and at any time thereafter on giving him three months  notice or salary in lieu thereof.
1955 there were more than 200 insur ers carrying on life insurance business in India.
The Act provided for the establishment and incorporation of the Corporation.
The nature of the work of the Corporation was such that it required the services of the employees with sufficient experience and expertise in running the life insurance business.
2 Notwithstanding anything con tained in sub section 1 or in any contract of service the Central Government may for the purposes of rationalising the pay scales of employees of insurers whose controlled business has been transferred to and vested in it or for the purpose of reducing the remuner ation payable to employees in cases where in the interest of the Corporation and its policyhold ers a reduction is called for alter the terms of service of the employees as to their remuneration in such manner as it thinks fit and if the alteration is not acceptable to any employee the Corporation may terminate his employment on giving him compensation equivalent to three months  remuner ation unless the contract of service with such employee provides for a shorter notice of termination.
3 If any question arises as to whether any person was a whole time employee of an insurer or as to whether any employee was employed wholly or mainly in connection with the controlled business of an insurer immediately before the appointed day the question shall be referred to the Central Government whose decision shall be final.
4 Notwithstanding anything contained in the 14 of 1947 or in any other 191 law for the time being in force the transfer of the serv ices of any employee of an insurer to the Corporation shall not entitle any such employee to any compensation under that Act or other law and no such claim shall be entertained by any Court tribunal or other authority.
 Sub section 1 of section 11 of the Act provided that every whole time employee of an insurer whose controlled business had been transferred to and vested in the Corpora tion and who was employed by the insurer wholly or mainly in connection with the controlled business immediately before the appointed day ie September 1 1956 would on and from the appointed day become an employee of the Corpora tion and would hold his office therein by the same tenure at the same remuneration and upon the same terms and condi tions and with the same rights and privileges as to pension and gratuity and other matters as he would have held the same on the appointed day if the Act had not been passed and would continue to do so unless and until his employment in the Corporation was terminated and until his remunera tion terms and conditions were duly altered by the Corpora tion.
 Clause 13 of the above Order therefore modified regu lation 21 of the Staff Regulations 1956 to the extent indicated therein with effect from the commencement of the Corporation.
 The above clause 6 was substituted by a new clause on 25111962 which read as follows 6.
2 An employee appointed to the service of the 198 Corporation on or after 1st September 1956 shall retire on completion of 58 years of age but the appointing authority may direct such employee to retire on completion of 55 years of age or at any time thereafter if his efficiency is found to have been impaired.
2 An employee belonging to Class I or Class II appointed to the service of the Corporation on or after 1st September 1956 shall retire on completion of 58 years of age but the appointing authority may direct such employee to retire on completion of 55 years of age or at any time thereafter if his efficiency is found to have been im paired.
 The modification made by the new sub regulation 2 of regulation 19 empowered the appointing authority to extend at its discretion the service of any employee of the Corpo ration belonging to the Class I or Class II categories appointed to the service of the Corporation on or after 1st September 1956 for one year at a time upto 60 years of age.
 Pathak J as he then was in his judgment in the same case observed at pages 1134 to 1136 thus The first question is whether the new clause 9 of the Standardisation Order succeeds in defeating the claim of the workmen.
Sub section.
1 guarantees to the trans ferred employee the same tenure at the same remuneration and upon the same terms and conditions on the transfer to the Corporation as he enjoyed on the appointed day under the insurer and he is entitled to them until they are duly altered by the Corporation or his employment in the Corpora tion is terminated.
Sub section.
2 of section 11 by its first limb confers power on the Central Government to alter the scales of remuneration and other terms and conditions of service applicable to transferred employees.
2 is intended for the purpose of securing uniformity among them.
2 is the source of controversy before us.
Sub section.
2 of section 11 is a part of that process involving as it does the integration of the Corporation s staff and labour force.
2 are linked with the process of transfer and integration is further indicated by the circumstances that the power thereunder is vested in the Central Government.
2 of section 11 can be exercised more than once.
2 of section 11 contained the words from time to time and that these words were subsequently deleted when enact ment took place.
 We have given extracts from the above decisions which are fairly long since they relate to the identical provi sions of law and also cover a large part of the arguments urged before us.
Accordingly the President of India agreed to release 16 persons from the service of the Government of India to enable the Corporation to appoint them in its service by the Order of the Central Government dated 25th February 1964.
2        cc.
The regulations and other provisions as in force immediately before the commencement of the Life Insurance Corporation Amendment Act 1981 with respect to the terms and conditions of service of employees and agents of the Corporation including those who became employees and agents of the Corpo ration on the appointed day under this Act shall be deemed to be rules made under clause cc of sub section 2 and shall subject to the other provisions of this section have effect accordingly underlining by us empha sis supplied Clause cc of section 482 of the Act however has been given retrospective effect from 20th June 1979.
 While we agree with the first part of the observations made in the above extract from the judgment of the High Court namely that it was not discriminatory to extend the benefit of the age of 60 years to the transferred employees we do not agree with the latter part of the observations made therein which suggests that on promotion from Class III to Class I the transferred employees and the directly re cruited employees would lose their birth marks.
217 In OP No 5295 of 1985 and connected cases on the file of the High Court of Kerala which was decided on 42.
Classification of employees into two categories for purposes of fixing the age of superannuation depending upon their dates of entry into service when the necessity for doing so arises on account of certain historical reasons is not unknown.
 In the above new rule every railway servant whose case did not fall under clause b of that rule was required to retire on the date he attained the age of 58 years.
The High Court of Mysore struck down a part of the new note only on the ground that it was discriminatory and directed that the Respondent A Pitchumani should be allowed to continue in the service till he completed the age of 60 years.
AIR 1973 CAL.
