These a peals pursuant to a certificate of the High Court of Bombay raise the question of interpretation of section 24B of the Income tax Act in an Income tax Reference.
The matter was not pursued further by the Revenue but sometime later proceedings were started by the Income tax Officer under section 34 in respect of the same income in the hands of "Amarchand N. Shroff by his heirs and legal representatives".
The various amounts were assessed to income tax in the hands of the respondents under section 34(1) (b) read with section 24B of the Income tax Act.
The Commissioner of Income tax took an appeal to the Appellate Tribunal and the Tribunal held that assessment could not be made on Amarchand and that section 24B had no application to the income received after the death of Amarchand and that it was capital receipt and not revenue receipt.
32,523/ were assessable to income tax in the hands of the assessee "Amarchand N. Shroff by his legal heirs and representatives" in the five respective years under reference ?".
It held that apart from section 24E of the Income tax Act the amounts were not taxable and that the section had no application to the case.
It was argued by counsel for the Commissioner of Income tax that on a correct interpretation of section 24B the amounts which were received by the heirs and legal representatives of Amarchand after his death should be deemed by the fiction incorporated in sub section (1) to be income received by Amarchand and liable to tax under section 24B (1) of the Income tax Act.
In other words the respondents as heirs and legal representatives of the deceased Amarchand were liable to pay out of the estate of the deceased Amarchand on those amounts to the extent of the estate as the estate was liable for tax on the amounts received by the heirs and legal representatives just as the deceased Amarchand would have been had he not died.
Section 24B is as follows : section 24B 11,Tax of deceased person payable by represen tative (1) Where a person dies, his executor, administrator or other legal representative shall be liable to pay out of the estate of the deceased person to the extent to Which the estate 704 is capable of meeting the charge the tax assessed as payable by such person or any tax which would have been payable by him under this Act if he had not died.
