The United State of Rajasthan eventually became the Part B State of Rajasthan on January 26, 1950 when the Constitution came into force.
The suits were resisted by the State of Rajasthan on various grounds; but we are concerned now only with one ground which alone has been urged before us, namely, that the State of Rajasthan was not bound by any liability which might have arisen against the former State of Dholpur.
As the United State of Raja sthan into which the former State of Dholpur came to be merged in 1949 never recognised the obligations of the former State of Dholpur it was not bound to refund the amount due to the respondents.
In reply to this contention of the State, the respondent relied on article 295(2) of the Constitution and other provisions made during the period when mergers were taking place after August 15, 1947 and contended that in view of article 295(2) of the Constitution the State of Rajasthan was bound by the obligation of the former State of Dholpur.
Provision was also made in the Covenant that all the assets and liabilities of the covenanting States shall be the assets and liabilities of the new State of Matsya.
In March 1949, the United State of Rajasthan was formed by Covenant entered into by fourteen Rulers of Rajasthan, including these who had formed the Former State of Rajasthan.
There was also a provision in the Covenant by which the assets and liabilities of the covenanting States became the assets and liabilities of the new State.
In this State of United State of Rajasthan, the State of Matsya, merged in May 1949, and thus the former State of Dholpur came to be included in the United State of Rajasthan through the Matsya Union.
Finally the United State of Rajasthan in which the State of Sirohi was also merged became the Part B State of Rajasthan on January 26, 1950.
Thereupon there was a reference to a Full Bench on the question of liability which was formulated by the learned Judges thus: "Whether the expression 'Government of the corresponding State ' used in article 295(2) of the Constitution with reference to Rajasthan properly means the Government of the United State of Rajasthan which was the only Indian State in existence at the time of the commencement of the Constitution or it also includes the Government of any of the Covenanting States which had integrated with the United State before the Constitution came into operation. "
The three learned Judges who heard the reference were unanimously of the opinion that the expression "Government of the corresponding State" used in article 295(2) of the Constitution with reference to Rajasthan meant not only the Government of the United State of Rajasthan, but also the United State of Rajasthan including its component units.
The only question that has been raised before us on behalf of the appellant is about the liability of the State of Rajasthan under article 295(2) of the Constitution in respect of the obligations of the former State of Dholpur, which came to be 179 included in the State of Rajasthan on account of political changes to which we have already referred.
