and the matter in dispute was stated to be : "Whether the existing system of work of the shore crew of the Prince 's and Victoria Docks under which each shift consists of 8 hours ' normal duty, 2 hours ' variable recess and 12 hours ' overtime needs any modification?
When the two shift system began, each shift of 12 hours was broken up into 8 hours ' duty, 2 hours ' variable recess and 2 hours ' overtime.
The Trustees, therefore, resolved that the shore crew at the Alexandra Docks should work for 8 hours and that there should be a variable recess of one hour and overtime of three hours should be paid.
Thus the 12 hours ' shift at the Alexandra Docks was 8 hours ' of duty, 3 hours ' overtime and one hour variable recess.
The Union contended that this division of 12 hours ' shift into 8 hours ' work, 2 hours ' rest and 2 hours ' overtime violated the provisions of the and that the so called period of rest was illusory since, being variable, it was some times given right at the commencement of the shift and some times at the end, depending on the tides or the exigencies of the work.
The Union claimed that a 12 hours ' shift should be divided into 8 hours ' work and 4 hours ' overtime as was the case with the Flotilla Crew.
On behalf of the Union the learned Solicitor General has argued the case almost entirely from the legal stand point and has attempted to establish that the break up of a 12 hours ' shift into 8 hours ' duty, 2 hours ' rest and 2 hours ' overtime offends the .
On the other hand, the Act and the Rules fix the number of hours of work, payment of overtime and for hours of rest in the work day of the workman.
(1) In regard to any scheduled employment minimum rates of wages in respect of which have been fixed under this Act, the appropriate Government may (a) fix the number of hours of work which shall constitute a normal working day, inclusive of one or more specified intervals; (b) provide for a day of rest in every period Of seven days which shall be allowed to all employees or to any specified class of em ployees and for the payment of remuneration in respect of such days of rest; (c) provide for payment of work on a day of rest at a rate not less than the overtime rate.
(1) Where an employee, whose minimum rate of wages is fixed under this Act by the hour, by the day or by such a longer wage period as may be prescribed, works on any day in excess of the number of hours constituting a normal working day, the employer shall pay him for every hour or for part of an hour so worked in excess at the overtime rate fixed under this Act or under any law of the appropriate Government for the time being in force, whichever is higher.
"Number of hours of work which shall constitute a normal working day (1) The number of hours which shall constitute a normal working day shall be: (a) in the case of an adult, 9 hours, (b) in the case of a child, 41 hours.
