M. C. Setalvad, R. K. Garg and section C. Agarwala, for the appellants.
On May 19, 1965 Mr. D. section Dang, Secretary of the Company Law Board issued an order on behalf of the Company Law Board made under section 237 (b) of the appointing 4 persons as Inspectors for investigating the affairs of the Barium Chemicals Ltd., appellant No.
I before us, since its incorporation in the year 1961 and to report to the Company Law Board inter alia "all the irregularities and contravention in respect of the provisions of the or of any other law for the time being in force and the person or persons responsible for such irregularities and contravention. "
The order was made by the Chairman of the Board, Mr. R. C. Dutt on behalf of the Board by virtue of the powers conferred on him by certain rules to which we shall refer later.
On June 4, 1965 the Company preferred a writ petition under article 226 of the Constitution in the Punjab High Court for the issue of a writ of mandamus or other appropriate writ, direction or order quashing the order of the Board dated May 19, 1965.
The writ petition is directed against 7 respondents, the first of which is the 318 Company Law Board.
Apart from the relief of quashing the order of May 19, 1965 the appellants sought the ' issue of a writ restraining the Company Law Board and the Inspectors from giving effect to the order dated May 19, 1965 and also sought some other incidental reliefs.
The order of the Board was challenged on 5 grounds which are briefly as follows: (1) that the order was made mala fide; (2) that in making the order the Board had acted on material extraneous to the matters mentioned in section 237(b) of the ; (3) that the order having in fact been made at the instance of the shareholders is invalid and on a true construction of section 237 this could not be done; (4) that the order was invalid because it was made by the Chairman of the Board and not by the Board; and (5) that the provisions of section 237(b) are void as offending articles 14 and 19(1) (g) of the Constitution.
Appellant No.
2 was appointed Managing Director of the Company from December 5, 1961 and his appointment and remuneration were approved by the Central Government on July 30, 1962.
L. A. Mitchell Ltd., of Manchester in pursuance of a collaboration agreement between it and the company entered in October, 1961 and approved by the Central Government in November of that year.
It would appear that as the work of setting up of the plant was being delayed the Company sent a notice to M/s Mitchell Ltd. , on April 2, 1965 in which the Company stated that if the plant was not completely installed and got into running order by June 1, 1965 the Company will have to make alternative arrangements and that it would hold M/s.
Certain negotiations took place between the Company and Lord Poole in the course of which an undertaking was given by Lord Poole on at behalf of the collaborators that the work would be completed with necessary alterations and modifications in accordance with the report of M/s.
Appellant No.
2 did not agree to this with the result that the company 's negotiations with Kali Chemie broke down.
On this part of the case the appellant 's contention is that the Chairman of the Company Law Board Mr. R. C. Dutt made the order for investigation into the affairs of appellant No.
He also wanted us to bear in mind the sequence in which certain events occurred and said that these would indicate that the former Finance Minister must have been instrumental in having an order under section 237(b) made by the Chairman of the Board.
Mr. Setalvad points out that the Company Law Board had decided in December 1964 to take action against appellant No.
I under section 237(b) and had actually obtained approval of Mr. T. T. Krishnamachari to the proposed action.
Therefore, according to him the real order is of Mr. Krishnamachari even though the order is expressed in the name of the Board.
In our opinion, in a proceedingunder article 226 of the Constitution the normal rule is, as pointedout by this Court in The State of Bombay vs Purshottam Jog Naik to decide disputed questions on the basis of affidavits and that it is within the discretion of the High Court whether to allow a person who has sworn an affidavit before it as indeed Mr. Krishnamachari and Mr. Dutt have to be cross examined or not to permit it.
Mr. Setalvad said that as the appellants had made out a prima facie case of mala fides in their affidavits, and as these allegations had been denied by the respondents, the High Court was in error in refusing permission to the appellants to cross examine the persons who swore the affidavits on the side of the respondents.
Coming to the second point, it would be desirable to repro duce section 237 which reads thus: "Without prejudice to its powers under section 235 the Central Government (a) shall appoint one or more competent persons as inspectors to investigate the affairs of a company and to report thereon in such manner as the Central Government may direct, if (i) the company, by special resolution, or (ii) the Court, by order, declares that the affairs of the company ought to be investigated by an inspector appointed by the Central Government; and (b) may do so if, in the opinion of the Central Government, there are circumstances suggesting (i) that the business of the company is being conducted with intent to defraud its creditors, members or any other persons, or otherwise for a fraudulent or unlawful purpose, or in a manner oppressive of any of its members, or that the company was formed for any fraudulent or unlawful purpose; or (ii) that persons concerned in the formation of the company or the management of its affairs have in connection therewith been guilty of fraud, misfeasance or other misconduct towards the company or towards any of its members; or (iii) that the members of the company have not been given all the information with respect to its 322 affairs.
In view of the fact that the Central Government, by virtue of the powers conferred by sections 10 E and 637 delegated its powers under section 237 to them Company Law Board we shall read section 237 as if in place of the words "Central Government" there are the words "Company Law Board" or for brevity 'Board '.
(b) of section 237 requires two things: (1) the opinion of the Board and (2) the existence of circumstances suggesting one or more of the matters.
He contends that though the opinion of the Board is subjective the existence of circumstances set out in the sub cls.
Once it is conceded that the formation of an opinion by the Board is intended to be subjective and if the provision is constitutional which in our view it is the question would arise: what is that about which the Board is entitled to form an opinion?
(b) thereof confers, a discretion upon the Board to appoint an Inspector to investigate the affairs of a company.
The words "in the opinion of" govern the words "there are circumstances suggesting" and not the words "may do so".
To say that the opinion to be formed must be as to the necessity of making an investigation would be making a clear departure from the language in which section 237(b) is couched.
It is only after the, formation of, certain opinion by the Board that the stage for exercising the discretion conferred by the provision is reached.
The discretion conferred to order an investigation is administrative and not judicial since 323 its exercise one way or the other does not affect the rights of a company nor does it lead to any serious consequences as, for instance, hampering the business of the company.
But, Mr. Setalvad says, since the grounds have in fact been disclosed in the affidavit of Mr. Dutt upon which his subjective satisfaction was based it is open to the court to consider whether those grounds are relevant or are irrelevant because they are extraneous to the question as to the existence or otherwise of any of the matters referred to in sub cls.
of the company, the activities of the company and other related matters have been set out.
Paragraph 20 onwards of the writ petition deals with the action taken by the Board and the various grounds on which according to the appellants the action of the Board is open to challenge.
Here Mr. Dutt has stated that it was not competent to the Court to go into the question of adequacy or otherwise of the material on the basis of which orders under section 237(b) are passed by the Board.
324 order to do justice, then the Board would have no objection to producing the same for the Court 's perusal provided it is not shown to the petitioners. "
In paragraph 9 Mr. Dutt has categorically stated that the order of May 19, 1965 was passed after careful and independent examination of the material by the Chairman and that it was issued in proper exercise of the powers conferred upon it.
He has also said that the Board was aware of the fact that the company had entered into collaboration with M/s.
However, from the Memoranda received by the Board referred to in paragraph 5 and other examination it appeared inter alia that: (i) that there had been delay, bungling and faulty planning of this project, resulting in double expenditure.
2: (ii) Since its flotation the company has been continuously showing losses and nearly 1/3rd of its share capital has been wiped off; (iii)that the shares of the company which to start with were at a premium were being quoted on the Stock Exchange at half their face value; and (iv)some eminent persons who had initially accepted seats on the Board of Directors of the company had subsequently severed their connections with it due to differences with Petitioner No.
2 on account of the manner in which the affairs of the company were being conducted. "
It will thus be clear that what are characterised by Mr. Setalvad as the grounds upon which the order of the Board is based are nothing more than certain conclusions drawn by the Boar& from some of the material which it had before it.
Turning to paragraph 16 of the affidavit we find that Mr. Dutt has clearly reiterated that there was ample material before the Board on which it could and did form the opinion that there were circumstances suggesting that as stated in the order of May, 19, 1965, the business of the company was being conducted with intent to defraud creditors, members and other persons and further that the persons concerned in the management of the affairs of the company had in connection therewith been guilty of fraud, misfeasance and other misconduct towards the company and its members.
It is in that paragraph alone that the appellants had specifically raised the contention that the recital in the order as to the existence of material is not correct and that in point of fact there was no material before the Board to form the said opinion.
In this state of pleadings it would not be right to construe the affidavit of Mr. Dutt to mean that the only conclusions emerging from the material before the Board are those that are set out in paragraph 14 of his affidavit.
What is said therein is that there are circumstances suggesting that the business of the appellants is being conducted with intent to defraud its creditors, members and others, and that.
the persons concerned with the management of the affairs of the company have been guilty of fraud, misfeasance and other misconduct towards the company and its members.
it has to be borne in mind that what the Board is to be satisfied about is whether the circumstances suggest any of these things and not whether they establish any of these things.
Would it be farfetched to say that these circumstances could reasonably suggest to the Board that these happenings were not just pieces of careless conduct but were deliberate acts or omissions of appellant No.
Similarly could not the fact that the company was continuously showing losses since its flotation and that 1/ 3rd of its 326 share : capital had ,been wiped out could have been suggestive of fraud to the Board.
The section was enacted to prevent the Management of a company from acting in a manner prejudicial to the interests of the shareholders for whom it was difficult,to get together and take steps for the protection of their interests jointly.
The Government thought it right to take power to step in where there was reason to suspect that the Management may not have been acting in the interests of the shareholders who would not be able to take the steps against a powerful body like the Managementand to take steps for protection of such interests.
As we have said, the section gives the exploratory power only.
The powers are exercised for ascertaining facts and, therefore, before they are finally known, all that is necessary for the exercise of the powers is the opinion ,of the Board that there are circumstances which suggest to it that fraud and other kinds of mismanagement mentioned in sub cls.
If the facts do reasonably suggest any of these things to the Board, the power can be exercised,though another.
individual might think that : the ;facts suggest otherwise It cannot be said that from a huge loss incurred by a company and the working of the company in a disorganised and un businegslike way, the only conclusion possible is that it was due to lack of capability.
It is to find out what kind of wrong ,action has led to,the company 's ill fate that the powers under the sectional given.
It would be destroying the beneficial effective use of the powers given by the section to say that the Board must first show that a fraud can clearly be said to have.been committed.
It is enough that the facts show that it can be reasonably thought that the company 's unfortunate position might have been caused by fraud and other species of dishonest action.
Coming to the third point of Mr. Setalvad pointed out that four ex Directors of the Company who had resigned submitted a 327 memorandum to Mr. T. T. Krishnamachari while he was holding the office of Finance Minister in which grave allegations were made concerning the affairs of the Company and the management of the Company by the second appellant.
was the outcome of this memorandum and that by ordering it the Board has in effect enabled the ex Directors who continue to be shareholders to circumvent the provisions of sections 235 and 236 of the .
Section 235 deals with "Investigation of affairs of company on application by members or report by Registrar".
Clause (a) of this section provides that in the case of a company having a share capital the investigation can be ordered either on the application of not less than 200 members or of members holding not less than one tenth of the total voting power therein.
Apparently the four ex Directors were not holding 10% of the voting power of the Company.
Section 236 provides that such application has to be supported by such evidence as the Board (reading 'Board ' for 'Central Government ') may require.
The contention is that though the Board acted upon the memorandum submitted by four ex Directors it did not even require them to comply with the provisions of section 236.
The contention is that the order of the Board appointing Inspectors is invalid.
In other words the argument amounts to this that the provisions of section 237(b) have been utilised by the Board as a cloak for taking action under the provisions of section 235.
But it was not solely on the basis of this memorandum that action was taken by the Board.
It is clear from the counter affidavit of Mr. Dutt and particularly from paragraph 5 thereof that the Board had before it not only two sets of memoranda dated May 30, 1964 and July 9, 1964 respectively from four ex Directors of the Company alleging serious irregularities and illegalities in the conduct of the affairs of the Company but also other materials.
The Board points out that over a long period beginning from September 1961 the Department had been receiving various complaints in regard to the conduct of the affairs of the Company.
The matter was enquired into by the Regional Director of the Board at Madras and he, in his report, sent to the Board in September 1964 suggested an urgent and comprehensive investigation into the affairs of the Company.
In his /S5SCI 23 328 affidavit the Chairman of the Board Mr. Dutt has stated further in paragraph 5(b) as follows: "The material on the file was further examined in the light of the Regional Director 's recommendation by the two Under Secretaries of the Board (Sarvashri M. K. Banerjee C. section section and K. C. Chand, I. R. section at the head.
quarters of the Board in New Delhi and both of them endorsed the recommendation of the Regional Director to order an investigation.
The matter was then considered by the Secretary of the Company Law Board in charge of investigation (Shri D. section Dang, I.A.S.)
Then again in paragraph 5(c) he has stated as follows: "Accordingly, the matter was put up to me at the end of November 1964 and after consideration of all the material on record, I formed the opinion that there were circumstances suggesting the need for action under section 237(b) of the ".
As already stated the appellant had challenged the provisions of section 237(b) on the ground that they are violative of the fundamental rights under articles 14 and 19(1)(g) of the Constitution.
We agree with our learned brother that the action proposed under section 237(b) being merely, exploratory in character the fundamental right of Balasubramanian to carry on business is not affected thereby.
The last question is whether it was not competent to Mr. Dutt alone to take the decision that an investigation be ordered against the company.
The validity of this rule is challenged, by Mr. Setalvad on the ground that this amounts to sub delegation of a delegated power and is ultra vires the Act.
Clause (a) of sub section (1) of section 637 read with section 10(E)(1) empower the Central Government to delegate its powers under section 237 to the Company Law Board.
By notification dated February 1, 1964 the Central Government has delegated, amongst other powers and functions, those conferred upon it by section 237 upon the Company Law Board.
By another notification of the same date the Central Government has made and published rules made by it in exercise of its powers under section 642(1) read with section 10E(5) rule 3 of which reads thus: "Distribution of business; The Chairman may, with the previous approval of the Central Government, by order in writing, distribute the business of the Board, among himself and the other member or members, and specify the cases or classes of cases which shall be considered jointly by the Board. "
By order dated February 6, 1964 the Chairman of the Company Law Board specified the cases and classes of cases to be considered jointly by the Board and distributed the remaining business between himself and other members of the Board.
Amongst the matters allocated to the Chairman is the appointment of an Inspector under section 237 to investigate the affairs of a company.
In this connection he has referred us to sub section 4A of section 10E which was subsequently added but not made retrospective by an amendment of the Act which confers an express power on the Central Government to enable the Chairman to distribute the powers and functions of the Board.
According to the learned Attorney General this provision was enacted only to make what was implicit in section 10E(5) read with section 642(1) clear and that the distribution of the work of the Board being merely a matter of procedure the order of the Chairman allocating the power under section 237(b) to himself did not amount to sub delegation of the power of the Board.
Bearing in mind the fact that the power conferred by section 237(b) is merely administrative it is difficult to appreciate how the allocation of business of the Board relating to the exercise of such power can be anything other than a matter of procedure.
Strictly speaking the Chairman to whom the business of the Board is allocated does not become a delegate of the Board at all.
He acts in the name of the Board and is no more than its agent But even if he is looked upon as a delegate of the Board and, therefore, a sub delegate vis a vis the Central Government he would be as much subject to the control of the Central Government as the Board itself.
For sub section (6) of section 10E provides that the Board shall, in S5SCI 23(a) 330 the exercise of the powers delegated to it, be subject to the control of the Central Government and the order distributing the business was made with the permission of the Central Government.
Where, as here, what is sub delegated is an administrative power and control over its exercise is retained by the nominee of Parliament, that is, here the Central Government, the power to make a delegation may be inferred.
We are, therefore, of the view that the order made by the Chairman on behalf of the Board is not invalid.
To sum up, then, our conclusions may be stated thus: The discretion conferred on the Central Government by section 237(b) to order an investigation and delegated by it to the Company Law Board is administrative, that it could be validly exercised by the Chairman of the Board by an order made in pursuance of a rule enacted by the Central Government under section 642(1) read with section 10E(5), that the exercise of the power does not violate any fundamental right of the company, that the opinion to be formed under section 237(b) is subjective and that if the grounds are disclosed by the Board the Court can examine them for considering whether they are relevant.
(i) to (iii) of section 237(b).
We are concerned in this appeal with the legality of an order of the Chairman, Company Law Board, May 19, 1965, (purporting to be under section 237(b) of the ) declaring that the affairs of the Barium Chemicals Ltd. be investigated.
