The matter of levying octroi duty shall be undertaken in accordance with the Panchayat Act and its rules.
On January 26, 1963, a public notice was issued under r. 3(b) of the Maharashtra Village Panchayats Taxes and Fees Rules, 1960 hereinafter referred to as the Fees Rules.
After setting out the previous resolutions and the publication of the notice by beat of drum, and the various objections received, it concludes: "Having considered all these above objections and suggestions and having given a satisfactory explanation for the same, this Committee unanimously resolves that as per the above resolution octroi should be levied on all the goods coming into the limits of the Panchayat,as per schedule I item 1,and levy the minimum octroi as per the rules in Schedule I item 2.
This decision was communicated to the Company by letter dated September 19, 1963, stating that the appeal "has been rejected by the Samiti as per its resolution dated 4th September, 1963, because the same was not filed within limitation as per the provisions of Bombay Village Panchayat Act and Rule 5 of Taxes and Fees Rules of 1960. "
While the appeal was pending, the Tehsildar Ramtek on January 14, 1964, approved the octroi limits and the number and location of octroi nakas within the limits of the jurisdiction of the Panchayat under r. 21 of the Fees Rules.
On April 6, 1964, the Standing Committee allowed the appeal of the Company on two grounds; first, that it was necessary for the Panchayat to have the octroi limits fixed with the approval of the Collector before levying octroi under r. 21; and secondly, that the Company was not importing tea within the limits of the Panchayat for consumption, use or sale.
The High Court held that the Panchayat Samiti could not dismiss the appeal of the Company as being barred by limitation because r. 5 of the Fees Rules was ultra vires the powers of the rule making authority.
The High Court further held that the octroi duty was not validly levied by the Panchayat as it had failed to fix the octroi limits in accordance with law.
The learned counsel for the appellant contends before us (1) that r. 5 of the Fees Rules was intraviress (2) that the Standing Committee had no jurisdiction to decide the appeal on merits as the appeal to the Panchayat Samiti was barred by limitation; (3) that the octroi duty has been levied in accordance with law; (4) that, at any rate, the levy was good after the octroi limits were fixed on January 14, 1964; (5) that the approval of the octroi limits on January 14, 1964, relates back to April 1, 1963; and (6) that the tea was imported into the Panchayat limits for consumption, use or sale.
Section 3(13) of the Bombay Village Panchayat Act, 1958 (Bombay Act III of 1959) defines "octroi" or "octroi duty" to mean "a tax on the 'entry of goods into a village 217 for consumption, use or sale therein".
Section 124(5) provides for appeals in these terms: "Any person aggrieved by the assessment, levy or imposition of any tax or fee may appeal to the Panchayat Samiti.
In exercise of the powers under s.176 of the Act, the State Government made the rules called the Maharashtra Village Panchayat Taxes and Fees Rules, 1960.
