It consists of eight district and sessions judges, two additional district and sessions judges, secretary to government in law department, superintendent and legal remembrancer, law department, deputy secretary to government in the law department, member administrative tribunal and the Registrar of the Orissa High Court, in all 15 in number.
Under the Government of India Act 1935, the power to transfer a district judge from one post to another was that of the Governor though that power was always exercised in consultation with the High Court and by and large on the recommendation of the High Court.
It appears that for some time past there were differences between the High Court and the government about the posting of some of the judicial officers.
The High Court was anxious that a judicial officer occupying one of the administrative posts enumerated above, should not, in the interest of judicial work, continue in that post for an unduly long time.
The High Court insisted that ordinarily judicial officers should: not hold those posts for more than three years.
The High Court was repeatedly requesting the government to send back judicial officers working in administrative posts as district judges or as addl.
In February 1965, the High Court took a policy decision to the effect that as a general rule, judicial officers working in special posts whether cadre or non cadre, outside their regular line, should be recalled to the regular line after the completion of three years.
Every time the High Court requested the government to release the three officers mentioned above for 'being posted as district and sessions judges or addl.
Therein this Court held that power to transfer judges presiding over courts vested with the High Court under article 235 of the Constitution.
Soon after that decision was rendered and without any further dialogue with government in the ' light of that decision, the High Court took the precipitate step of transferring the aforementioned officers to other posts and in their place posted officers who were doing judicial work till then.
Patro, the then law secretary as district and sessions judge of Ganjam Boudh, (c) Shri T. Misra, district and sessions judge, Ganjam Boudh, as superintendent and legal remembrance and ex officio additional law secretary to the government of Orissa, (d) Shri K.K.
Panda, Shri T. Misra and Shri P. K. Mohanti handed over charge of the posts they were holding and reported themselves at the secretariat for assuming charge of the posts to which they were posted.
It is at this stage the petitions which have given rise to those appeals were filed by some of the advocates practising in one or the other of the sessions divisions mentioned above, praying for a writ of mandamus against the government as well as the concerned officers to implement the transfers ordered by the High Court on October 10, 1966 and also a writ of quo warranto against Shri B.K.
Patro, Shri K.K.
Bose and Shri P.C.
The High Court overruled the prayer made on behalf of the government to stay the operation of its decision till necessary orders were obtained from this Court.
Patro, Shri K.K.
Bose and Shri P.C.
Shri Sarjoo Prasad learned counsel for the High Court of Orissa at the very commencement of his arguments conceded that the order of the High Court holding that those officers had no authority to hold the posts in question is unsustainable.
Dey it must be assumed that his services were placed by the High Court at the disposal of the government for being posted as member sales tax tribunal.
AS seen earlier, he was holding the post in question ever since 1962.In those circumstances, the High Court was entitled to recall him and post him as a district and sessions judge.
Neither the government nor the High Court could have posted any officer as the Registrar of the High Court as that post can be filled only by 160 the Chief Justice.
Similarly the posts of the law secretary, deputy law secretary and file superintendent and legal remembrancer cannot be considered as district courts or courts subordinate to district courts within the meaning of those words in article 235 of the Constitution.
It was conceded that if those posts had not been included in the cadre of superior judicial service the High Court would not have had any right to fill those posts.
But we were told that in view of the decisions of this Court in State of West Bengal vs Nripendra Nath Bagchi(1) and State of Assam vs Ranga Mahammad(2) the High Court must be held to have that right as those posts are included in the cadre of superior judicial service.
the High Court must also have, the power to fill up the post of the Registrar as that is also Included in the cadre.
This Court upheld the decision of the High Court of Calcutta holding that it had no such jurisdiction.
