This appeal by special leave is directed against the judgment of the Allahabad High Court adjudging the five appellants guilty of contempt of court and sentencing each of them to pay a fine of Rs.
The High Court held that the five appellants had disobeyed an order of stay passed by it staying proceedings pending before the Nyaya Panchayat, Jokha Khas, District Deoria.
On December 20, 1963, Mahabir moved an application under article 227 of the Constitution challenging the order of the S.D.M., dated November 28, 1963, and on the same day the High Court admitted the application and stayed further proceedings before the Nyaya Panchayat.
117 It is alleged on the side of the applicant, Mahabir, that immediately after the receipt of the telegram an application accompanied by an affidavit and the telegram of his counsel in the High Court was presented before the Nyaya Panchayat with the prayer to stay further proceedings but the Sarpanch refused to take it.
On December 23, 1963, Mahabir submitted an application in the Court of Shri R. Singh, S.D.M., Deoria, alleging that "writ petition has been admitted and a stay order has been issued.
In the affidavit accompanying the application, however, no mention was made about Mahabir having informed the Panchayat Adalat of the stay order or the fact that the order and the application was not being entertained by the Adalat.
But as the notice against Shri Srivastava has been discharged by the High Court, we need not give any further details about his various orders, On December 25, 1963, the Nyaya Panchayat met and proceeded to hear the case.
The application of Mahabir, referred to in the order, reads thus: 118 .lm15 Sir, It is submitted that I have filed a writ petition in the above case, in the High Court.
It has been admitted by the High Court which has stayed proceedings also in this case.
A document purporting to be an affidavit was also attached, in which it was stated "I make oath and say that in the above case I have filed a writ petition in the High Court, that it has been admitted, and that proceedings in the case have been stayed by the High Court. "
2 to 5 disobeyed the order of the Hon 'ble High Court and disposed of the case on 25 12 63 and thus they committed contempt of the Hon 'ble High Court. "
Affidavits were filed in the High Court by Baldeo Prasad, pairokar of Mahabir, Burma Prasad, the Sarpanch, and Mahabir, and statements of Phagu Prasad and Bunna Prasad were recorded on oath.
Phagu Prasad further stated that "no other affidavit had ever been filed before us, but we knew that in the law courts the 119 affidavits,which are filed, are verified by some authority.
