An industrial dispute between these workmen and the management of Orient Paper Mills Ltd. (hereinafter referred to as "the Company") was referred by the State Government under section 10(1) (d) of the Industrial Disputes Act (hereinafter referred to as "the Act") for adjudication by the Tribunal enumerating 30 different items of dispute.
The first matter related to fixation of wages, including minimum wages, and this was covered by items Nos.
The first and the main point argued with regard to wages was that the Tribunal, after holding that there was no identical industry in this region comparable with the Company, came to.
the view that there were other industries in the region in which minimum wages were higher than the minimum wages paid by the Company, but failed to fix the minimum wages in the award in accordance with the minimum wages being paid in those industries.
Instead, what the Tribunal did was to work out the minimum wages, which should be paid, on an entirely different basis.
It was also urged in the alternative that, even in adopting the latter course, the Tribunal committed an error inasmuch as, in making the calculation, the Tribunal only tried to neutralise about 36 per cent of the cost of living 9n the basis of the rise in Price Index instead 669 of permitting neutralisation to the extent of at least 90%, which could have been done when fixing the minimum wages for the owest, class of workmen.
vs Workmen(1) where it was held : "It is now well settled that the principle of industry cum region has to be applied by an Industrial Court, when it proceeds to consider questions like wage structure, dearness allowance and similar conditions of service.
In applying that principle, industrial courts have to compare wage scales prevailing in sinular concerns in the region with which it is dealing, and generally speaking similar concerns would be those in the same line of business as the concern with respect to which the dispute is under consideration.
The Tribunal, in giving its decision, kept this principle in view, but came to the finding of fact that there were no other concerns in the same line of business as the Company in the region which could be compared with the Company.
On these facts, the Tribunal held that it would not be proper to compare the wage structure for these Paper Mills with that of the Company.
On this finding, it is clear that the region cure industry principle laid down in the ease of French Motor Car Co. Ltd. (1) could not have been applied by the Tribunal when fixing the wages in the Company.
670 This Court in the same case of the French Motor Car Co. (x) further indicated what principles should be adopted in such a situation where there is no concern in the same industry in the region comparable with the concern in which wages have to be fixed.
Though, therefore, in a case where a particular concern is already paying the highest wages in its own line of business, the industrial courts would be justified in looking at wages paid in that region in other lines of business, it should take care to see that the concerns from other lines of business taken into account are such as are as nearly similar as possible, to the line of business carried on by the concern before it.
In the light of these views which were brought to the notice of the Tribunal, the Tribunal proceeded to consider the minimum wages paid by three Collieries, Orient Colliery, Ibe Colliery and Himgiri Rampur Colliery, the Rourkela Steel Plant, the Cement Factory at Rajgangpur and the Indian Aluminum Company, Hirakud which the Tribunal found were situated not very far away from the place where the Company had its factory.
The Tribunal mentioned that, according to the Coal Award, the minimum wage in the Collieries at the then existing Price Index was Rs.
The Tribunal then also took into account the minimum wages being paid by other Paper Mills situated outside the region and thereafter recorded its own decision in the following words : "The conclusion that flows from these figures is that the lowest paid worker in the Paper Mill at Brajrajnagar gets more than what is paid as minimum wage in the other two Paper Mills of Orissa, but it is less than what is paid to the lowest paid worker in some of the Paper Mills outside the State.
671 Brajrajnagar, the minimum wage is above Rs.
On the basis of this finding of fact, the Tribunal held that, if the minimum wage in the Company is to be fixed more on the basis of the minimum wage prevailing in other industries in that region which, in its opinion, would be appropriate under the circumstances of the case, then, a revision was really necessary.
We think that the criticism of learned counsel for the workmen that the Tribunal committed an error at this stage in merely holding that the facts found by it justified a revision and in not proceeding to fix minimum wages on the basis of the other industries in the region, is fully justified.
It is to be noted that there is no mention in the award of the Tribunal that the Company at any stage put forward the case that the Collieries, the Steel Plant, the Cement Factory, and the Aluminjure Company were concerns which were not comparable with the Company.
In fact, in the course of arguments before us, we asked learned counsel for the Company to point out whether such a plea was taken at any stage by the Company and whether evidence was led to show that these concerns were not comparable with the Company.
In fact, the Tribunal also accepted them as being comparable 'and that is why, in its conclusion, the Tribunal held that, in its opinion, it would be appropriate under the circumstances of the case to fix the minimum wage in the Company on the basis of the minimum wage prevailing in other industries in that region.
Having come to this view, it is clear that, to give full effect to the principle laid down by this Court the case of French Motor Car Co.(1), the Tribunal should have proceeded to fix the minimum wage in the Company on the basis of the average minimum wage prevailing in these concerns.
On their basis, it appears to us that there will be full justification for fixing the minimum wage in the Company at Rs.
In this connection, we may take notice of the fact that, in the written statement of the workmen, the minimum wages prevailing in these concerns were (1) [1963] Supp.
