, These are 14 appellants who appeal against their conviction under section 395 of the Indian Penal Code and sentences of 5 years ' rigorous imprisonment and fine of Rs.
Originally 20 persons were tried and convicted for the same offence and received a like sentence.
The police investigated the case and arrested the 20 persons who were accused in the case as being the culprits involved in this incident.
It is not necessary to go into rest of the case or the evidence on which the case of dacoity was established, because dacoity as such is not challenged before us.
In these searches cloth which was undoubtedly stolen at the time of the dacoity was found in their houses.
The High Court, and the Court below drew from this the conclusion that the appellants were themselves the dacoits, and convicted them accordingly under section 395 of the Indian Penal Code and sentenced them to ' 5 years ' rigorous imprisonment and fine of Rs.
In this appeal, the only contention raised by Mr. A. section R. Chari is that the presumption that they were dacoits ought not to have been drawn since the circumstances do not admit the drawing of such a presumption in the case, According to Mr. Chari, the presumption to be drawn ought to have been one under section 41 1 722 of Indian Penal Code or at the most tinder section 412 of the Indian Penal Code but not of complicity in the crime of dacoity.
He contends that the circumstances under which the one presumption or the other may be drawn under section 114 of the have not been stated by law and therefore it is necessary always to start with the lesser presumption and draw the higher presumption only when there is some other evidence to show the complicity of the persons in the crime itself.
According to him there is no other evidence in the case which points, to the complicity of the 14 appellants in the crime of dacoity and therefore as they cannot be suspected to be dacoits themselves, the only presumption to be drawn is one of receivers of stolen property or as receivers of property which was stolen in a dacoity.
If there is other evidence, to connect an accused with the crime itself, however small, the finding of the stolen property with him is a piece of evidence which connects him further with the crime.
It is only when the accused cannot be connected with the crime except by reason of possession of the fruits of crime that the presumption may be drawn.
In what circumstances the one presumption or the other may be drawn, it is not necessary to state categorically in this case.
