1951 of 1975 is directed against the award of the Industrial Tribunal Gujarat, dated September 24, 1975, in the dispute between the Alembic Glass Industries Ltd., Baroda, and its workmen, while appeal No.
Speaking broadly, the dispute in both cases related to the workmen 's demand for 10 days sick leave, with retrospective effect, and ,its accumulation over a period of three years i.e. upto 30 days.
The workmen particularly felt aggrieved because by virtue of the first proviso to section 49 of the , hereinafter referred to as the Act, they were not entitled to the sickness benefit for the first two days of sickness except in the case of a, spell of sickness following, at an interval of not more than 15 days, the spell of sickness for which sickness benefit was last paid.
In the case of the Alembic Glass Industries Ltd., it was contended that the Act provided more than adequate sickness benefits, and any additional 82 benefit would place unproductive financial burden on the industry and would have an all round adverse effect on other industries.
It was also pointed out that the benefit of sick.leave of 7 days per year was initially given to the workmen under an award dated August 29, 1958 which contained a specific direction that it would be automatically discon tinued when the benefits of the Employees ' State Insurance scheme would become available to the workmen, and also that the reasonableness of the demand could not be examined by the Tribunal.
An objection was also taken that the workmen had benefited a lot under the entire scheme of the Act and it would not be reasonable and proper to confer any addi tional benefit as the demands would place a heavy financial burden on the Company which it Could not bear.
The Tribunal, inter alia, awarded 7 days sick leave with full pay and dearness allowance to the workmen of that Company in a year, with the facility of accumulation upto 21 days.
It was stated before the Tribunal, on behalf of the workmen of Jyoti Ltd., that the arguments advanced and the contentions made in the case of the Alembic Glass industries may be considered as those made in their case also.
The award was on the lines of the earlier award in the case of the Alembic Glass Indus tries case, except .that the direction regarding 7 days sick leave was given retrospective effect from January 1, 1975.
The controversy in these cases is whether the benefits admissible under the Act in the matter of the grant of sick leave are such as to justify the rejection of the workmen 's demand and the setting aside of the Tribunal 's awards in that respect.
It has been argued by the learned counsel for the appel lants that as the benefits of sections 47 and 49 of the Act are already admissible to workmen in Baroda with effect from December 14, 1969, and they are quite adequate, the Tribunal committed an error 83 of law in granting the additional benefits mentioned above.
Reference in this connection has been made to section 61 of the Act which provides that when a person is entitled to any of the benefits provided by the Act, he shall not be enti tled to receive any similar benefit admissible under the provisions of any other enactment.
That this Act has been applied, to the Company and that the workmen of the Company get the benefit of this Act is not disputed.
It is difficult to see however how the benefit that the workmen will get under this Act can affect the question of sickness leave being provided for the workmen.
