About three months before the occurrence the deceased gave birth to a female child in the house of the accused at Cherlopalle.
The accused used to visit his wife and often used to stay in the house of the deceased 's mother.
After about one and a half months the, accused asked his mother in law and brother in law to send his wife to his place.
On 18th December, 1972, according to the case of the prosecution the accused once again requested his mother in law to send his wife to his house.
The accused and P. W. 8 went away.
That evening the accused again came to the house of his mother in law.
The accused, the deceased, her brother P.W.
On waking up they saw the accused sitting by the side of the deceased with a knife in his hand.
When the Police officers went to the village, they 366 found the accused tied to a pole.
P. W. 13 the Medical officer who examined the accused found several abrasions and contusions on the person of the accused.
In the Committing Court the accused was content with a bare denial but in the Court of Sessions he stated that he went to the house of his mother in law at about 10 p.m. On 18th December, 1972.
1 and the accused.
He referred to the evidence of me Doctor who stated that the injury found on the deceased could have been caused even if she was standing.
The learned Sessions Judge thought that when there were two divergent versions given by the prosecution and the defence and when two views were possible, the benefit of doubt should be given to the accused.
He, therefore, acquitted the accused.
The High Court observed that the learned Sessions Judge had magnified the importance to be attached to minor discrepancies.
The High Court also concluded from the medical evidence that it was more probable that the deceased was stabbed when she was lying down.
4 and 5 who came to the scene soon afterwards, the High Court convicted the accused under Section 302 and sentenced him as aforesaid.
In this appeal the learned Counsel for the appellant argued that the accused had no motive to kill his wife and that his version was more probable than the version of the prosecution.
13 the Medical officer in respect of the injuries which he found on the person of the accused.
He urged that at the reasons given by the learned Sessions Judge had not been met by the High Court.
He also contended that two views were possible on the evidence and the accused was entitled to the benefit of doubt.
We have perused the relevant evidence as well as the judgments of the Sessions Judge and the High Court.
The High Court was well justified in commenting that the discrepancies on the basis of which the Trial Court rejected the evidence of P. Ws.
The High Court was also right in holding that the medical evidence supported the prosecution version and not the defence version.
Merely because the Medical Officer stated that the victim could have received the injury if she was standing, it did not follow that the injury could have been received in the circumstances mentioned by the accused.
According to the accused the deceased received the injury when she placed herself between P. W. 1 and himself.
We do not think that an injury of the nature received by the deceased could have been caused in the manner suggested by the accused.
It is true that the accused did not have any deep motive to kill the deceased.
3, an old woman of 69 years, stated in her evidence that she saw the accused who was sitting by the side of the deceased on the cot make a gesture as if he was stabbing the deceased and that the deceased cried out 'Amma. '
In cross examination she stated that she did not remember if she had told the Police that the accused made a gesture as if he was stabbing the deceased.
The Inspector of Police P. W. 15, however, stated that P. W. 3 did not state before him that she saw the accused making a gesture as if he was stabbing the deceased.
