This appeal by special leave has been preferred by Tata Consultancy Engineers against an award dated 20th December, 1978 of the Industrial Tribunal, Maharashtra, Bombay revising the wage scales of certain categories of employees and granting various other benefits.
170 The Union filed a statement before the Tribunal claiming an upward revision of the wage scales and dearness allowance and an increase from fifteen years to twenty years in the span for earning annual increments.
The claim of the Union was resisted by the appellant, who maintained that the existing wage scales were fair and reasonable on a region cum industry basis and that it would not be possible for the appellant to bear the additional financial burden if the demands of the Union were accepted.
Nothing those facts, the Tribunal observed that compared with the increased paying capacity of the appellant, an inference drawn from the prosperity enjoyed by the appellant over the years, there was definite need for revising the wage scales.
In proceeding to revise the wage structure the Tribunal took into account the two principles involved in the process, the financial capacity of the industry to bear the burden of an increased wage bill, and the prevailing wage structure on an industry cum region basis.
Wage scale statements were filed by the parties before the Tribunal pertaining to several engineering consultancy organisations but in the absence of pertinent information concerning the strength of their labour force, the extent of their business, the financial position for some years, the capital invested, the precise nature of the business, the position regarding reserves, dividends declared and future prospects of the company, the Tribunal found that it was unable to rely on them as comparable concerns.
The Tribunal took note of the elaborate scales of wages already existing in the wage structure of the appellant and decided "to modify the existing structure of the scales with flat increases in each category. "
But it rejected the demand of the Union for dearness allowance on the basis of a slab system, because that would have imposed an unacceptable burden on the appellant 's financial capacity and there was no reason why the existing scheme of dearness allowance should be disturbed when a substantial increase was being made in the level of the basic wage.
Taking into account the circumstance that besides the staff of 306 workmen represented by the Union there were several other employees who would also have to be paid, the Tribunal considered it fair, in paragraph 23 of the award, to give a flat increase of Rs.
150/ in the category of Draughtsmen and Rs.
The Tribunal also noted that after the salaries of the employees had been fixed in the respective scales, senior employees would have to be given some more increments in the new scales according to their completed years of service.
Taking all these factors into consideration, it made an award dated 20th December, 1978 prescribing the following revision in the existing scales of wages: Grade & Category Existing Grade/ Revised Grade/ Scale Scale I Peon/Helper/ Rs.
The Tribunal maintained the existing schemes of dearness allowance and house rent allowance, and observed that in view of the revised basic wages there would be a resultant increase in the dearness allowance and house rent allowance.
173 Two days after the award was made, an application was made by the Union stating: "In the said award, your Honour has observed, at the end of para 22, "In view of the increase that is being allowed in the basic pay, I do not propose to revise the existing scheme of Dearness Allowance. "
Further, it appears that the Tribunal intended to grant the increase of Rs.
150/ to each draughtsman and Rs.
On the same date, the Tribunal disposed of the application by the following order: "There can be no doubt that a flat increase of Rs.
100/ to each employee in the other categories has been granted under my award.
23, but it appears that the words "to each employee" after the figure "Rs.
When the award is sent for publication, a necessary corrigendum be made in the award and the aforesaid words after the figures Rs.
150/ and Rs.
to grant flat increase of Rs.
150/ and of Rs.
100/ to the employees in the category of Draftsmen and the other categories respectively that a burden statement was called for from the company and the same was submitted (vide exhibit C 51).
The fitment has also to be done only after the flat increase is added to the present basic salary of each employee.
One is the retrospectivity attached to the revised wage scales, and the other is the flat increase given to each 174 employee of Rs.
150/ in the category of Draughtsmen and Rs.
Considering the appeal of Tata Consulting Engineers first, the contention of learned counsel for the appellant is that having regard to the financial capacity of the appellant the Tribunal erred in making the wage scales retrospective and, in any event, in ranging the retrospectivity back to 1st January, 1976.
The cost of living had gone on increasing from 1972 onwards and, as the Tribunal has found, the dearness allowance and house rent allowance made no appreciable impact in neutralising the increasing cost.
The terms of reference in the State Government 's order required the Tribunal to revise the scales of pay and dearness allowance, and there was no mention of giving any ad hoc increase in the basic pay of individual workman.
It is to the task of revising the pay scales that the Tribunal addressed itself, and throughout the material part of the award it is that task which held its focussed attention.
For the purpose of restructuring the pay scales the Tribunal ruled on the paying capacity of the appellant, both with reference to the profits of the preceding year as well as the prospects of the future.
A clear statement of its intention is found in paragraph 22 of the award, where the Tribunal stated: "I only propose to modify the existing structures of the scales with flat increases in each category."
And that is confirmed by what was stated in paragraph 23 of the award: "Considering this outgoing the flat increase of Rs.
It will be noted that the pay scales of different categories were being restructured, and the flat increase envisaged there related to an increase in the general pay scales of different categories.
That the increase was pertinent to the general pay scales in the revised wage structure is patently clear from a comparison of the existing pay scales and the revised pay scales.
The revised pay scales of all categories, except the category of Draughtsmen, shows an increase of Rs.
100/ in the initial pay fixed in each scale, the increase in the case of the category of Draughtsmen being Rs.
There was only one increase contemplated in the award, in paragraph 23 of award, and it is more than plain that the increase was the one incorporated in the revised pay scales pertaining to different categories.
If, as the Tribunal has stated in the amendment order, the increase in paragraph 23 was intended to apply to each individual workmen, there is nothing in the body of the award to form the foundation on which the actual figures in the restructured pay scales can be made to rest.
There will be no explanation why the initial start of the revised pay scales has been increased by Rs.
150/ in the case of the category of Draughtsmen and Rs.
Considering the fitment of the workman in the revised scales, it was stated in the award that a workman found drawing a salary less than the beginning of the grade would be stepped up to the beginning of the grade and if his pay fell between two steps in the reclassified pay scales the basic pay was to be fixed at the step higher in the revised scale.
Even when considering the range of permissible retrospectivity the Tribunal stated in the award: "In view of the revision of the wage scales, there would be consequent increase in the dearness allowance and the house rent allowance. "
177 And the clinching circumstances of all is that the award was made on the basis that the overall financial load according to paragraph 33 of the award would be to the tune of about Rs.
It was that figure which the Tribunal had in mind against the backdrop of the gross annual figures when it made the revised pay scales retrospective from 1st January, 1976.
This liability taken with the liability accruing on the need to increase the salaries of the other staff determined the Tribunal 's deliberations in regard to the several features of the award, including the grant of increments related to completed periods of service, the expansion of the span from 15 years to 20 years for earning increments, and other benefits.
5 lakhs mentioned in paragraph 33 of the award represented the result of adding a flat increase to the pay of each workman in addition to the benefits conferred by the revised pay scales and other awarded reliefs.
In its order of 22nd December, 1978, the Tribunal has referred to the statement (Exhibit C 51) filed by the appellant when called upon to indicate the increased financial burden apprehended by it.
The Tribunal has relied on this statement as evidence showing that the appellant knew that a flat increase of Rs.
150/ and Rs.
100/ was added to the pay of every other workman, who belonged to the Union staff, the financial load would increase to Rs.
100/ was given to individual workmen of all categories, including Draughtsmen, the increased financial load would total Rs.
The statement then goes on to indicate that if a flat increase of Rs.
75/ per month were given to individual workmen of all categories the total increase would be Rs.
Again, if the flat increase is Rs.
These statements cannot be regarded as evidence 178 that the appellant was cognizant of the intention of the Tribunal to provide a flat increase to the pay of each workman.
