These appeals by special leave involve the question of the legality of the demand for Property tax made by respondent 1 on the appellant Companies.
Respondent 1 is the Special Area Development Authority, Korba, District Bilaspur, M.P., respondent 2 is its Chairman and respondent 3 is the State of Madhya Pradesh.
The appellant, Bharat Aluminium Company Ltd., is a Government Company incorporated under the , the entire share capital being owned by the Government of India.
Respondent 1, the Special Area Development Authority for the Korba Special Area, is constituted under section 65 of the Madhya Pradesh Nagar Tatha Gram Nivesh Adhiniyam (23 of 1973), referred to hereinafter as 'the Act of 1973 '.
That Act was passed by the Madhya Pradesh Legislature in order "to make provision for planning and development and use of land; to make better provision for the preparation of development plans and zoning plans with a view to ensuring that town planning schemes are made in a proper manner and their execution is made effective; to constitute Town 7 and Country Planning Authority for proper implementation of town and country development plan; to provide for the development and administration of special areas through Special Area Development Authority; to make provision for the compulsory acquisition of land required for the purpose of the development plans and for purposes connected with the matters aforesaid".
Chapter VIII of the Act, consisting of sections 64 to 71, is entitled "Special Areas".
Section 64 empowers the State Government to declare any area as a special area by issuing a notification.
Section 55 provides that for every Special Area there shall be a Special Area Development Authority consisting of a Chairman and such other members as the Government may determine from time to time.
Section 68, which prescribes the functions of the Development Authority, lays down by clauses (v) and (vi) that the Development Authority shall make provision for the municipal services and municipal management of the Special Area.
Section 69, by clauses (c) and (d), confers upon the Development Authority powers for the purpose of municipal administration and for the purpose of taxation.
These two clauses of section 69 and clauses (v) and (vi) of section 68 were inserted in their present shape by Ordinance 26 of 1975 which came into force on February 27, 1976.
Section 69(d) of the Act of 1973 reads thus: "69.
Powers: The Special Area Development Authority shall (d) for the purpose of taxation have the powers which is municipal corporation or a municipal council has, as the case may be, under the Madhya Pradesh Municipal Corporation Act, 1956 (No.
23 of 1956) or the Madhya Pradesh Municipalities Act, 1961 (No.
37 of 1961), (a) where the municipal corporation of municipal council existed in such area prior to its designation as special area under section 64, according to the municipal law by which such special area was governed, and (b) where no municipal corporation or municipal council existed in such area prior to its designation as special area under section 64, according to such of the aforesaid Acts as the State Government may direct."
Since there was no Municipal Corporation or Municipal Council in the Korba Special Area prior to the constitution of the Development Authority, the Government was required under sub clause (b) above to direct whether the Madhya Pradesh Municipal Corporation Act, 1956, or the Madhya Pradesh Municipalities Act, 1961, shall apply to the Korba Special Area for the purposes of clauses (v) and (vi) of section 68 and clauses (c) and (d) of section 69.
Such a direction was first issued by Notification dated January 28, 1976 published in the Government Gazette, dated February 27, 1976 by which the Development Authority, Korba, was directed to exercise the powers and perform the functions of a Class I Municipality constituted under the Madhya Pradesh Municipality Act, 1961.
By another Notification, dated March 15, 1977, published in Government Gazette, dated July 15, 1977, the Development Authority, Korba, was directed under the aforesaid clauses of sections 68 and 69 to exercise the powers and perform the functions under the Madhya Pradesh Municipal Corporation Act, 1956.
Section 127(1)(i) of the Madhya Pradesh Municipalities Act, 1961 empowers a municipal council to impose, in the whole or any part of the municipality, "a tax payable by the owners of houses, buildings or lands situated within the limits of Municipality with reference to annual letting value of the house, building or land called property tax".
The corresponding provision in the Madhya Pradesh Municipal Corporation Act, 1956 is section 132 (1)(a).
It says that "the Corporation shall impose a tax payable by the owners of buildings or lands situated within the city with reference to the gross annual letting value of the building or land called the property tax".
The procedure for imposition of taxes is contained in section 129 of the Municipalities Act and section 133 of the Municipal Corporation Act.
In 1964, the Madhya Pradesh State Legislature had enacted the Madhya Pradesh Nagariya Sthawar Sampatti Kar Adhiniyam, which was made applicable to the whole State, including the urban areas.
By section 36 of the aforesaid Adhiniyam, local authorities were prohibited from recovering the property tax from November 24, 1970.
To compensate the municipal councils and the municipal corporations for the loss arising from the abolition of the octroi tax, the Government decided to confer powers on these bodies for levying property tax.
For conferring powers to levy tax on the entry of goods in place of octroi tax, the Madhya Pradesh Sthaniya Kshetra Me Mal Ke Pravesh Par Kar Adhyadesh, 1976 (6 of 1976) was promulgated.
For conferring powers to levy property tax, Ordinance No.
4 of 1976 inserted certain provisions in the Municipalities Act and the Municipal Corporation Act.
By section 1(2) of that Act, the provisions inserted in the Municipalities Act and the Municipal Corporation Act, with which we are concerned, were deemed to have come into force with effect from April 1, 1976.
Section 127A which was inserted in the Municipalities Act for imposition of property tax reads as follows, in so far as relevant: "127A.
(1) Notwithstanding anything contained in this chapter, as and from the financial year 1976 77, there shall be charged, levied and paid for each financial year a tax on the lands or buildings or both situate in a municipality other than class IV municipality at the rate specified in the table below: (i) where the annual letting 6 per centum value exceeds Rs.
24,000 letting value (2) The property tax levied under sub section (1) shall not be leviable in respect of the following properties, namely: 10 (a) building and lands owned by or vesting in (i) the Union Government; (ii) the State Government; (iii)the Council. "
Similar provisions were inserted in sections 135 and 136 of the Municipal Corporation Act.
On June 24, 1976, respondent 1 (the Special Area Development Authority, Korba) entered into an agreement with the appellant Company under which the Company agreed to contribute a sum of Rupees three lakhs annually to the "seed capital" of the Authority in consideration of the Authority agreeing not to exercise its power of taxation or of levying any other charges on the assets and activities of the Company under the Act of 1973 as amended from time to time or under any other Act or notification.
In the same year, the Company was called upon by the Sales Tax authorities to pay the tax on entry of goods which was introduced in substitution of the octroi tax.
While the Company was pursuing that matter with the State Government, contending that it was not liable to pay the entry tax by reason of the aforesaid agreement, on January 4, 1977 respondent 1 made a further demand of Rs.
By a notice issued under section 65 of the Act of 1973 on February 21,1977 and by another notice issued under section 164(3) of the Madhya Pradesh Municipalities Act 1961 on April 15, 1977, the Chief Executive Officer of respondent 1 called upon the Company to pay a sum of Rs.
11 The appellant Company disputed its liability to pay the aforesaid amounts on the grounds, principally, that no tax was leviable on its property since the Company was owned wholly by the Government of India and that respondent 1 was estopped from levying the property tax by reason of the agreement of 1976.
That Company has been called upon by respondent 1 to pay property tax for the years 1976 77 and 1977 78 in the sum of Rs.
13211 of 1979 and 3767 of 1980 are for intervention by the Jammu and Kashmir State Agro Industries Corporation Ltd. and the Delhi Municipal Corporation respectively.
105 of 1979 that the Delhi Municipal Corporation has the power to levy property tax on the property of the Jammu and Kashmir State Agro Industries Corporation Ltd., whose share capital is owned by the State of Jammu and Kashmir and the Union of India in the proportion of 51% and 49% respectively.
10688 of 1979 filed against the judgment, the question raised is whether the property of a public corporation owned wholly by the State Government and the Union Government is exempt from taxes by reason of articles 285 and 289 of the Constitution.
The first contention of the learned Attorney General is that respondent I can exercise only such powers to levy property tax as the Municipal Corporation or the Municipal Council had under the Madhya Pradesh Municipalities Corporation Act, 1956, or the Madhya Pradesh Municipalities Act, 1961, as these Acts stood on 12 February 27, 1976, when clause (d) was inserted in its present form in section 69 of the Act of 1973.
It is urged that the provisions conferring powers of taxation under the aforesaid two Acts must be taken to have been incorporated in section 69(d) of the Act of 1973 and any subsequent change in those provisions by amendment of the two Acts cannot be availed of by respondent 1.
Section 127A and section 135 which, by their own force, create and levy the charge of property tax were inserted in the Municipalities Act and the Municipal Corporation Act respectively with effect from April 1, 1976, that is, subsequent to the insertion of clause (d) in section 69 of the Act of 1973.
Relying on this, it is argued that respondent 1 was incompetent to exercise the powers of the Municipality or the Municipal Corporation under section 127A of the Municipalities Act or section 135 of the Municipal Corporation Act.
The answer to this contention will depend mainly upon whether the provisions of the Municipalities Act and the Municipal Corporation Act were incorporated into the Act of 1973 by its section 69(d).
In other words, the incorporating Act does nothing more than borrow certain provisions of an existing Act and instead of setting out, verbatim, those provisions in its own creation, refers to them as a matter of convenience in the mode of drafting.
Likewise, logically, where certain provisions from an existing Act have been incorporated into a subsequent Act, no addition to the former Act, which is not expressly made applicable to the subsequent Act, 13 can be deemed to be incorporated in it.
In the case last cited, the Privy Council qualified its statement of the law by saying that the principle, that an amendment of the first law which is not expressly made applicable to the subsequent incorporating Act cannot be deemed to be incorporated into the second Act, applies "if it is possible for the subsequent Act to function effectually without the addition" (page 267).
Finally, in State of Madhya Pradesh vs M. V. Narasimhan this Court held, after an examination of the relevant decisions, that the broad principle that where a subsequent Act incorporates provisions of a previous Act then the borrowed provisions become an integral and independent part of the subsequent Act and are totally unaffected by any repeal or amendment in the previous Act, is subject to four exceptions, one of which is that the principle will not apply to cases "where the subsequent Act and the previous Act are supplemental to each other".
Applying these principles, we are of the opinion that in the instant case, subsequent amendments made to the Municipal Corporation Act and the Municipalities Act will also apply to the power of taxation provided for in section 69(d) of the Act of 1973.
The Act of 1973 did not, by section 69(d), incorporate in its true signification any particular provision of the two earlier Acts.
It provides that, for the purpose of taxation, the Special Area Development Authority shall have the powers which a Municipal Corporation or a Municipal Council has under the Madhya Pradesh Municipal Corporation Act, 1956 or the Madhya Pradesh Municipalities Act, 1961.
The case therefore is not one of incorporation but of mere reference to the powers conferred by the earlier Acts.
14 Section 69(d) of the Act of 1973 must accordingly be read to mean that respondent 1 shall have all the powers of taxation which a Municipal Corporation or a Municipal Council has for the time being, that is to say, at the time when respondent 1 seeks to exercise those powers.
The Act of 1973 does not provide for any independent power of taxation or any machinery of its own for exercising the power of taxation.
It rests content by pointing its finger to the provisions contained in the two Municipal Acts.
The three Acts are therefore supplemental, from which it must follow that amendments made to the earlier Acts after the enactment of section 69(d) shall have to be read into that section.
