A report described as "All the Friend 's report" was duly sent to the appellant with regard to that proposal; and all the preliminaries were completed and it was further alleged that the deceased was assured and told by the local agent and the Field officer of the Corporation that the payment of the first premium would amount to the acceptance of the proposal and advised the deceased to pay the first premium in full.
It was, further, stated that the said two cheques were encashed and the appellant had duly appropriated the amount and credited in the accounts towards the premium payable by the deceased.
Therefore, it was stated that the deceased had fulfilled his part of the insurance contract and the appellant Corporation by its overt acts of encashing the cheques and crediting the amounts in its accounts accepted the proposal of the deceased.
In the premises it was said in the plaint that there was a concluded and valid insurance contract between the deceased and the appellant Corporation and that the insurance contracted commenced on 11th January, 1961 being the date of the receipt of the balance towards premium by the Corporation.
It was further stated in the plaint that the office of the Divisional Manager of Masulipatam was the concerned authority to settle the claim of the plaintiffs respondents and to pay the amount.
The contention of the Corporation that the proposal was not accepted and as such there was no concluded insurance contract between the deceased and the Corporation, was untenable, according to the plaintiffs.
It was alleged that with full knowledge of the completion of all the preliminaries, the Corporation had encashed the cheques issued towards the first premium and therefore it was the case of the plaintiffs respondents that the encashment of the cheques amounted in those circumstances in law to an acceptance of the proposal of the deceased.
It was further alleged that the appropriation of the amounts by the Corporation towards the first premium by the deceased was only consistent with the acceptance of the proposal.
The case of the plaintiffs further was that in this case the first premium was not only received by the Corporation completely on 11th January, 1961 but it was also appropriated by it in its accounts and the said premium amount 354 was received by the Corporation without any demur or qualification and that in any event the Corporation must be deemed to have waived by its conduct the formality, if any, of sending communication of its acceptance of the proposal.
In the said written statement, after setting out the facts, it was denied that the payment of the first premium amounted to acceptance of the proposal and the allegation about the assurance given to the deceased as alleged in the plaint was not true nor the alleged assurance if any, valid under law.
It was, further stated that the two cheques were not encashed and credited towards the premium account of the proposal but these were kept only in deposit in suspense account without any liability of the appellant.
It was further stated that the averments in the plaint that the defendant Corporation cashed the above two cheques and appropriated the amounts and credited these in the account towards premium payable for the proposal were false.
It was stated that on the death of the deceased, the amount covering two cheques were lying in the deposit and in the suspense account of the Corporation and was not adjusted towards the premium since the proposal was not considered, the terms of acceptance was not fixed and the premium amount required for the proposal was not calculated.
It is not necessary to set out in detail those issues but the important and main issue was whether there was a concluded valid insurance contract between the deceased and the Life Insurance Corporation of India.
In his deposition, he had stated that the Divisional Manager was the competent authority for accepting the proposal for Rs.
There was no communication from the Divisional office to the Branch officer accepting the proposal.
He, further, stated that the amount would be transferred into the first premium register after the proposal was accepted and the risk covered.
