In exercise of its powers under section 63(7) of the , the Central Government specified 50 as the number of 'All India Tourist Vehicle Permits ' which may be granted by the Karnataka State Transport Authority.
By the time the proviso came into force, 36 permits had been granted by the Karnataka State Transport Authority and 14 remained to be granted.
By an order dated February 1, 1984, the Supreme Court directed the Karnataka State Transport Authority to dispose of these applications.
The State Transport Authority, by its proceedings dated April 30, 1984, granted 11 out of the 14 permits to the Karnataka State Tourism Development Corporation, one permit to the Indian Tourism Development Corporation and two permits to the Karnataka State Road Transport Corporation.
A number of appeals were preferred to the Karnataka State Transport Appellate Tribunal.
The Tribunal by its order dated February 28, 1985 set aside the grant of the two permits in favour of the Karnataka State Road Transport Corporation, set aside the grant of three out of eleven permits to the Karnataka State Tourism Development Corporation and instead granted three permits to private operators and increased the number of permits granted to the Indian Tourism Development Corporation from one to three.
The Tribunal took the view that having regard to the rule of preference enunciated by the proviso to section 63(7), the applications from the 'non preferred ' category had to be excluded as the number of applications from the applicants who were required to be given preference exceeded the number of permits to be granted.
It was on that ground that the grant of two permits to the Karnataka State Road Transport Corporation was set aside, though the Appellate Tribunal had no doubt regarding the resources and ability of that corporation to operate the tourist services.
It was on that ground again, it was so stated by the Tribunal, that some of the appellants 1012 before the Tribunal had to be denied the grant of permits though otherwise they would have been entitled to the grant of permits having regard to their expertise, experience and resources.
The writ petitions were rejected by the High Court on the ground that the preference contemplated by the proviso to section 63(7) contemplated exclusion of the 'non preferred ' class if sufficient number of applicants from the preferred classes were available.
The decision of this Court in Sher Singh vs Union of India, ; was distinguished on the ground that in that case the court interpreted the word 'preference ' occurring in section 47(1 H) in the back ground of the provisions of Chapters IV and IV A of the Act, under the former of which the State Transport Undertaking would have preference whereas under the latter the State Transport Undertaking would have a monopoly.
The Karnataka State Road Transport Corporation, the Karnataka State Tourism Development Corporation and some other private operators have filed these appeals by special leave of this Court under article 136 of the Constitution.
Shri Shanti Bhushan, learned counsel for the Karnataka State Road Transport Corporation, Dr. Chitley, learned counsel for some of the private operators, Shri Datar, learned counsel for the Karnataka State Tourism Development Corporation, Shri Sampat and Shri Javali, learned counsel for other private operators submitted that the State Transport Appellate Tribunal and the High Court were wrong in distinguishing the decision of this court in Sher Singh 's case and that the true position was that on a correct interpretation of the proviso to sec.
Vaidyanathan, learned counsel for some of the preferred private operators urged that the view taken by the High Court and the State Transport Appellate Tribunal was correct and that the fourth sub clause of the proviso to section 63(7) did not offend article 14 of the Constitution.
section 2(33) defines a "transport vehicle" as meaning a "public service vehicle or a goods vehicle".
A "public service vehicle" is defined in section 2(25) as "any motor vehicle used or adapted to be used for the carriage of passengers for hire or reward, and includes a motor cab, contract carriage, and stage carriage".
A "motor car" is defined in section 2(16) as "any motor vehicle other than a transport vehicle, 1013 omni bus, road roller, tractor, motor cycle or invalid carriage".
"Tourist vehicle" is defined by section 2(29 A) as "a contract carriage constructed or adapted and equipped and maintained in accordance with such specifications as the State Government may, by notification in the Official Gazette, specify in this behalf".
Section 42 prescribes permits for the use of a transport vehicle in any public place.
Sections 46, 47 and 48 deal with the grant of stage carriage permits.
Section 47(1) prescribes the matters to be taken into consideration in granting stage carriage permits and the first consideration, naturally, is "the interest of the public generally. "
The proviso to section 47(1) prescribes that, other things being equal, a registered cooperative society and a person possessing a licence for driving transport vehicles shall be given preference over individual owners in granting stage carriage permits.
Section 47(1 A) enables the State Government to reserve a certain percentage of stage carriage permits for the Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes.
Section 47(1 C) enables the State Government to reserve a certain percentage of stage carriage permits to persons belonging to economically weaker sections of the community.
