Both these challenge the order of detention dated 2nd January, 1986 passed by the respondent no.1.
On or about 2nd January, 1985 the order of detention was passed on an incident relating to the exchange of fire between two rival groups.
Case No.
Case No.
Case No.
Case No.
Case No.
It is the case of the detenu that the order of detention was made on one incident relating to exchange of fire between two rival groups.
The order of detention though dated 2nd January, 1986 was served on or about 11th January, 1986.
The detenu was served with order of approval of the said order of detention by the Government of Bihar.
By letter dated 22nd February, 1986 the petitioner/appellant was informed that the Advisory Board had confirmed the order of detention.
The petitioner/ appellant was in detention when the petitioner/appellant was served with the order of detention.
There were criminal cases against the petitioner.
In the said case investigation was in progress and the defence of the petitioner in the murder case was that he was falsely implicated and was not at all concerned with the murder.
When the order was passed, the petitioner had not surrendered but when the order was served, the petitioner had already surrendered in respect of the criminal charge against him.
910 It is the contention of the petitioner/appellant that the order of preventive detention could only be justified against a person in detention if the detaining authority was satisfied that his release from detention was imminent and the order of detention was necessary for putting him back in jail.
The service of order of detention on the petitioner while he was in jail was futile and useless since such an order had no application under section 3(2) of the Act.
It further appears from the affidavit f f the District Magistrate filed before the High Court of Patna that the petitioner was absconding from the very day of the issuance of the detention order.
Hence detention order served in jail. "
According to the District Magistrate when police pressure to apprehend him became heavy, the detenu opted to surrender before the Sub Divisional Judicial Magistrate on 10th January, 1986 in substantive case to frustrate the service of the detention order.
It has been further stated that the service of the detention order had been properly made.
Judged on the basis of 911 the said principles there is no ground for interference with the order of detention as passed.
It, however, appears that after the order of detention was passed and before the actual service of the order of detention, the petitioner was taken into custody.
From the affidavit of the District Magistrate it does not appear that either the prospect of immediate release of the detenu or other factors which can justify the detention of a person in detention were properly considered in the light of the principles noted in the aforesaid decision and especially in the decisions, in Rameshwar Shaw vs District Magistrate, Burdwan & Anr., ; and Ramesh Yadav vs District Magistrate Etah and others, though there was a statement to the effect that the petitioner was in jail and was likely to be enlarged on bail.
