The questions involved before the Allahabad High Court in the reference under section 27(1) of the Act were as follows: (1) Whether, on the facts and in the circumstances of the case, the Tribunal right ly held that the assessee did not make valid gifts aggregating Rs.
(2) Whether, on the facts and in the circumstances of the case, the Tribunal right ly held that the assessee did not validly assign Rs.
(4) Whether, on the facts and in the circumstances of the case, the Tribunal right ly held that the assessee did not make valid gifts aggregating Rs.67,560/ (5) Whether, on the facts and in the circumstances of the case, the Tribunal right ly held that the sum of Rs.67,560/12/ was rightly included in the net wealth of the assessee?
On that day, the assessee had addressed a letter to the Company stating that he had decided to gift away for love and affection various sums to the following persons: 125 Ved Prakash Gupta .
On the same day i.e. on ist January, 1957, Om Parkash Gupta wrote to the assessee, his father, thanking him for the gift of Rs.25,000 made in his favour and the gift of Rs.50,000 in favour of his son Pravin.
A similar letter was written by Ved Prakesh thanking the assessee, his father, for the gift of Rs.25,000 made to him and Rs.50,000 gifted to his son.
1,50,000 was validly gifted by him to his sons and grand sons and hence the amounts had been wrongly included in his net wealth by the Income Tax Officer and the Appellate Assistant Commissioner.
It was his contention that Tika Ram & Sons carried on the business of banking and hence the gifts were valid.
The main question therefore that falls for consid eration is whether gifts in question made by transfer en tries in the books of debtor company were valid gifts even though the debtor company was not carrying on business of banking and had no cash in hand for the amount in question on that date.
Section 123 of the said Act deals with how transfers are effected and stipulates, inter alia, that for the purpose of making a gift of movable property as in this case, the transfer must be effected either by a registered instrument signed by the donor and attested or by delivery.
The assessee claimed to have gifted the said amounts by transfer entries in the books of M/s Pearls & Beads on 30th March, 1957.
The Tribunal held that there was no valid gifts.
The High Court in view of the decision of the Division Bench of the Allahabad High Court in the case of Gopal Raj Swarup vs Commissioner of Wealth tax, Lucknow, answered the first question in the negative and so far as the second question is concerned, it declined to answer as it did not arise in view of the answer given to the first question and the questions Nos.
In case of entries in the books of ac count by credit and debit, the sums should be available on the date of gift in the account of the firm whose accounts are said to be credited or debited.
In the case of banking companies or other firms and companies who have overdraft facilities, even if the sums are not in credit of the donor and are not with such companies or firms, gifts might be possible by adjustment of the book entries.
But in the cases of non banking companies or firms, if these companies or firms do not have overdraft facilities, it is not possible to make valid gift if sums or funds are not available.
It is possible in certain circumstances for a donor to make a valid gift by instructing a firm or a company or a H.U.F.
in which the donor has an account to give effect to the gift by debiting his account and crediting the account in the name of the donee.
The circumstances must be such as to make it clear that there were sufficient funds at the disposal of the donor by reason of which he could make the gift by such book entries.
This position of law has been referred to and reiterated by the Bench decision of the Delhi High Court in the case of India Glass Agency vs Com missioner of Income Tax, New Delhi, Justice Ranganathan of the Delhi High Court after referring to several authorities has observed that book entries may be sufficient only when circumstances make it clear that the gift was genuine and the firms where accounts transfer are effected must have sufficient cash in hand or sufficient provision for overdraft facility upon the basis of which it would honour the instructions given by the assessee.
The assessee must also have sufficient credit balance to enable him to make the gift.
Reference may also be made for this proposition to the decision of the Delhi High Court in New India Colour Co. vs Commissioner of Income:Tax, New Delhi, The effect of the two aforesaid decisions of the learned fudges of the Delhi High Court indicates that in case there was not sufficient cash balance from out of which the amount gifted could be physically given to the donee, more entries in the books of account in the form would not constitute delivery of possession over the gifted property to the donee and gift in such case will not be valid.
in whose accounts gifts are effected have overdraft facilities.
The Calcutta High Court had occasion to discuss this aspect in the case of Commissioner of Income Tax, West Bengal 111 vs Ashok Glass Works, There it was held on facts that the entries had been made contemporane ously showed that the transaction was genuine and there was no suggestion that the interests which were credited in the accounts of the minor donees by the firm which carried on money lending business also were fictitious.
The Tribunal therefore, it was found, tightly held that the gifts were valid and the interest paid in respect of the accounts standing in the name of the donees was allowable as a deduc tion in the hands of the assessee firm.
