It is said that it would be violative of the Constitutional right of "equal pay for equal work".
They will be found correctly stated in the judgment under appeal and may briefly be stated thus: Prior to 1965, in the High Court of Allahabad, Bench Secretaries were on a higher pay scale than that of Section Officers.
The Committee recommended for them a pay scale slightly lower than that of Section Officers.
The High Court suggested "that in view of financial exigencies the Government may grant for the time being pay scale to 10 PG NO 292 Bench Secretaries as admissible to Section Officers. "
The report did not accept the claim of Bench Secretaries for giving them pay scale equal to Section Officers or Private Secretaries.
The following remarks of the Pay Commission would be pertinent: "9 Bench Secretaries (Sakna Suchiv) A memorandum from the Bench Secretaries given to us states that the post which are at present in the scale of Rs.
They have claimed that their duties are equivalent to Private Secretaries of Hon 'ble Judges and have demanded the same pay scale which is given to Private Secretaries and the Section Officers.
The Registrar of the High Court while forwarding the memorandum has suggested that they should also be given the same pay scale which is given to Superintendents i.e. Rs.515 40 715 or to the Section Officers i.e. Rs.350 750.
the pay scale recommended by the Pay Rationalisation Committee, the nature of duties and responsibilities and the fact that every Hon 'ble Judge will have one Private Secretary in the scale of Rs.500 1,000 we feel that the Bench Secretaries cannot be given the same scale of pay which is being given to Superintendents or the Section Officers.
Since the Bench Secretaries are promoted from Upper Division Assistants, they should feel satisfied if they are placed in a scale of pay a little above the Upper Division Assistants.
It will be seen that the Pay Commission refused to equate Bench Secretaries with Section Officers in view of their differential duties.
So far as Bench Secretaries are concerned, the Committee suggested: "(1) For this post the recommendations made by the Pay Commission need not have any amendments.
(2) It should be appropriate for the Bench Secre taries to accept 10 promotional posts in the pay scale of Rs.500 1,000 as recommended by the Pay Commission. "
It however, suggested that ten posts of Bench Secretaries should be upgraded and placed in the pay scale of Rs.500 1,000 The Government accepted that recommendation and issued an order dated July 2,1976 The order inter alia states: Judicial (High Court) Section, Lucknow dated 2nd July, 1976.
395 x 89(M)/74 dated 18th March, 1976 of the Finance (Pay Commission) Section on the above subject, I have been directed to say that the Governor has been pleased to sanc tion the pay scales mentioned in Column 3 to 10 post holders under you mentioned in column 2 in the table given below w.e.f.
Of Scale Permanent Temporary Posts Scale Post Post Posts in higher scale 1.
The basic pay in the pay scale mentioned in aforesaid column 7 of the concerned employee will be fixed according to the guiding principles of para 4 under fundamental rule 22 of the Financial Handbook Part II Volume 2 4 and the appointments in the pay scale of Rs.500 1000 will be made according to seniority subject to unfit.
In this connection, I have also been directed to say that the nomenclature of posts of 10 Bench Secretaries appearing in column 5 of the said table shall be Bench Secretaries Grade I and the nomenclature of rest Bench Secretaries of equal pay scale will be Bench Secretaries Grade II and the posts of Bench Secretaries Grade I and Grade II will be of the same duties and responsibilities.
Sd/ (Ramesh Chandra Deo Sharma) PG NO 295 Joint Secretary" It was then the turn of Bench Secretaries Grade II, They complained that there was no valid reason to give higher pay scale only to ten Bench Secretaries and step motherly treatment to the rest of their colleagues.
Thereunder Bench Secretaries Grade I and Grade II were classified as Class II and Class III posts respectively.
Rule 16 provides that the posts of Bench Secretaries Grade I shall be filled up by promotion from amongst permanent Bench Secretaries Grade II.
The entitlement to higher pay scale of Grade I Bench Secretary was therefore, not on the basis of seniority alone, but on the basis of selection by merit cum seniority.
That Pay Commission also did not disturb the categorisation of Bench Secretaries into Grade I and Grade II.It however, gave marginal benefits by increasing the number of posts of Grade I from 10 per cent to 30 per cent of the total cadre strength.
The reason given by the Pay Commission is as follows: "Bench Secretary 26.38 Fifty two posts of Bench Secretaries are in the pay scale of Rs.400 750 and ten posts in the scale of Rs.500 1,000.
The minimum pay scales of the Bench Secretaries is comparatively higher than the pay scale of Upper Division Assistants though they are appointed through a competitive examination.
We, therefore, recommend: "(1) 30% of the total posts of Bench Secretaries in the pay scale of Rs.770 1000;and (2) Two posts in the scale of Rs.1420 1900 as is admissible to Assistant Secretaries of the Secretariat."
The sheet anchor of their case was that in the same category of posts with similar duties and responsibilities there cannot be two grades with different pay scales.
It would be violative of principles of equal pay for equal work.
As to the Pay Commission recommendations the High observed: "Rejection of petitioner 's demand for equating them PG NO 297 at least with Section Officers by comparing them with absence of administrative control exercised by Section Officer in the Secretariat was ignoring history of Bench Secretaries being a different class both before and after independence and the nature of duties performed by them . "
As to the decision of the Anomalies Committee the High Court remarked: "Curiously enough when Anomaly Committee redressed the wrong by granting pay scale equivalent to Section Officers, it created an artificial division by drawing a line between first ten and others.
