The civil appeal, by speci al leave, and the connected SLP raise an important issue as to the power of the Central Administration Tribun al ("Tribunal") to examine the adequacy of penalty awarded by the competent authority to a Government servant in discipl i nary proceedings.
The respondent moved the High Court of Himachal Prade sh under Article 226 challenging the findings of Inquiry off i cer as well as the order of dismissal passed by the comp e tent authority.
During the pendency of the writ petition, a Bench of the Central Tribunal at Chandigarh was constitut ed under the Administrative Tribunal Act, 1985.
The Tribunal upon consideration of the matter agre ed with the findings recorded by the Inquiry Officer that t he respondent was the master mind behind the scheme to defra ud the project.
This is how the Tribunal dealt with that que s tion: "Lastly, it was argued on behalf of the applicant that t he punishment awarded to him is disproportionate to the gravi ty of the charge proved against him and is in stark contrast to the punishment awarded to his other three colleagues in whose cases, only future increments were stopped, the max i mum being for three years in respect of Shri Sain Ditt a, Clerk.
The question which has to be decided, therefore, is whether the Tribunal has power to modify the penalty award ed to the respondent when the findings recorded as to h is misdemeanour is supported by legal evidence.
Before the Trib u nal was constituted, the Courts were exercising judici al review of administrative decisions in public services.
Secti on 4 of the Act provides for establishment of Central Admini s trative Tribunal as well as State Administrative Tribuna l. It also provides power to constitute Benches of the Centr al Administrative Tribunal.
Sections 5 to 11 deal with t he composition of Tribunals and Benches thereof and terms of office of the Chairman, Vice Chairman and other member section Section 14 provides powers and authority to the Centr al Administrative Tribunal.
Section 15 deals with the simil ar power and authority of the State Administrative Tribuna l. Section 16 refers to the powers of a Joint Administrati ve Tribunal.
Section 22 states that the Tribunal shall not be bound by the procedure laid down in Code of Civil Procedur e, 1908, but shall be guided by the principles of natur al justice and subject to other provisions of the Act and of any Rules made thereunder.
22 requires the Tribunal to deci de every application made to it as expeditiously as possibl e. Ordinarily, the Tribunal shall decide every application on a perusal of documents and written representations and aft er heating such oral arguments as may be advanced.
Section 28 excludes t he jurisdiction of all Courts except the Supreme Court.
Jurisdiction, powers and authority of t he Central Administrative Tribunal: 27 (1) Save as otherwise expressly provided in th is Act, the Central Administrative Tribunal shall exercise, on and from the appointed day, all the jurisdiction, powers a nd authority exercisable immediately before that day by a ll courts (except Supreme Court) in relation to: (a) recruitment, and matters concerning recrui t ment, to any All India Service or to any civil service of the Union or a civil post under the Union or to a po st connected with defence or in the defence services, being in either case, a post filled by a civilian; (b) all service matters concerning Similar are the powers and authority of the State Ser v ice Tribunal under sec.
The expression "all courts" in this connection includ es civil courts and High Court but not the Supreme Court.
The powers of the High Cour ts under Article 226, in so far as they are exercisable in relation to service matters stand conferred on the Tribun al established under the Act.
The powers of other ordina ry civil courts in relation to service matters to try all sui ts of a civil nature excepting suits of which their cognizan ce either expressly or impliedly barred also stand conferred on the Tribunal.
Section 28 excludes the jurisdicti on of courts except the Supreme Court, or any Industrial Trib u nal, Labour Court, concerning service matters.
Section 29 provides for automatic transfer of all pending proceedin gs in the High Court under Articles 226 and 227, relating to service matters (except appeals) to the Tribunal for adjud i cation.
Likewise, suits and other proceedings pending befo re a Court or other authority relating to service matters al so stand transferred to the Tribunal for determination.
The Act thus excludes the jurisdiction, power and a u thority of all Courts except the Supreme Court and confe rs the same on the Tribunal in relation to recruitment a nd service matters.
14, 15, 16, 27, 28 and 29, it becomes apparent that in the case of proceedings transferr ed to the Tribunal from a civil court or High Court, the Trib u nal has the jurisdiction to exercise all the powers whi ch the civil court could in a suit or the High Court in a wr it proceeding could have respectively exercised.
1 9, the Tribunal can exercise any of the powers of a civ il court, or High Court.
The Tribunal thus could exercise on ly such powers which the Civil Court or the High Court cou ld have exercised by way of judicial review.
Because, the Tribunal is just a substitute to t he civil court and High Court.
Mr. Mah a jan, learned counsel for the Central Government urged th at the Tribunal has no powers to interfere with the punishme nt imposed by the disciplinary authority on the ground that it is disproportionate to the proved misdemeanour.
He al so urged that if the enquiry held against the delinquent off i cer was proper with the findings supported by evidence the n, the Tribunal cannot substitute its own judgment to modi fy the punishment awarded.
The Orissa High Court found that the findings on two of the charges were bad being in violation of the principles of natural justice.
