The petitioners in the aforementioned wr it petitions claim to have been appointed as Supervisors Gra de 'A ' in various ordnance factories between 1962 to 1966 a nd have filed these writ petitions with the prayer that t he same relief may be granted to them also as was granted by this Court to 75 appellants in Civil Appeal No.
The three civ il miscellaneous petitions referred to above on the other ha nd have been made by the appellants of Civil Appeal No.
441 of 1981 fil ed a writ petition in the Allahabad High Court in 1972 asser t ing that they had been appointed as Supervisors Grade 'A ' on various dates in pursuance of a circular dated 6th Novembe r, 1962 issued by the Director General of Ordnance Factorie s, the relevant portion whereof reads as hereunder: "Subject: NON INDUSTRIAL ESTABLISHMENT PROMOTION D.G.O.F.
has decided that Diploma holders serving as 97 Supervisor 'A ' (Tech)/Supervisor 'B '/(Tech) and in equiv a lent grades should be treated as follows (i) All those Diploma holders who have been appointed as Supervisor 'B ' (Tech) (and in equivalent grades) should on completion of one year 's satisfactory service in ordnan ce factories be promoted to Supervisor 'A ' (Tech) and in equi v alent grades.)
(ii) All those Diploma holders who work satisfactorily as Supervisor 'A ' (Tech) or in equivalent grades for 2 years in Ordnance Factory should be promoted to Chargeman.
Their grievance in the writ petition was that ev en though quite a large number of Supervisors Grade 'A ' h ad been promoted to the post of Chargeman grade II on compl e tion of two years ' satisfactory work they had been discrim i nated against and had not been so promoted immediately on the expiry of two years ' in pursuance of the aforesa id circular even though their work was satisfactory.
The reli ef prayed for in the said writ petition was for the issue of a writ of mandamus directing the Union of India through t he Director General of Ordnance Factories to promote the appe l lants to the post of Chargeman II.
The writ petition w as contested by the respondents thereto inter alia on t he ground that under the rules of promotion from Supervisor ' A ' to Chargeman II first Departmental Promotion Commit.tee at the factory level and then a Departmental Committee at t he Central level screens the service record of each of t he Supervisors 'A ' who comes within the range of eligibili ty and then finally the Director General of Ordnance Factori es draws up a list and sanctions promotions.
It was furth er asserted that in accordance with the said rule the cases of all the appellants were screened by the Promotion Committ ee at the factory level and then at the Central level and th ey not having been found fit were not promoted.
T he learned Single Judge, however, did not go into the merits of the controversy and dismissed the writ petition on t he ground of unexplained laches and also on the ground that a previous petition for similar relief had not been presse d. Against the 98 judgment of the learned Single Judge the appellants pr e ferred a special appeal before a Division Bench of th at Court.
The learned Judges who decided the special appeal d id not consider it appropriate to uphold the dismissal of t he writ petition on the technical ground which found favo ur with the learned Single Judge and they went into the meri ts of the respective contentions of the parties.
The learned Judges pointed o ut that it was admitted that the conditions of service applic a ble to the case of the appellants were governed by t he Indian Ordnance Factories (Recruitment and Conditions of Service of Class III Personnel) Rules, 1956 (hereinaft er referred to as the Rules) framed by the President of Ind ia under Article 309 of the Constitution.
It was further poin t ed out that Rule 8 contemplated that appointments by prom o tion were to be made on the basis of a selection list pr e pared for the different grades by duly constituted Depar t mental Promotion Committees laid down in the said ru le whereas Rule 12 provided that no appointment to the posts to which these rules apply shall be made otherwise than as specified therein.
With regard to the circular dated 6 th November, 1962 the learned Judges took the view that it w as difficult to read in that circular any intention or delibe r ation on the part of the Director General of Ordnance Fact o ries that as soon as two years were completed by a diplo ma holder in the Grade of Supervisor 'A ' there would be an automatic promotion to the post of Chargeman Il.
It was further he ld that even if it was to be assumed that the Director Gener al of Ordnance Factories automatically promoted some Superv i sors 'A ' immediately on the completion of 2 years of servi ce to the post of Chargeman II without the recommendation aft er screening by the Promotion Committee no right would accr ue in favour of the appellants inasmuch as such promotio ns would be in the teeth of Rule 12 and could not confer a legal right on the appellants to be likewise promoted in breach of Rule 12.
it was held "A half hearted argume nt was raised at the end of the hearing on behalf of the appe l lant petitioners that they have been discriminated again st by depriving them the benefit of automatic promotion in violation of constitutional guarantee under Article 16 of the Constitution.
Moreover, we do not think any case, on t he basis of violation of Article 16 of the Constitution can be found in favour of the appellant petitioners only becau se some 99 supervisors, equally placed, were promoted against the rul es of service.
Since the order dated 2 nd February, 1981 passed in Civil Appeal No.
"Our attention has been invited by learned counsel for bo th the sides to the relevant rules which govern promotion to the post of Chargeman Grade II.
It appears that a lar ge number of persons have been promoted to those posts thou gh they have completed only two years of service.
The Gover n ment now appears to insist that in so far as the appellan ts are concerned they cannot be considered for promotion unle ss they complete three years of service.
If a large number of other persons similar ly situated have been promoted as Chargeman Grade II aft er completing two years of service, there is no reason why t he appellants should also not be similarly promoted aft er completing the same period of service.
We are not suggesti ng that the appellants are entitled to be promoted to t he aforesaid posts even if they are found unfit to be promote d. We Therefore direct that the concerned authoriti es will consider the cases of the appellants for promotion as Chargeman Grade II and promote them to the said posts unle ss they are found to be unfit.
If the appellants are promote d, they will naturally have to be promoted with effect from t he date on which they ought to have been promoted.
As already pointed above the petitioners in the writ pet i tions refer 100 red to above have prayed for the same relief which w as granted in Civil Appeal No.
3325 of 1987 is for the issue of an inter im order restraining the respondents from making any furth er promotions during the pendency and final heating of t he miscellaneous petition and for initiating contempt procee d ings.
9357 of 1983 also namely that the responden ts may be restrained from promoting officers to the next high er posts on the basis of recommendations of certain Departme n tal Promotion Committees without complying with the dire c tions of this Court in its order dated 2nd February, 198 1.
The main relie fs which have been prayed for apart from for initiating pr o ceedings for contempt for disobedience of the order of th is Court dated 2nd February, 1981 are reliefs (i), (ii) a nd (iii) contained in Civil Miscellaneous Petition No.
They are as hereunder: "(i) pass appropriate orders directing the respondents to implement in true letter and spirit, the judgment of th is Hon 'ble Court dated 2.2.1981 in Civil Appeal No.
441 of 1 98 1; (ii) issue appropriate directions commanding the responden ts to promote the appellants to the next higher posts of Chargeman Grade I, Assistant Foreman, and Foreman, wi th effect from the date they are entitled to, after giving th em the benefit of the directions of this Hon 'ble Court dat ed 2.2.1981; (iii) issue appropriate directions to the respondents to give all consequential benefits to the appellants, includi ng payment of arrears. "
On the view that the judgment of this Court dat ed 2nd February, 1981 in Civil Appeal No.
