The petitioners are carpenters 1st and 2nd grade employed at the Wood Working Centre of the Himachal Pradesh State Handicrafts Corporation (the "Corpo ration").
In this petition under Article 32 of the Constitution, they are seeking enforcement of their fundamental right to have "equal pay for equal work".
They want the same pay of the regular employees as carpenters or in the alternative, the minimum wages prescribed by the Deputy Commissioner for like categories of workmen.
The Corporation has resisted the petitioners ' claim.
The case of the Corporation is that the unit where the petition ers are working is a factory registered under the Factories Act.
The Government has not fixed the mini mum wages payable to the petitioners engaged in the Corpora tion or other like industries, but the Corporation has adopted the minimum wages payable for similar work in the construction industry.
It is also stated that the petitioners are supplied with the necessary tools for carry ing out their work and also working uniforms like aprons and overalls.
The Corporation has clearly stated that there are no regular employees of the petitioners ' categories in its establishment and, as such, the question of payment to the petitioners, the pay admissible to regular employees does not arise.
It is said that the village artisans and craftsmen make different items on a piece rate basis and in some cases, they execute the work in their own homes.
But to avoid or minimise further loss, it is stated that the Corporation has reduced its overheads and maintained only the administrative staff in the production centers at different parts of the State and no permanent craftsmen are employed.
The principle of "equal pay for equal work" is not one of the fundamental rights expressly guaranteed by our Constitution.
There the Court pointed out that that principle has to be read into Article 14 of the Constitution which enjoins the State not to deny any person equality before the law or the equal protection of the law and also to Article 16 which declares that there should be equality of opportu nity for all citizens in matters relating to employment or appointment to any office under the State.
He claimed equal salary for equal work at that of other drivers.
The Court found that the petitioner therein performed the same func 666 tions and duties as other drivers in the service of Delhi Administration.
The Court, therefore, directed the Central Government to fix the pay scale of the petitioner on par with his counterparts doing identical work under the same employer.
In the immediate aftermath of the decision in Randhir Singh case, there were bumper cases filed in this Court for enforcement of the right to "equal pay for equal work", perhaps little realising the in built restrictions in that principle.
vs J.P. Chaurasia, ; and (ii) Meva Ram Kanojia vs All India Institute of Medical Sciences and Anr., ; In Chaurasia case the question arose whether it was permissible to have two different pay scales in the same cadre of Bench Secre taries of the Allahabad High Court who were for all practi cal purposes performing similar duties and having same responsibilities.
The Court held that the principle of "equal pay for equal work" has no mechanical application in every case of similar work.
