These appeals under Section 35L(b) of the Central Excises & Salt Act, 1944 (hereinafter called 'the 979 Act ') are against the order Nos.
The case of the appellant is that the said fusel oil is a com pletely manufactured article and after completion of its manufacture, it is stored in storage tanks duly approved for this purpose.
It is at this stage that the quantity of fusel oil/Styrene Monomer manufactured, according to the appel lant, is entered in the RG 1 Register maintained for goods manufactured by the appellant.
According to the appellant, the manufacture of fusel oil is complete and it is the fully manufactured fusel oil/Styrene Monomer which is stored in the storage tank.
Another show cause notice as to why value of the drums should not be included in the assessable value of the goods, was issued to the appellant on the 5th April, 1983 pertaining to Gate Pass No.
Replies were duly filed to the said show cause notices by the appellant contending, inter alia, that as the drums were supplied by the buyer, value thereof could not be included in the assessable value.
The Tribunal held that at the time of removal the goods were delivered from the factory in packed condition and the containers were not returnable by the buyer, there fore, the value had to be included in the assessable value.
It was contended that in any event under the Act and the Rules, the duty of excise is payable by the manufacturer on the manufactured goods.
No duty of excise, therefore, could be collected from the appellant on such drums which were nei ther manufactured nor purchased by the appellant.
It was further urged that on a correct and true interpretation of Section 4(4)(d)(i) of the Act, the cost of packing could be included in the assessable value only when the packing is either manufactured by the assessee or is purchased by the assessee.
The said sub section does not contemplate, accord ing to the appellant, the inclusion of the cost of packing in the value of goods when the packing is supplied by a customer to a manufacturer on its own cost.
It was contended by Shri Salve, appearing on behalf of the appellant, that on a correct analysis of section 4(4)(d), the duty being on the activity of manufacture whatever is necessary to bring the goods into existence alone can be taken into account for duty purposes.
vs Bombay Tyre International Ltd., ; 981 Shri Salve has, however, contended that so far as this Court is concerned, this question is concluded by the deci sion of this Court in Collector of Central Excise vs Indian Oxygen Ltd., Learned Attorney General, however, contended that this decision did not deal with the present controversy.
Reference was made to the decision of this Court in K. Radha Krishaiah vs Inspector of Central Excise, Gooty & Ors., Shri Salve referred to and relied on the decision of tile High Court of Bombay in the case of Govind Pay Oxygen Ltd. vs Asstt.
Collector of Central Excise, Panaji & Ors., as also the decision of the Karnataka High Court in Alembic Glass Industries Ltd. vs Union of India & Ors., Learned Attorney General urged before us that the question whether for determining the assessable value of the excisable goods sold by the assessee in drums or containers provided by its customers (the asses see itself provided such drums/containers on payment of price in Civil Appeals Nos.
It was submitted that while deter mining the scope and nature of levy, as contemplated under section 3 of the Act, of central excise and the measure of such levy as provided in section 4 of the Act the principles laid .down in Union of India vs Bombay Tyre International Ltd., (supra), should be followed and reliance was placed on the several decisions of this Court which we will refer to later.
Dave, Assistant Collector of Central Excise, ; at 568 to emphasise the point that percentages of sales do not in any manner affect determination of the assessable value of the excisable goods.
4339 41/86, in respect of which show notice was issued as to why value of drums should not be included in the assessable value of fusel oil and Styrene Monomer, 90% of Styrene Mono 982 mer had been sold directly in tanks and only 10% of Styrene Monomer had been sold in drums and the show cause notice on 20th October, 1983 had been issued relating to clearance of fusel oil in 45 drums but the said drums had been supplied by the buyer.
Collector in those appeals had included the costs of such drums in the value of styrene monomer.
Relying on the two decisions referred to hereinbe fore, learned Attorney General emphasised that percentages of sales would not in any manner affect determination of the assessable value of the excisable goods.
Roy 's case (supra), it was held by this Court that though in that case that the fact that the assessee had effected sales to whole sale dealers only to the extent of 5 to 10% of its produc tion and that 90 95% of its production were only retail sales would not affect the question of determination of the assessable value of the excisable goods with reference to its value in the wholesale market.
4339 of 1986 sold only 10% of the excisable goods to its buyer where drums were supplied by the buyers themselves and that 90% of the sales were through tankers belonging to the customers would not in any manner affect the question or determination of the assessable value of the excisable goods inasmuch as the 10% of its sales to whole sale buyers were in drums supplied by the buyers at the time of removal.
According to the learned Attorney General, the fact that 90% of the goods were supplied in tankers and not in containers had no relevance at all and the 10% represent ed the entire quantity of excisable goods delivered in packed condition.
In that case, the learned Attorney General contended the only question which arose was whether the rental charges received by the assessee for the gas cylinders lent by it to its customers could be included in the assessable value and whether inter est earned on deposits made by the customers for the securi ty of the cylinders supplied by the assessee could also be included in the assessable value of the excisable goods.
This Court clarified in the said decision that the said charges could not be included in the value of the goods since these were only ancillary and not incidental to the activities for the manufacture of gases.
Learned Attorney General submitted that this Court had no occasion in that decision to consider the question which arises in the present case, namely whether the cost of packing materials would have to be included in the assessable value of the goods when goods are delivered in packed conditions.
Learned Attorney General submitted that the decisions of the Bombay and Karnataka High Courts were wrong as they are contrary to the decision of this 983 Court in Bombay Tyre International 's case (supra).
It is, therefore, necessary to bear in mind that a process which is ancillary or incidental to the completion of the manufactured product, that is to say, to make the manufacture complete would be "manufacture".
Section 3 of the Act provides that there shall be levied and collected in such manner as maybe pre scribed duties of excise on all excisable goods other than salt which are produced or manufactured in India.
"Excisable goods", under section 2(d) of the Act, means goods specified in the Schedule to the as being subject to duty of excise and includes salt.
Section 4 of the Act provides for the valuation of excisable goods for purposes of charging of duty of excise.
The relevant provi sion of section 4 of the Act deals with the manner as to how the value is to be computed and section 4(4)(d) stipulates as follows: ""value" in relation to any excisable goods, (i) where the goods are delivered at the time of removal in a packed condition, includes the cost of such packing except the cost of the packing which is of a durable nature and is returnable by the buyer to the assessee.
In this sub clause "packing" means the wrapper, container, bobbin, pirn, spool, reel or warp beam or any other thing in which or on which the excisable goods are wrapped, contained or wound; (ii) does not include the amount of the duty of excise, sales tax and other taxes, if any, payable on such goods and, subject t9 such rules as may be made, the trade discount (such discount not being refundable on any account whatsoever) allowed in accordance with the normal practice of 984 the wholesale trade at the time of removal in respect of such goods sold or contracted for sale; (Explanation.
For the purposes of this sub clause, the amount of the duty of excise payable on any excisable goods shall be the sum total of (a) the effective duty of excise payable on such goods under this Act; and (b) the aggregate of the effective duties of excise payable under other Central Acts, if any, providing for the levy of duties of excise on such goods , and the effective duty of excise on such goods under each Act referred to in clause (a) or clause (b) shall be, (i) in a case where a notification or order providing for any exemption (not being an exemption for giving credit with respect to, for reduction or duty of excise under such Act on such goods equal to, any duty of excise under such Act, or the additional duty under Section 3 of the (51 of 1975), already paid] on the raw material or component parts used in the production or manufacture of such goods) from the duty of excise under such Act is for the time being in force, the duty of excise computed with refer ence to the rate specified in such Act in respect of such goods as reduced so as to give full and complete effect to such exemption; and (ii) in any other case, the duty of excise computed with reference to the rate specified in such Act in respect of such goods. "
The expression "place of removal" has been defined under section 4(4)(b) of the Act to mean a factory or any other place or premises of production or manufacture of the excisable goods; or a warehouse or any other place or prem ises wherein the excisable goods have been permitted to be deposited without payment of duty, from where such goods are removed.
It is in relation to Section 4(4)(d) that it is contended that except the cost of packing which is of a durable nature and is returnable by the buyer to the asses see to the buyer, in respect of all other costs of packing, the costs should be included in the value of the 985 excisable goods.
The explanation to the said sub section defines the expression "packing" as the wrapper, container, bobbin, pirn, spool, reel or warp beam or any other thing in which or on which the excisable goods are wrapped, contained or wound.
