Paragraph 2 of the said order of appointment issued on 20th August, 1979 reads thus: "The appointment shah be on contract for a period of one 241 year w.e.f.
The respondent was required to furnish his acceptance of the terms and conditions contained in the said order includ ing the above term relating to the period of appointment and on his accepting the terms and conditions he was appointed as the Secretary in the District Soldiers Board in the district of Unnao in the State of Uttar Pradesh '.
The said term was extended retrospectively, first upto 20th August, 1982 by an order passed in September, 1981 and it 'was again extended upto 31st March, 1983 by an order made in February, 1983.
During the extended period of the contract conditions of service of officers shall remain same as are mentioned under their Appointment Order.
It is thus seen that the appointment of the respondent was indisputably in the nature of contract and under the last order of appointment refened to above he was entitled to continue in office in the post in question till 30th of August, 1985 and not beyond that date unless there was a further extension.
The order was to be effective from the date of receipt of termination order and no charges were men tioned therein against the 1st respondent.
The respondent aggrieved by the said order of termina tion filed a Writ Petition on the file of the High Court of Allahabad in Writ Petition No.
A Division Bench of the High Court found that the order of termination that had been served on the respondent was an invalid one since it had been issued on the basis of Vigilance Report and no opportunity had been given to the respondent to show cause why such action should not be taken against him.
The High Court further issued a direction to the effect that the respondent was entitled to salary upto the period he was entitled to remain in service.
In the Penultimate paragraph of the judgment the High Court further stated: "It is open for the opposite parties to con sider the claim of the petitioner for continu ation in service or of fresh appointment and no observations in this regard are being made by this Court. "
