The petitioners in these petitions have questioned the validity of a notification issued by the Government of Gujarat on June 26, 1985 in exercise of its powers conferred by Section 15 of the (67 of 1957), herein after referred to as the Act, amending the Gujarat Minor Mineral Rules 1966, hereinafter referred to as the Rules, with effect from 1 7 1985 substituting the original rule 21 of the Rules by a new rule which reads as follows: "21.
Rate of Royality: The holder of a quarry lease or any other mineral concession granted under these rules shall pay royalty in respect of minor minerals, specified in column 2 of the schedule, removed or consumed by him or by his agent, manager, employee, contractor or sub lessee from the leased area at the rates respectively specified against them in column 3 of the said schedule.
Provided that: (i) the holder of a Parwana granted under these rules shall pay royalty at the rate of fifty percent of the rate of royalty specified in the said schedule.
(iv) Royalty shall be recoverable in whole rupees, fraction fifty paise and above to be rounded upwards to a whole rupee and fraction below fifty paise shall be ignored" and fixing the royalty payable by the lessees in respect of minor minerals known as Black Trap and Hard Murrum at Rs.7 per metric tonne by amending schedule of the Rules which was being levied at Rs.
Clause (e) of the said section defines 'minor minerals ' as building stones, gravel, ordinary clay, ordinary sand other than sand used for prescribed purposes and any other mineral which the Central Government may.
The Act has made provision with regard to the issue of prospecting licences and mining leases in respect of various kinds of minerals other than minor minerals and the procedure to be followed in that connection in the matter of issue of prospecting licences and mining leases.
Section 9 of the act empowers the Central Government to levy royalty in respect of the minerals which are won by the mining lease holders under the Act at the rates prescribed in the Second Schedule to the Act.
It empowers the Central Government to enhance or reduce the rate of royalty prescribed by the Second Schedule in respect of any mineral subject to the condition that the Central Government shall not enhance the rate of royalty in respect of any mineral more than once during any period of three years.
Section 14 of the Act provides that sections 5 to 13 (inclusive) shall not apply to quarry leases, mining leases or other mineral concessions in respect of minor minerals.
(1) The State Government may, by notifi cation in the Official Gazette, make rules for regulating the grant of (quarry leases, mining leases or other mineral concessions) in re spect of minor minerals and for purposes connected therewith.
(2) Until rules are made under sub section (1), my rules made by a State Government regulating the grant of (quarry leases, mining leases or other mineral concessions) in re spect of minor minerals which are in force immediately before the commencement of this Act shall continue in force.
