Nambiar for the Appellant.
This appeal is directed against the judgment dated 27.10.1979 of the High Court of Madras con firming the conviction of the appellant under section 161, I .P.C.
The appellant had been sentenced to undergo R.I. for 15 months under section 5(2) read with section 5(1)(d) of the Prevention of Corruption Act with no separate sen tence under section 161 I.P.C.
PW 3, the Principal of the training school issued exhibit P 2 show cause notice to the PW 1, Venkataswamy, the canteen contractor, as to why his licence for running the canteen should not be cancelled.
This was on the basis of a complaint made by the appellant that the food served in the canteen was substand ard.
The prosecution case is that the accused thereafter sent for PW 1, informed him that he would help him in restoring the licence and demanded a bribe of Rs.
On 21.10.1975, the appellant is stated to have pressed the demand to PW 1.
PW 6 after drawing up a mahazar in the presence of PW 2, Jaganathan, Assistant of the Office of the Special Tehsildar, Usilampatti directed PW 1 to give the notes to the appellant.
PW 1 handed over the money to the appellant who received the same.
When PW 1 emerged, PW 6 along with PW 2 confronted the appellant.
The appellant produced the currency notes.
PW 6 conducted the phenolphthalein test with reference to the fingers of the appellant.
The test was positive, the currency notes were seized and the appellant arrested.
PW 3, the Principal produced the concerned file relating to show cause notice, from the house of the appellant on the same day.
Finally, the appellant was chargesheeted.
PW 1 affirmed the fact that the appellant made the demand and had also received the amount on 22.10.
The recovery of the currency notes from the appellant was not challenged.
The plea of the appellant was that PW 1 had returned the amount due to him and there had been no demand for a bribe as there had been no occasion for doing so.
The Trial Court accepted the prosecution evidence, rejected the plea of the appellant and recorded the conviction.
Before the High Court, the .contentions of the appellant were that there was no independent evidence regarding the demand, the messenger who had contacted PW 1 at the 337 behest of the appellant had not been examined, the solitary evidence of PW 1 is insufficient, the explanation offered by the appellant was probable and there is no conclusive evi dence to hold that the appellant.
It took the view that the evidence of PW 1 find corroboration in the testimony of PW 2 and 6 and the contemporary records.
The recovery of the currency notes from the appellant proves the guilty conduct of the appel lant in view of the presumption arising under section 4(1) of the Prevention of Corruption Act which has not been rebutted.
The appellant has reiterated the contentions before us.
The learned counsel appearing for the appellant, however, maintained that the appellant had a consistent case even from the earliest opportunity that the currency notes found in his possession was the money returned by PW 1, the cir cumstances of the case would probabalise this case of the appellant and the presumption, if any, arising under section 4 is rebutted and the conviction cannot therefore be sus tained.
