The following Order of the Court was delivered: 540 The special leave petition under Article 136 of the Constitution is directed against the affirming judgment of the Andhra Pradesh High Court in a suit for title and injunction.
In view of the fact that a petition of compromise in respect of the entire subject matter of litigation has been filed in this Court it is unnecessary to refer to the facts leading to the litigation.
While each of the parties had taken such stand in the litigation a compromise was brought about on 21.8.1987 between the father and his two sons and the same was filed in this Court.
The terms of the compromise stipulated payment of Rs.
When the matter was listed before the Court for recording of the compromise, Sudarshan Gupta, second respondent herein, maintained that he had not been paid Rs.1 lakh as stipulated and he had no intention to accept the compromise.
The question as to recording of the compromise was taken up by the Court and parties have been heard.
One of the stipulation in the compromise deed which has admittedly been signed by the father and his two sons stipulates: "The petitioner has given to the second and third respondents (the two sons) an amount of Rs.
In the face of such a statement in the compromise deed signed by the parties the second respondent had disputed the fact of payment and has, in the meantime, alienated about 81 acres of property which constitutes the subject matter of dispute to third parties.
The alienees 541 have now been brought on record unders order of this Court.
The alienees have admittedly been in possession of the property from the date of the sales which is more than three years ' old by now.
In fact, if the compromise is valid and binding the alienor respondent No.
2 had no interest in the property to part with in view of the stipulation in the compromise that on receipt of Rs.
The alienees have made an attempt to hold out that there were agreements for sale prior to the compromise for which there is no acceptable evidence.
We think we have to find that the alienees had no interest in the property prior to the compromise and we must hold that the sale deeds are subsequent to 21.8.1987.
Mr Ram Kumar who appeared for the second respondent, apart from maintaining that his client has not received the sum of Rs.1 lakh has not been able to point out any justification as to why the compromise should not be acted upon and on the basis of it the litigation may not be disposed of.
