In this petition under Article 32 of the Constitution, the petitioners have questioned the con stitutional validity of Section 5 of the (12 of 1919) (hereinafter called 'the Act ').
The grounds on which the vires of the provisions is attacked are that the section gives an unguided, unchanelised and arbitrary power to the State Government to include any substance as poison for the purpose of restriction to be imposed on the posses sion for sale and sale of the same.
The petitioner 's have also taken the plea that though the Act is a Central enactment it is possible of unjust and unjustified discriminatory appli cation as it is left to each State Government to determine what substance they would include as poison and regulated and the decision in one State to include the substance as poison is not automatically made applicable to the other States.
The object of the enactment is to regulate the posses sion for sale and the sale, whether wholesale or retail of poisons and the importation of the same.
In other words, it is intended to control over the traffic in poisons.
Though the original enactment, the Poisons Act, 1904 was restrict ed, it was applicable to white arsenic, the expanded its provisions and enabled State Government to declare any substance as poison for the purposes of the Act by a notification under the Act or the rules made under the Act.
Governor of Delhi amended the Delhi Poisons Rules, 1926 (hereinafter called the Rules) by including to the list of substances included in the Rules as "Poisons" "the substance commonly known 222 as 'thinner ' containing spirit and other soluble material such as shellac in which the percentage of such soluble material does not exceed 30%" as poison and consequential amendment of rules 12 and 13 of the Rules.
According to them, therefore, the substance manufactured by them would not come within the amended Rules.
Though in the beginning the petitioners were contending that in substance manufactured by them did not come within Rule 2(x)(2) and there were some correspondence in this regard, when the competent authority held that the substance manufactured by the petitioners would come within the definition of 'thinner ' as contained in Rule 2(x)(2) of the Rules, the petitioners did not question the finding on any material.
Before us also they had not placed any materi al to show that the finding was wrong or that the substance would not come within Rule 2(x)(2).
In fact the learned counsel argued the petition on the basis that the petition ers are a manufacturer of 'thinner ' within Rule 2(x)(2) which has been declared as poison for purposes of the Act.
Originally the Act contained a schedule in which the list of substances declared as poisons were listed.
Later when Delhi Poisons Rules, 1926 were made in exercise of the powers under the Act those list of substances were included in the list enumerated in Rule 2 thereof.
Rule 2 was amended as already stated including 'thinner ' of the description mentioned therein as poison.
Presumption as to specified poisons: Any substance specified as a poison in a rule made or notification issued under this Act shall be deemed to be a poison for the purpose of this Act. "
The Act is intended to regulate the importation, possession and sale of poisons.
Some substances were includ ed in the Rules made in 1926 as poisons and that is not in dispute.
Section 5 of the Act deals with presumption and states that any substance specified as a poison in a Rule or noti fication issued under the Act shall be deemed to be a 'po ison ' for purposes of the Act.
Rules of 1926 were made in exercise of the rule making power under Section 3 of the Act.
223 That Section enables the State Government to make Rules generally to carry out the purposes and objects of the Act.
Rules were amended in 1973 and duly notified as required by the Act.
