The said suit was dismissed on Match 28, 1974 on the ground that the plaintiff was no more in possession of the suit property and, therefore, a suit for a mere declaration simpliciter could not lie.
1020 The defendants, besides contending that the suit was barred on the principle of res judicata and/or constructive res judicata as found in Order 2 Rule 2(3) of the Code of Civil Procedure, averred that on the expiry of the lease at the end of December, 1967 the lease stood terminated by efflux of time and defendant No.
Interfering with the concurrent findings recorded by the two courts below the High Court came to the conclusion that the courts below had applied the wrong test and had based their findings on the question of tenancy and dispossession on mere conjectures.
Lastly it noticed that during the pendency of the suit the Goa, Daman & Diu Agricultural Tenancy Act, 1964 (hereinafter called 'the Act ') was amended by Act 17 of 1976 dated October 14,1976 known as the Fifth Amendment which was brought into effect from April 20, 1976 by which the definition of 'agriculture ' was changed and the expressions 'garden ' and 'garden produce ' were defined by the insertion of sub sections (7A).
The High Court, therefore, held that the decree passed by the Civil Court was unsustainable.
On these findings the High Court allowed the appeals and 1021 reversed the decree of the Trial Court with no order as to costs.
Before we deal with the impact of the Act as amended by Act 17 of 1976 we may first deal with the two technical grounds on which the High Court has dismissed the suit.
The first ground on which the High Court dismissed the suit is that the suit was barred by the principle of res judicata in view of the dismissal of the former suit No.
That suit was for a declaration that the plaintiff was a lessee and for an injunction to restrain the defendants from interfering with his possession of the suit property.
That suit, however, came to be dismissed as the Trial Court came to the conclusion that the plaintiff was no more in possession of the property in respect of which he claimed to be a lessee.
The High Court, in the backdrop of these facts, came to the conclusion that the subject matter of the second suit was directly and substantially in issue in the previous suit between the same parties and hence regardless of the relief claimed the second suit was clearly barred by res judicata.
Section 11 of the Code of Civil Procedure provides that 'no court shall try any suit or issue in which the matter directly and substantially in issue in a former suit between the same parties, or between parties under whom they or any of them claim, litigating under the same title, in a court competent to try such subsequent suit or the suit in which such issue has been subsequently raised, and has been heard and finally decided by such court '.
It is not the finding of the High Court that in the previous suit the question regarding the tenancy of the plaintiff was determined against the plaintiff.
As the record stands the only ground on which the previous suit 1022 was dismissed was the technical ground that a suit for a mere declaration cannot lie without claiming possession once it is found that the plaintiff had lost possession.
It is, therefore, difficult to comprehend how the High Court came to the conclusion that the subject matter of the second suit was directly and substantially in issue in the previous suit.
It would have been a different matter if in the previous suit the court had decided the question of status as lessee against the plaintiff, in which case, perhaps, it could be argued that the second suit based on the factum of tenancy was not maintainable.
It is only when the subject matter of any suit is directly and substantially in issue in the previous suit that the subsequent suit would be barred by res judicata if the competent court trying it had decided the issue regarding tenancy against the plaintiff.
The High Court has concluded against the plaintiff on this point in paragraph 31 which reads as under: Thus it is compelling to acknowledge that the subject matter of the second suit was directly and substantially in issue in the previous suit between the same parties.
As stated earlier, the first suit was dismissed on a technical ground that the suit for a mere declaration without seeking consequential relief of possession could not lie.
In that suit the issue regarding the status of the plaintiff as a lessee was not settled once for all and hence that issue could not be stated to be barred by res judicata in the subsequent suit brought by the lessee for possession the demised property.
If he relinquishes any claim to bring the suit within the jurisdiction of any court he will not be entitled to claim that relief in any subsequent suit.
The first suit was dismissed on the technical ground that since the plaintiff was not in de facto possession no injunction could be granted and a suit for a mere declaration of status without seeking the consequential relief for possession could not lie.
The allegation in the former suit was that the plaintiff was a lessee and his 1024 possession was threatened and, therefore, he sought the court 's assistance to protect his possession by a prohibitory injunction.
When in the course of that suit it was found that the plaintiff had in fact been dispossessed, there was no question of granting an injunction and the only relief which the court could have granted was in regard to the declaration sought which the court held could not be granted in view of the provisions of Specific Relief Act.
The cause of action for that suit was not on the premise that he had in fact been illegally and forcibly dispossessed and needed the court 's assistance to be restored to possession.
Therefore, the subsequent suit was based on a distinct cause of action not found in the former suit and hence we do not think that the High Court was right in concluding that the suit was barred by Order 2 Rule 2(3) of the Code of Civil Procedure.
In the previous suit the relief for possession was not claimed whereas in the second suit the relief was for restoration of possession.
Section 2(23) defines a tenant to mean 'a person who on or after the date of commencement of this Act holds land on lease and cultivates it personally and includes a person who is deemed to be a tenant under this Act '.
Section 7 posits that if any question arises whether any person is a tenant or should be deemed to be a tenant under the Act, the Mamlatdar shall after holding an enquiry decide such question.
Sub section (2) of section 8 next provides that where any person as is referred to in section 4 (deemed tenant) has been evicted from the land on or after 1st July, 1962 such person shall be entitled to recover immediate possession of the land in the manner prescribed by or under the Act unless the landlord proves that the termination of tenancy was in the manner authorised by section 9.
Even in cases of threatened wrongful possession section 8A says that any tenant in possession of any land or dwelling house who apprehends that he may be dispossessed contrary to the provisions of this Act may apply in the prescribed manner to the Mamlatdar for an order safeguarding his right to possession.
Section 9 lays down the modes of termination of tenancy which are (a) by the tenant surrendering his right to the landlord in the manner provided in section 10; or (b) by the landlord terminating the tenancy on the grounds specified in section 11; or (c) under any other specific provision of the Act.
