It is said that the appellant wanted to go to the United Kingdom for treatment of his failing eye sight and he got into touch with the complainant Mulchand Kodumal Bhatia, who is the second respondent in this appeal, through one Sayed for the purpose of making necessary ar rangements about the flat occupied by him in view of his intended departure.
The prosecution case is that the accused demanded a sum of Rs.
29,500 as consideration for putting the complainant in vacant possession of the flat and an additional amount of Rs.
The complainant actually paid the accused two sums of 420 Rs.
The complainant and a Sub Inspec tor, posing as the complainant 's brother, went to the appel lant on 4 12 1948, and paid him the two sums of money; and the keys of the flat and the motor garage were handed over to the complainant.
The police party, who were down below ready for the raid, held up the car of the appellant and recovered the sum of Rs.
From the complainant were recovered the bunch of keys and the documents that were handed over to him by the appellant, namely, the letter handing vacant possession (Exhibit D).
2,000 for the articles of furniture (Exhibit E), a letter to the Bombay Gas Company for transfer of the gas connection to the name of the complainant (Exhib it F), and the letter to the Bombay Electric Supply and Transport Committee for transfer of the telephone connec tions and the deposit of Rs.
The appellant was charged under section 18(1) of the Bombay Rents, Hotel and Lodging House Rates Control Act, LVII of 1947, for receiving a pugree of Rs.
29,500 and he was further charged under section 19(2) of the said Act for receiving the said sum as a condition for the relin quishment of his tenancy.
421 The defence of the appellant was that he was in search of a partner to carry on his business during his intended absence, who was also to act as caretaker of his flat anal that it was in this connection and with this object in view that he entered into negotiations with the complain ant.
The sum of Rs.
