the respondent No.
i was tried before the court of sessions visakhapatnam for offences under section 120 b indian penal code section 409 section 477 a and section 471 read with section 467 i p c while respondent No 2 was tried for an offence under section 120 b and for offences under sections 409 read with section 109 477 a and 471 read with section 467 i p c each of the respondents was convicted of the first two offences but.
the respondent No i alone was convicted of the other two offences.
various sentences were passed against them by the additional sessions judge visakhapatnam who presided over the court.
the respondents preferred appeals before the high court challenging their convictions and sentences.
the state on the other hand preferred an application for revision under section 439 cr.
p c for the enhancement of the sentences passed on the respondents.
the high court allowed the two appeals acquitted the respondents and dismissed the application for revision preferred by the state.
the state of andhra pradesh has come up before this court in appeal by obtaining special leave under article 136 of the constitution.
in the year 1929 the andhra engineering co which was originally a partnership firm formed by one d l n raju was converted into a private limited company with its headquarters at visakhapatnam.
we shall refer to this company throughout as the aeco.
it obtained licences from the government under the electricity act for supply of electrical energy to visakhapatnam anakapalli and some other places.
as the aeco did not have the necessary capital to undertake the work raju floated in the year 1933 a public limited company called visakhapatnam electric supply corporation ltd and another in the year 1936 called the anakapalli electric supply corporation ltd the aeco transferred its licences for the supply of electrical energy to the consumers of visakhapatnam to vesco and similarly transferred to aeco the licence to supply electrical energy to consumers at anakapalli.
the aeco was appointed managing agent for each of these corporations under separate agreements.
some time later other industrial concerns the andhra cements ltd vi jayawada and the east coast ceremics.
rajahmurthy were started apparently by raju himself and the aeco was appointed the managing agent of each of these concerns.
the original managing agency agreement in favour of aeco with respect to vesco was for a period of 15 years i e from 1933 to 1948 and was later renewed for the remaining term of the currency of the licence granted by the government under the electricity act.
a mention may be made of the fact that in june 1952 the vesco undertaking was acquired by the government under the provisions of the electricity undertaking acquisition act but nothing turns on it.
the vesco had its own board of directors while the aeco had also its own separate board of directors.
the vesco had no managing director but at each meeting of its board of directors one of the directors used to be elected chairman.
the same practice was followed at the meeting of the general body of the shareholders.
the aeco on the other band always had a managing director first of whom was d l n raju.
he died in the year 1939 and was succeeded by r k n g raju an advocate of rajahmundry.
according to the prosecution both these concerns were running smoothly and efficiently during the lifetime of d l n raju because he was personally attending to their affairs.
his successor however apart from the fact that be continued to be staying mostly at rajahmundry was also interested in several other ventures including a sugar factory at dewas in central india.
eventually many of those ventures failed.
according to the prosecution the second raju was not bestowing sufficient care and attention on the affairs of vesco.
the aeco as managing agents of vesco had appointed in the year 1939 one d v appala raju a trusted employee as its representative and as the secretary of vesco.
in 1944 this person resigned from his appointments and started his own business in radio and electrical goods in the name of d brothers.
he was succeeded by t visweswara rao p w 6 an employee of the aeco.
ganeswara rao was also an old employee of aeco having been appointed a stenotypist in the year 1923 on an initial salary of rs p m eventually he became the head clerk therein.
he pressed his claim for appointment as secretary of vesco and representative of the managing agents at visakhapatnam and r h g raju appointed him to that post.
it is the prosecution case that as secretary of vesco and the resident representative of the managing agents the respondent No i was attending to the day to day affairs of vesco which included the receiving of all sums of money due to vesco spending money for the purpose of vesco attending to the appointment supervision and control of the staff of vesco purchasing materials required for the purpose of vesco and supervising over the accounts of vesco.
he was thus all important with respect to the every day affairs of vesco.
his dual capacity enabled the respondent No i to earn the confidence not only of the directors of aeco but also of those of vesco.
the accounts maintained by the vesco used to be explained by him not only to the directors but also to the shareholders.
the knowledge of the financial position of vesco obtained by them used to be derived essentially from the respondent No 1.
the explanations of the managing agents and the directors of vesco with respect to the items mentioned in the orders of the board used also to be placed by him before the shareholders.
it was also his duty to have the accounts of vesco audited by the auditors elected by the general body and to produce before the auditors the relevant accounts vouchers bank statements and so on.
there were no complaints about the management of the affairs of vesco or the aeco till the end of 1946 or the beginning of 1947.
one significant fact however which occurred prior to 1946 is referred to by the prosecution.
one b rajan was elected auditor not only for vesco but for all the other four concerns including aeco.
this person was auditor for greenlands hotel at visakhapatnam.
of which the respondent No i was a director.
r k n g raju took till towards the end of 1947 and died at madras in april 1948.
according to the prosecution the respondent No i wanted to take advantage of this fact and conceived of a scheme for misappropriating as much money belonging to vesco as possible before the managing agency agreement of aeco came to an end in october 1948.
i secured the promotion of the approver k v ramana who was originally accounts clerk to the post of senior accountant.
similarly k v gopala raju was transferred from the post of stores clerk to the general department and k s n murty the discharged accused was appointed stores clerk in his place.
later however murty was also got transferred to the general section and replaced by p w 18.
srinivasa rao originally a stores boy.
laksbminarayana rao was appointed the cashier.
the conspiracy is said to have been hatched in the year 1947 and falsification of accounts and misappropriation of funds of vesco went on till the end of the accounting year.
the term of the managing agency was renewed in 1943 and aeco con tinued to be managing agents until the vesco was taken over by the government in 1952.
i continued to be the secretary of vesco and resident representative of the managing agents throughout the period of conspiracy.
after the death of r k n g raju it was discovered that the aeco was indebted to many concerns which were under its managing agency the liability being shown either as that of aeco or that of r k n g raju personally.
again the vesco was shown as indebted to the andhra cement to the extent of rs 42 000.
this amount was however paid by the aeco from the funds of vesco.
i and some of his friends were in search of a rich and substantial man who would be amenable to them to fill the post of managing director of aeco.
eventually their choice fell on g v subba raju p w 25 a resident of manchili who held a large number of shares in the aeco and who was besides related to r k n g raju by marriage.
it is said that this person has not received much education and knows only bow to sign his name in english.
he agreed and was elected managing director of aeco in the middle of 1948.
upon this understanding he accepted the position offered to him.
the vesco used to receive large amounts of money from high tension power consumers such as the railways k g hospital the port administration the andhra university etc.
on the basis of the entries in the handover book the final accounts were written up.
these amounts also used to be noted in the private note book and entered.
a lakh of rupees passed through that account.
he however was unable to obtain any information.
however the meeting was postponed and eventually held on december 9 1951.
according to the prosecution the report is a forged document.
that was also the feeling of a number of shareholders who wanted to see the original but one dutt who was chairman of the meeting after seeing exhibit p 234 said that the report seemed to be a genuine one.
the interim report showed that there was a shortage of about rs 90 000 for this period.
in fact in april 1952 the collector attached vesco properties for realising this amount.
on the next day the police placed an armed guard around the office of the respondent No i and seized a number of papers.
on may 13 1954 a chargesheet was filed against the two respondents as well as murti and the approver ramana.
od september 13 1954 ramana offered to make a full confession to the additional district magistrate independent who was empowered to grant pardon under section 337 of i he code of criminal procedure.
he however directed ramana to make his confession before a submagistrate.
the high court set aside the conviction of the respondents on a number of grounds.
in the first place according to the high court joint trial of two or more persons in respect of different offences cornmitted by each of them is illegal and that here as they were charged with having committed offences under section 120 b section 409 section 477 a and section 476467 i p c they could not be tried jointly.
according to it the provisions of section 239 were of no avail.
further according to the high court where a conspiracy has yielded its fruits the conspirators can be charged with the actual offences committed and not with conspiracy to commit those offences.
in so far as the respondent No 2 is concerned the high court has held that since he was charged with a specific offence under s 409 i p c he could not be convicted of mere abetment of an offence.
the approver s evidence was held by the high court to be inadmissible because the pardon granted to him was illegal.
the high court has also held that his evidence is unreliable and further that the additional sessions judge was in error in allowing him to refresh his memory by referring to various documents in a manner not permitted by section 159 of the evidence act.
finally the high court held that the examination of the respondent under section 342 of the code was unfair for a number of reasons and that the additional sessions judge had failed to perform an important duty in that he did not call the attention of the respondents to the provisions of section 342 which enable an accused person to give evidence in his own behalf.
the points which he urged are briefly these 1 that there was a misjoinder of charges and persons in that the various provisions of section 239 were clubbed together and an omnibus charge of conspiracy was framed which on its face was one likely to embarrass the respondents and make their task of defending themselves difficult.
the procedure adopted in the investiga tion and committal stages was irregular.
3 irrelevant evidence was introduced and some evidence was introduced in a manner not authorised by the evidence act.
4 that the court abused its powers under s 342 cr.
p c while conducting the examination of the respondents.
if the evidence of the approver is left out the remaining evidence would be inadequate to sustain the prosecution case.
the first question for consideration is whether there was a misjoinder of parties and of persons.
the first charge is in respect of the conspiracy alleged to have been entered into by the two respondents k v ramana the approver and others known and unknown to commit criminal breach of trust of the funds of vesco and in order to screen its detection to falsify the accounts of vesco and to use forged documents as genuine.
on the face of it this is a valid charge.
the second charge is for an offence of criminal breach of trust punishable under section 409 and the accusation therein is that the two respondents along with ramana misappropriated 69 items aggregating to a little over rs 3 20 000.
it is thus apparent that offences committed within a space of 12 months were tried along with offences committed beyond that period.
unless therefore the provisions of section 239 are applicable it would follow that there was a misjoinder of charges.
ramana made false entries on seven different dates in the account books between september 19 1947 and march 18 1952 and thus committed an offence under section 477 a i p c the fourth charge is that the two respondents along with the approver.
mr bhimasankaram supports the reason given by the high court for coming to the conclusion that there was a misjoinder of charges.
each clause is an exception to the general rule enacted in section 233 cr.
221 to 223 deal with the framing and content of charge.
section 224 deals with the interpretation of the language of the charge and section 225 with the effect of errors in the charge.
thus this is a special provision available in case of doubt and is neither subject to the limitations prescribed by section 233 nor those of the other preceding provisions.
now if the respondent No 1 were alone tried upon the second third and the fourth charges the provisions of section 2351 could have been pressed in aid if the allegations were that the offences were so connected together as to form one and the same transaction and the validity of the trial would not have been open to any attack.
a conspiracy must be regarded as one transaction and there fore a single individual charged with it could be tried with the aid of section 2351 for all the acts committed by him in furtherance or in pursuance of the conspiracy without the limitations imposed by s 2341.
the opening words of the section show that it is an enabling provision and therefore the court has a discretion to avail itself cumulatively of two or more clauses.
it could not have been the intention of the legislature to create such a situation.
unless we read section 2341 as not enacting a fetter on section 2351 it may not be possible to give full effect to the latter.
now since section 2341 can not be properly read a overriding section 2351 there is no valid reason for construing it as overriding the provisions of section 239 either.
c of section 239 is subject to the provisions of section 234.
a c and d of section 239 as well as that occurring in section 2351 ought to be given the same meaning according to the normal rule of construction of statutes.
but it would be open to the court to resort to those provisions even in the case of a joint trial of several persons permissible under section 239 s 236.
is also an enabling provision to be availed of in case of doubt and it is meaningless to say that section 239 is subject to section 236.
bearing in mind the fact that the provisions in the former part of chapter xix are applicable to charges made with the aid of section 239 only so far as may be it would not be right to construe section 239 as being subject to the provisions of sections 233 to 236.
it was contended by mr chari that the expression former part would apply to the first sub division of chapter xix which deals with the form and content of the charges and the powers of the court with regard to the absence of charge and alteration of charge.
for even in the absence of those words the earlier provisions could not have been ignored.
for it is a rule of construction that all the provisions of a statute are to be read together and given effect to and that it is therefore the duty of the court to construe a statute harmoniously.
indeed the very expression so far as may be empha sises the fact that while the earlier provisions have to be borne in mind by the court while applying section 239 it is not those provisions but the latter which is to have an overriding effect.
apart from this the question whether the provisions of sections 233 to 236 have or have no overriding effect on section 239.
is not strictly germane to the question considered by the high court that is clubbing together all the provisions of the various clauses of section 239.
on a plain construction of the provisions of section 239 therefore it is open to the court to avail itself cumulatively of the provisions of the different clauses of section 239 for the purpose of framing charges and charges so framed by it will not be in violation of the law the provisions of sections 233 234 and 235 notwithstanding.
this would lead to unnecessary multiplicity of trials involving avoidable inconvenience to the witnesses and avoidable expenditure of public time and money.
no corresponding advantage can be gained by the accused persons by following the procedure of separate trials.
the offences are of the same kind and must be deemed to have been committed in the course of the same transaction because of association and mutual connection.
a and d of section 239.
all these persons can be jointly tried for offences under section 147 by recourse to cl.
d by itself all of them can be tried jointly for the different offences committed by each of them in the course of the same transaction and if cl.
a is unavailable they could not be tried for the offence under section 147 at the same trial.
on the other band there is the decision of this court in the state of andhra pradesh v kandinmlla subbaiah which is to the effect that where several persons had committed offences in the course of the same transactions they could jointly be tried in respect of all those offences under section 239 of the code of criminal procedure and the limitation placed by section 234 of the code could not come into operation.
there nine persons were jointly tried for an offence under section 5 1 c and d of the prevention of corruption act 1947 and section 109 i p c read with s 420 section 466 and section 467 i p c and all except one for offences under sections 420 467471 i p c some of them were also charged with separate offences under some of these provisions.
clearly therefore all the accused persons could be tried together in respect of all the offences now comprised in charge No 1.
in that case this court upheld the order of the high court of madras in quashing the charges in the exercise of its inherent powers even before the conclusion of the trial.
in willie william slaney v the state of madhya pradesh all the learned judges were in agreement on the point that this section and section 535 cover every case in which there is departure from the rules set out in ch.
a similar view was expressed by the same high court in the case which was reversed by this court in the state of andhra pradesh v kandinalla subbaiah 1962 2 scr 194 and it was held that conspiracy to commit an offence being itself an offence a person can be separately charged with respect to such a conspiracy.
mody v the state of bombay.
mr bhimasankaram then relying upon the decision in r v dawson 1960 2 w l r 435 contended that in any event it was not desirable to try the respondents at the same trial for as many as 83 offences and pointed out that these observations had received the approval of this court in the state of andhra pradesh v kandimalla subbaiah 1962 2 b c r 194.
the offence of conspiracy is an entirely independent offence and though other offences are committed in pursuance of the conspiracy the liability of the conspirators for the conspiracy itself can not disappear.
as we are remanding the appeal to the high court for a fresh decision after full consideration of the evidence adduced in the case it would be open to it to consider this matter particularly while judging the credibility of the evidence of the approver.
the entries in the account books of vesco show that certain sums of money were paid to various parties crompton engineering co lumin electric co d brothers radio and electrical madras vizagapatam municipality p v ramanayya bros and andhra power system.
the argument before the high court was and before us is that the absence of an entry can not of electricity duty to government.
the prosecution be established by reference to section 34 of the indian evidence act which reads thus.
the decision in queen empress v grees chunder banerjee 1884 i l r 10.
similarly in ram prashad singh v lakhpati koer 1902 i l r 30.
lord robertson during the course of the hearing has observed that no inference can be drawn from the absence of any entry relating to any particular matter which observation supports the view taken in queen empress v girish chander banerjee 1884 i l r 10 c l 1024.
similarly there is section 5 of the evidence act which reads thus it is the case of the prosecution that the alleged payments were never made by vesco to the various firms.
both the sets of facts are relevant that is non receipt of the amounts by the firms and non existence of entries in their account books pertaining to those amounts.
it is permissible therefore for the prosecution to lead evidence to drove both these facts.
it is under these provisions that the account books of the firms must be held to be relevant.
in coming to this conclusion it has relied upon the provisions of section 356 2a of the code of criminal procedure.
according to mr bhimasankaram the pardon tendered to the approver was illegal and if the pardon is illegal his evidence is wholly inadmissible.
further according to him the evidence of the approver was found by the additional sessions judge to be unreliable and therefore the first condition referred to in sarwan singh v the state of punjab was not satisfied.
the first reason is that none of the offences alleged to have been committed falls within section 337 of the code of criminal procedure and the second reason is that the pardon was granted by an authority not empowered to grant it.
here one of the offences alleged against the respondents is criminal breach of trust punishable under section 409 i p c it is not exclusively triable by a court of sessions and the punishment as set out in the 7th column of schedule ii cr.
p c was transportation for life or imprisonment of either description for ten years and fine.
he contends that since the offence is punishable with transportation for life section 337 1 could not be availed of for granting pardon to the approver.
it seems to us that it would not be correct to read section 337 1 in the way sought by learned counsel.
the very object of this provision is to allow pardon to be tendered in cases where a grave offence is alleged to have been committed by several persons so that with the aid of the evidence of the person pardoned the offence could be brought home to the rest.
the gravity is of course to be determined with reference to the sentence awardable with respect to that offence.
on the strength of these considerations mr chari for the state contends that if the words any offence punishable with imprisonment which may extend to 10 years were interpreted to mean offences which were punishable with imprinsonment of less than 10 years grave offences which are not exclusively triable by a court of sessions will be completely out of section 337 1.
he suggests that this provision can also be reasonably interpreted to mean that where the offences are punishable with imprisonment exceeding 10 years pardon may be granted to the approver.
for the pardon granted in this case can be regarded as being within the ambit of section 337 1 for another reason.
it will be noticed that transportation for life was not the only punishment provided for an offence under section 409 of the indian penal code even before the amendment made to the indian penal code by section 117 of the act 26 of 1955 the other alternative being imprisonment up to 10 years.
now of course by the amendment made by section 117 of act 26 of 1955 for the words transportation for life the words imprisonment for life have been substituted but the original structure of all the sections now amended continues.
the offence under section 467 read with section 471 is punishable with imprisonment for life or imprisonment of either description for a period of 10 years but it is exclusively triable by a court of session and therefore in so far as such offence is concerned the argument of mr bhimasankaram would not even have been available.
it is true that the respondent No i alone was convicted by the additional sessions judge of this offence and the offence under section 467 read with section 471 but the validity of a pardon is to be determined with reference to the offence alleged against the approver alone and not with reference to the offence or offences for which his associates were ultimately convicted.
coming to the next ground of attack on the validity of pardon the argument of mr bhimasankaram is that whereas section 337 1 speaks of pardon being granted by a district magistrate or presidency magistrate a sub divisional magistrate or any magistrate of first class except in cases where an enquiry or trial was pending before another magis tratc the pardon here was granted by the additional district magistrate in a case where an enquiry was pending before the district magistrate and is therefore illegal and of no avail.
he contends that section 337 1 speaks of the district magistrate which expression does not include an additional district magistrate.
no doubt under entry 9 a in part iii of sch.
iii to the code a magistrate first class has the power to grant pardon under section 337 but it is limited by the proviso thereto to certain classes of cases.
the magistrate before whom the enquiry or trial is proceeding or the district magistrate would be the only authorities competent to grant a pardon in such a case.
iii to the code of criminal procedure the power to grant pardon will continue to have that power and therefore a pardon granted by a judicial magistrate in contravention of the government order will not be rendered invalid.
his point is that the proviso to section 3371 confers the power on the district magistrate to grant pardon in a case pending before another magistrate and not on a district magistrate and therefore his power to grant pardon in such cases can not be conferred under sub s 2 of section 10 on an additional district magistrate.
according to him under that section only the powers of a district magistrate meaning thereby only the powers under entry 7 a in part v of sch.
as distinguished from the power under the proviso to section 337 1 can be conferred upon an additional district magistrate.
the power conferred by sub s 1 of section 337 on the different clauses of magistrates is of the same character.
but entry 7 a in part v of sch.
iii when it refers to the power of a district magistrate under section 337 1 does not exclude the power under the proviso.
there is therefore no warrant for drawing a distinction between the powers of the district magistrate and the powers of a district magistrate.
in re the appellant i l r 1957 mad 715 and the cases referred to therein in particular the decision in winson v queen 1866 l r i q b what has been held in all these cases is that where the trial of a person who was charged with having committed an offence or offences jointly with several persons is separated from the trial of those persons he would be a competent witness against them though of course there will always be the question as to what weight should be attached to his evidence.
if pardon is tendered to an accused person and eventually it is found that the pardon is illegal such person is pushed back into the rank of an accused person and being no more than an accomplice would be a competent witness.
the section itself shows that the motivating factor for an approver to turn what in england is called king s evidence is the hope of pardon and not any noble sentiment like contrition at the evil in which he has participated.
whether the evidence of the approver should in any given case be accepted or not will have to be determined by applying the usual tests such as the probability of the truth of what he has deposed to the circumstances in which he has come to give evidence whether he has made a full and complete disclosure whether his evidence is merely self exculpatory and so on and so forth.
the court has in addition to ascertain whether his evidence has been corroborated sufficiently in material particulars.
the better course would be for us to set aside the acquittal of the respondents and send back the appeal to the high court or being decided on merits.
of course the view taken by the additional sessions judge is not binding on the high court.
but it should remove from its mind the misconception that the additional sessions judge has not believed him.
the decision in sarwan singh v the state of punjab 1957 b c r 953 on which reliance has been placed by the high court has been explained by this court in the case of maj e g barsay v the state of bombay.
with these observations we set aside the acquittal of the respondents and remit the appeal to the high court for decision on merits in the light of our observations.
