yakshagana is a form of ballet dance.
it has its own heritage.
indisputably dr kota shivarama karanth for shortdr.
karantha jnanapeeth awardee who was a novelist play writer essayist encyclopediationist cultural anthropologist artist writer of science environmentalist.
he developed a new form of yakshagana.
he was a director of the appellant institute.
on or about 18 6 1994he executed a will in favour of the respondent.
karanth expired on 9 12 1997 yakshagana ballet dance as developed by dr karanth was performed in new delhi on or about 18 9 2001 respondent filed a suit for declaration injunction and damages alleging violation of the copyright in respect of the said dance vested in her in terms of the said will stating that dr karanth developed a new distinctive dance drama troop or theatrical system which was named by him as yaksha ranga which in his own words mean creative extension of traditional yakshagana and thus the appellants infringed the copyright thereof by performing the same at new delhi without obtaining her prior permission.
malini mallya who has built it with borrowed money at her cost.
she had joined my service as copyist and later she secured an employment in life insurance corporation of india.
ever since 1974 till now in my old age she has been serving me with exemplary devotion and sincerity.
and in this occasion i must also acknowledge with gratitude that she diligently cared and nursed my wife leela karanth during her prolonged illness till her last day.
in recognition of her devotion and sincere affection towards me in 1986 i have dedicated one of my novels namelyantida aparanji to her.
i have also placed on record her invaluable services to me in my memoirshunchu mansina hathu mukhagalu 1991 edition.
apart from this she has collected and edited all my stray writings from 1924 onwards up to date in eight sumptuous volumes which are being published by mangalore university.
this work also has brought her deserving fame and appreciation of scholars.
such painstaking service in this direction has brought to light several of my hitherto untraced forgotten and unknown writings and thereby giving them extended or renewed lease of life.
no one else shall have any right or claims for the same 12 from time to time i have distributed among my children all gold and silver jewels and ornaments and other valuables which were gifted to me by my friends and admirers.
and i have distributed all copper and bronze vessels and utensils among my children while leaving my former home suhasa keeping only bare essential and necessary things and articles.
whatever movable properties books fittings furniture utensils etc belonging to me into this house manasa and my car and cash money in hand after my death shall go to smt.
4 directing the defendants to pay future interest on rs 15000 at 15 p a till payment of the entire amount.
appellants in their written statement however denied and disputed any copyright of the said dance in dr karanth alleging that whatever work he had done was in the capacity of a director of the kendra with the assistance finance and staff provided by the organization of mahatma gandhi memorial college trust in respect whereof a committee was formed under him by the board of trustees.
it was furthermore contended that dr karanth was appointed as the president of the executive committee of yakshagana kendra for a period of three years by the appellant and while holding the said post only he expired.
appellants aggrieved thereby and dissatisfied therewith preferred an appeal before the karnataka high court which was marked as r f a no 271 of 2004.
rajiv dhavan learned senior counsel appearing on behalf of appellants in his usual fairness conceded.
i the copyright in the literary work has been assigned by reason of the said will in favour of the respondent in terms of clause 12 of the will.
i keeping in view of the findings of the learned trial judge it ought to have been held that no cause of action arose against the appellants in this case as the institution had performed the said dance at new delhi in the memory of dr karanth without charging any fees.
mr g v chandrashekhar learned counsel appearing on behalf of the respondent on the other hand would support the impugned judgment.
the copyright act1957 for shortthe act was enacted to amend and consolidate the law relating to copyright.
section 2 is the interpretation section.
section 2c defines artistic work to mean i a painting a sculpture a drawing including a diagram map chart or planan engraving or a photograph whether or not any such work possesses artistic quality.
neither of the two can be produced without the imaginative skill of the author.
i therefore hold that the bequest of copyright in literary works and books in favour of the plaintiff by dr karanth will have to be treated as the bequest covering the dramatic works also since i have also drawn the conclusion that the dramatic works is also a form of literature.
therefore necessity of mentioning copyright separately in respect of dramatic works does not arise.
the plaintiff therefore is entitled to copyright even in respect of the dramatic works namely the seven prasangas by virtue of bequest made in her favour in respect of copyrights and books.
the new encyclopaedia britannica vol iv 15th edition provides the following information about dramatic literature.
we however do not mean to suggest that any act of literary work will be outside the purview of the will dated 18 6 1994 our exercise in this behalf was only for the purpose of clarifying the provisions of the act with reference to the findings arrived at by the high court.
a declaratory decree therefore was passed.
we may notice at this stage that the form of injunction granted both by the learned trial judge as also by the high court in favour of the plaintiff respondent.
the operative part of the judgment of the trial court reads as under defendants or their employees or agents are restrained from performing the above said 7 ballets or prasangas or in parts thereof in any manner as evolved distinctively by dr karanth by way of permanent injunction.
the high court however directed iii.
as far as the restraint order passed by the trial court by granting permanent injunction to the plaintiff is concerned the same is modified by ordering that if the appellants desire to stage any of the seven yakshagana prasangas in the manner and form as conceived in all respects viz.
costumes choreography and direction by dr karanth the appellants can do so only in accordance with the provisions of the copyrights act1957 in view of copyright in seven prasangas vesting with the plaintiff.
decree for injunction is an equitable relief.
the courts while passing a decree for permanent injunction would avoid multiplicity of proceedings.
in r g anand vs m s delux films ors 1978.
3 one of the surest and the safest test to determine whether or not there has been a violation of copyright is to see if the reader spectator or the viewer after having read or seen both the works is clearly of the opinion and gets an unmistakable impression that the subsequent work appears to be a copy of the original.
no infringement of the copyright comes into existence.
a violation of copyright amounts to an act of piracy it must be proved by clear and cogent evidence after applying the various tests laid down by the case law discussed above.
it is manifest that unlike a stage play a film has a much broader prospective wider field and a bigger background where the defendants can by introducing a variety of incidents give a colour and complexion different from the manner in which the copyrighted work has expressed the idea.
even so if the viewer after seeing the film gets a totality of impression that the film is by and large a copy of the original play violation of the copyright may be said to be proved.
yet again in eastern book company ors vs d b modak anr 2008.
copyright has nothing to do with originality or literary merit.
copyrighted material is that what is created by the author by his own skill labour and investment of capital maybe it is a derivative work which gives a flavour of creativity.
the copyright work which comes into being should be original in the sense that by virtue of selection coordination or arrangement of pre existing data contained in the work a work somewhat different in character is produced by the author.
the high court in our opinion should have clarified that the appellants can also take the statutory benefit of the provisions contained in clauses ai and l of sub section 1 of section 52 of the act.
section 52 of the act provides for certain acts which would not constitute an infringement of copyright.
when a fair dealing is made inter alia of a literary or dramatic work for the purpose of private use including research and criticism or review whether of that work or of any other work the right in terms of the provisions of the said act can not be claimed.
similarly appellant being an educational institution if the dance is performed within the meaning of provisions of clause i of sub section 1 of section 52 of the act strictly the order of injunction shall not apply thereto also.
with the aforementioned modification in the order of injunction this appeal is dismissed.
