the facts of the case in brief are that in view of the chinese invasion air field at sirsa required to be extended for which purpose the ministry of defence govt.
of india took steps to acquire some lands of agriculturists pursuant to which a notification dated november 27 1962 was issued under section 4 of the land acquisition act 1894 for acquiring 51 79 acres of land situated in the state of ahmedpur.
on the next day another notification was issued under section 6 of the land acquisition act on november 28 1962 and in view of the emergency action under section 17 was taken for obtaining possession of the land with a view to its development.
the lands which were acquired belonged to several land holders including moti ram and p w 12 kewal chand.
the collector gave his award on 26 2 63 in respect of these lands which actually measured 49 47 acres at rs 1350 per acre amounting to rs 66784 50 np.
apart from this amount compensation was also awarded for standing crop amounting to rs 11073 13.
before the land was actually acquired the appellant who was a major in the military engineering service was working as a garrison engineer and was inching of the extension.
this agreement was signed both by the appellant and p w 14.
after the completion of the first phase the second phase was to start on 10th october 1963 and completed by 9th may 1964.
february 1963 to the appellant.
the receipt ex.
24 bears the signature of n l handa the tehsildar and of sukhchain lal jain p w 11 on behalf of the military estate officer and the appellant.
from this receipt it is evident that possession of 50 12 acres was handed over by the tehsildar and taken over by the appellant and the military estate officer sukhchain lal jain.
in respect of this allegation the first information report exhibit p 29 was issued on 14 1 64 in which the following statement is relevant.
it is alleged that major som nath accused who is a garrison engineer sirsa air field subsequently sometime in the months of march and april 1963 permitted the removal of the standing crop valued at rs 11073 13 by shri moti ram and kewal chand etc.
after accepting illegal gratification of rs 3000 from them.
major som nath did not account for this amount in the govt.
revenues.
he thus.
abused his position as a public servant and caused pecuniary advantage to said shri moti ram and kewal chand by giving them standing crops worth rs 13000 for a consideration of.
rs 3000 only which amount he accepted for his personal use and thereby also abused his official position and obtained pecuniary advantage for himself in a sum of rs.
after this f i r certain statements were recorded by the military authorities being da to de dm dm 1 dn dl of mani gain mulkh raj ganpat ram telu ram kewal chand and sukhchain lal jain.
a chargesheet was filed against the appellant under section 5 1 c and 5 1 d read with 5 2 of the prevention of corruption act on 5 8 1966 after obtaining sanction from the govt.
of india ministry of home affairs on llth april 1966 as per exhibit p 23.
the special judge acquitted the appellant of the second charge namely that being a public servant he had by corrupt or illegal means or by otherwise abusing his position as a public servant obtained for himself a sum of rs 2500 from moti ram of sirsa for cutting the crops and thereby committed offence under section 51d punishable under section 52.
the accused was however convicted under the first charge for an offence under section 51c in that he being a garrison engineer incharge of the air field.
sirsa and in that capacity entrusted with standing crops of sarson gram and lusan on 30 acres of land a part of 49 acres of land acquired by the govt.
before we consider these contentions it is necessary to determine another submission of the learned advocate for the appellant which goes to the root of the jurisdiction of the court to try the offence under section 51c.
that the sanction given by the govt.
for a sanction to be valid it must be established that the sanction was given in respect of the facts constituting the offence with which the accused is proposed to be charged.
though it is desirable that the facts should be referred to in the sanction itself nonetheless if they do not appear on the face of it the prosecution must establish aliunde by evidence that those facts were placed before the sanctioning authorities.
sirsa and or he dishonestly or fraudulently realised and misappropriated rs 2500 during the aforesaid period as the value of the crops cut from the land acquired for the extension of air field.
sirsa which crops had been entrusted to him as a public servant and he instead of depositing the said sale price into the govt.
by order and in the name of the president.
sd a p veera raghavan.
deputy secretary to the govt of india.
from the above order it is apparent that the facts which the central govt.
treasury.
on these facts and after applying its mind as spoken to by p w 10 kalra the government accorded its sanction for prosecution of the offences punishable under section 52 read with section 51c and 51d.
this question in turnwill depend upon what are the ingredients of the offences under 51c and d read with section 52.
treasury.
there is therefore no basis for sanction for a charge under section 51c.
in support of this contention three decisions have been cited before us namely bhagat ram v state of punjab 1954 indlaw sc 188 madan mohan singh v state of u p privy council 82.
we do not see how this case can assist the appellant because in the first ace there is no question of an alteration of the charge and secondly the circumstance that someone who is not a public servant abetted the appellant is hardly relevant.
for instance it is quite possible that the person whom he allowed to cut the crop may be his own relation or friend in whom he may be interested and who may however not know that the accused was doing something dishonest in permitting him to cut the crop.
in any case the facts which have been stated in the sanction clearly indicate that the appellant has dishonestly allowed the crops to be cut so that there is no question of any inference or implication that the persons cutting the crops were abetting him in the offence.
these cases instead of supporting the contention of the learned advocate amply demonstrate that the facts which formed the basis of the sanction and which was accorded after the sanctioning authority had fully applied its mind to them should be correlated to the particular offence or offences with which the accused is charged or convicted.
thirdly the judgments show that there was utter confusion in respect of the date on which possession of the acquired land was given to the appellant and the date on which it was given to the contractor for carrying on the work as also in respect of the fact whether there was any crop standing when the appellant took possession of the land and at what period of time the crop was cut and the work commenced.
there is however nothing in this document to show what is the site of which possession was handed over to and taken by telu ram on 10th january 63.
that there was crop on the land is amply born out by a letter of the appellant dated 12th february 1963 addressed to mr g l nagpal sub divisional magistrate sirsa.
acquisition of land for sirsa airfield.
as you know.
even if exhibit dq gave a correct picture it could be in relation to the airstrip already in existence as this would be necessary for a contractor who is charged with duty to carry out extension work to go on the site collect materials and get everything ready to execute his contract.
a copy of this letter was sent to the garrison engineer the appellant.
this letter shows two things a that complete site 4500 to 0 ft has not yet been handed over as it was presumed that the possession of the land could not be had so for and b that as levels have not been given the final excavation of the foundation can not be done and all subsequent operations are therefore withheld.
he may please be asked to complete this formality without any loss of time.
in reply the appellant states in his letter exhibit p 12 dated the 10th april.
no further action is required to be taken.
