three civil appeals stemming from three revision petitions to the high court of orissa under the orissa estates abolition act 1951 orissa act i of 1952 for short the act have reached this court thanks to special leave granted to the appellant who is common in all the cases.
the high court after deciding various issues remanded the cases to the compensation officer under the act after over ruling most of the contentions pressed before it by the appellant.
shri achutananda purohit appellant was the intermediary in respect of vast forests and other lands comprised in the estate of jujumura in the district of sambalpur.
the appellant has received around rs 300000 but much more according to him is due and this controversy can be settled by examining his specific points.
shri purohit appellant is an advocate by profession and is 83 years old.
he has argued in person and with passion.
if we may anticipate ourselves none of the nine submissions has appealed to us save to the extent the high court has upheld.
even so a minimal narration of the facts and a brief consideration of each argument is necessary and we proceed to do so.
while his arguments did not impress us we were touched by his concluding words that he had been born and had grown in an adivasi village in the only brahmin family and in his evening years of life proposed to give a substantial part of the compensation the state would give him for adivasi welfare.
although he waxed sentimentally on this note he did not convince us on his contentions.
with these prefatory observations we proceed to formulate the many points urged and give our findings and reasons one after the other.
the compensation officer is charged with fixing the quantum in the prescribed manner.
a compensation assessment roll containing the gross asset and net income of each estate together with the compensation payable in respect of such estate has to be prepared by him.
section 26 has great relevance as it lays down the method of arriving at the gross asset and section 27 has like significance as it focuses on the manner in which the net income from an estate shall be computed by deducting certain items from the gross asset of the estate.
these furnish in bare outline the provisions with which we are directly concerned.
for convenience of reference we may extract the statement by the high court of the contentions urged before it and repeated before us by the appellant.
the provisions of section 373 read with section 262.
b v of the act make it clear that the date of vesting is the last date by which the calculation of compensation should have been made.
as admittedly compensation had not been calculated by the date of vesting the compensation officer lost his statutory jurisdiction to do so.
b v of the act but in spite of it the direction was that the divisional forest officer should make the appraisement.
there was no direction that this report of the d f o should be further subject to the approval of the chief conservator of forests.
the calculation made by the chief conservator of forests therefore has no statutory force but could be just a piece of evidence.
but as the court directed that no further evidence on behalf of the state should be received ext.
a1 is inadmissible in evidence.
3 assuming that in spite of the directions of the court the compensation offi cer is entitled to follow the procedure laid down in section 262bv the expression subject to the approval of the chief conservator of forests does not refer to the appraisement made by the d f o but refers to his appointment.
4 assuming that section 262 b v would have full force what it contemplates is that the appraisement must be made by the d f o and it is subject to the approval by the chief conservator of forests.
but what has happened here is that the chief conservator himself made the appraisement without referring to the appraisement made by the d f o and as such the appraisement made by the chief conservator is invalid.
where the actual income is to be included in the gross assets in the case of forests the assumed income and not the actual income is to be included.
during the agricultural year immediately preceding the abolition the petitioners had not actually derived any income from the forests and as such they were under no obligation to pay any income tax on such income.
therefore deduction of income tax from the gross assets is illegal and unwarranted.
the slab system of calculation of compensation in the act providing smaller multiples for estates yielding larger income is unconstitutional.
8 compensation money should be so calculated that the purchasing power of the amount of compensation to be paid on the date of actual payment will not be less than its purchasing power on the date of vesting and 9 interest should be calculated at not less than 12 per annum from the date of vesting till payment.
but before examining this essential issue we may dispose of the minor points pressed so that the deck may be cleared for dealing with what deserves to be dealt with.
a similar principle applies to the award of interest which may sometimes be notional when feudal interests are puffed out.
moreover the high court has rightly pointed out that the validity of section 373 of the act which fixes a small rate of interest on the compensation amount has been upheld by the supreme court in gajapati narayan s case.
point No 8 has only to be stated to be rejected.
the contention is that on the date of vesting which was well over two decades ago the purchasing power of the rupee was much higher than its present value.
for the purposes of the law the rupee of long ago is the same as the rupee of today although for the purposes of the market place and cost of living the housewife s answer may be different.
law is sometimes blind.
the next point in the reverse order is equally unsubstantial and may be disposed of right away.
the short answer is that article 313 read with article 312 bars any challenge to the amount of compensation on acquisition by the state subject to compliance with the prescriptions in the said sub articles on the ground that the amount so fixed or determined is not adequate.
moreover article 31a repels the applicability of articles 14 19 and 31 to the acquisition by the state of any estate or of any rights therein etc.
this provision directly demolishes the contention of the appellant.
point No 6 in the list of contentions earlier reproduced is also bereft of force and we may make short shrift of it.
no income therefore no income tax and therefore no deduction is the syllogism of shri purohit.
he forgets that in the case of forests it is the assumed income and not the actual income that forms the basis of calculation of compensation.
indeed if the actual income were to be the foundation for computation of compensation on the premise that not actual income has accrued the compensation might be zero.
similarly an assumed income tax also has to be worked out and deducted.
if a notional income on the assumed basis can be used for fixing compensation a notional income tax can be calculated and deducted.
the confusion that vitiates the argument is prompted by a circular letter of government regarding non deductibility of income tax due to the state from the amount of compensation lying to the credit of estate holders.
the statutory scheme of compensation for forest lands consists of machinery for assessment of the net income which is multiplied on a sliding scale and the method of challenge to the determination by the aggrieved owner of state.
section 262.
v gross income from forests calculated on the basis of the appraisement made of annual yield of the forests on the date of vesting by a forest officer subject to the approval of the chief conservator of forests such forest officer being not below the rank of a divisional forest officer to be appointed in this behalf by the state government.
so the first step is for the government to appoint forest officers from out of d f os in the forest department for the purposes of the act.
the section is clear that the gross income from forests must be calculated on the basis of appraisal of the annual yield on the date of vesting firstly by a forest officer and secondly by the chief conservator of forests screening it and approving it.
