the order of the court was as follows.
by order dated october 71993 passed by the constitution bench three questions were referred for consideration by a larger bench.
in pursuance of the said order this bench has been constituted.
when the matters were taken up on march 161994the court felt that it was necessary to reframe the first two questions.
the hearing of the matters was therefore adjourned to march 181994on which date the questions requiring consideration by this bench have been reframed to highlight the several aspects of the claims put forward by the petitioners.
the claim of being a minority whether based on religion or language and the claim of being a minority educational institution put forward by the petitioners can not be pronounced upon without first ascertaining what the said expressions connote and signify.
it would therefore not be feasible to take up the hearing of these matters before the court closes for the long vacation.
there will be an interim order in the following terms i fifty per cent of the total intake in the petitioners educational institutions shall be permitted to be filled up by candidates selected by the agencies of the state government on the basis of a competitive examination test.
the candidates so selected and admitted shall pay scales of fee as applicable to this class of students as determined by the state government from time to time.
it is optional for the petitioners to adopt any one of these three modes and apply it uniformally.
it is open to the respondents to question this status claimed by the petitioners.
this order shall however not estop the petitioners from urging all other contentions raised in the writ petitions as indeed this interim interlocutory order is made on the consent of the petitioners and without prejudice to all the contentions.
writ petitions challenging the correctness and applicability of unni krishnan filed by educational institutions which do not claim to be minority educational institutions5 writ petitions which do not fall in any of the above categories.
it was directed that the order dated may 141993would not apply to educational institutions falling in categories 4 and 5 and the institutions referred to in paragraph 18 of the order dated august 181993 the order dated may 141993was made applicable to the institutions falling in categories 12 and 3 with the modification that following were added in continuation of the said order in continuation it is made further clear that whether any of the petitioner institutions is a mei or not is a matter for the government to verify and determine.
we do not more particularly at this stage make any pronouncement in that behalf.
this order shall be shahal h musaliar v state of kerala1993 4 scc.
the 50 seats to be filled up by candidates selected by the agencies of the state government on the basis of a competitive examination test as well as the remaining 50 seats to be filled in accordance with cl of the said order shall be equally distributed between free seats and payment seats.
in other words out of the 50 seats to be filled up by government half will be payment seats and half will be free seats.
similarly out of the 50 of the seats to be filled up by the management in accordance of the said order half shall be payment seats and the other half free seats.
such statements shall contain as full a particulars as possible.
the authorities to which the statements are submitted shall verify the correctness of the statements and if they find any irregularity they shall call upon the college concerned to rectify the same.
they shall also bring any such violation to the notice of this court by way of any interlocutory application.
any such irregularity if proved may entail serious consequences.
in the order dated august 181993the following directions were given in respect of the institutions covered by the aforesaid writ petitions nos 284 of 1993 and 482 of 19932 having regard to the above circumstances we permit the petitioners.
in the above two writ petitions to admit students to their colleges on the basis of entrance test conducted by them and on the same basis on which admissions were made by them in the said colleges in the previous academic year.
after completing the admissions the petitioners shall furnish full particulars of the students admitted the categories if any whereunder they were admitted and all other particulars relating to their admission.
this information should be furnished to the competent authority to the university to which the said colleges are affiliated and to the secretary education department government of karnataka tamil nadu.
it shall also be open to the competent authority university and the government of karnataka tamil nadu to bring any such irregularity to the notice of this court by way of an interlocutory application for appropriate orders in that behalf.
indlaw sc 2264 unnikrishnan j p v.
in the aforesaid order dated october 719933with reference to the minority educational institutions in the state of kerala such as those covered by writ petition no 598 of 1993 it has been observed the system obtaining in kerala appears to be altogether different which was unfortunately not brought to our notice on august 181993 there are only two private engineering colleges in the state said to be minority educational institutions.
the system obtaining in this state appears to be that the entire fees collected by these private engineering colleges has to be made over to the government while the government bears the entire expenditure for running the colleges.
in the absence of such list they can themselves devise the method for such selection.
insofar as non resident indians and foreign students are concerned the permissible limit would be only 5 of the total intake for a given year as per the direction contained in paragraph 6 of the order dated may 141993 as modified by order dated august 1819932 the admission against these seats shall be made on the basis of merit.
the matters be listed for hearing on july 201994 notice be issued to the attorney general of india and the advocates general for the states on the questions as reframed.
written submissions in brief should be submitted by learned counsel by july 131994.
conservators forests u p rendered on november 61990 it would appear that at present there are 215 direct recruits and 100 promotee asstt.
the seniority of the promotee asstt.
conservators forest.
therefore as on march ii1985the total posts available were.
as in the year 199072 more posts were created and the total posts are now 330 therefore they are entitled to 50 per cent of the quota in the tentative list.
similarly as on january 11975the ratio was increased to 33 13 per cent namely66 23 per cent to the direct recruits and 33 13 per cent to the promotees.
it is clear from the counter affidavit filed by the state that the posts are both permanent and temporary.
petition disposed of.
