the 1st respondent are an advertising agency and have been the advertising agents in respect of the products manufactured by the petitioners as aforesaid for number of years.
the 2nd respondent is a director andor partner of the 1st respondent and has mainly dealt with the petitioners on behalf of the 1st respondent.
the petitioners had employed the respondent nos 1 to 4 as their advertising agents through the petitioners sister concern m s modern advertising agency and uta advertising agency and were dealing with the respondent no 1 mainly through the petitioners managing director g k pendharkar.
pursuant to the said arrangement the respondent nos 1 to 4 as the agents of the petitioners prepared at the costs and expenses of the petitioners a serial entitled yeh jo hai zindagi.
the petitioners claimed that as a result of the employment of the respondent nos 1 to 4 and the finances paid by them the petitioners are the owners of the said serial yeh jo hai zindagi and the title thereof.
the petitioners claimed that the exclusive right to use the title thereof belonged to them and the 2nd episode of yeh jo hai zindagi was telecast without the name of the petitioners being mentioned as sponsors nor was their advertisement shown.
this was due to the negligence of the respondent nos 1 to 4 but the respondents recovered the cost of production from the petitioners.
the petitioners claimed that they were the real producers and owners of the said serial yeh jo hai zindagi and the petitioners to the knowledge of the respondents have entered into an agreement assigning the video rights in the said serial to one m s esquire distributing and servicing pvt.
ltd on.
1st and 2nd respondents had by their letter dated 14 december 1984 confirmed that the petitioners have all t v and video rights of the sponsored programme in hindi yeh jo hai zindagi and vest with the petitioners.
though original agreement was to have 27 episodes but having regard to the popularity of the programme the petitioners decided to increase the said serial to 52 episodes and by a letter dated 22 april 1985 the petitioners informed respondent nos 1 and 2 that in the title of the 27th and 28th episodes it has been stated that it is presented by oberoi films.
some time in may 1985the 1st respondent proposed to the petitioners that some other products should be tied up with the serial yeh jo hai zindagi.
by their letter dated 02 january 1986 the petitioners informed the 1st and 2nd respondents that it was not possible to increase the costs of production for the episodes and that in the circumstances the production of the serial may stop.
the petitioners apprehended that the respondent nos 1 to 3 intended to produce further episodes under the title yeh jo hai zindagi making use of the same format as the earlier serial for and on behalf of the third party.
the respondent nos 1 to 4 in their written statement contested the suit.
in the year 1983the said proprietary firm was converted into a private limited company which is the 1st respondent in the present suit and the 2nd respondent constituted respondent nos 3 and 4 as his proprietary firm.
in course of time the 2nd respondent and partners of the petitioners especially g k pendharkar came very close to each other and developed very intimate relations.
as against the regular rates charge of rs 324000 for display of advertisements on tv of such advertisers for 120 seconds per telecast the relevant time at the rate of rs 35000 only for 120 seconds in addition to the royalty or consideration payable to the producers of such films or serials which invariably was far less than the difference between the usual rates and concession rates of advertisements.
the petitioners agreed to pay fixed amount to these respondents per episode for linking up their commercials with the said serial and not on the basis of the actual cost of production of each episode so that if the cost of production exceeded the said fixed amount the respondents had to bear the same.
in these circumstances the respondents contended that by entering into the said agreement of sponsorship neither the petitioners nor the respondents created nor did they ever intend to create any relationship of employer and employee andor master and servant or principal and agent between the petitioners on the one hand and the respondents no 1 to 4 on the other.
nor did the parties intend that the respondents should produce the said serial for the petitioners or at the instance of the petitioners and the respondents intended to embark on the production of the said serial on their own.
the petitioners by their letter dated 02 january 1987 turned down the respondents demand and informed the respondents that they had no objection if the respondents went ahead with the production of the said serial and merely requested the respondents that the title of the said serial yeh jo hai zindagi may not be used by the respondents.
the plaintiffs prove that the t v serial entitled yeh jo hai zindagi was produced by the defendant nos 1 to 4 as agents and the said serial made by defendant nos 1 to 4 in the course of their employment with the plaintiffs as alleged.
3 do the plaintiffs prove that the entire serial rights including the excluding the exclusive right to use the title thereof belong to the plaintiffs as alleged.
4 are defendant nos 1 to 4 entitled to deny the ownership of the plaintiffs of the film.
yeh jo hai zindagi in view of exhibits a b and e colly to the plaint.
the defendants prove that the plaintiffs are not the owners of the copyright of the tv serial film viz.
the defendant nos 1 to 4 prove that it was intended between the parties that copyrights in respect of the said film should vest exclusively with the defendants or that the right of ownership was waived by the plaintiffs.
7 does.
9 are.
the plaintiffs entitled to the declaration sought.
10 are.
the plaintiffs entitled to permanent injuction as prayed for.
12 what order.
the petitioners were also not able to prove that the entire serial rights including the exclusive right to use the title thereof belonged to the petitioners as alleged.
the trial court examined in detail the letter dated 19 july 1984 exhibit f 1 written by shri g k pendharkar of the petitioners and concluded that averments made in the plaint stated that the original agreement was to have 27 episodes but having regard to the popularity of the serial programme the petitioners decided to increase the said serial to 52 episodes.
it was stated that certain bills had been given to the petitioners to suit their convenience in tax matters and there was no such bill submitted to the petitioners by the respondents when the petitioner had agreed to extend the sponsorship from episodes nos 27 to 52 and noticed the nature of the system of accounting maintained by them and held that the petitioners had got deductions in respect of the entire amount of the bill in the year which ended on 31 march 1984.
2 the bills of cost of production.
4 contracts with doordarshan.
5 contractd with esquire distributing servicing pvt ltd.
2 that the petitioners had agreed to sponsor only 26 episodes whereas the respondents had agreed to produce 52 episodes and had given a firm commitment to that effect to doordarshan as is clear from the letter dated 12 july 1984 sent by the respondents to doordarshan.
ltd as their property.
petition dismissed.
