the accused appellant has been held guily of of fences punishable under section 302 and section 3762f of indian penal code.
the trial court sentenced the appellant to death under section 302 ipc and to undergo rigorous imprisonment for life and pay a fine of rs 10000 in default of payment to undergo further r i for 3 years under section 3762f ipc.
while the learned additional sessions judge made a reference to the high court for confirmation of death sentence under section 366 cr.
p c the appellant preferred an appeal putting in issue his conviction and sentence.
the criminal reference and the criminal appeal were heard by a division bench of rajasthan high court.
the two learned judges constituting the division bench differed in their opinion.
in the opinion of one learned judge the circumstantial evidence on which rests the prosecution case was not sufficient to record a finding of guilty against the appellant on any of the charges framed against him.
in the opinion of the other learned judge the prosecution evidence was sufficient to sustain the conviction as recorded by the trial court though the case was not one of those rarest of rare cases as would warrant death sentence being awarded to the appellant.
in view of the difference of opinion the learned acting chief justice assigned the case for hearing by a third judge under section 392 of cr.
p c the third learned judge has on an independent appreciation of evidence recorded his own findings upholding the conviction of the accused on both the charges framed against him and thus agreeing with one of the two learned judges constituting the division bench in conclusion.
the accused appellant has filed this appeal by special leave.
bd rushed to the place only to find that the dead body was of none else than his own daughter section blood was oozing out from her mouth and private parts.
a noose was also found around her neck.
offence was registered under sections 302 and 376 ipc.
the inves tigation commenced.
the dead body was sent for post mortem examination which was performed at 9 30 a m on the same day by a medical board of three doctors.
it was found that the victim was brutally ravished and thereafter killed.
according to the medical opinion the probable cause of death of s was shock produced due to vaginal trauma and rupture of post fornix along with asphyxia due to ligature around the neck.
all injuries found on the person of the victim could be around 6 of 24 hours old prior to the time of post mortem examina tion.
the vaginal injuries clotted blood and injuries to post fornix were indica tive of rape having been committed on the victim.
the clothes were removed from the dead body and seized.
slides of vaginal swab were prepared for cyto chemical analysis for blood and seminal stains.
the forensic science laboratory confirmed presence of group b blood on the clothes of deceased.
there was no injury on his private parts or on any other part of body.
the clothes on his person did not have any blood or seminal stains.
he was a grown up male of 21 years and capable of performing sexual intercourse.
the clothes so recovered were sent to forensic science laboratory.
according to report exbt.
human semen was detected on underwear.
p30 of forensic science laboratory human blood of group b was detected on the underwear.
the accused was challaned and charge sheeted for the offences as already stated hereinabove.
the prosecution examined 21 witnesses in all.
it is not necessary here to extensively deal with the evidence adduced by the prosecution.
suffice it to observe that there is no direct evidence connecting the accused with the offences charged.
we would proceed to examine each of the pieces of incriminating circumstantial evidence so as to find out if each one of the circumstantial evidence is proved individually and whether collectively it forges such a chain of incriminating circumstances as would fasten the guilt on the accused beyond by shadow of reasonable doubt.
those circumstances should not be capable of being explained by any other hypothesis except the guilt of the accused and the chain of the evidence must be so complete as not to leave any reasonable ground for the belief consistent with the innocence of the accused.
it needs no reminder that legally estab lished circumstances and not merely indignation of the court can form the basis of conviction and the more serious the crime the greater should be the care taken to scrutinize the evidence lest suspicion takes the place of proof.
in dhananjoy chatterjee s case 1994 indlaw sc 1743 supra the decision of this court in sharad birdhichand sarda v state of maharashtra 1984 4 scc 116 1984 indlaw sc 432 was relied on.
on asking a few questions by way of preliminary examination the learned trial judge found that the witness could answer some of the questions.
she stated that accompanied by phukla another young girl a cousin of hers and s the deceased she had gone to purchase balloon from the shop of goma.
while returning the accused told s that her feet were mudstained and he would wash her feet and saying so he took s inside his house leaving behind the two girls including shalu pw7 who returned to their houses leaving s behind.
the witness is a child witness of very tender age and examined in the court almost a year after the date of the incident.
we have very carefully read the statement of this witness.
there is nothing in her statement to suggest that what she is narrating in the court is the story of a day soon before the date and time of the incident or the date on which dead body of s was found.
from the evi dence of shalu pw7 such an inference can not be drawn.
goma to whose shop the three girls had gone to buy balloon has not been examined.
there is something mysterious about the discovery of shalu as a witness to the incident.
s has died.
the third girl who was with s and shalu has not been examined either in the court or during investigation.
harish chand sharma the investigating officer was specifically asked how the name of this witness came to his knowledge during investigation.
thus how and in what manner the investigating officer came to learn about shalu pw7 so as to record her statement during investigation remains shrounded in mystery.
the fact remains that the testimony of shalu pw 7 aged 4 years even if taken at its face value does not constitute such a circumstance as to draw an incriminating inference against the accused and connect him with the crime.
he and santosh.
false plea of alibi.
conclusion.
