ujjagar singh the appellant herein a resident of village bangawali tehsil malerkotla was tried and convicted by the additional sessions judge sangrur for the murder of his niece mukhtiar kaur and was awarded the death penalty.
in addition he was convicted for an offence punishable section 376 of the ipc and sentenced to undergo rigorous imprisonment for 10 years and to a fine of rs 5 000 and in default of payment to undergo further r i for one year and section 309 of the ipc to a sentence of simple imprisonment for one year.
the aforesaid convictions and sentences have been maintained by the high court and the matter is before us in these proceedings by way of special leave.
satnam singh conveyed this information to sarpanch jora singh pw1 who was attending a marriage at that time.
jora singh accompanied by gurdeep singh pw3 thereupon rushed to ujjagar singh s house and found mukhtiar kaur lying dead with a gun shot injury and the appellant also with a gun shot injury lying unconscious on the ground in the adjoining room.
jora singh also met inspector harjinder pal singh pw14 at 4 40 p m near the hospital who recorded his statement at that place and with his endorsement exhibit p a sent it to police station dhuri where the formal fir was registered at about 4 45 p m with the special report being delivered to the illaka magistrate at dhuri itself at 6 20 p m the same evening.
the facts as narrated were that arjan singh of village bangawali had three sons puran singh ujjagar singh appellant and ajmer singh.
puran singh had died about 20 years earlier leaving behind his wife two sons and a daughter mukhtiar kaur.
the two sons and the wife also died long before the incident and mukhtiar kaur the sole surviving member of this branch of the family had been married to balwinder singh pw9 about 9 or 10 years earlier.
it appears that mukhtiar kaur s relations with her in laws had got strained and she had left her matrimonial home and come to live with ujjagar singh her uncle 7 or 8 months earlier and the suggestion was that mukhtiar kaur had been killed by the appellant with his licensed gun and he had thereafter attempted to commit suicide.
after completion of the investigation at the spot mukhtiar kaur s dead body was sent for its post mortem examination.
the post mortem examination was also conducted by pw5 dr ishwar singh medical officer civil hospital along with dr harwinder kaur pw17 and it was found that mukhtiar kaur had two gunshot injuries on her dead body a wound of entry on the back of right side of chest 2 cm x 1 cm with margining and blackening and a corresponding exit wound of 5 cm x 3 5 cm to the front of the right side of the chest.
on the completion of the investigation a charge sheet under sections 302 376 and 309 of the ipc was filed against the accused and as he pleaded not guilty he was brought to trial.
during the trial jora singh pw1 satnam singh pw2 gurdeep singh pw3 and kulwant singh pw4 resiled from their statements given to the police and were declared hostile.
pw10 karam singh aforesaid confirmed the story given by balwinder singh.
the prosecution also placed reliance on the statement of asi jasbir singh pw11 who had accompanied inspector harjinder pal singh pw14 to the place of incident and supported the recoveries made from the spot.
the prosecution case was then put to the accused and his statement recorded section.
313 of the cr.
p c in reply to question 33 he stated as under i am innocent.
i was treating mukhtiar kaur as my daughter and loved her as my daughter.
false allegations have been levelled against me.
i never harassed mukhtiar kaur nor ever got her land mutated from her mother by fraud.
i have not killed mukhtiar kaur.
mother of mukhtiar kaur got the land mutated by her own free will and mukhtiar kaur had no dispute about it.
balwinder singh her husband was addicted to vices and used to beat her due to which she used to remain under depression and sick generally and used to come to me as my daughter.
my house kothi is situated on the outer skirts of village bangawali and door planks had not been fixed so far to rooms.
some body suddenly came and fired at me.
i fell down on the ground and became unconscious.
therefore i could not see what had happened to mukhtiar kaur as she was in other room.
later on i came to know that some body had fired at her and she died.
i regained consciousness in hospital.
the story of rape by me with her has been fabricated by her husband as he is inimical towards me.
even i do not know who took me to hospital.
i have been implicated in this case falsely.
the trial court and the high court relying on the circumstances available on the evidence convicted and sentenced the appellant as already mentioned above.
he has pointed out that there was absolutely no evidence to suggest that mukhtiar kaur had been subjected to rape and in this view of the matter the very basis for the imposition of the death penalty was not made out.
he has also pointed out that there were no eye witnesses to the incident and the 4 witnesses i e jora singh and others who had reached the place of incident and carried the injured appellant to the hospital had also resiled and as the prosecution story now rested on circumstantial evidence alone it was imperative for the investigating officer to have taken the finger prints from the weapon and that in any case the recovery of the spent cartridges and the gun were clearly suspicious as the weapon had been sent to the laboratory after an inordinate delay.
the learned state counsel has however supported the judgment of the courts below.
we have heard the learned counsel for the parties and gone through the record.
we find from the medical evidence and from the chemical examiner s reports that the vaginal swab and clothes taken from the dead body did indicate the presence of semen.
there is however absolutely no evidence to suggest even assuming that the intercourse had been committed by the appellant that he had done so without mukhtiar kaur s consent or against her will.
some suspicions of rape could perhaps have been raised had some tell tale injuries been detected on mukhtiar kaur s person but we find that the two injuries other than the gun shot wounds i e injury no 3 being on the left pinna and.
it is also significant that the investigators had made no attempt whatsoever to have the appellant medically examined to ascertain his capacity to perform sexual intercourse.
the learned state counsel relying on the statement of pw14 inspector harjinder pal singh has however submitted that the examination had not been possible as the appellant had received a very serious gun shot injury and was hanging between life and death.
we agree with the submission of the learned counsel that an examination could not have been carried out immediately.
but we see no justification in the omission of the prosecution to have him examined after he had recovered his health and been discharged from hospital.
a few facts stand out from the prosecution story.
first the place of incident being adjoining rooms in the residential house of the appellant and the fact that the alleged murder weapon is his licensed dbbl gun is proved on record.
the evidence also reveals that the appellant was living in the premises along with his wife mother and son and two daughters who were studying outside the village were frequent visitors but it is the admitted position that nobody but the appellant and the deceased were present at the time of incident.
it is also clear from the evidence that the two spent cartridge cases recovered one from near mukhtiar kaur s dead body and the second from the right barrel of the gun lying near the appellant had been sent to the forensic science laboratory which opined that one of the cartridges had been fired from the gun and the other could have been fired therefrom.
pjj prepared by the investigating officer inspector harjinder pal singh pw14 on 10th november 2002 that the weapon is shown lying close to the place where the appellant had been found unconscious and a spent cartridge recovered from near the dead body of mukhtiar kaur.
there could perhaps be some truth in this suggestion as it is significant that though the appellant had an extended family living with him i e mother wife son living in the village and two young daughters who were studying outside and residing in a hostel but were frequent visitors home yet none of them has come forth to depose in his favour.
it is also significant that the shot had apparently travelled upwards skirting the mandible through the flesh of the cheek in an upward direction with minimal damage to the bone structure and it is indeed providential that the appellant got away with only an injury albeit a very serious one.
pjj wherein marks of a shot hitting the roof were seen at point e whereas the appellant was found lying at point d in the same room.
it is therefore apparent that the weapon had indeed been fired by the appellant from a close range and that the blackened portion around the wound had been removed by dr sanjay uppal.
we have considered the submission of the state counsel very carefully.
in his statement section p c his positive stand was that he alone had been in the house with mukhtiar kaur when she had been killed and indeed as per exhibit p jj mukhtiar kaur s body had been found only one karam 5 feet away from the place where the appellant lay injured.
it must be emphasized that but for this self serving statement made by the appellant there is nothing on record to support his positive stance.
hesitation injuries are also observed in some suicide cases.
appeal dismissed.
