leave granted.
challenge in this appeal is to the judgment of a division bench of the madhya pradesh high court dismissing the writ appeal filed by the appellant on the ground that it was not maintainable.
the appeal was filed u s 21 of the m p uchacha nyayalay khand nyaypeth ko appeal adhiniyam2005.
hereinafter referred to as the act it was held that the order was passed in exercise of power of superintendence u art 227 of the constitution of india1950 in short the constitution against which the letters patent appeal is not maintainable.
the order of learned single judge was passed on 9 11 2005 against the said order special leave petition was filed which was disposed of by this court by order dated 16 2 2006 we shall refer to the text of the order later.
learned counsel for the appellant submitted that the order of this court is very clear and the conclusions of the high court that merely limitation was waived is contrary to the clear terms of the earlier order of this court.
additionally it is submitted that the prayer in the writ petition was to quash the order passed by the assistant commissioner commercial tax.
that being so the mere fact that the writ petition was styled u art 227 of the constitution is of no consequence.
it is the nature of the relief sought for and the controversy involved which determines the article which is applicable.
learned counsel for the respondent state on the other hand supported the impugned judgment of the high court.
since the impugned order is passed by a learned single judge.
since we had entertained the special leave petition against the learned single judge s order it would be appropriate to grant three weeks time to the petitioner to prefer the lpa which if otherwise free from defect shall be entertained for being considered on merits.
the interim order passed by this court shall continue for the aforesaid purpose.
the special leave petition is disposed of accordingly.
underlined for emphasis.
a bare reading of the order shows that the direction was to consider the lpa on merits and time was granted to prefer the lpa within three weeks.
the high court was directed to dispose of the lpa on merits if it was otherwise free from defect.
the high court was therefore not justified in holding that this court s earlier order only waived the limitation for filing a letters patent appeal.
on that score alone the high court s order is unsustainable.
in addition the high court seems to have gone by the nomenclature gone by the nomenclature i e the discription given in the writ petition to be one u art 227 of the constitution.
the high court did not consider the nature of the controversy and the prayer involved in the writ petition.
as noted above the prayer was to quash the order of assessment passed by the assistant commissioner commercial tax levying purchase as well as entry tax.
s 2 of the act reads as follows 21.
an appeal shall lie from a judgment or order passed by the one judge of the high court in exercise of original jurisdiction u art 226 of the constitution of india to a division bench comprising of two judges of the same high court.
as noted above the prayer in the writ petition was to set aside the decision of the assessing officer.
it was noted as follows.
u art 226 an order direction or writ is to issue to a person authority or the state.
in a proceeding under that article the person authority or state against whom the direction order or writ is sought is a necessary party.
under article 227however what comes up before the high court is the order or judgment of a subordinate court or tribunal for the purpose of ascertaining whether in giving such judgment or order that subordinate court or tribunal has acted within its authority and according to law.
by art 226 the power of issuing prerogative writs possessed by the chartered high courts prior to the commencement of the constitution has been made wider and more extensive and conferred upon every high court.
vijay anand maharaj.
co ltd v.
it was noted as follows.
the non obstante clause in rule 18namelynotwithstanding anything contained in rules 14 and 17 of this chaptermakes it abundantly clear why that rule uses the words finally disposed of.
as seen above under rules 1 and 17applications u arts 226 and 227 are required to be heard and disposed of by a division bench.
rule 4however gives power to a single judge to issue rule nisi on an application u art 226.
but precludes him from passing any final order on such application.
it is because a single judge has no power under rules 14 and 17 to hear and dispose of a petition u art 226 or 227 that the non obstante clause has been introduced in rule 18 the use of the words be heard and finally disposed of by a single judge in rule 18 merely clarifies the position that in such cases the power of the single judge is not confined merely to issuing a rule nisi.
to say that the words finally disposed of mean finally disposed of so far as the high court is concerned is illogical because rules 14 and 7 use the words be heard and disposed of by a divisional bench and were the reasoning of the full bench correct it would mean that so far as the high court is concerned when a single judge hears a matter and disposes it of it is finally disposed of and when a division bench disposes it of it is not finally disposed of.
the right of appeal against the judgment of a single judge is given by the letters patent which have been continued in force by art 225 of the constitution.
if under the rules of the high court a matter is heard and disposed of by a single judge an appeal lies against his judgment unless it is barred either under the letters patent or some other enactment.
in sushilabai laxminarayan mudliyar v nihalchand waghajibhai shaha 1993 supp 1 scc 11 1991 indlaw sc 718.
this court with reference to an unreported judgment in ratnagiri district central co operative bank ltd v.
in the event in passing his judgment on an application which had mentioned in its cause title both arts 226 and 227the single judge has in fact invoked only his supervisory powers under article 227the appeal under cl 15 would not lie.
even when the learned single judge s order has been passed under both the articles for deciding the maintainability against such an order what would be relevant is the principal or main relief granted by the judgment passed by learned single judge and not the ancillary directions given by him.
the expression ancillary means in the context incidental or consequential to the main part of the order.
thus the determining factor is the real nature of principal order passed by the single judge which is appealed against and neither the mentioning in the cause title of the application of both the articles nor the granting of ancillary orders thereupon made by learned single judge would be relevant.
thus in each case the division bench may consider the substance of the judgment under appeal to ascertain whether the single judge has mainly or principally exercised in the matter his jurisdiction.
u art 226 or u art 227 in.
when without mentioning the particular article the learned single judge decided on merits the application in order to decide the question of maintainability of an appeal against such a judgment the division bench might examine the relief granted by the learned single judge for maintainability of an appeal the determination would be the main and not the ancillary relief.
in mangalbhai ors v.
radhyshyam dr air 1993 sc 806 1992 indlaw sc 509 it was inter alia observed as follows the learned single judge in his impugned judgment dated december 111987 nowhere mentioned that he was exercising the powers u art 227 of the constitution.
the findings of the rent controller and resident deputy collector were set aside on the question of habitual defaulter as well as on the ground of bona fide need.
it is true as submitted by learned counsel for the appellant that the order of the learned single judge nowhere stated that the court was considering the writ petition u art 226 of the constitution of india.
it is equally true that the learned single judge dismissed the writ petition by observing that the courts below had appreciated the contentions and rejected the complaint.
scc 401 1986 indlaw sc 651 in.
that case o chinnappa reddy and d p madon.
madon j speaking for the court made the following pertinent observations petitions are at times filed both u arts 226 and 227 of the constitution.
the case of hari vishnu kamath v syed ahmad ishaque air 1955 sc 233 1954 indlaw sc 212 before this court was of such a type.
rule 18 provides that where such petitions are filed against orders of the tribunals or authorities specified in rule 18 of chapter xvii of the appellate side rules or against decrees or orders of courts specified in that rule they shall be heard and finally disposed of by a single judge.
the question is whether an appeal would lie from the decision of the single judge in such a case.
in our opinion where the facts justify a party in filing an application either u art 226 or 227 of the constitution and the party chooses to file his application under both these articles in fairness and justice to such party and in order not to deprive him of the valuable right of appeal the court ought to treat the application as being made under article 226and if in deciding the matter in the final order the court gives ancillary directions which may pertain to article 227this ought not to be held to deprive a party of the right of appeal under cl 15 of the letters patent where the substantial part of the order sought to 296be appealed against is u art 226 such was the view taken by the allahabad high court in aidal singh v karan singh air 1957 all 414 1956 indlaw all 107 and by the punjab high court in raj kishan jain v tulsi dass air 1959 punj 291 1958 indlaw pnh 109 and barham dutt v peoples coop.
transport society ltd air 1961 punj 24 1960 indlaw pnh 196 and we are in agreement with it.
the aforesaid decision squarely gets attracted on the facts of the present case.
it was open to the respondent to invoke the jurisdiction of the high court both u arts 226 and 227 of the constitution of india.
once such a jurisdiction was invoked and when his writ petition was dismissed on merits it can not be said that the learned single judge had exercised his jurisdiction only u art 226 of the constitution of india.
this conclusion directly flows from the relevant averments made in the writ petition and the nature of jurisdiction invoked by the respondent as noted by the learned single judge in his judgment as seen earlier.
consequently it could not be said that cl 15 of the letters patent was not attracted for preferring appeal against the judgment of the learned single judge.
it is also necessary to note that the appellant being the respondent in letters patent appeal joined issues on merits and did not take up the contention that the letters patent appeal was not maintainable.
for all these reasons therefore the primary objection to the maintainability of the letters patent appeal as canvassed by learned counsel for the appellant has to be repelled.
point 1 is therefore answered in the affirmative against the appellant and in favour of the respondent.
it takes us to the consideration of points arising for our decision on merits.
in surya dev rai v ram chander rai ors air 2003 sc 3044 2003 indlaw sc 598 after referring to decisions in custodian of evacuee property bangalore v khan saheb abdul shukoor etc 1961 3 scr 855 1961 indlaw sc 499 and nagendra nath bora.
anr v.
commissioner of hills division.
it will depend upon factual matrix of the case.
without entering into niceties and technicality of the subject we venture to state the broad general difference between the two jurisdictions.
firstly the writ of certiorari is an exercise of its original jurisdiction by the high court exercise of supervisory jurisdiction is not an original jurisdiction and in this sense it is akin to appellate revisional or corrective jurisdiction.
in view of what has been stated above the high court was not justified in holding that the letters patent appeal was not maintainable.
the impugned order is set aside.
the appeal is allowed.
