leave granted.
the factual matrix of the matter which is not much in dispute is as under.
allegedly on the premise that the first respondent is the proprietor of the said mark by reason of long user and thus acquired a reputation in that behalf a legal notice was issued upon it questioning its right to use the said mark in respect of centrifugal pumps by the appellant laying a claim that it had been using the said mark since 1963.
notice for april 81986 meanwhile a temporary ex parte injunction is issued against the defendants restraining them from manufacturing or selling either themselves or through any dealer or representative diesel oil engines or parts thereof with the trade mark field marshal andor any other trade mark identical therewith and all goods falling in cl 7 of the trade and merchandise mark rules.
the plaintiff shall comply with the requirements of order 39 rule 4 of the code of civil procedure.
indisputably during the proceedings in the above suit m s.
jain industries by a deed of assignment assigned the said trade mark along with its goodwill in favour of the appellant.
indisputably first respondent filed an application under section 4656 and 107 of the act marked as c o no 9 of 1986contending that m s jain industries having not used the trade mark in respect of centrifugal pumps for a period more than five years and one month the mark should be taken off the register.
suraj bhan belanganj agra.
that pursuant to a request on form tm 23 dated 17th june1986 and order thereon dated 24th october1986.
ganga ram anil kumar hufsunil kumar and sumitra rani trading as thukral mechanical works railway road sirhind punjab are registered as subsequent proprietors of this mark as from 30th may1986 by virtue of agreement dated 30th may1986 and.
the registration of the aforesaid trade mark has been renewed from time to time and will remain in force for a period of a seven years from 13th.
may1986 and may be renewed at the expiration of that period and of each succeeding period of a seven years.
appellant s counsel appeared on that date and inter alia contended that presently it was the registered owner of the trade mark which was sought to be cancelled.
in view of that statement a submission was made on behalf of the first respondent that it may be permitted to withdraw the petition with liberty to file a fresh petition on the same cause of action.
mr singh has filed a reply in this petition bringing out that presently he is the registered owner of the trademark which is sought to be cancelled in this petition.
in view of this situation learned counsel for the petitioner has submitted that he may be permitted to withdraw this petition with permission to file a fresh petition on this very cause of action after impleading m s thakural mechanical works etc.
in view of the submissions of m s thakural mechanical works i may be permitted to withdraw this petition with permission to file a fresh petition on this very cause of action.
statement of shri hemant singh counsel for m s thakural mechanical works without oath.
on the basis of the said statement the following order was passed this petition has been filed by m s pm diesels pvt ltd.
the notice was served upon the respondent 1a reply has been filed by m s thakural mechanical works bringing out there in that they are now the registered proprietors of said.
trade mark no 228867 in.
this view of the matter learned counsel for the petitioner has submitted that he may be permitted to withdraw this petition with permission to file a fresh petition on this very cause of action.
in these circumstances the request of the plaintiff is granted and petitioner is permitted to withdraw this petition and file a fresh petition on this very cause of action.
the petition is accordingly filed as withdrawn leaving the parties to bear their own costs.
a fresh application was filed by the first respondent.
the cause of action is continuous from day to day till the impugned registration is cancelled rectified.
the second rectification application filed by the first respondent however was transferred to the intellectual property appellate board.
a writ petition was filed there against by the first respondent.
for the purpose of appreciation of the rival contentions we may notice the findings of the board as also the high court.
the board has taken the view that the period of five years and one month will begin to run from the date on which thukral became the proprietor of the trademark that is30th may1986 and therefore the rectification application could have been filed by the appellant only sometime in 1991 opining that an application for rectification against the appellant within a period of seven and a half months from the date of assignment of the trade mark was not maintainable the application was dismissed.
the act was enacted to provide for the registration and better protection of trademarks and for the prevention of the use of fraudulent marks of merchandise.
registration of a trade mark remains valid for seven years.
renewal applications are required to be filed on the expiry of seven years.
we may however also notice that another construction of the said provision has been put forth by mr sunderam learned senior counsel appearing on behalf of the appellant that the word proprietor would not mean a registered proprietor but also a person who has become proprietor by long use thereof.
there can not be any doubt or dispute that the registration of a trade mark confers a very valuable right.
allegation of trafficking is a serious one.
it did not.
the order of injunction was vacated.
notes on clauses.
appeal allowed.
