brief facts a the appellant accused was working as a head clerk in the traffic cadre section in the office of the senior divisional personnel officer south central railway vijayawada during the period from april1992 to november1997 the nature of duties of the appellant accused included dealing with and processing of the matters like promotions transfers seniority list roster list pay fixation on promotions retirements resignations etc of the personnel.
thereafter he went back to tanuku from where he was subsequently transferred to rajahmundry.
later pw 1 was transferred to vijayawada.
on 11 11 1997again he went to the office of the appellant but he could not find him on his seat.
again a day after i e on.
13 11 1997when he met the appellant accused he informed him that his request for transfer has been processed and the order is ready and the same has been placed before the a p o for signature and asked him to come on the next day i e on 14 11 1997and demanded rs 200 for releasing the said office order.
on 15 11 1997at 7 30 a m.
rc 20a97 vsp after recording the statements of the witnesses inspector of police cbi visakhapatnam filed charge sheet being no 298 ytr dated 29 04 1998 against the appellant accused for an offence punishable under sections 7131dii read with s 132 of the prevention of corruption act1988 hereinafter referred to as the act in the court of special judge for cbi cases at visakhapatnam.
the special judge cbi by order dated 19 03 2001convicted the appellant and sentenced him to undergo rigorous imprisonment for a period of six months and to pay a fine of rs 500 and in default to suffer simple imprisonment for one month for the offence punishable u s 7 of the act and one year rigorous imprisonment with a fine of rs 500 and in default to suffer simple imprisonment for one month for the offence punishable u ss 131d ii.
g against the said order the appellant accused filed criminal appeal no 436 of 2001 before the high court of andhra pradesh.
hence the appellant accused has preferred this appeal by way of special leave petition before this court.
heard mr atm rangaramanujam learned senior counsel for the appellant and mr harish chandra learned senior counsel for the respondent.
notice only on quantum of sentence hearing on all aspects.
permissibility.
on 28 01 2008this court consisting of three honourable judges issued notice in this matter confining to the quantum of sentence only.
in pursuance of the same we permitted mr rangaramanujam learned senior counsel for the appellant to address his arguments confining to quantum of sentence imposed on the appellant accused.
as stated in the narration of facts the appellant was convicted u s 7 of the act for which he was sentenced to undergo rigorous imprisonment for six months and to pay a fine of rs 500 in default simple imprisonment for one month.
at the slp stage this court by order dated 27 07 2009issued notice confined only to the question as to whether the petitioner was guilty of commission of an offence under any of the parts of s 304 indian penal code1860 in short ipc and not u s 302 ipc similar request was made before the bench that the appellant was entitled to urge all the questions including his right to urge that he should have been acquitted in the facts and circumstances of the case.
since in the facts of this case we find that the appellant should be heard on all points we have come to the aforesaid conclusion.
emphasis supplied.
in the case on hand it is to be noted that on appreciation of oral and documentary evidence led in by the prosecution and the defence and on appreciation of entire materials the court of first instance i e the trial court convicted the appellant and sentenced him as mentioned above.
quantum of sentence.
mr rangaramanujam learned senior counsel for the appellant submitted that inasmuch as the alleged incident took place on 14 11 1997 and 14 years have elapsed since then the amount of rs 200 said to have been received by the appellant is trivial in nature and also of the fact that due to the said conviction and sentence he lost his job leniency may be shown and sentence be reduced to the period already undergone.
he fairly admitted that out of the maximum period of one year the appellant had served only 52 days in prison.
with this factual position let us consider whether the request of the learned senior counsel for the appellant is to be accepted and sentence be reduced to the period already undergone.
if the said offence charge is proved the court has no other option but to impose sentence of imprisonment which shall be not less than six months but which may extend to five years and also liable to fine.
as per sub s 2 if any public servant commits criminal misconduct shall be punishable with imprisonment for a term which shall be not less than one year but which may extend to seven years and shall also be liable to fine.
while holding office as a public servant obtains for any person any valuable thing or pecuniary advantage without any public interest or e if he or any person on his behalf is in possession or has at any time during the period of his office been in possession for which the public servant can not satisfactorily account of pecuniary resources or property disproportionate to his known sources of income.
explanation.
any public servant who commits criminal misconduct shall be punishable with imprisonment for a term which shall be not less than one year but which may extend to seven years and shall also be liable to fine.
however proviso to sub s 2 of s 5 gives power to the court that for any special reasons to be recorded in writing impose a sentence of imprisonment of less than one year.
in order to substantiate the claim with the regard to the above learned senior counsel for the appellant has relied on the decision of this court in bechaarbhai s prajapati vs state of gujarat2008 11 scc 163 2008 indlaw sc 297 and based on the same requested this court to modify the sentence to the extent of period already undergone.
it is true that even in the cited decision the appellant accused demanded only rs 250 and it was paid and accepted.
in that case taking note of the fact that the occurrence took place nearly seven years back and also of the fact that the appellant had suffered custody for more than six months considering all these aspects while maintaining the conviction this court reduced the sentence to the period already undergone.
since the appellant therein was convicted only u s 7 and s 161 cr.
pc the minimum sentence being six months and of the fact that he had suffered custody for more than six months the course adopted by this court is perfectly in order and the same can not be applied to the case on hand wherein the appellant had undergone only 52 days when the minimum sentence was six months u s 7 and one year u s 13.
after a gap of 14 years there is no need to retain the same sentence and the court is not justified in directing the appellant to serve the remaining period after such a long time.
shambhu dayal.
art 142 and its applicability.
by drawing our attention to art 142 of the constitution of india learned senior counsel for the appellant vehemently submitted that in order to do complete justice this court has ample power to reduce the sentence even to the extent of period already undergone or any other order which would be beneficial to the parties approaching this court.
the parties filed an application under section 13 b1 of the hindu marriage act1955 before the family court delhi seeking divorce by mutual consent.
decree of divorce has been granted to put quietus to all litigations between the parties and to save them from further agony as it is evident from the judgments in romesh chander v savitri.
v state of w b 2004.
emphasis supplied.
the constitution benches of this court in supreme court bar assn v.
it is not to be exercised in a case where there is no basis in law which can form an edifice for building up a superstructure.
tarun k roy 2004 1 scc 347 2003 indlaw sc 1039textile labour assn v.
official liquidator 2004 9 scc 741 2004 indlaw sc 277state of karnataka.
in teri oat estates p ltd v.
after saying so the court rejected the request of the parties to waive the statutory period of six months under the act.
the question is having held that rule 44i to be invalid whether we can permit the continuation of the ban on sale of non iodised salt for human consumption for any period.
indeed this court is not a court of restricted jurisdiction of only dispute settling.
scc 284 2005 indlaw sc 93this court after reiterating that this court in exercise of its jurisdiction u art 142 of the constitution would not pass any order which would amount to supplanting substantive law applicable to the case or ignoring express statutory provisions dealing with the subject observed as follows.
powers also exist independent of the statutes with a view to do complete justice between the parties and are in the nature of supplementary powers.
and may be put on a different and perhaps even wider footing than ordinary inherent powers of a court to prevent injustice.
finally learned senior counsel for the appellant has cited certain orders of this court wherein this court has reduced the period of sentence already undergone while upholding the conviction.
long delay in disposal of appeal or any other factor may not be a ground for reduction of sentence particularly when the statute prescribes minimum sentence.
merely because the delinquent lost his job due to conviction under the act may not be a mitigating circumstance for reduction of sentence particularly when the statute prescribes minimum sentence.
though art 142 of the constitution gives wider power to this court waiver of certain period as prescribed in the statute imposing lesser sentence than the minimum prescribed is not permissible.
consequently the appeal fails and the same is dismissed.
since the appellant is on bail the bail bonds executed by him stand cancelled.
appeal dismissed.
