accused pathan hussain basha was married to pathan haseena begum now deceased on 23rd june2002 at guntur.
it was an arranged marriage.
at the time of marriage it was promised that a dowry of rs 25000 besides other formalities would be paid by the side of the wife to the husband.
out of this amount a sum of rs 15000 was paid at that time and it was promised that the balance dowry of rs 10000 would be paid in the month of october2002upon which the marriage was performed.
the father of the bride could not pay the balance amount within time because he lacked the resources.
the accused pathan hussain basha his father pathan khadar basha and mother pathan nazeer abi forced her to get the balance amount of dowry.
despite such pressure she was not able to get that money from her family.
they even refused to send her to her parental house.
this was informed by the deceased to various persons including her relatives and elders.
she was unable to bear the cruelty to which she was subjected by the accused persons.
on 15th february2003at about 11 a m the deceased committed suicide by hanging herself in the house of the accused.
when pathan basheerunnisa lw3 returned from her work the accused sent her out giving her money to bring the soaps upon which she went out and when she came back she found the accused absent and the bride hanging in the house.
subsequently lw 3 pathan basheerunnisa sent her grandson pathan inayatullah khan lw 4 to the house of the parents of the deceased to inform them about the incident.
when the parents of the deceased came to the house of the accused and found the deceased hanging from the beam with a saree they untied her and took her to the government general hospital guntur hoping that the deceased may be alive.
however upon medical examination by the doctor she was declared brought dead.
the father of the deceased pathan yasin khan lw 1 and her mother pathan shamshad begum lw 2 were present at that time.
lw 1lodged the report which was registered by sri k srinivasarao lw 16the sub inspector of police.
the fir was registered under section 304b and section 498a of the indian penal code1860 for short the ipc thereafter investigation was conducted by one shri p devadass lw 17 he inspected the site from where he recovered and seized the saree that had been used for hanging.
this was done in the presence of lw 10 and lw 11shaik ibrahim and mohd ghouse respectively.
thereupon the body was sent for postmortem examination through constable p venkateswara reddy lw 15 lw 17p devdass also took photographs of the scene 3 lw 13dr.
m madhusudana reddy conducted autopsy over the body of the deceased and prepared post mortem certificate giving the cause of death as asphyxia as a result of hanging.
on 16th february2003at about 5 p m.
investigating officer arrested all the three accused persons.
they were committed to the court of sessions guntur division guntur for such an offence.
they faced the trial and the learned sessions judge vide its judgment dated 4th october2004 found them guilty of the said offences and punished them as follows hence a 1 to a 3 are sentenced to undergo r i for three years and further sentenced to pay a fine of rs 1000 each total fine amount rs 3000 offence punishable u s 498 a ipc i d of the fine amount of rs 1000 to undergo si for 9 months.
and further a 1 to a 3 are sentenced to undergo imprisonment for life for the offence u s 304 b ipc both the sentences shall run concurrently.
the undergone remand period of a 1 to a 3 shall be set off u s 428 cr.
the judgment dated 4th october2004 passed by the learned trial court was challenged in appeal before the high court.
the high court of andhra pradesh vide its judgment dated 26th october2006while allowing the appeal in part convicted accused nos 1 and 2 for the aforementioned offences however acquitted accused no 3namely pathan khadar basha.
the sentence awarded by the trial court was confirmed.
this gave rise to filing of the present appeals.
first and the foremost we must consider what is the evidence led by the prosecution to bring home the guilt of accused.
according to this witness on 23rd january2002the marriage of his daughter was solemnised with accused pathan hussain basha and he had accepted to give rs 25000 in marriage.
this witness has further specifically stated that the said accused treated his daughter in a proper manner for about two months.
in the marriage he had also given a gold chain a double bed an iron safe and other items.
he had called his son in law accused no 1to his house as per custom at that point the accused demanded a ceiling fan.
a ceiling fan was lying with the witness and he gave that to his son in law however he protested the same on the ground that the old fan is not acceptable to him and he would like to have a new fan which was bought for rs 650 by the witness and given to his son in law.
when he again invited his son in law and the mother in law of his daughter even then he had gifted some presents to them.
the witness could pay only rs 500 upon which the accused refused to take the deceased to the matrimonial home and went away.
later on the accused came to fetch deceased.
subsequently the motherin law of the deceased again demanded the balance dowry amount of rs 10000 which he could not pay.
on 15th february2003a boy had come to him and told him that his daughter had died by hanging herself whereupon he went to the house of the accused and found that his daughter was hanged to a wooden beam with a saree and she was dead.
the saree was removed she was taken to the hospital where she was reported to have brought dead.
the statement of this witness i e lw 1 is corroborated by lw 3 and lw 7.
it is stated by lw 3 that she knew all the accused persons as she was residing in the house of the accused and the deceased.
according to this witness also in the beginning they were happy however after some time she used to hear some quarrel between the deceased and the accused persons.
accused no 2pathan nazeer abi had given her some amount and asked her to go and bring the soaps.
after seeing this she raised cries and people came to the scene.
lw 7 stated on oath that he was present at the time of giving of dowry to the accused by the family of the deceased.
the period intervening between the marriage and the death of the deceased is very small.
13 if.
besides examining the ingredients of the provision it would also be necessary for us to examine the meaning and connotation of the expressions dowry deathsoon before her death and in connection with any demand for dowry as appearing in the said section.
for want of any specific period the concept of reasonable period would be applicable.
such demand or harassment may not strictly and squarely fall within the scope of these provisions unless definite evidence was led to show to the contrary.
