leave granted in slp crl.
no 37372014.
these appeals are preferred by four accused against the common judgment of the high court of chhattisgarh at bilaspur confirming the judgment of the additional sessions judge bemetara district durg convicting the appellants u s 302 read with ss 34 and 120b of the indian penal code hereinafter referred to as ipc and sentencing each of them to undergo imprisonment for life with a fine of rs 1000 and in default to undergo additional rigorous imprisonment for three months.
these appeals have been taken up for disposal together since they arise from a common judgment of the high court deciding the appeals of the accused.
the appellant raju.
devendra choubey accused no 4 has filed criminal appeal no 822 of 2012 the appellant mahesh accused no 3 has filed criminal appeal no 867 of 2013 the appellant beenu.
chandra prakash accused no 2 has filed criminal appeal no 589 of 2014 the appellant smt.
shashi tripathi accused no 1 has filed criminal appeal arising out of special leave petition criminal no 3737 of 2014.
pw 1 dr.
sharda prasad tripathi is the husband of accused shashi tripathi.
on 25 11 2003when pw 1 dr.
sharda prasad tripathi came home from his clinic found that his daughter in law bhavna tripathi has been murdered.
he lodged a first information report f i r on 25 11 2003 at about 2045 hours.
the crime was registered.
he deposed in court that on 25 11 2003when he returned home he found servant anil kumar pw 21 was weeping.
when he went inside he found his daughter in law bhavna and wife shashi lying in the courtyard.
bhavna was dead.
shashi was unconscious.
there were numerous injuries including incised wounds on bhavna none on shashi.
shashi tripathi mahesh and binu.
chandra prakash were arrested on 29 11 2003 a bloodstained knife was taken into possession.
the accused raju.
devendra choubey was conducted on 26 12 2003 after his arrest.
a sealed packet containing hair found in the grip of the deceased and another sealed packet containing bloodstained cloth of the deceased were taken into possession vide exhibit p35.
after committal the trial court framed charges u s 302 read with ss 34 and 120b of the ipc the prosecution examined 32 witnesses.
no defence witness was examined after the statements of the accused were recorded u s 313 of the criminal procedure code1973.
according to the prosecution the accused shashi tripathi is the step mother in law of deceased bhavna tripathi.
bhavna was married to her step son jitendra kumar in july2003 shashi tripathi used to be annoyed with bhavna tripathi on account of some domestic dispute.
she engaged the other accused for murdering bhavna.
there is no dispute that bhavna s death is homicidal.
dr m deodhar who conducted the postmortem opined that cause of her death was neurogenic and hemorrhagic shock.
the injuries found on person of the deceased were as follows external injuries 1 incised wound on left scapular region of size 3 cm x 1 cm 2 incised wound on left scapular region of size 4 cm x 1  cm.
x 1  cm 3.
one incised wound on left auxiliary region on the posterior auxiliary region of size 3 cm x 2 cm x 3 cm.
4 incised wound on lower costal region left of size.
3  cm x 2 cm x 1 cm 5 incised wound on lower costal region right side on right epigestic region of size 3  cm.
x 3 cm with punctured wound 6 incised wound over right costal region of size 3 cm x 2 cm x 1 cm.
7 incised wound on right supra mammary region near middle of size 4 cm x 1 cm x 1  cm 8 incised wound on right supra mammary region lateral aspect of size 3 cm x 1  cm x 1  cm 9 incised wound on radial aspect of left forearm near wrist joint of size 2.
cm x cm x  cm 10 incised wound on forearm left hand radial side dorsal aspect on lower 23rd region 11 incised wound on left forearm middle l3rd region radial side and posterior aspect of size 2.
x 1 cm x 1 cm 12 incised wound on left hand dorsal aspect on 2 nd and 3rd metacarpal region of size 2 cm.
x  cm.
x 1 cm 13 incised wound on ulna region of left hand on lower 13rd region of size 1 cm.
x  cm x 1 cm and 14 incised wound over left side of neck on anterior triangle of size 2 cm.
x 1  cm.
internal injuries brain membrane pale lungs trachea pale punctured wound on right and left lungs of size 2 cm x 1 cm2  cm and 1 cm.
x 3 cm lobe was cut and there was 3 cm punctured wound.
incised wound was also present on the right lobe of size 3 cm x 13 cm x 3 cm.
liver kidney and spleen were pale.
the deceased was carrying fetus of two months.
the sole eyewitness was a boy of 13 years of age anil kumar pw 21who worked as a servant with the family.
shashi tripathi had brought him home from bilaspur.
he participated in the identification parade which was held in sub jail bemetara and identified the accused persons in the court by touching them.
it is anil kumar pw 21who first informed the head of the family dr sharda prasad tripathi pw 1the complainant about the incident when he came home after closing his clinic.
he deposed before the court that shashi didi accused brought him to village jevra from bilaspur.
he lived in the house of shashi didi.
he ate his food there and studied in a school.
he deposed that doctor sahab is her husband and shivendra and jitendra are her sons.
jitendra is her step son and the deceased bhavna is the wife of jitendra.
she resided with shashi didi.
jitendra is a doctor resided and practiced at khamaria whereas his wife resided at jevra.
his brother shivendra studies at calcutta.
he referred to bhavna as bhabhi.
he stated that shashi didi and bhavna sometimes used to quarrel.
about the assault he deposed that devendra caught bhavna and chandra prakash attacked her with knife 3 to 4 times and she fell down.
the incident occurred in the courtyard and shashi didi was present in the passage.
mahesh the fourth accused was standing outside the house.
after the assault chandra prakash went to the tv room where shashi didi had kept some money in a rubber band on the table.
the accused chandra prakash had threatened him not to disclose anything about the incident to anyone.
thereafter all the three accused fled from there.
he further deposed that shashi didi took him upstairs to the terrace and asked him not to disclose the truth to anyone but to say that thieves came into the house and committed the crime.
shashi didi thereafter started shouting.
then she lay down on the courtyard near bhavna bhabhi.
this deposition clearly implicates accused nos 12 and 4 the picture that emerges is that shashi tripathi caused bhavna to be killed and for this purpose engaged chandra prakash accused no 2 and raju.
devendra choubey accused no 4 by paying them money.
it is obvious that accused nos 2 and 4 did not enter the house to commit a robbery and had a single mission namely to kill bhavana.
there is no evidence that they had any previous animosity with the deceased and appeared to have acted as contract killers.
the prosecution has found it difficult to pinpoint the motive but shashi tripathi s husband dr sharda prasad tripathi pw 1 deposed before the court that she tried to create a hindrance in the marriage of his son jitendra since she wanted her daughter abhilasha to marry him however he went ahead with the marriage of jitendra to bhavna whereupon shashi tripathi remained silent.
on a careful perusal of the deposition of this child witness we have not found any reason why he would have lied.
he was brought to the house by shashi tripathi accusedwho apparently took care of him and sent to school and gave him food and residence.
he had no grouse against her neither any ulterior motive in identifying the accused who were not acquainted to him.
there was no reason for the sole eye witness anil pw 21 to implicate anybody falsely.
merely because he has been some time in the company of the police at the police station his testimony can not be discarded as untrue.
the incident occurred within the four walls of the house of the accused shashi tripathi and the only witness was the boy anil.
pw 21 his statement that the accused chandra prakash attacked the deceased is corroborated by the recovery of knife from chandra prakash.
it must be remembered that the boy comes from a rural back ground and was 13 years of age when the incident occurred.
his presence in the house is entirely natural and we have no reason to discard his testimony.
in any case the period between the arrest and the identification parade was not large enough to constitute inordinate delay.
there may however be exceptions to this general rule when for example the court is impressed by a particular witness on whose testimony it can safely rely without such or other corroboration.
the identification parades belong to the investigation stage.
identification proceedings in their legal effect amount simply to this that certain persons are brought to jail or some other place and make statements either express or implied that certain individuals whom they point out are persons whom they recognise as having been concerned in the crime.
they do not constitute substantive evidence.
these parades are of the essentially governed by section 162criminal procedure code.
keeping in view the purpose of identification parades the magistrates holding them are expected to take all possible precautions to eliminate any suspicion of unfairness and to reduce the chance of testimonial error.
they must therefore take intelligent interest in the proceedings bearing in mind two considerations i that the life and liberty of an accused may depend on their vigilance and caution and ii that justice should be done in the identification.
those proceeding should not make it impossible for the identifiers who after all have as a rule only fleeting glimpses of the person they are supposed to identify.
appeals disposed of.
