this civil appeal by special leave is directed against the judgment and decree dated 29th november1977 rendered by a single judge of the gujarat high court in second appeal no 348 of 1973which arose out of regular civil suit no 921 of 1966 filed in the court of joint civil judge baroda civil court by the appellant herein as plaintiff against respondents 1 and 2 herein.
defendants 1 and 2 for redemption of suit properties which were mortgaged as security for certain monies borrowed by the plaintiff from defendant l under two deeds of mortgage executed in the year 1961.
plaintiff filed the suit for redemption of the said mortgages in the year 1966 defendant 2brother of defendanti had been joined in that suit on the allegation that the latter was put in possession of mortgage properties by the former subsequent to the coming into existence of the mortgages.
that suit was resisted by the defendants each of them having filed separate written statements which in sub stance did not differ from each other.
the defence in those written statements was that defendant l and his family members had become tenants of the suit properties in the year 1959 1960 and had continued to be such tenants at the time of mortgage deeds executed in respect of those properties in the year 1961 and thereafter.
the civil court notwithstanding the defence of the defendants taken in their written statements that the suit had to be stayed for obtaining the finding on their claim of tenancy under the bt al act framed the issues in the suit on the basis of the pleadings of the parties and after trial recorded its findings thereon.
such findings were firstly that the defendants had failed to prove that the suit properties were sold in favour of defendant l subsequent to the giving of security of those properties in his favour under the mortgage deeds secondly that the defendants had failed to prove the past tenancy of the suit properties on its view that what was pleaded by them in the written statements was tenancy prior to the date of filing of the suit and thirdly that the mortgages of the suit properties were mortgages by conditional sale.
on the basis of findings so recorded by the civil.
court it also made a preliminary decree in favour of the plaintiff for redemption of the suit properties.
however the defendants questioned the judgments and decrees of the trial court and the appellate court by filing a second appeal against the same in the high court of gujarat.
a learned single judge of the high court who heard the second appeal while upheld the concurrent findings of the courts below that the deeds of mortgage executed by the plaintiff in respect of the suit properties in favour of defendant l were mortgages by conditional sale and the defendants had failed to prove that there was sale of the suit properties in their favour subsequent to the coming into existence of the said mortgages found that the defendants had raised in their written statements the plea that they were tenants not only prior to the date of suit but also at the time of the filing of the suit and having regard to that plea the suit ought to have been stayed by the civil court and the issue of tenancy should have been referred to the mamlatdar for obtaining a finding from him thereon both under section 85 a of the bt.
consequently the learned single judge set aside the judgments and decrees of the trial court and the appellate court relating to the issue of tenancy raised by the defendants in the suit and remanded the case to the civil court trial court directing it to refer the issue of such tenancy to the mamlatdar baroda for his determination and to stay all further proceedings in the suit till he got the finding from the mamlatdar on that tenancy issue and thereafter to proceed to dispose of that suit in the light of that finding and the other findings recorded by the appellate court district judge.
it is the judgment and order of the learned single judge of the high court by which he allowed the second appeal and remanded the suit which is appealed against in this civil appeal of the plaintiff as is stated at the outset.
specific case pleaded by the plaintiff in the plaint as regards possession of the suit properties held by tenants was that their possession which was with the plaintiff was given to defendant l on the execution of the deeds of mortgage by conditional sale in his favour.
in any event it was not the case of the plaintiff that defendant l was a tenant of the suit properties and hc surrendered his possession of the suit properties either expressly or impliedly and the possession so obtained by the plaintiff was re delivered to defendant l in pursuance of the mortgages by conditional sale executed in his favour.
agricultural lands at the time of execution of the deeds of mortgage by conditional sale in his favour because of the coming into existence of such mortgages there occurred merger of lease hold rights of defendant l in suit properties when he obtained those properties as mortgage security under the said mortgages and as a consequence he became a mortgagee in possession of those properties.
according 10 him a mortgagee in possession being a person who can not be deemed to be a tenant under section 4 of the bt al act it was not open to the defendants to claim that they were the tenants of suit properties and if that be so question of raising issue of tenancy by the civil court in the suit before it did not arise at all nor was it necessary to refer such issue to the mamlatdar under section 85 a of the bt al act and stay the suit till receipt of the finding on such issue as was directed by the high court in its judgment under appeal.
according to him when the plaintiff had not admitted that the defendants were tenants of the suit properties it was not open to the defendants to force the plaintiff who had a right to choose his forum to file a suit to go before another forum on the plea that jurisdiction lay before another forum that is mamlatdar.
in this regard support was sought from the decision of this court in raizada topandas and another v m s gorakhram gokalchand 1963 indlaw sc.
questions which arise for our consideration and decision in the light of the aforesaid arguments of learned counsel for the contesting parties admit of their formulations thus 1 does the lease hold of a tenant lessee in a property merge in mortgage security if the same property is given by the landlord lessor to the tenant lessee as a mortgage security under a mortgage by conditional sale as would debar the tenant from desisting the suit of the landlord mortgagor for recovery of possession of such property by obtaining a decree for redemption of the mortgage.
2 when a plea of tenancy is raised with regard to suit property an agricultural land by a defendant who claims to be a tenant of such property under the bt al act and seeks a reference of that issue by the civil court to the mamlatdar under that act for obtaining a finding thereon can the civil court decide such issue by itself and proceed to decide the suit on the basis of the finding thereon.
bombay tenancy and agricultural lands act1948bombay tenancy and agricultural lands act1948.
this act unless there is anything repugnant in the subject or context18 tenant means a person who holds land on lease and include a a person who is deemed to be tenant trader section 4 b a person who is a protected tenant and c a person who is a permanent tenant and the word landlord shall be construed accordingly.
70 for the purposes of this act the following shall be the duties and functions to be performed by the mamlatdar a to decide whether a person is an agriculturist b to decide whether a person is a tenant or a protected tenant or a permanent tenant c to decide such other matters as may be referred to him by or under this 85 1 no civil court shall have jurisdiction to settle decide or deal with any question which is by or under this act required to be settled decided or dealt with by the mamlatdar or tribunal a manager the collector or the maharashtra revenue tribunal in appeal or revision or the state government in exercise of their powers of control.
2 on receipt of such reference from the civil court the competent authority shall deal with and decide such issues in accordance with the provisions of this act and shall communicate its decision to the civil court and such court shall thereupon dispose of the suit in accordance with the procedure applicable thereto.
interests of the lessee and the lessor in the whole of the property become vested at the same time in one person in the same right because of section 11 ld of the t p act.
when the landlord mortgages the lease hold property of the tenant to the tenant himself he does not part with the right of reversion which he has in respect of that property.
if that be so merger of lease hold estate in reversion can not arise inasmuch as there can not be any inconsistency or incompatibility in one person being the tenant and also the mortgagee of the same property for in that event instead of the tenant paying rent to the landlord he may adjust it against the amount claimable by him as a mortgagee from the landlord.
question 2.
act1947.
bombay had exclusive jurisdiction in dealing with the suit out of which the appeal had arisen.
the appellants despite being asked not to visit the shop after the expiry of the period in the concerned agreement they continued to visit the shop and were preventing the respondent from having access to its various articles such as stock in trade books of account furniture fixtures etc.
it does not invest those courts with exclusive power to try questions of title such as questions as between the rightful owner and a trespasser or a licensee for such questions do not arise under the act.
but if the provisions of the bt al act which bear on the question of matters to be decided by the mamlatdar are seen they give no room for one even to think that those matters could be decided by a civil court when a question is raised in that behalf even by a defendant in a suit.
appeal dismissed.
