interpretation and or application of the provisions of the gujarat town planning and urban development act1976 for short the act and the rules framed thereunder known as the gujarat town planning and urban development rules1979.
for short the rules is in question in this appeal which arises out of a judgment and order dated 27 12 2006 passed by a division bench of the high court of gujarat at ahmedabad in letters patent appeal no 1611 of 2006 arising out of a judgment and order dated 23 11 2006 passed by a learned single judge of the said court in sca no 7092 of 2001.
the government of gujarat in exercise of its power conferred upon it u s 65 of the act made a scheme in respect of the town of umra surat on 1 06 1999.
plot nos 177 and 178 were owned by respondent no 4 herein.
a road widening project was proposed in terms of the said scheme.
notices therefor were issued both to the appellant as also the respondent No appellant objected thereto.
in respect of the proceedings initiated for the purpose of re allotment of the land despite a public notice the appellant did not file any objection.
respondent no 4 was allotted a final plot bearing no 157 and the said 200 sq m of land of plot no 178 has merged in final plot no 165 owned by the respondent no 3.
the scheme was notified in the year 1999 respondent no 1 herein which is the statutory agency in terms of the act for the purpose of implementation of the scheme issued a notice u s 67 of the act upon the respondent no 4 on or about 15 01 2000 as he did not respond thereto a notice u s 68 of the act was served on him on 31 03 2000 stating as per the said approved preliminary scheme the plot no 157 is allotted to you.
and its pole demarcations were done by the town planning officer at site.
the said final plot original plot is allotted in lieu of your no 177178 paiki land.
thereafter the notice below s 67 for the change in occupation was issued on 15 1 2000 to you.
in spite of this you have not handed over the possession.
therefore as per the gujarat town planning and urban development rules1979 rule 33 the undersigned in exercise of powers conferred below s 681 and 82 of the bombay provincial municipalities act and below the s 68 notice under the gujarat town planning and urban development act this is to inform you that as shown in the sketch on the reverse the premises marked should be vacated within 7 days from receipt of the notice and had over the possession to the surat municipal corporation.
the action as per the s 188 of the indian penal code will be initiated against you before the criminal court pleased take note of the same.
the validity and or legality of the said notice was questioned by the appellant by filing a writ petition in the high court of gujarat inter alia contending that the purported final allotment of plot no 165 in favour of the respondent no 3 and allotment of final plot no 157 in favour of the respondent no 4 were made without issuing any notice as envisaged u ss 52 and 53 of the act.
a learned single judge of the high court dismissed the said writ petition inter alia opining that the interest of landlord and tenant being common and in absence of any inter se dispute between them even if any portion of the land which remained in possession of the tenant was included in the scheme the proper remedy would be to claim compensation to that extent holding it appears that in the said decision the apex court while considering the scheme on the touch stone of the mandatory procedure to be followed by the authority under the bombay town planning rules has given directions to provide alternative accommodation based on the earlier decision in case of jaswantsingh mathurasingh and upheld the scheme.
but if the area of original plot no 178 is included in the final scheme and in exchange of the original plot held by keshav gramini of 178 and 177the final plot is already allotted and as observed earlier it was even otherwise in the ownership of the original holder and it is only on account of inter se dispute the other persons are lawfully occupying the land the tenant can not insist that his landlord must be allotted the land of final plot no 157 simultaneously when he is to be evicted or deprived of the portion of the land of original plot no 178 therefore in my view considering the peculiar facts and circumstances of the present case the decision of the apex court in case of mansukhlal1991 indlaw sc 975 supra can not be made applicable to the present case.
a tenant having regard to the provisions of the transfer of property act or otherwise having an interest in the property can not be deprived therefrom without following the procedure established by law and without initiation of any proceedings for acquisition of land.
appellant having a right over the remaining 200 sq m of the land of original plot no 178 should be allowed to continue thereupon and final allotment made in favour of the respondent no 3 to that extent should be cancelled.
lalit in support of his contention strongly relied upon a decision of this court in mansukhlal jadavji darji and others v ahmedabad municipal corporation and others 1992 1 scc 384 1991 indlaw sc 975 and jaswantsingh mathurasingh and another v ahmedabad municipal corporation and others 1992 supp 1 scc 5 1991 indlaw sc 972.
prashant g desai learned counsel appearing on behalf of the respondent no 1on the other hand would submit.
i public notices having been issued in terms of the rule 26 of the rules an objection which would nullify the scheme can not be entertained at this stage.
ii respondent no 1 corporation merely being interested in the implementation of the scheme is entitled to obtain vacant possession from him so as to enable it to deliver it to the respondent no 3 in whose favour plot no 165 has been finally allotted.
the scheme in terms of sub s 3 of s 65 of the act having become a part of the act validity thereof can not be questioned at this stage as modification of the scheme if any will have to undergo the entire process once over again which is not contemplated under the act.
chapter v of the act provides for town planning schemes.
whereof inter alia enables allotment of a final plot from an original plot by transfer of any adjoining lands.
s 52 contemplates issuance of a notice in a prescribed manner and in the prescribed form.
s 52 of the act provides for the contents of preliminary and final scheme.
67 effect of preliminary scheme.
shall unless it is otherwise determined in such scheme vest absolutely in the appropriate authority free from all encumbrances b all rights in the original plots which have been re constituted into final plots shall determine and the final plots shall become subject to the rights settled by the town planning officer.
rules 261263 and 33 of the rules read as under 26 procedure to be followed by town planning officer u s 51 and under sub s 1 of s 52 1.
for the purpose of preparing the preliminary scheme and final scheme the town planning officer shall give notice in form h of the date on which he will commence his duties and shall state the time as provided in rule 37 within which the owner of any property or right which is injuriously affected by the making of a town planning scheme shall be entitled u s 82 to make a claim before him.
such notice shall be published in the official gazette and in one or more gujarati newspapers circulated within the area of the appropriate authority and shall be pasted in prominent places at or near the areas comprised in the scheme and at the office of the town planning officer.
such notice shall specify the matters which are proposed to be decided by the town planning officer and state that all persons who are interested in the plots or are affected by any of the matters specified in the notice shall communicate in writing their objections to the town planning officer within a period of twenty days from the publication of notice in the official gazette.
33 procedure for eviction u s 68 1.
c if the person to be evicted resists or obstructs the officer or servant deputed u cl b or.
before embarking upon the rival contentions we may also notice that the provisions of the bombay town planning rules1955.
it makes it obligatory on the part of the officer to give notice of the date on which he will commence his duties and shall state therein the time within which the owner of any property or rights which is injuriously affected by the making of the town planning scheme shall be advertised in one or more newspapers published in the regional language and circulating within the jurisdiction of the local authority and shall be posted in prominent places at or near the area comprised in the scheme and at the office of the town planning officer.
it prescribes service of notice in form h a copy of the notice in the said form is kept at the office of the town planning officer during office hours.
it furthermore provides that any person entitled to claim damages in terms of s 82 of the act should communicate the details of his claim to the town planning officer.
s 81 of the act enables the state to transfer of right from original to final plot or extinction of such right.
a town planning scheme therefore envisages calling for objection from the persons concerned for three purposes i in regard to draft scheme ii lodging of any claim for payment of compensation iii participation in the matter of allotment of final plots.
sub rule 3 of rule 21 of the bombay rules provides for issuance of a special notice upon the person interested in any plot or in any particular plot comprised in the scheme.
darji1991 indlaw sc 975 supra wherein this court opined that sub rule 3 of rule 21 of the bombay rules was mandatory in nature subject of course to the condition that on the crucial date viz when the town planning scheme is notified in the official gazette he whether an owner or tenant or sub tenant must be in possession of the property.
we would consider the effect of sub s 3 of s 65 of the act a little later but we may at this juncture notice that the respondent no 3 in whose favour plot no 165 has been allotted which includes 200 sq m of land purported to be in possession of the appellant had nothing to do with the dispute between the appellant and his landlord the respondent no 4 respondent no 4 was in possession of a contiguous plot.
we are however not unmindful of the fact that a statute of town planning ex facie is not a statute for acquisition of a property.
it was on that legal principle this court in state of gujarat v shantilal mangaldas ors 1969 3 scr 341 1969 indlaw sc.
s 67 of the act provides that all lands required by the appropriate authority shall unless it is otherwise determined in such scheme vest absolutely in the appropriate authority free from all encumbrances with effect from the date on which the preliminary scheme comes into force.
what would be the quantum of payment of compensation therefor is also provided in s 82 of the act.
b he did not file objections for re allotment and did not participate in the proceedings following acquisition instituted by the authorities under the act.
in halsbury s laws of england volume 1624th edition para 907it is stated the expression waiver may in law bear different meanings.
it may arise from a party making an election for example whether or not to exercise a contractual right.
as sir johan romilly m r has observed in vyvyan v vyvyan.
they referred with approval to the decision in phillips v martin where the chief justice said here there is abundant evidence of waiver and it is quite clear that a man may by his conduct waive a provision of an act of parliament intended for his benefit.
the term waiver has been described in the following words waiver is the abandonment of a right in such a way that the other party is entitled to plead the abandonment by way of confession and avoidance if the right is thereafter asserted and is either express or implied from conduct.
