leave granted.
challenge in this appeal is to the judgment of a division bench of the madhya pradesh high court dismissing the writ appeal filed by the appellant on the ground that it was not maintainable.
the appeal was filed u s 21 of the m p uchacha nyayalay khand nyaypeth ko appeal adhiniyam2005.
hereinafter referred to as the act it was held that the order was passed in exercise of power of superintendence u art 227 of the constitution of india1950 in short the constitution against which the letters patent appeal is not maintainable.
learned counsel for the appellant submitted that the order of this court is very clear and the conclusions of the high court that merely limitation was waived is contrary to the clear terms of the earlier order of this court.
additionally it is submitted that the prayer in the writ petition was to quash the order passed by the assistant commissioner commercial tax.
that being so the mere fact that the writ petition was styled u art 227 of the constitution is of no consequence.
it is the nature of the relief sought for and the controversy involved which determines the article which is applicable.
learned counsel for the respondent state on the other hand supported the impugned judgment of the high court.
since the impugned order is passed by a learned single judge.
since we had entertained the special leave petition against the learned single judge s order it would be appropriate to grant three weeks time to the petitioner to prefer the lpa which if otherwise free from defect shall be entertained for being considered on merits.
underlined for emphasis.
the high court was directed to dispose of the lpa on merits if it was otherwise free from defect.
the high court was therefore not justified in holding that this court s earlier order only waived the limitation for filing a letters patent appeal.
in addition the high court seems to have gone by the nomenclature gone by the nomenclature i e the discription given in the writ petition to be one u art 227 of the constitution.
s 2 of the act reads as follows 21.
an appeal shall lie from a judgment or order passed by the one judge of the high court in exercise of original jurisdiction u art 226 of the constitution of india to a division bench comprising of two judges of the same high court.
provided that no such appeal shall lie against an interlocutory order or against an order passed in exercise of supervisory jurisdiction u art 227 of the constitution of india.
this court in hari vishnu kamath v syed ahmad ishaque and ors air 1955 sc 233 1954 indlaw sc 212 held that the high court while issuing writ of certiorari u art 226 of the constitution can only annul a decision of a tribunal whereas u art 227 of the constitution it can issue further directions as well.
in umaji keshao meshram v radhikabai air 1986 sc 1272 1986 indlaw sc 651.
it was noted as follows.
u art 226 an order direction or writ is to issue to a person authority or the state.
in a proceeding under that article the person authority or state against whom the direction order or writ is sought is a necessary party.
bom 332 1926 indlaw mum 144raghunath keshav khadilkar v poona municipalityair.
v banwarilal roy 1947 indlaw pc 15 1946 47 74 ind app 120130 131 in the last mentioned case which dealt with the nature of a writ of quo warranto.
co ltd v.
it was noted as follows.
the right of appeal against the judgment of a single judge is given by the letters patent which have been continued in force by art 225 of the constitution.
the word finally used in rule 18 of chapter xvii of the appellate side rules does not and can not possibly have the effect of barring a right of appeal conferred by the letters patent.
as we have seen above an intra court appeal against the judgment of a single judge in a petition u art 226 is not barred while cl 15 itself bars an intra court appeal against the judgment of a single judge in a petition u art 227.
in sushilabai laxminarayan mudliyar v nihalchand waghajibhai shaha 1993 supp 1 scc 11 1991 indlaw sc 718.
for determining the question of maintainability of an appeal against such a judgment of the single judge the division bench has to find out whether in substance the judgment has been passed by the learned single judge in exercise of the jurisdiction u art 226 of the constitution.
in the event in passing his judgment on an application which had mentioned in its cause title both arts 226 and 227the single judge has in fact invoked only his supervisory powers under article 227the appeal under cl 15 would not lie.
even when the learned single judge s order has been passed under both the articles for deciding the maintainability against such an order what would be relevant is the principal or main relief granted by the judgment passed by learned single judge and not the ancillary directions given by him.
thus in each case the division bench may consider the substance of the judgment under appeal to ascertain whether the single judge has mainly or principally exercised in the matter his jurisdiction.
u art 226 or u art 227 in.
when without mentioning the particular article the learned single judge decided on merits the application in order to decide the question of maintainability of an appeal against such a judgment the division bench might examine the relief granted by the learned single judge for maintainability of an appeal the determination would be the main and not the ancillary relief.
when a combined application u arts 226 and 227 of the constitution is summarily dismissed without reasons the appeal court may consider whether the facts alleged warranted filing of the application u art 226 or u art 227 of the constitution.
the findings of the rent controller and resident deputy collector were set aside on the question of habitual defaulter as well as on the ground of bona fide need.
thus in the totality of the facts and circumstances of the case the pleadings of the parties in the writ petition and the judgment of the learned single judge leaves no manner of doubt that it was an order passed u art 226 of the constitution and in that view of the matter the letters patent appeal was maintainable before the high court.
in lokmat newspapers p shankarprasad 1999 6 scc 275 1999 indlaw sc 587.
it was observed as follows it is therefore obvious that the writ petition invoking jurisdiction of the high court both u arts 226 and 227 of the constitution had tried to make out a case for the high court s interference seeking issuance of an appropriate writ of certiorari u art 226 of the constitution of india.
it is true as submitted by learned counsel for the appellant that the order of the learned single judge nowhere stated that the court was considering the writ petition u art 226 of the constitution of india.
but the said observation of the learned single judge did not necessarily mean that the learned judge was not inclined to interfere u art 227 of the constitution of india only.
scc 401 1986 indlaw sc 651 in.
madon j speaking for the court made the following pertinent observations petitions are at times filed both u arts 226 and 227 of the constitution.
the case of hari vishnu kamath v syed ahmad ishaque air 1955 sc 233 1954 indlaw sc 212 before this court was of such a type.
it was open to the respondent to invoke the jurisdiction of the high court both u arts 226 and 227 of the constitution of india.
once such a jurisdiction was invoked and when his writ petition was dismissed on merits it can not be said that the learned single judge had exercised his jurisdiction only u art 226 of the constitution of india.
in addition a bare reading of this court s earlier order shows that the impugned order is clearly erroneous.
the impugned order is set aside.
the writ appeal shall be heard by the division bench on merits.
