these three appeals by special leave are directed against the order dated september 92004 passed by intellectual property appellate board for shortipab whereby it ordered the removal of appellant s mark infosys from the register of trade marks in respect of computer stationery computer manuals printed matter for computer instructional and teaching materials computer hardware and peripherals and machine and machine tools.
the appellant is infosys technologies limited.
it was incorporated and registered under the companies act1956 on july 21981 in the name of infosys consultants private limited.
the first respondent is jupiter infosys limited.
the first respondent was incorporated and registered in september 1978 under the name of jupiter agencies pvt.
the name of the first respondent was changed to jupiter infosys p limited in august1995 and now since july2003the name is changed to jupiter international limited.
on october 111996the appellant instituted a suit in the calcutta high court for perpetual injunction inter alia restraining the first respondent from infringing the appellant s mark infosys by using the mark infosys by itself or in combination with other marks in course of its trade.
the ad interim order was confirmed on november 291996.
on september 132000the calcutta high court restrained the department of company affairs and registrar of companies from incorporating any company bearing the name infosys without the permission of the appellant.
in january 2001the appellant filed yet another suit before the high court of judicature at madras for permanent injunction restraining the first respondent from offering shares to the public as claimed in the initial public offer ipo using infosys.
the single judge of the madras high court passed an interim restraint order on february 12001 against the first respondent.
the first respondent then filed three separate applications before the madras high court inter alia under sections 46 and 56 of the trade and merchandise marks act1958.
the 1958 act in o p no 764 of 2001the first respondent prayed for the removal rectification of the entry in the register of trade mark in respect of trade mark no 475269 in class 16 while in the other two applications being o p no 765 of 2001 and o p no 766 of 2001the first respondent prayed for removal rectification of trade mark no 475267 in class 9 and trade mark no 484837 in class 7 respectively.
b whether the respondent had a bonafide intention to use the mark applied for under section 18 of the trade and merchandise marks act.
cwhether the mark registered in favour of the respondent is a service mark.
dwhether there is a non use of registered trade mark by the respondent for a period of over 5 years and 1 month.
ewhether the registered trade mark is disentitled for protection in a court of law under section 11e of the trade and merchandise marks act.
the 1958 act was repealed by the trade marks act1999 for shortthe 1999 act in terms of section 100 of the 1999 act the three petitions filed by the first respondent before the madras high court for rectification removal of registered trade mark nos 475269475267 and 484837 were transferred to the ipab.
heard.
perused the averments made in the suit and application which are duly supported by documents on record.
accordingly it is directed that pending further consideration of the matter after notice for the next date of hearing the defendants are restrained by themselves their directors employees agents andor others acting on its behalf from using the trade mark corporate name infosys or any other mark name deceptively similar trade mark or colourable imitation thereof as a mark andor corporate name or as part of a mark andor business name in respect of goods andor services for publicity on propaganda on websites and or in domain names in any way whatsoever thereby causing infringement of the registered trade mark infosys of the plaintiff in isolation or in combination with words letters numbers their advertisements as part of their corporate name either in isolation or in goods and services or in or by way of any advertisement publicity campaigns etc.
compliance of order xxxix rule 3 cpc within three days.
the said suit was transferred to the court of the additional district judge tis hazari court delhi.
in that suit an affidavit came to be filed by the first respondent wherein it was stated that the name of the company has been changed from jupiter infosys limited to jupiter international limited and a certificate to that effect has been issued by the registrar of companies kolkata under the companies act1956 and no dispute remains between the parties under the trade mark.
the relevant statement made in the affidavit dated july 142003 we were informed that the date of the affidavit is july 142004 reads as follows that in the meantime the defendant has already changed the trade mark namely jupiter international ltd in place of jupiter infosys ltd the copy of the incorporation on change of name which was issued by the registrar of the companies are being marked and annexed herewith as annexure a that now there is no dispute between the plaintiff and defendant under the trade mark.
the ipab proceeded with the matter in light of the issues that were already framed by the high court and heard the parties.
the ipab in the impugned order while dealing with the plea of limitation raised by the appellant held that the first respondent was the appropriate aggrieved party in the matter in view of the fresh cause of action having arisen to the first respondent on filing of civil suit no 71 of 2001 by the appellant before the madras high court.
we heard mr akhil sibal learned counsel for the appellant and mr vaibhav gaggar learned counsel for the first respondent at quite some length.
mr akhil sibal learned counsel for the appellant argued that an application for rectification whether under section 46 or section 56 of the 1958 act can only be preferred by a person aggrieved the applicant must not only be a person aggrieved on the date of the application but must continue to remain a person aggrieved until such time as the rectification application is finally decided.
he contended that the first respondent is not shown to have ever traded or intended to trade in any goods covered by the appellant s registrations under classes 7 and 16 and as such the first respondent is not a person aggrieved with regard to the appellant s registrations under these two classes.
as regards class 9 he would submit that in view of the affidavit filed by the first respondent on july 142004 in the court of additional district judge delhi the first respondent ceases to be an aggrieved person on the date of consideration of the rectification application.
according to him the ipab sought to rely upon computer programming which is a service enumerated in class 42without considering the distinction between a computer programme and computer programming and without noticing the entry computer under class 9 which falls within goods.
akhil sibal learned counsel also argued that the ipab failed to have regard to the proviso to section 461in terms of which it is open to the registered proprietor to rely upon use of the registered trade mark during the relevant period in relation to goods of the same descriptionin order to resist an application for rectification.
the ritz hotel v charles of the ritz 1989.
rpc 333 and australian wine importers trade mark.
learned counsel for the appellant also submitted that in any view of the matter the ipab erred in exercising its discretion under section 46 of the 1958 act without taking into consideration the aspect of public interest.
learned counsel thus submitted that the impugned order is unsustainable and liable to be set aside.
on the other hand an objection is raised in the written submissions on behalf of the first respondent and reference was made in support of the objection to seven judge bench decision of this court in l chandrakumar v union of india ors 1997 3 scc 261 1997 indlaw sc 2816 that challenge to the order of ipab directly in the appeal before this court under article 136 of the constitution is barred.
learned counsel would submit that the appellant has for the first time argued before this court that the first respondent is not a person aggrieved andor not capable of maintaining the rectification proceedings with respect to each and every good for which the appellant has been registered since the first respondent has not been registered for all the goods.
with reference to the affidavit dated july 142004 filed by the first respondent before the court of additional district judge he submitted that the said affidavit has no relevance in consideration as to whether the first respondent is an aggrieved person as section 46 1 of the 1958 act relates only to the period upto the date of the filing of the rectification application and the rights of the parties crystallized at that stage itself.
learned counsel submitted that the fact that the appellant continues to allege and that stance has not changed in the pleadings in slp as well that the first respondent is an infringer pilfriger defrauder someone who wants to ride on the goodwill of the appellant or someone who wants to mislead the public at large there is no question of the first respondent ceasing to be a person aggrieved at any stage.
vaibhav gaggar learned counsel for the first respondent contended that the appellant is registered as a manufacturer and trader under classes 79 and 16 even though it is a company engaged in software only.
in this regard he relied upon a decision of the madras high court in nestle s products india.
in any case learned counsel would submit that the expression infosys is not descriptive expression.
lastly he submitted that although no cross objections or cross appeal has been filed the first respondent has some grievance with regard to the order of the ipab in not considering the case set up in the rectification removal applications particularly with regard to section 56 of the 1958 act.
in the counter affidavit a very vague objection in the following terms was raised that the present petition apart from being false and misconceived lacks the necessary jurisdiction hence deserves outright rejection.
apart from it on september 122005 after hearing both parties special leave was granted by this court.
that the first respondent filed composite applications under sections 46 and 56 of the 1958 act for rectification removal of the trade mark infosys registered in classes 79 and 16 is not in dispute.
three sections viz sections 4656 and 69 of the act contain the phrase.
but if the ground for rectification is merely based on non user i e under section 46 of the act that is not really on account of any public mischief by way of an incorrect entry.
hardie trading ltd 2003 indlaw sc 756 1 has been followed by this court in a recent decision in the case of kabushiki kaisha toshiba 2008 10 scc 766 2008 indlaw sc 1395.
the applications having been transferred to the ipab in terms of section 100 of the 1999 act the ipab examined the matter in light of the issues that were framed by the high court although in the written submissions before it the objection was raised that the first respondent has ceased to have locus standi in view of the subsequent events particularly change of the name of the first respondent from jupiter infosys ltd to jupiter international ltd the question is whether in these circumstances it was incumbent upon the ipab to consider and satisfy itself about the locus standi of the first respondent to be heard as a person aggrieved.
secondly and more importantly during the pendency of the applications certain events had taken place which had some bearing on the question of locus standi of the first respondent insofar as invocation of section 46 1 of the 1958 act is concerned.
this is so because the pre requisite for exercise of power under section 461 is that the applicant is a person aggrieved.
the question then arises whether it is sufficient for the applicant to show that he is a person aggrieved when he makes his application or he must continue to remain a person aggrieved until such time as the rectification removal application is finally decided.
in view of the above these appeals are allowed in part and the impugned order dated september 92004 is set aside.
the applications being tra nos 25 to 27 of 2003 op nos 764 to 766 of 2001 are restored to the file of intellectual property appellate board chennai for hearing and disposal afresh in accordance with law.
the parties shall bear their own costs.
appeals allowed.
