it was just the other day that our brothers ranganath misra and m m dutt jj had to give directions in a case vincent panikurbangara v union of india where a public spirited litigant had complained about the unscrupulous exploitation of the indian drug and pharmaceutical market by multinational corporations by putting in circulation low quality and even deleterious drugs.
in this group of cases we are faced with a different problem of alleged exploitation by big manufacturers of bulk drugs.
the problem is that of high prices bearing it is said little relation to the cost of production to the manufacturers.
by way of illustration we may straightaway mention a glaring instance of such high pricing which was brought to our notice at the very commencement of the hearing.
barlagan ketone a bulk drug was not treated as an essential bulk drug under the drugs prices control.
order 1970 and was not included in the schedule to that order.
a manufacturer was under the provisions of that order free to continue to sell the drug at the price reported by him to the central government at the time of the commencement of the order but was under an obligation not to increase the price without the prior approval of the central government.
order came into force the distinction between essential and non essential bulk drugs was abolished and a maximum price had to be fixed for barlagan ketone also like other bulk drugs.
the manufacturer applied for fixation of price at rs 8500 per kg.
the government however fixed the price at rs 1810 per kg.
for the moment ignoring the price fixed by the government we see that the price of rs 24735 per kg.
at which the manufacturer was previously selling the drug and at which he continues to market the drug to this day because of the quashing of the order fixing the price by the high court is so unconsciously high even compared with the price claimed by himself that it appears to justify the charge that some manufacturers do indulge in profiteering.
profiteering by itself is evil.
profiteering in the scarce resources of the community much needed life sustaining food stuffs and lifesaving drugs is diabolic.
it is a menance which had to be lettered and curbed.
one of the principal objectives of the essential commodities act 1955 is precisely that.
t must be remembered that article 39b enjoins a duty on the state towards securing that the ownership and control of the material resources of the community are so distributed as best to subserve the common good.
the essential commodities act is a legislation towards that end.
it is in pursuance of the powers granted to the central government by the essential commodities act that first the drugs prices control.
order 1979 were made.
armed with authority under the drugs prices control.
order 1979 the central government issued notifications fixing the maximum prices at which various indigenously manufactured bulk drugs may be sold by the manufacturers.
these notifications were questioned on several grounds by the manufacturers and they have been quashed by the delhi high court on the ground of failure to observe the principles of natural justice.
since prices of formulations are primarily dependent on prices of buli drugs the notifications fixing the retail prices of formulations were also quashed.
the manufacturers had also filed review petitions before the government under paragraph 27 of the 1979 order.
the review petitions could not survive after the notifications sought to be reviewed had themselves been quashed.
nevertheless the high court gave detailed directions regarding the manner of disposal of the review petitions by the high court.
the union of india has preferred these appeals by special leave of this court against the judgment of the high court.
the case for the union of india was presented to us ably by shri g ramaswami the learned additional solicitor general and the manufacturers were represented equally ably by shri anil diwan.
before we turn to the terms of the drugs prices control.
we concern ourselves neither with the policy nor with the rates.
but our examination will stop there.
we will go no further.
the assembling of the raw materials and the mechanics of price fixation are the concern of the executive and we leave it to them.
and we will not revaluate the considerations even if the prices are demonstrably injurious to some manufacturers or producers.
the court will of course examine if there is any hostile discrimination.
that is a different cup of tea altogether.
in the case of parliamentary legislation the proposition is self evident.
in the case of subordinate legislation it may happen that parliament may itself provide for a notice and for a hearing there are several instances of the legislature requiring the subordinate legislating authority to give public notice and a public hearing before say for example levying a municipal rate  in which case the substantial non observance of the statutorily prescribed mode of observing natural justice may have the effect of invalidating the subordinate legislation.
the right here given to rate payers or others is in the nature of a concession which is not to detract from the character of the activity as legislative and not quasijudicial.
but where the legislature has not chosen to provide for any notice or hearing no one can insist upon it and it will not be permissible to read natural justice into such legislative activity.
in such a situation while such enquiry by the subordinate legislating body as it deems fit is a condition precedent to the subordinate legislation the nature and the extent of the enquiry is in the discretion of the subordinate legislating body and the subordinate legislation is not open to question on the ground that the enquiry was not as full as it might have been.
it is the sort of enquiry which the legislature itself may cause to be made before legislating an enquiry which will not confer any right on anyone.
the third observation we wish to make is price fixation is more in the nature of a legislative activity than any other.
it is true that with the proliferation of delegated legislation there is a tendency for the line between legislation and administration to vanish into an illusion.
administrative quasi judicial decisions tend to merge in legislative activity and conversely legislative activity tends to fade into and present an appearance of an administrative or quasi judicial activity.
any attempt to draw a distinct line between legislative and administrative functions it has been said is difficult in theory and impossible in practice.
though difficult it is necessary that the line must sometimes be drawn as different legal fights and consequences may ensue.
the distinction between the two has usually been expressed as one between the general and the particular.
legislation is the process of formulating a general rule of conduct without reference to particular cases and usually operating in future administration is the process of performing particular acts of issuing particular orders or of making decisions which apply general rules to particular cases.
it has also been said rule making is normally directed toward the formulation of requirements having a general application to all members of a broadly identifiable class while an adjudication on the other hand applies to specific individuals or situations.
but this is only a bread distinction not necessarily always true.
administration and administrative adjudication may also be of general application and there may be legislation of particular application only.
that is not ruled out.
the object of the rule the reach of its application the rights and obligations arising out of it its intended effect on past present and future events its form the manner of its promulgation are some factors which may help in drawing the line between legislative and non legislative acts.
a price fixation measure does not concern itself with the interests of an individual manufacturer or producer.
it is generally in relation to a particular commodity or class of commodities or transactions.
it is intended to operate in the future.
the right of the citizen to obtain essential articles at fair prices and the duty of the state to so provide them are transformed into the power of the state to fix prices and the obligation of the producer to charge n6 more than the price fixed.
viewed from whatever angle the angle of general application the prospectivity of its effect the public interest served and the rights and obligations flowing therefrom there can be no question that price fixation is ordinarily a legislative activity.
pricefixation may occasionally assume an administrative or quasi judicial character when it relates to acquisition or requisition of goods or property from individuals and it becomes necessary to fix the price separately in relation to such individuals.
such situations may arise when the owner of property or goods is compelled to sell his property or goods to the government or its nominee and the price to be paid is directed by the legislature to be determined according to the statutory guidelines laid down by it.
otherwise price fixation is generally a legislative activity.
the three observations made by us are well settled and wellfounded on authority.
the producer should not be driven out of his producing business.
beg cj.
by way of an explanation efficient manufacturer is defined to mean a manufacturer i.
whose production of such bulk drug in relation to the total production of such bulk drug in the country is large or ii who employs efficient technology in the production of such bulk drug.
to be furnished.
