the appellant is a trust which wanted to establish a self financing engineering college and submitted an application during 1994 95 to the university of kerala as well as to all india council for technical education hereinafter called the aicte.
there was an inspection by a team of professors of the university and it recommended favourably when it stated that the facilities provided by the appellant would be sufficient for establish ing an engineering college.
the aicte sent a communication on 30 4 1995 stating that on the basis of the observations made by the expert committee and the recommendations made by the central regional committee state level committee and central task force as per the provisions of the aicte regulation dated 30 1 1994the aicte was granting conditional approval for establishing an engineering and technical college.
the abovesaid approval was subject to the fulfilment of specific conditions mentioned in annexure i and the general conditions mentioned in annexure ii to the said letter.
in the event of contravention of the conditions guidelines norms and regula tions of the aicte the aicte could withdraw the approval at any time.
under the impression that the state govt was to grant permission the appellant requested the state government by letter dated 24 6 1995 for permission to start the college.
meanwhile the mahatama gandhi university by their letter dated 31 5 1995 forwarded to the government a list of colleges and courses for affiliation during the academic year 1995 96 the appellant s college was shown as one of the colleges among the affiliated colleges for the said period.
the appellant sent a reminder to the government on 26 8 1995 for permission for starting the college for the academic year 1995 96 and ultimately the government refused permission by informing the appellant by a letter dated 16 8 1996 as follows.
in inviting your attention to the reference cited i am to inform you that government regret their inability to comply with your request.
thereafter the appellant filed writ petition o p no 4612 of 1996 for quashing the said order and for a direction to sanction and establish an engineering college.
the learned single judge of the high court by his judgment dated 14 1 1997 allowed the writ petition quashed the above said order of the government dated 16 8 1996 and directed the mahatama gandhi university to consider the appellant s application for permanent affiliation without reference to the above letter of the government and pass appropriate order within 8 weeks from the date of the receipt of a copy of the judgment.
the direction to pass a fresh order of affiliation was issued in view of the fact that the university contended before the learned single judge that unless the government granted approval permanent affiliation could not be granted.
the government was also directed to reconsider its decision.
against the said judgment of the learned single judge the commis sioner and secretary of the government higher education department filed writ appeal no 1024 of 1997 the division bench of the high court allowed the appeal and set aside the order of the government and dismissed the writ petition.
the division bench however observed that the appellant was at liberty to make a fresh application to the government of kerala for according sanction for setting up the engineering college or to request the government to consider the earlier application for a future academic year.
it is against the abovesaid judgment of the division bench that this appeal has been preferred.
learned senior counsel for the appellant.
sri t l vishwanatha.
iyer contended that the division bench erred in reversing the well considered judgment of the learned single judge and according to him after the coming into force of the aicte act1987the statutes conferring power on the state or university to the extent they were inconsistent with the central act were void.
in so far as institutions imparting technical education were concerned the university or the state government had no independent role to play except to the extent provided in the above said enactment in the present case the aicte had made inspections and was satisfied that the necessary infrastructure was available and that the appellant would be able to conform to the required standards of the education.
the aicte had consulted the state of kerala as well as the mahatama gandhi university.
the university had granted conditional approval as stated earlier.
therefore the aicte consti tuted a task force and obtained its opinion and thereafter granted its approval on 13 11 1995 subject to various conditions.
according to the learned senior counsel it was indeed not necessary for the appellant to have applied to the state government for any further sanction to establish the college.
it might be that under the relevant statutes of the university the university was required to obtain the views of the state government but that did not amount to requiring any approval of the state government and indeed if any such statute required the approval of the state government it would be void in view of what was stated by this court in state of tamil nadu.
another v adhiyaman educational research institute.
othersl995 4 scc 104 1995 indlaw sc 1631.
sri t l viswanatha iyer also contended that though the state government stated in its counter affidavit filed in the high court that the policy of the government was not to grant approval to self financing engineering colleges to be established such a policy could not come in the way of the appellant in view of what this court has stated in similar circumstances in thirumuruga kirupan variyar thavathiru sundara swamigal medical education charitable trust v state of tamil nadu others1996 3 scc 15 1996 indlaw sc 858.
on the other hand learned additional solicitor general sri mukul rohtagi contended on behalf of the state of kerala that the policy of the state of kerala at the relevant time was not to grant approval for establish ment of more engineering colleges in the state.
the government had clarified in the counter affidavit filed in the high court that the government was not in a position to take a decision to start new engineering colleges without properly assessing the necessity of more engineering graduates from the state and without exploring the possibility of employment opportunities in the country as a whole.
also there were four engineering colleges at kannur trichur kottayam and thiruvananthapuram districts and three private aided engineering colleges at palakkad ernakulam kothamangalam and kollam districts.
the model engineering college emakulam was a selffinancing engineering college and others were the colleges at changannur and pathansamthitta and there was a self financing engineering college at kasargode.
there were also two unaided engineering colleges at mallappuram and thiruvananthapuram.
even though the appellant trust was not seeking aid from the government and even assuming that it was financially self sufficient it would not be in the interests of the students employment to permit new engineering colleges to be established.
thus the government policy was not to grant fresh approvals.
if more approvals were granted it might lead to commercialisation of education.
the following points arise for consideration 1.
whether in view of the judgment of this court in state of tamil nadu another v adhiyaman educational research institute others1995 4 scc 104 1995 indlaw sc 1631the provisions of the aicte act1987 occupied the field and it was not necessary to obtain the further approval of the government or other authority.
whether any statute in the state of kerala if it required such approval would be void.
2 whether the orders of rejection passed by the state government were valid on merits and whether the university should have granted further orders to continue the affiliation solely on the basis of the aicte permission.
point 1.
this point is more or less covered by the judgment of this court in state of tamil nadu.
but in the context of s 10k regarding approval for starting a technical institution certain aspects of the judgment need to be highlighted.
before we refer to the abovesaid judgment it will be necessary to refer to certain provisions of the aicte act and the relevant regulations.
the abovesaid act was an act to provide for the establishment of all india council for technical education with a view to the proper planning and coordinated development of the technical education system throughout the country the promotion of qualitative improvement of such education in relation to planned quantitative growth and the regulation and proper maintenance of norms and standards in the technical education system and for matters connected therewith.
u s 10 of the act it is stated that it is the duty of the council constituted under the act to take all steps as the said council might think fit for ensuring coordinated and integrated develop ment of technical education and maintenance of standards.
sub cl 1 permits the council to advice the central government in certain respects sub cl m lay down norms for granting autonomy subcl n to take necessary steps to prevent commercialisation of technical education cl o to provide guidelines for admission of students to technical institutions and universities imparting technical education cl p to inspect or cause inspection to any technical institution cl q to withhold or discontinue grant cl r to strengthen the existing organisa tions etc.
cl s to declare technical institutions as fit to receive grants cl t to advice for declaring institutions to be deemed as universities cl u to set up a national board of accreditation.
s 11 of the act deals with inspection.
regulations have been framed on 31st october1994 by the aicte in exercise of powers conferred on it by s 231 of the aicte act.
regulation 2 states that these regulations will be applicable to proposals relating to a grant of approval of the council for establishment of new technical institutions including universities or university depart ments and deemed universities and for technical institutions function ing on the date of commencement of these regulations at degree and diploma levels b grant of approval of the council for introduction of any course or programme in the technical institutions and technical departments or universities or deemed universities c grant of approval of the council for existing intake capacity of seats and for increase in the annual intake capacity of seats in courses and programmes.
d no approved intake capacity of seats shall be increased or varied except with the approval of the council.
reg 42.
sub cl 2 with the courses or programmes and sub cl 3 deals with the power of admissions and sub cl 4 with tuition fees etc and sub cl 5 with the staff and sub cl 6 with the governing body of the private institutions and subcl 7 with other matters.
regulation 8 deals with scrutiny of applications.
reg 84.
sub cl 6 of regulation 8 states that the state level committee constituted under regulation 94 is to consider the recommendations of the state government and others mentioned in regulation 84 and that it is to make its recommendations to the central task force constituted under regulation 95 and consider the recommendations of the state level committee and send its recommendations to the member secretary of the council.
on the recommendation of the central task force the council shall decide the question of grant of approval as sought for in the application.
sub cl 10 of regulation 8 states that the decision of the council shall be communicated to the state government concerned or the ugc as the case may be the concerned university or the state board the regional office and the applicant before 30th april in case the application was made before the preceding 31st december.
the tamil nadu case.
as stated earlier the above provisions of the aicte act came up for consideration in state of tamil nadu v adhiyaman educational research institute1995 4 scc 104 1995 indlaw sc 1631.
in the above matter the state of tamil nadu granted permission on 17 4 84 to all private managements to start private engineering colleges without financial commitment to government but subject to conditions.
at that time in 1984the aicte act was not on the statute book.
the government of tamil nadu granted permission to the trust for the academic year 1987 88 to start an engineering college.
88 later on these permissions were withdrawn by the state after issuing show cause on 16 7 89 so did the university on 26 7 89 but by that date the aicte act1987 had come into force.
the learned single judge and the division bench held in favour of the trust and quashed and orders of the government and the university.
the said judgments were affirmed by this court.
it was held that the aicte act was referable to entry 66list.
iii whether.
