Mudholkar J.
They have now come up to this Court by special leave.
In exercise of.
Then he has set out the circumstances upon which his contention is based.
The Government thought it right to take power to step in where there was reason to suspect that the Management may not have been acting in the interests of the shareholders who would not be able to take the steps against a powerful body like the Managementand to take steps for protection of such interests.
1 As soon as may be after the commencement of the Companies Amendment Act 1963 the Central Government shall by notification in the Official Gazette constitute a Board to be called the Board of Company Law Admin istration to exercise and discharge such powers and functions conferred on the Central Government by or under this Act or any other law as may be delegated to it by that Government.
3 One of the members shall be appointed by the Central Government to be the chairman of the Company Law Board.
The first ground has already been dealt with in part when I considered the malice and influence of the Minister.
It may be said at once that apart from that allegation nothing has been said attributing to the Chairman any personal bias grudge oblique motive or ulterior purpose.
Therefore all that I have to consider is whether the action of the Chairman can be challenged as done either contrary to the provisions empowering him or beyond those provisions.
 These words indicate that before the Central Government forms its opinion it must have before it circumstances suggesting certain inferences.
These grounds limit the jurisdiction of the Central Govern ment.
The circumstances mentioned show mismanagement and inefficiency which is not the same thing as fraud or misconduct.
In my opinion the distribution of the business of the Board among its members is a delegation of its authority.
To this Board the Government delegated its function under section 237.
The Committee rejected the application of Ms T T K  Co but advised them to apply again after six months.
