An industrial dispute between these workmen and the management of Orient Paper Mills Ltd hereinafter referred to as the Company was referred by the State Government under section 101 d of the Industrial Disputes Act hereinafter referred to as the Act for adjudication by the Tribunal enumerating 30 different items of dispute.
On these facts the Tribunal held that it would not be proper to compare the wage structure for these Paper Mills with that of the Company.
 On the basis of this finding of fact the Tribunal held that if the minimum wage in the Company is to be fixed more on the basis of the minimum wage prevailing in other industries in that region which in its opinion would be appropriate under the circumstances of the case then a revision was really necessary.
It is to be noted that there is no mention in the award of the Tribunal that the Company at any stage put forward the case that the Collieries the Steel Plant the Cement Factory and the Aluminjure Company were concerns which were not comparable with the Company.
Having come to this view it is clear that to give full effect to the principle laid down by this Court the case of French Motor Car Co1 the Tribunal should have proceeded to fix the minimum wage in the Company on the basis of the average minimum wage prevailing in these concerns.
in the same region.
Comparing with them there is justification for fixing the total wage packet of the workmen in the Company at Rs 95 which would include production bonus.
Consequently we are unable to hold that the Tribunal has committed any error and that in this respect any interference by us is called for.
It appears that the Tribunal did not accept this demand primarily on the ground that the distinction between casual workers and  the permanent workers was recognised by both the parties in the agreement of 1959.
In all these circumstances we think that the revised wages should take effect from 13th December 1962.
The only other dispute raised in this appeal related to the bonus for the year 1962 63.
On the face of it at the time of the reference there could be no question of applying the Full Bench Formula for calculation of surplus because there were no completed accounts for the two years 1962 63 and 1963 64.
