ivil Appeal No 196 of 1 970.
ST Desai ATM Sampath Mukul Mudgal and Raju Ramachandran for the Appellants.
RK Garg Mrs Urmila Sirur and Shiv Pujan Singh for the Respondents.
It was claimed that in the event of Mahant Sadashiva Yati being found out of possession a decree for possession should be made.
Sadashiva Yati pleaded that on the death of Mahant Shivshanker Yati he was elected Mahant of Math Sauna and was therefore entitled as Sarbarakar to all the properties recorded in the deity Mahadeo Ji or in the name of Mahant Shivshanker Yati.
He alleged that Mahant Shivshanker Yati owned personal properties which included the properties in village Amauli that he was the chela of Mahant Shivshanker Yati and the Amauli properties had passed to him under a will executed by the Mahant.
The surplus the deed directed was to be employed for acquiring further property in the name of the deity and was not to be applied by the Sarbarakar to his personal use.
Two appeals were filed in the High Court.
The Mahants and members of Math Sauna belonged to the Dashnami Sanyasi sect.
That certain sects of sanyasis could acquire personal property was accepted by that eminent Judge Dr BK Mukherjee in his Hindu Law of Religious and Charitable Trustsa where he says A Mohunt and for the matter of that any other Sanyasi can acquire personal property of his own.
The Pronamis given to a Mohunt are generally his personal property.
663 There is reason to believe that Mohant Shivbaran Yati Mohant Shivpher Yati and Mahant Shivshankar Yati were not celibates and had been grihasthas and were entitled to possess enjoy and acquire personal property.
He was granted a succession certificate by the District Judge Ghazipur in respect of the two fixed deposits made by Mahant Shivpher Yati in the Bank of Bengal.
As has been observed there can be no presumption either way.
In the present case it is difficult to conclude from the material before us that the total income from the properties belonging to the Math and the deity left any appreciable surplus after meeting the expenditure on account of bhog arpan deepdan daily and annual puja and the other obligations specified in the waqf deed.
On his 664 death in 1917 the fund passed to Mahant Shivshankar Yati who in 1921 employed it for the purchase of the Amauli properties.
We concur with that finding.
In our judgment the High Court is right in the view that the Amauli properties constitute the personal property of Uma Shankar Yati and do not form part of the properties of the Math Sauna or of the deity Sri Thakur Gokarneshwar Mahadeoji.
In the result the appeal is dismissed with costs.
