Industrial Corpn.
Chapter VIII of the Act consisting of sections 64 to 71 is entitled Special Areas.
Section 55 provides that for every Special Area there shall be a Special Area Development Authority consisting of a Chairman and such other members as the Government may determine from time to time.
These two clauses of section 69 and clauses v and vi of section 68 were inserted in their present shape by Ordinance 26 of 1975 which came into force on February 27 1976.
The Ordinance was replaced by the Madhya Pradesh Nagar Tatha Gram Nivesh Sanshodhan Adhiniyam 1976 6 of 1976.
By section 36 of the aforesaid Adhiniyam local authorities were prohibited from recovering the property tax from November 24 1970.
For conferring powers to levy tax on the entry of goods in place of octroi tax the Madhya Pradesh Sthaniya Kshetra Me Mal Ke Pravesh Par Kar Adhyadesh 1976 6 of 1976 was promulgated.
Petitions Nos.
We have allowed both the parties to intervene in these appeals.
The Act of 1973 did not by section 69d incorporate in its true signification any particular provision of the two earlier Acts.
As observed in Nathella Sampathu Chetty there is a distinction between a mere reference to or a citation of one statute in another and an incorporation which in effect means the bodily lifting of the provisions of one enactment and making them part of another so much so that the repeal of the former leaves the latter wholly untouched.
This contention is devoid of substance.
Section 1321a refers to property tax.
This is not as said by the Attorney General rationalising the taxing power.
The appellants may if so advised raise this particular point in future assessments.
Finally the learned Attorney General raised a contention of fundamental importance which was not raised in the High Court.
Entry 23 of List II relates to Regulation of mines and mineral development subject to the provisions of List I with respect to regulation and development under the control of the Union.
Entry 54 of List I does not contemplate the taking over of municipal functions.
In that case the Bihar Government demanded dead rent royalty and surface rent from the appellant contrary to the terms of his lease on the strength of the amended section 102 of the Bihar Land Reforms Act 1950 and the amended Rule 20 of the Bihar Rules.
That the declaration in section 2 of the does not result in invalidation of every State legislation relating to mines and minerals is demonstrated effectively by the decision in State of Haryana  Anr.
In that case 12 sugar undertakings stood transferred to and were vested in a Government undertaking under the UP Sugar Undertakings Acquisition Ordinance 1971 which later became an Act.
For these reasons the appeals fail and are dismissed with costs.
