1977 by the Life Insurance Corporation of India hereinafter referred to as the Corporation  which pro vides that an employee belonging to Class I or Class II appointed to the service of the Corporation on or after 1st September 1956 shall retire on completion of 58 years of age but the competent authority may if it is of the opinion that it is in the interest of the Corporation to do so direct such employee to retire on completion of 50 years of age and at any time thereafter on giving him three months  notice or salary in lieu thereof.
Pursuant to the said decision the President of India promulgated the Life Insurance Emergency Provisions Ordi nance 1956 on January 19 1956 providing for the vesting of the management of the life insurance business which was called the controlled business under the Ordinance which was being carried on by any insurer in India on that day in the Central Government and providing for its management.
The appointed day for the purposes of the Act is therefore September 1 1956.
As mentioned earlier there were more than 200 insurers whose controlled business had been taken over by the Corporation and we are informed that there were about 27000 whole time employees working in them.
The conditions of service of these transferred employ ees of the Corporation whose services were transferred to the Corporation under section 111 of the Act were not uniform.
The above decision of the Bombay High Court was delivered on 1641957.
 The above regulation fixed the age of retirement of an employee at 55 years while empowering the authority to extend the service of an employee at its discretion every year upto 60 years of age.
Clause 6 of that order originally read as follows 6.
All employees appointed to the service of the Corporation on or after 1st September 1956 were required to retire on completion of 58 years of age but the appointing authority was empowered to retire any such employee on completion of 55 years of age or at any time thereafter if his efficiency was found to have been impaired.
An employee belonging to Class III or Class IV and a transferred employee belonging to Class I or Class II shall retire on completion of age 60 but the appointing authority may direct such employee to retire on completion of 55 years of age or at any time thereafter if his efficiency is found to have been impaired.
All the employees belonging to Class III and Class IV irrespective of the fact whether they were transferred employees or employees appointed after 1st September 1956 were entitled to continue in service till 60 years of age but the employees belonging to Class I and Class II who were appointed to the service of the Corpora tion on or after 1st September 1956 had to retire on the completion of 58 years of age subject to the usual clause relating to premature retirement.
From the said Class III post he was promoted to the Class I post since there was no necessity to pass through a Class II post before entering a Class I post on 8101963 and was appointed as Assistant Branch Manager Admn.
The question is whether the provision is confined to transferred employees only or extends to all employees generally.
There is provision for the transfer of the assets and liabilities pertaining to the business of provident funds 206 superannuation and other like funds of the services of existing employees of insurers to the Corporation and also of the services of existing employees of chief agents of the insurers to the Corporation and finally for the payment of compensation to the insurers for the transfer of the busi ness to the Corporation.
Their complaint was that the Rules created without any valid justification two cadres the State cadre and the provincialised cadre the former including not only the Government School teachers but also those recruited after October 1 1957 and posted in the provincialised schools that by reason of having two cadres and providing for both a uniform 15 per cent for selection grade posts coupled with making the provincialised cadre a diminishing one the result had been that teachers deemed to have been appointed to the State cadre with effect from October 1 1957 and even those recruited thereafter had been promoted to the selec tion grade while those in the provincialised cadre though senior in service and performed identical duties and had identical scales of pay remained in the ordinary grade.
 It has to be observed in the case before us also that the transferred employees belong to a diminishing cadre.
The Government and the Corporation felt that the services 16 persons who were working in the Department of Insurance were required by the Corporation.
Out of those 16 13 have already retired from service on attaining the age of 60 years.
This Court held that when once the direct recruits and promoters were absorbed in one cadre they formed one class and they could not be distinguished again for the purpose of further promotion to the higher grade C  The Court further ob served that before the impugned notification was issued there was only one rule of promotion applicable to both direct recruits and promoters but by the impugned notifica tion discriminatory treatment was made in favour of the apprentice train examiners who had already been absorbed in grade D .
The High Court has negatived it.
Classification of employees into two categories for purposes of fixing the age of superannuation depending upon their dates of entry into service when the necessity for doing so arises on account of certain historical reasons is not unknown.
Clause b however provided that every ministerial railway serv ant who had entered the Government service on or before 31st March 1938 and who satisfied the conditions mentioned either in sub clause i or sub clause ii thereof was entitled to continue in service till he attained the age of 60 years.
As may be seen from that rule the classification of the employees was made on the basis of the date of entry into the service of the Government.
In that decision this Court has no doubt observed that generally speaking there should not be any difference in the age of retirement of existing workmen and others to be employed in future unless there are special circumstances justifying such difference.
We are not concerned in this case with the question whether the age of retirement of employees who have joined the service of the Corporation after 1st September 1956 should be raised to 60 years.
