It is further mentioned in the said agreement that it was agreed by the licensee that if he commits any default of any terms and conditions or fails to pay the compensation for two months or if the licensee at any time puts up false or adverse claim of tenancy or sub tenancy the licensor shall be entitled to terminate the agreement and cancel and revoke and withdraw the leave and licence granted earlier and shall be entitled to take possession forthwith of the said premises.
On or about 9th of November 1970 the owner of the premises filed an ejectment proceeding against one Sugrabhai Mohammed Husain and obtained a decree.
In order to go back to the findings of the learned Judge of the Court of Small Cause and the learned High Court Judge found that the appellant had failed to prove that he was a sub tenant of the respondent and the learned Judge found him to be a licensee.
There was no error of fact as such on that.
The Bombay Rent Act was amended by Maharashtra Act 17 of 1973.
This Court allowing the appeal held that in order to get the advantage of section 15A of the Bombay Rent Act the occupant must be in occupation of the premises as a licensee as defined in section 54A on the 1st of February 1973.
The High Court disallowed the special civil application under Article 227 of the Constitution on 17th of November 1980 and that is the judgment impugned in this appeal.
This decision was remanded back to the High Court and it was directed that the appellant should be heard afresh in accordance with law because in a previous decision Vaidya J by the judgment dated 9th of December 1975 as mentioned hereinbefore had allowed the appellant s appeal.
Reviewing these decisions Denning LJ had observed at page 384 of the report 1 that to ascertain whether a document created a licence or lease the substance of the document must be preferred to the form 2 the real test was the intention of the parties whether they intended to create a lease or a licence 3 if the document created an interest in the property it is a lease but if it only permitted another to make use of the property of which the legal possession continued with the owner it was a licence and 4 if under the document a party got exclusive possession of the property prima facie he was considered to be a tenant but circumstances might be established which negative the intention to create a lease.
In any event this is a possible view that could be taken.
In the aforesaid view of the matter we are clearly of the opinion that in view of the intention of the parties in the document and the facts and circumstances of this case it was a licence and not a lease.
NPV Appeal dismissed.
