If the appellants are promote d they will naturally have to be promoted with effect from t he date on which they ought to have been promoted.
There will be no order as to costs.
Howeve r merely on completion of two years  service a Supervisor  A  could not claim automatic promotion.
62 and 4416ANG dt.
Having heard learned counsel for the parties we fi nd substance in the submission made by the learned counsel f or the respondents.
The requirements of rule 8 in brief have already been indicated above.
In oth er words it resulted in delayed chance of promotion.
While repelling this submission the Constituti on Bench held All that happened as a result of making promotions to t he posts of Deputy Collectors divisionwise and limiting su ch promotions to 50 per cent of the total number of vacanci es in the posts of Deputy Collector was to reduce the chanc es of promotion available to the petitioners.
 It i s therefore clear that neither the Rules of July 30 195 9 nor the procedure for making promotions to the posts of Deputy Collector divisionwise varies the conditions of service of the petitioners to their disadvantage.
vs Union of India  Ors.
It indicates that approximately 125 diploma holders were r e cruited in 1962 550 in 1963 250 in 1964 150 in 1965 a nd 100 in 1966 the total number of such recruits being appro x imately 1175.
In view of.
3812 19 of 1983 with regard to a matter relevant for promotion.
There is a further averment in the said counter affidavit that pet i tioners were duly considered in their turn and their nam es were brought on the approved panel.
These writ petitions therefore deserve to be dismissed.
 In so far as Supervisors A  who claimed promotion as Chargeman 11 the following direction was accordingly giv en by the Madhya Pradesh High Court in its judgment dated 4 th April 1983 aforesaid All these petitioners are also entitled to be treated as Chargeman Grade II on completion of two years satisfacto ry service as Supervisor Grade A Consequently notion al seniority of these persons have to be refixed in Supervis or Grade A Chargeman Grade II Grade I and Assistant Forem an in cases of those who are holding that post  .
T he petitioners are also entitled to get their present sala ry re fixed after giving them notional seniority so that t he same is not lower than those who are immediately bel ow them.
We are further of the opinion that it is not a fit case for initiating any proceedings for contempt again st the respondents.
