From the Judgment and Order dated 4785  21684 of the Customs Excise and Gold Control Appellate Tribunal New Delhi in Appeal Nos.
According to the appellant the manufacture of fusel oil is complete and it is the fully manufactured fusel oilStyrene Monomer which is stored in the storage tank.
The same were allowed by the Collector Appeals.
Collector in those appeals had included the costs of such drums in the value of styrene monomer.
Reference was made both by the learned Attorney General and Shri Salve to the observations of this Court in Union of India vs Godfrey Phillips India Ltd 1985 Supp.
According to the learned Attorney General since the Act provides for only one exception to this measure namely non inclusion of the cost of such packing where the packing is durable in nature and is returnable by the buyer to the assessee in all other cases the cost of the packing would have to be included in the assessable value of the excisable goods where such goods are delivered at the time of removal in packed condition.
For articles to be goods these must be known in the market as such and these must be capable of being sold or being sold in the market as such.
These were in the storage tanks of the assessee and were as such marketable.
The respondent supplied these gases in cylinders at their factory gate.
Furthermore no cost was in fact incurred by the assessee.
In my opinion that is the correct approach to the problem.
It is apparent from the wide language according to the learned Chief Justice of Explanation to section 44di that every kind of container in which it can be said that the excisable goods are contained would be packing  within the meaning of the Explanation.
He answered that it is not.
There was no evidence that there was any necessity of pack ing or putting these in drums prior to their sale.
But as a matter of fact delivery in drums was only to facilitate their transport in small quantities.
In the aforesaid view of the matter I am of the opinion that these appeals have to be allowed and the orders of the Tribunal set aside.
In construing section 44di all that has to be seen is whether the goods are delivered in packed condition.
If the manufacturer supplies the drums and charges the customers separately therefore then under section 44di the cost of the drums to the buyer has to be added to the price except where the packing is of durable nature and is to be returned to the manufacturer.
In my opinion also the above conclusion reached on the language of section 44di of the Act is sufficient to allow these appeals.
