The second lease deed Ext.
It came to the conclusion that exhibit P 1 did not in law create a valid lease between the co owners and the tenants.
When a petition under section 4 is filed the Rent Controller on the language of section 4 has to decide 1 whether the applicant is a tenant in or landlord of the building and 2 what the fair rent of the premises should be in accordance with the provisions of the Act.
The respondents denied that the LIC was the landlord or they the tenants in respect of the property.
An appeal by the tenant also failed but here again the above point was not taken.
He submitted that if the tenants had filed a suit for declaration that the order passed in the earlier proceedings as a nullity that would have been bound to fail.
as the case may be.
But we think Sri Parasaran is right in saying that since the Rent Controller has no jurisdiction to entertain an application except by a landlord or a tenant the ques tion of title to the property is one on which his very jurisdiction depends.
Per contra he may reach the conclusion on the materials before him that the landlord has no title yet it seems if he finds that the applicant is otherwise a landlord and that the grounds on which the tenant s denial was based were not bona fide he will have to order eviction.
In that case the Revenue Divisional Officer in 563 certain earlier proceedings had held that a particular village was not an estate and this had been confirmed by the District Collector and the High Court.
If by an erroneous interpretation of the statute the court holds that it has no jurisdiction the decision will not operate as res judicata.
In order to operate as res judicata the finding must be one disposing of a matter directly and substantially in issue in the former suit and the issue should have been heard and finally decided by the court trying such suit.
It has long been held that a question of title in a Small Cause suit can be regarded as incidental only to the substantial issue in the suit and cannot operate 8as res judicata in a subsequent suit in which the question of title is directly raised  .
We are concerned with the jurisdiction of a civil court.
