AA Peerbhoy and JB Dadachanji for Habib Mohammad Intervener.
V Rajaram Iyer Advocate General of Hyderabad R Ganapathy Iyer with him for the State of Hyderabad.
B Sen for the appellant in Case No 298.
The Act is intituled An Act to provide for the speedier trial of certain offences  and the preamble declares that it is expedient to provide for the speedier trial of cer tain offences .
Section 3 empowers the State Government by notification in the official gazette to constitute Special Courts and section 4 provides for the appointment of spe cial judges to preside over such courts.
Section 5 whose constitutionality is impugned runs thus 290 51 A Special Court shall try such offences or classes of cases as the classes of offences or cases State Government may by general or special order in writing direct.
Chakravartti and Das JJ.
It is too indef inite and there can hardly be any definite objective test to determine it.
 In the face of all these considerations it seems to me difficult to condemn section 5 1 as violative of article 14.
As already pointed out wide latitude must be allowed to a legislature in classifying persons and things to be brought under the operation of a special law and such classification need not be based on an exact or scientific exclusion or inclusion.
FAZL ALl J.
40 306 There is no doubt that the West Bengal Special Courts Ordinance 1949 which was later replaced by the impugned Act West Bengal Special Courts Act X of 1950 to be herein after referred to as the Act was a valid Ordinance when it was promulgated on the 17th August 1949.
As pointed out by Chakravarti J the necessity of a speedy trial is too vague and uncertain a criterion to form the basis of a valid and reasonable classification.
MUKHERJEA J.
Briefly stated the trial is to be without any jury or assessors and the court has to follow the procedure that is laid down for trial of warrant cases by the Magistrate under the Criminal Procedure Code.
Anwar Ali Sarkar who is the respondent in Appeal No 297 along with 49 other persons were the accused in what is known as Dum Dum Factory Raid case where crimes of the utmost bru tality were committed by an armed gang of men on the factory of Messrs Jessop and Company at Dum Dum.
Accordingly a Special Bench was constituted consisting of the Chief Justice and four other Judges who heard both these cases.
 It is in substance modelled upon the equal pro tection clause occurring in the Fourteenth Amendment of the American Constitution with a further addition of the rule of equality before the law which is an established maxim of the English Constitution.
Article 21 of the Constitution only guarantees that no person shall be deprived of his life or personal liberty except in accordance with the procedure established by law.
Amongst other important changes reference may be made to the provision of section 13 of the Act which empowers the Special Court to convict an accused of any offence if the commission of such offence is proved during trial although he was not charged with the same or could be charged with it in the manner contemplated by section 236 of the Criminal Procedure Code nor was it a minor offence within the meaning of section 238 of the Code.
It must appear not only that a classification has been made but also that it is based upon some reasonable ground some difference which bears a just and proper relation to the attempted classification1.
Company vs Ellis 3 to carry the presumption to the extent of holding that there must be some undisclosed and unknown reason for subjecting certain individuals or corporations to hostile and discriminatory legislation is to make the pro tection clauses of the Fourteenth Amendment a mere rope of sand.
I propose only to note the points urged before us and shortly state my conclusions thereon.
FN Balsara 2.
All persons are not by nature attainment or circumstances equal and the varying needs of different classes of persons often require separate treatment and therefore the protecting clause has been construed as a guarantee against discrimi nation amongst equals only and not as taking away from the State the power to classify persons for the purpose of legislation.
The argument is that although there is no apparent reason why an offence of theft in a dwelling house by a stranger should require speedier trial any more than an offence of theft in a dwelling house by a servant should do the State government may nevertheless select the former offence for special and discriminatory treatment in the matter of its trial by bringing it under the Act.
It has on the other hand acted under that part of the section which authorises it to direct cases to be tried by the Special Court for by the notifications it has directed certain specific cases identified by their individual numbers in the records of the particular than as to be tried by the Special Court.
Article 14 provides The State shall not deny to any person equality before the law or the equal protection of the laws within the territory of India Then follow articles 15 and 16 the former prohibiting discrimination on grounds of religion race caste sex place of birth or any of them and the latter providing for equality of opportunity in matters of public employment.
Bombay and Another vs.
It merely requires that all persons subject to such legislation shall be treated alike under like cir cumstances and conditions both in the privileges conferred and in the liabilities imposed The inhibition of the amendment was designed to prevent any person or class of persons from being singled out as a special subject for discriminating and hostile legislation.
Every classification is in some degree likely to produce some inequality and mere production of inequality is not enough.
Citing the case of Sunday Lake Iron Co vs Wakefield Rogers vs Alabama and Concordia Fire Ins.
But that predicates a position where the words are plain and unambiguous.
But I am not here to consider that.
It may even be that it would be more truly done.
Appeals dismissed.
Agent for the appellant in Case No 297 PK Bose.
Agent for the respondent in Case No 297 Sukumar Ghose.
