Appeal No 1653 of 1967.
Appeal from the judgment and order dated February 23 1967 Of the Delhi High Court in CW No 403 D of 1959.
B Sen P L Juneja R N Sachthey and section P Nayer for the appellant.
The Judgment of the Court was delivered by Sikri CJ.
The judgment reproduced below was drafted by the late Mr Justice Roy and we all had subscribed to it.
448 This is an appeal by the Union of India by way of special leave.
On April 9 1959 the Central Government directed removal from service of Capt section K Rao under r 14 of the Army Rules 1954.
The facts leading to his removal are as follows  Rao was a commissioned officer in the Indian Army and was attached to the Army Ordnance Corps Training Centre Secundrabad.
It was alleged that on April 4 1958 he committed acts of gross misconduct.
An inquiry into the matter was made by Court of Inquiry.
By memorandum dated September 4 1958 Rao was called upon to submit his explanation by way of defence regarding the allegations against him.
The explanation of Rao was placed before the Central Government.
The Central Government found it to be unsatisfactory and on April 9 1959 an order was passed removing the respondent from service.
Rao thereupon filed a petition under article 226 of the Constitution for quashing the order of removal from service on the 449 ground inter alia that r 14 of the Army Rules 1954 was ultra vires the  and that the action taken thereunder was without any authority.
According to him he did not assist Kumari Prakash to go away from her parents  house.
without the officer being tried by a court martial.
If the explanation is found to be unsatisfactory the Central Government has been given the power to dismiss or remove the officer.
To give power to the Central Government to remove an officer without being tried and convicted by court martial was in derogation of section 45 of the .
Rule 14 therefore was ultra vires the .
Section 45 provides that on conviction by court martial an officer is liable to be cashiered or to suffer such less punishment as is in this Act mentioned.
VPS Appeal allowed.
