From the judgment and order dated the 8th February 1967 of Le Delhi High Court in Civil Writ No 531 D of 1964.
k To attain those advantages by united action which each member may not be able to accomplish in its separate capacity.
z To take or otherwise acquire and hold shares in any other association or company having objects altogether or in part similar to those of the Federation.
z4 4 The income and property of the Federation whencesoever derived shall be applied solely towards the promotion of the objects of the Federation as set forth in the Memorandum of Association and no portion thereof shall be paid or transferred directly or indirectly by way of dividend bonus or otherwise by way of profit to the members of the Federation.
It deals with the trade or busi ness in general to secure the interest of the country.
It shall apply in the first instance.
  Shop means any premises where goods are sold either by retail or wholesale Or where services are rendered to customers and includes an office a stoic room godown warehouse or workhouse or work place whether in the same premises or otherwise used in or in connection with such trade or business but does not include a factory or commercial establishment.
Further the definition of commercial establishment is wider than that of shop.
As regards the preliminary objection it is true that before the High Court it was not argued that the activity of the Federation amounts to the carrying on of any business or trade in the premises in question.
Alternatively it was contended that the case fell within part b of the definition of commercial establishment inasmuch as its activities were connected with trade and business generally.
In R K Mittal s case this Court was considering the activity of this Federation in the context of industry  as defined in s2j of the .
 It will be seen that any business trade is an element common to the definitions of commercial establishment and industry given in the respective statutes.
It has set up Tribunals for arbitration in disputes arising between individual traders or business concerns in the course of trade industry or other business matters.
These services are material services.
In the matter.
