ivil Appeal No 196 of 1 970.
From the judgment and decree dated April 21 1969 of the Allahabad High Court in First Appeal No 80 of 1964.
ST Desai ATM Sampath Mukul Mudgal and Raju Ramachandran for the Appellants.
RK Garg Mrs Urmila Sirur and Shiv Pujan Singh for the Respondents.
b of clause I of Article 133 of the Constitution granted by the Allahabad High Court against its judgment and decree dated April 21 1969 disposing of appeals out of a suit for declaration and possession.
The plaintiffs filed a suit claiming that the property in dispute belonged to the Math Sauna or the deity Sri Thakur Gokarneshwar 661 Mahadeo Ji installed in the Math Sauna temple and that Mahant Sadashiva Yati was in possession as Mahant and Sarbarakar.
It was claimed that in the event of Mahant Sadashiva Yati being found out of possession a decree for possession should be made.
Sadashiva Yati pleaded that on the death of Mahant Shivshanker Yati he was elected Mahant of Math Sauna and was therefore entitled as Sarbarakar to all the properties recorded in the deity Mahadeo Ji or in the name of Mahant Shivshanker Yati.
These properties included properties in village Amauli.
He asserted that Shivshanker Yati possessed no personal property.
The suit was contested by the first defendant Kedar Nath Chaubey also referred to as Uma Shanker Yati.
He alleged that Mahant Shivshanker Yati owned personal properties which included the properties in village Amauli that he was the chela of Mahant Shivshanker Yati and the Amauli properties had passed to him under a will executed by the Mahant.
We are concerned in this appeal solely with the Amauli properties.
Math Sauna is an old Math situated in the village of that name in Tehsil Saidpur in the district of Ghazipur.
One of the earliest Mahants of the Math Mahant Gokaran Yati raised a temple in the premises of the Math and installed a deity acclaimed by the name of Gokarneshwar Mahadeo.
On his death he was succeeded by Mahant Shivbaran Yati who executed a waqf deed on November 12 1892 dedicating various properties to the deity with the intent that arrangements for bhog deepdan and other expenses be met from them.
The surplus the deed directed was to be employed for acquiring further property in the name of the deity and was not to be applied by the Sarbarakar to his personal use.
The learned Civil Judge decreed the suit but included a finding in his judgment that Sadashiv Yati was not a regularly constituted Mahant of Math Sauna and Sarbarakar of the deity.
Two appeals were filed in the High Court.
First Appeal No 80 of 1964 was filed by Kedar Nath Chaubey  Uma Shanker Yati against the declaration that the Amauli properties were owned by Math Sauna or the deity and that Sadashiv Yati was in possession thereof as Mahant and Sarbarakar.
The other appeal First Appeal No 270 of 1965 was filed by the plaintiffs for the relief that Sadashiv Yati was a properly constituted Mahant of Math Sauna and Sarbarakar of the deity.
The High Court allowed both the appeals by its judgment and decree dated April 21 1969.
It held that the Amauli properties had been purchased by Shivshanker Yati in 1921 from 662 the personal and separate funds inherited by him from his predecessor Shivpher Yati and that the Amauli properties must therefore be regarded as his personal and separate properties and they did not belong to the Math or the deity.
The point for decision is whether the fund was the personal property of Mahant Shivpher Yati and if so whether it devolved on Mahant Shivshankar Yati.
The Mahants and members of Math Sauna belonged to the Dashnami Sanyasi sect.
The material on the record establishes that they could own and possess personal property.
Some of them continued to possess and even to acquire personal property after taking sanyas.
That certain sects of sanyasis could acquire personal property was accepted by that eminent Judge Dr BK Mukherjee in his Hindu Law of Religious and Charitable Trustsa where he says A Mohunt and for the matter of that any other Sanyasi can acquire personal property of his own.
The Pronamis given to a Mohunt are generally his personal property.
Strictly speaking there is no presumption either one way or the other and in each case the burden is upon the plaintiff to establish that the properties in respect of which he is asking for possession are properties to the possession of which he is entitled in the right in which he sues.
He had also inherited the personal property of Mahant Shivbaran Yati who owned three private properties in village Shiv Dass in the district of Banaras.
He was granted a succession certificate by the District Judge Ghazipur in respect of the two fixed deposits made by Mahant Shivpher Yati in the Bank of Bengal.
In respect of both properties the revenue records mentioned the name of Mahant Shivshankar Yati and not that of the Math or the deity.
Small parcels of these properties were transferred by Mahant Shivshankar Yati from time to time and none of those transfers was challenged by the plaintiffs in the present suit.
We concur with that finding.
In our judgment the High Court is right in the view that the Amauli properties constitute the personal property of Uma Shankar Yati and do not form part of the properties of the Math Sauna or of the deity Sri Thakur Gokarneshwar Mahadeoji.
In the result the appeal is dismissed with costs.
PBR Appeal dismissed.
