Appeals by special leave from the judgment order dated the 15th April 1978 of the Madhya Pradesh High Court in Misc.
Petition Nos 61 and 6278 respectively.
Section 64 empowers the State Government to declare any area as a special area by issuing a notification.
Section 55 provides that for every Special Area there shall be a Special Area Development Authority consisting of a Chairman and such other members as the Government may determine from time to time.
The Chairman and the members of the Development Authority are appointed by the Government.
Section 68 which prescribes the functions of the Development Authority lays down by clauses v and vi that the Development Authority shall make provision for the municipal services and municipal management of the Special Area.
The Ordinance was replaced by the Madhya Pradesh Nagar Tatha Gram Nivesh Sanshodhan Adhiniyam 1976 6 of 1976.
They should better have not been so numbered alphabetically since the main clauses themselves are similarly numbered.
Since there was no Municipal Corporation or Municipal Council in the Korba Special Area prior to the constitution of the Development Authority the Government was required under sub clause b above to direct whether the Madhya Pradesh Municipal Corporation Act 1956 or the Madhya Pradesh Municipalities Act 1961 shall apply to the Korba Special Area for the purposes of clauses v and vi of section 68 and clauses c and d of section 69.
Such a direction was first issued by Notification dated January 28 1976 published in the Government Gazette dated February 27 1976 by which the Development Authority Korba was directed to exercise the powers and perform the functions of a Class I Municipality constituted under the Madhya Pradesh Municipality Act 1961.
By another Notification dated March 15 1977 published in Government Gazette dated July 15 1977 the Development Authority Korba was directed under the aforesaid clauses of sections 68 and 69 to exercise the powers and perform the functions under the Madhya Pradesh Municipal Corporation Act 1956.
Section 1271i of the Madhya Pradesh Municipalities Act 1961 empowers a municipal council to impose in the whole or any part of the municipality a tax payable by the owners of houses buildings or lands situated within the limits of Municipality with reference to annual letting value of the house building or land called property tax.
It says that the Corporation shall impose a tax payable by the owners of buildings or lands situated within the city with reference to the gross annual letting value of the building or land called the property tax.
In 1964 the Madhya Pradesh State Legislature had enacted the Madhya Pradesh Nagariya Sthawar Sampatti Kar Adhiniyam which was made applicable to the whole State including the urban areas.
Both of these Ordinances were published in the Madhya Pradesh Gazette dated April 30 1976 from which date they came into force.
By section 12 of that Act the provisions inserted in the Municipalities Act and the Municipal Corporation Act with which we are concerned were deemed to have come into force with effect from April 1 1976.
 Similar provisions were inserted in sections 135 and 136 of the Municipal Corporation Act.
The appellant Company paid the contribution for the year 1976 as agreed.
That amount not having been paid as provided in the agreement respondent 1 terminated the agreement by its letter dated February 4 1977.
11 The appellant Company disputed its liability to pay the aforesaid amounts on the grounds principally that no tax was leviable on its property since the Company was owned wholly by the Government of India and that respondent 1 was estopped from levying the property tax by reason of the agreement of 1976.
Having failed to persuade respondent 1 to accept its point of view the Company filed o Writ Petition in the Madhya Pradesh High Court asking that the demands be quashed.
In the other two appeals Nos 1025 and 1026 of 1978 the appellant Western Coalfields Ltd is also a hundred per cent undertaking of the Government of India.
Petitions Nos.
