ION Special Leave A Petition CRL  No 1765 of 1987 From the Judgment and order dated 8971987 of the Bombay High Court in WP No 332 of 1987.
VN Ganpule for the Petitioner.
Soli J Sorabjee KJ John and AK Desai for the Respondents.
The Judgment of the Court was delivered by SEN J.
The by section 630 enacts 630.
Penalty for wrongful withholding of property 1 If any officer or employee of a company a wrongfully obtains possession of any property of a company or D b having any such property in his possession wrongfully withholds it or knowingly applies it to purposes other than those expressed or directed in the articles and authorised by this Act he shall on the complaint of the company or any creditor or contributory thereof be punishable with fine which may extend to one thousand rupees.
2 The Court trying the offence may also order such officer or employee to deliver up or refund within a time F to be fixed by the Court any such property wrongfully obtained or wrongfully withheld or knowingly misapplied or in default to suffer imprisonment for a term which may extend to two years.
 The only question involved in this special leave petition is as to the scope and effect of sub section.
1 of section 630 of the Act.
The controversy is as to the meaning of the term officer or employee  used in sub s1 of section 630 and as to the meaning of the words any such property  in cl.
b thereof and there is a conflict of opinion between the High Courts of Calcutta and Bombay on the question.
On a literal construction of the term officer or employee  occurring in sub section.
1 of section 630 of H 172 the Act the High Court of Calcutta in Amritlal Chum vs Devi Ranjan Jha  Anr held that it refers only to the existing officers and employees of a company.
It also held that the words any such property  in section 630lb relate to property specified in cl.
a viz property of a company wrongfully taken possession of by a present officer or employee of the company.
The High Court of Bombay on the other hand has placed a beneficent construction on the provisions contained in section 630 and according to it the term officer or employee  in sub section.
1 of section 630 must be interpreted to mean not only the present officers and employees of a company but also to include past officers and employees of the company.
It is also of the view that the words any such property  in ck b qualify the words any property of a company  appearing in cl.
That has been the consistent view taken by the High Court of Bombay in a series of cases.
See Harkishan Lakhimal Gidwani vs Achyut Kashinath Wagh  Anr  Govind T Jagtiani vs Sirajuddin section Kazi  Anr  which have since been followed in a series of cases referred to by the learned Single Judge Ashok Agarwal J.
The issues involved in the special leave petition are of considerable importance to the corporate sector as many of the business organisations both in the public as well as the private sector are required to provide residential accommodation to their officers and employees as a condition of their service to attract better talent and have of necessity to purchase residential flats in multi storeyed buildings in large cities and towns for the use of such officers and employees during the course of their employment and the question is whether the provisions contained in sub section.
1 of section 630 which provide for the launching of a prosecution against an officer or employee of a company for wrongful possession of such property under cls.
a and b of sub section.
1 of section 630 and for the recovery of such property by the issue of process under sub section 2 also extends to past officers and employees of the company and whether the Court trying the offence has the power to issue a process under sub section.
2 against such officer or employee.
At the conclusion of the hearing we had by a short order dismissed the special leave petition and held that the view expressed by the learned Single Judge following the earlier decisions of the High Court in Harkishan Lakhimal Gidwani and reiterated in Govind T Jagtiani was to be preferred to the view to the contrary expressed by the High Court of Calcutta in Amritlal Chum.
As the respondent Shipping Corporation of India a public sector undertakings was in dire need of the flat in question which is situate in a posh locality like the Cuffe Parade in 173 Bombay for the use of its senior executive we could not accede to the request of the learned counsel for the petitioner to refer the case to a bench of three judges and heard learned counsel for the parties at quit some length on August 271987 and dismissed the special leave petition.
The reasons therefor follow.
At the very threshold it is necessary to set out a few facts.
The petitioner Baldev Krishan Sahi was an Under Secretary to the Government of India in the Ministry of Shipping  Transport and on May 21 1974 accepted employment as Joint Manager in the Mogul Line Limited a Government of India undertaking after obtaining release from government service.
He was first allotted a service quarter.
In 1975 the company purchased a spacious flat being flat No 151 in Jolly Maker Apartment III at 119 Cuffe Parade and the petitioner being the senior most executive was allotted the flat for his residence.
The petitioner retired from the service of the company on or about September 30 1984.
Prior to that ie On September 26 1984 he addressed a letter requesting the company to permit him to continue to live in the company s premises during the period of his accumulated leave after his retirement ie for a period of six months undertaking to vacate the flat as early as possible.
It appears that the company on humanitarian grounds acceded to this request and permitted the petitioner to stay on in the company s flat for six months after his retirement and in accordance with the company s rules he was required to pay compensation for the use of the premises.
The Estate officer by order dated December 2 1985 directed the eviction of the petitioner.
The learned Magistrate by his order dated May 22 1986 took cognizance of the complaint against the petitioner and directed issue of process.
The Corporation in the counter affidavit interalia has pleaded that there is acute shortage of housing accommodation in the Metropolitan City of Bombay and it becomes necessary for the Corporation with a view to attract good talent to provide suitable housing accommodation to its officers and employees and that due to acute financial liquidity it is not possible for the Corporation to buy property in Bombay for this purpose.
The entire argument of the learned counsel is based upon the judgment of the High Court of Calcutta in Amritlal Chum s case.
Sub section.
a and although it primarily refers to the existing officers and employees it may also take in past officers and employees.
It may well be that an officer or employee may have lawfully obtained possession of any such property during the course of his employment but wrongfully withholds it after the termination of his employment.
That would primarily apply to the present officers and employees and may also include past officers and employees.
1 of section 630 of the Act.
The High Court of Calcutta in Amritlal Chum s case obviously fell into an error in seeking to curtail the ambit of section 630lb by giving a restrictive meaning to the terms officer or employee  which must take its colour from the context in which it appears.
There is also no warrant for the construction placed by the High Court of Calcutta on the words any such property  occurring in cl.
He had been inducted into the flat only by virtue of his capacity as the General Manager of the company s branch office at Bombay but the company allowed him to retain the same on humanitarian grounds for a short period after his retirement to enable him to find alternative accommodation.
PSS Petition dismissed.
