one lakshminarayana iyer a hindu brahmin who owned considerable properties in the tirunelveli district died on 13th december 1924 leaving him surviving a widow ranganayaki and a married daughter ramalakshmi.
ramalakshmi had married the plaintiff and had a number of children from him.
they were all alive in december 1924 when lakshminarayana died.
by this will he gave the following directions after my lifetime you the aforesaid ranganayaki amminal my wife shall till your lifetime enjoy the aforesaid entire properties the outstandings due to me the debts payable by me and the chit amounts payable by me.
after your lifetime ramalakshmi ammal our daughter and wife of rama ayyar avergal of melagaram village and her heirs shall enjoy them with absolute rights and powers of alienation such as gift exchange and sale from son to grandson and so on for generations.
as regards the payment of maintenance to be made to chinnanmal alias lakshmi ammal wife of my late son hariharamayyan my wife ranganayaki ammal shall pay the same as she pleases and obtain a release deed.
ranganayaki entered into possession of the properties on the death of her husband.
none of her children survived her.
on the 18th september 1945 the suit out of which this appeal arises was instituted by the plaintiff the husband and the sole heir of ramalakshmi for a declaration that the said sale would not be binding on him beyond the lifetime of the widow.
on the 19th september 1945 an ad interim injunction was issued by the high court restraining the widow from alienating the properties in her possession and forming part of her husband s estate inspite of this injunction on the 27th september 1945 she executed two deeds of settlement in favour of the other defendants comprising a number of properties.
the plaintiff was allowed to amend his plaint and include therein a prayer for a declaration in respect of the invalidity of these alienations as well.
it was averred in the plaint that ramalakshmi obtained a vested interest in the suit properties under the will of her father and plaintiff was thus entitled to maintain the suit.
the defendants pleaded that the plaintiff had no title to maintain the suit that the widow was entitled under the will to an absolute estate or at least to an estate analogous to and not less than a widow s estate that the estate given to ramalakshmi under the will was but a contingent one and she having predeceased the widow no interest in the suit properties devolved on the plaintiff.
the main issue in the suit was whether the widow took under the will an absolute estate or an estate like the hindu widow s estate and whether the daughter s interest therein was in the nature of a contingent remainder or whether she got in the properties a vested interest.
in view of this finding he granted the plaintiff a declaratory decree to the effect that the first defendant had only an estate for life in the suit properties and that the alienations made by her would not endure beyond her lifetime.
the unsuccessful defendants preferred an appeal against this decree to the high court of judicature at madras.
the substantial question to decide in the appeal is whether the estate granted by the testator to his widow was a fall woman s estate under hindu law or merely a limited life estate in the english sense of that expression.
considering the will in the light of these principles it seems to us that lakshminarayan iyer intended by his will to direct that his entire properties should be enjoyed by his widow during her lifetime but her interest in these properties should come to an end on her death that all these properties in their entirety should thereafter be enjoyed as absolute owners by his daughter and her heirs with powers of alienation gift exchange and sale from generation to generation.
he wished to make his daughter a fresh stock of descent so that her issue male or female may have the benefit of his property.
and these shall thereafter pass to her daughters.
if the testator had before his mind s eye his daughter and her heirs as the ultimate beneficiaries of his bounty that intention could only be achieved by giving to the widow a limited estate because by conferring a full hindu widow s estate on her the daughter will only have a mere spes successions under the hindu law which may or may not mature and under the will her interest would only be a contingent one in what was left indisposed of by the widow.
as above pointed out admittedly power of alienation in express terms was not conferred on her.
it was strenuously argued by mr k section krishnaswami iyengar that lakshminarayana iyer was a brahmin gentleman presumably versed in the sastras living in a village in the southernmost part of the madras state that his idea of a restricted estate was more likely to be one analogous to a hindu woman s estate than a life estate a understood in english law wherein the estate is measured by use and not by duration and that if this will was construed in the light of the notions of lakshminarayana iyer it should be held that the widow got under it a hindu widow s estate and the daughter got under it a contingent remainder in the nature of spes and on her death there was nothing which could devolve on the plaintiff and he thus had no locus standi to question the alienations made by the widow.
a 2 5.
the remainder was disposed of in the following words if on the death of my wife and my niece there be living a son and a daughter born of the womb of my said brother s daughter then two thirds of the movable property will belong to the son and one third to the daughter.
this decision therefore goes against the contention of the learned counsel but he placed reliance on the observations made in the judgment when the learned judge proceeded to say in deference to the view taken in maharaja of kolhapur v sundaram iyer 1925 i l r 48 mad 1 it may be possible to create an interest analogous to a woman s estate in hindu law notwithstanding the addition of a gift over and that the estate taken by section need not necessarily be only a life estate in the english law sense of the term.
indlaw mad 621 1940.
m l j 188 the next case cited a hindu testator who was a retired subordinate judge provided by his will as follows out of the aforestated ancestral lands the oneninth share to which i am entitled shall be enjoyed after my death by my wife till her death and after her death it shall pass to section son of my second elder brother deceased.
my self acquired properties shall on my death be enjoyed by my wife till her death and after her death they shall pass to my daughter.
the words used in favour of the grandsons seem to indicate that the estate conferred on the daughter was not a life estate because there is no direct gift in favour of the grandsons but on the other hand what he says is that through his daughter the estate shall pass to his grandsons.
reliance was next placed on maharaja of kolhapur v sundaram iyer 1925 i l r 48 mad.
that was a case of a government grant on the special terms set out therein and the question arose as to the nature of the grant.
in this judgment the following observations were emphasized as relevant to this enquiry it has been contended that these latter expressions qualify the generality of the former expressions and that the will taken as a whole must be construed as intimating the intention of the testator that mst.
the learned counsel for the respondent followed the line adopted by mr krishnaswami iyengar.
chunderbutti thakurain my wife to be enjoyed during her lifetime in order that she may hold possession of all the properties and milkiut possessed by me the declarant during her lifetime and by the payment of government revenue appropriate the profits derived therefrom but that she should not by any means transfer the milkiut estates and the slaves that after the death of my aforesaid wife the milkiut and household furniture shall devolve on girdhari thakur my karta adopted son.
