this appeal is by special leave against the judgment of the high court of punjab and haryana confirming the conviction of the accused under section 51c of the prevention of corruption act 1947 as also the sentence awarded by the sessions judge of one year s rigorous imprisonment and a fine of rs 2500 in default six months rigorous imprisonment.
of india took steps to acquire some lands of agriculturists pursuant to which a notification dated november 27 1962 was issued under section 4 of the land acquisition act 1894 for acquiring 51 79 acres of land situated in the state of ahmedpur.
on the next day another notification was issued under section 6 of the land acquisition act on november 28 1962 and in view of the emergency action under section 17 was taken for obtaining possession of the land with a view to its development.
before the land was actually acquired the appellant who was a major in the military engineering service was working as a garrison engineer and was inching of the extension.
this agreement was signed both by the appellant and p w 14.
after the completion of the first phase the second phase was to start on 10th october 1963 and completed by 9th may 1964.
february 1963 to the appellant.
24 bears the signature of n l handa the tehsildar and of sukhchain lal jain p w 11 on behalf of the military estate officer and the appellant.
in respect of this allegation the first information report exhibit p 29 was issued on 14 1 64 in which the following statement is relevant.
revenues.
the learned advocate for the appellant has meticulously taken us through the entire documentary and oral evidence and commented at length upon the various contradictions and incongruities in the case of the prosecution with a view to establishing that when the appellant took possession of the land there was no crop standing on it that tile possession of the land was in fact delivered to telu ram contractor on 10 1 1963 that the said contractor had admitted that possession of the entire land was received by him that he carried on the construction work in extending the aerodrome that 200250 donkeys were also used for doing the work by reason of which the crop was damaged before tehsildar had put the appellant in possession of the land and as a matter of fact there was no crop thereon when he got the possession of the land.
whereas it is alleged that major som nath while functioning as garrison engineer m e s air field at sirsa from 13 2 63 to 54 1963 by corrupt or illegal means or by otherwise abusing his position as such public servant obtained pecuniary advantage of rs 2500 for allowing the standing crops to be cut from the land acquired for the extension of air field.
sirsa which crops had been entrusted to him as a public servant and he instead of depositing the said sale price into the govt.
sd a p veera raghavan.
considered for the purposes of according sanction were a that the appellant as a public servant was entrusted with crops situated on the land acquired for the extension of air field sirsa b that by abusing his position as a public servant he allowed the standing crops to be cut from the said land.
c that by corrupt or illegal means and by abusing his position as a public servant he obtained pecuniary advantage of rs 2500 as the value of the crops to be cut from the land andor he dishonestly or fraudulently misappropriated that sum by converting it into his own use instead of depositing the said sale price in the govt.
the question therefore would be whether these facts were sufficient to sustain the sanction under 51c even if the charge under 51d had failed.
this question in turnwill depend upon what are the ingredients of the offences under 51c and d read with section 52.
we should have thought this was an obvious conclusion but the learned advocate for the appellant strenuously contended that the charge against the appellant was of a motiveless offenceand in any case the facts as disclosed show that not only at thetime when the first information report was given but even at the time when sanction was accorded that the prosecution wag merely concerned with the charge that the appellant bad allowed the crops to be cut on the condition that rs 2500 will be paid and received the money and misappropriated or converted it tohis own use by not paying it into the govt.
for instance it is quite possible that the person whom he allowed to cut the crop may be his own relation or friend in whom he may be interested and who may however not know that the accused was doing something dishonest in permitting him to cut the crop.
in any case the facts which have been stated in the sanction clearly indicate that the appellant has dishonestly allowed the crops to be cut so that there is no question of any inference or implication that the persons cutting the crops were abetting him in the offence.
thirdly the judgments show that there was utter confusion in respect of the date on which possession of the acquired land was given to the appellant and the date on which it was given to the contractor for carrying on the work as also in respect of the fact whether there was any crop standing when the appellant took possession of the land and at what period of time the crop was cut and the work commenced.
the acquired land extended from rd 1200 to rd 00.
even if exhibit dq gave a correct picture it could be in relation to the airstrip already in existence as this would be necessary for a contractor who is charged with duty to carry out extension work to go on the site collect materials and get everything ready to execute his contract.
in fact as we have noticed earlier this is what telu ram says in his evidence namely that on loan january63 no delivery of possession of the remaining land other than rd 4500 to 1200 the land in which there is the existing run way was given.
a copy of this letter was sent to the garrison engineer the appellant.
this letter shows two things a that complete site 4500 to 0 ft has not yet been handed over as it was presumed that the possession of the land could not be had so for and b that as levels have not been given the final excavation of the foundation can not be done and all subsequent operations are therefore withheld.
the extension of the airstrip would mean that the existing airstrip is being extended so that the initial work can be started and continued on the existing airstrip.
p 24 that actual possession was delivered to the appellant on 13th february 63 as per the delivery receipt executed by him the tehsildar and p w 11 a representative of the military estate office and that even according to his letter already referred to exhibit p 13 there wag standing crop on the land.
as otherwise there is no meaning in the appellant saying therein that it is desirable that entire proceedings with regard to acquisition of land and determining compensation for standing crops for the total area of 39 58 acres are finalised on the 13th february.
in the examination of the accused under section 342 the special judge in our view did put all the circumstances against the accused which formed the basis of the conviction.
he was asked about telu ram s evidence and also that he had given possession of the land rd 1200 to rd 00 to the contractor after the crop had been cut.
the appellant has denied that there was any standing crop on the land acquired on any date after 13 2 63.
on the other hand he emphatically asserted that at the time when the possession was delivered to him on 13 2 63 there was also no crops standing on the acquired land.
on a careful consideration of the evidence both oral and documentary it is established that the appellant who was in charge of the expansion work on the air strip was given possession of the land acquired for that purpose on 13 2 63 that there was standing thereon a bumper crop of sarson gram and lusan on that day that he was therefore entrusted with this crop that he postponed giving delivery of the land to the contractor till at any rate after the 23rd march 1963 and before the 6th april 1963 and that he allowed the crop to be cut and taken away without in any way accounting for it which shows that it was done dishonestly and raudulently.
appeal dismissed.
