three civil appeals stemming from three revision petitions to the high court of orissa under the orissa estates abolition act 1951 orissa act i of 1952 for short the act have reached this court thanks to special leave granted to the appellant who is common in all the cases.
the high court after deciding various issues remanded the cases to the compensation officer under the act after over ruling most of the contentions pressed before it by the appellant.
shri achutananda purohit appellant was the intermediary in respect of vast forests and other lands comprised in the estate of jujumura in the district of sambalpur.
the appellant has received around rs 300000 but much more according to him is due and this controversy can be settled by examining his specific points.
shri purohit appellant is an advocate by profession and is 83 years old.
if we may anticipate ourselves none of the nine submissions has appealed to us save to the extent the high court has upheld.
while his arguments did not impress us we were touched by his concluding words that he had been born and had grown in an adivasi village in the only brahmin family and in his evening years of life proposed to give a substantial part of the compensation the state would give him for adivasi welfare.
we are directly concerned with the issue of compensation which is dealt with as earlier stated in chapter v of the act.
section 26 has great relevance as it lays down the method of arriving at the gross asset and section 27 has like significance as it focuses on the manner in which the net income from an estate shall be computed by deducting certain items from the gross asset of the estate.
there are a few other s s in chapter vi which deal with payment of compensation.
the rule making power is vested in the government under section 47 and there is a routine removal of difficulties clause contained in section 50.
these furnish in bare outline the provisions with which we are directly concerned.
against the background of law just projected we may set out shri purohit s points which if we may say so are substantially the same as have been argued by him in revision before the high court with partial success.
for convenience of reference we may extract the statement by the high court of the contentions urged before it and repeated before us by the appellant.
the provisions of section 373 read with section 262.
b v of the act make it clear that the date of vesting is the last date by which the calculation of compensation should have been made.
it is this court which by its order dated 10 4 1969 in civil revisions 201 202 and 203 of 1968 conferred new jurisdiction on the compensation officer to deal freshly with the case and therefore notwithstanding anything contained in the act the compensation has to be calculated according to the directions given by the court 2 the court was fully aware of the statutory provision in section 262.
but as the court directed that no further evidence on behalf of the state should be received ext.
where the actual income is to be included in the gross assets in the case of forests the assumed income and not the actual income is to be included.
during the agricultural year immediately preceding the abolition the petitioners had not actually derived any income from the forests and as such they were under no obligation to pay any income tax on such income.
8 compensation money should be so calculated that the purchasing power of the amount of compensation to be paid on the date of actual payment will not be less than its purchasing power on the date of vesting and 9 interest should be calculated at not less than 12 per annum from the date of vesting till payment.
the meat of the matter the primary question agitated in the appeal lopping off the fringe issues of lesser import consists in the statutory methodology and functionaries prescribed by the act for quantifying the compensation and the compliance therewith by the statutory machinery in the case of the appellant.
but before examining this essential issue we may dispose of the minor points pressed so that the deck may be cleared for dealing with what deserves to be dealt with.
point No 9 in the catalogue already given relates to the claim for 12 interest on the amount of compensation as against the statutory rate of 2 12.
the policy of the law of agrarian reform postulates the extinguishment of ancient privileges and cornering of land resources and the socioeconomic yardstick is different from what applies to ordinary purchases of real estate and this is manifest in the special provisions contained in article 31a and article 31b of the constitution.
a similar principle applies to the award of interest which may sometimes be notional when feudal interests are puffed out.
this gives rationality to the seeming disparity.
moreover the high court has rightly pointed out that the validity of section 373 of the act which fixes a small rate of interest on the compensation amount has been upheld by the supreme court in gajapati narayan s case.
point No 8 has only to be stated to be rejected.
the contention is that on the date of vesting which was well over two decades ago the purchasing power of the rupee was much higher than its present value.
it is more or less a world phenomenon that the erosi on in value of the unit of currency has been taking place but this invisible devaluation owing to the inflationary spiral does not affect the quantum of monetary compensation prescribed by statute.
for the purposes of the law the rupee of long ago is the same as the rupee of today although for the purposes of the market place and cost of living the housewife s answer may be different.
the next point in the reverse order is equally unsubstantial and may be disposed of right away.
the appellant challenges the slab system of compensation provided in the act which awards smaller multiples for estates yielding larger incomes on the score of violation of the fundamental rights under the constitution.
the short answer is that article 313 read with article 312 bars any challenge to the amount of compensation on acquisition by the state subject to compliance with the prescriptions in the said sub articles on the ground that the amount so fixed or determined is not adequate.
presidential assent has been accorded to this state act and so the ban operates.
moreover article 31a repels the applicability of articles 14 19 and 31 to the acquisition by the state of any estate or of any rights therein etc.
this provision directly demolishes the contention of the appellant.
the contention is that therefore in arriving at the next income the deduction of income tax is not permissible.
he forgets that in the case of forests it is the assumed income and not the actual income that forms the basis of calculation of compensation.
section 262.
b v is relevant here and may be set out 262.
gross asset when used with reference to an estate means the aggregate of the rents including all cesses which were payable in respect of the estate for the previous agricultural year b by the raiyats or any other persons cultivating the land other than the land settled with the intermediary or intermediaries under sub s 1 of section 7 and includes.
v gross income from forests calculated on the basis of the appraisement made of annual yield of the forests on the date of vesting by a forest officer subject to the approval of the chief conservator of forests such forest officer being not below the rank of a divisional forest officer to be appointed in this behalf by the state government.
so the first step is for the government to appoint forest officers from out of d f os in the forest department for the purposes of the act.
the section is clear that the gross income from forests must be calculated on the basis of appraisal of the annual yield on the date of vesting firstly by a forest officer and secondly by the chief conservator of forests screening it and approving it.
the compensation officer passed an order adverse to the appellant where upon he filed an appeal to the collector which was rejected.
a second appeal followed before the board of revenue which was dismissed.
the said order the relevant portion of which we are concerned runs thus he would immediately call upon the divisional forest officer to make appraisement within three months from the receipt of the record.
