this appeal by special leave which is directed against the judgment and order dated april 241974 of the letters patent bench of the high court of judicature at madras reversing the judgment and order dated april 191971 of the single judge of that court passed in writ petition no 3822 of 1969 presented u art 226 of the constitution raises a complex but an interesting question relating to the construction of the phrases maternity benefit for the period of her actual absence immediately preceding and including the day of her delivery and for the six weeks immediately following that day occurring in s 51 of the maternity benefits act1961.
act liii of 1961 hereinafter referred to as the act which in view of s 21 of the act is the law applicable even to women workers employed in plantations.
it appears that in october1967subbammal respondent no 2 herein who is a woman worker employed in mount stuart estate hereinafter referred to as the establishmentwhich is carrying on plantation industry was allowed leave of absence by the establishment on the basis of a notice given by her of her expected delivery which actually took place on december 161967 after her delivery the respondent was paid by her employers on account of maternity benefit an amount equivalent to what she would have earned on the basis of her average daily wage in 72 working days falling within twelve week s of the maternity period.
while calculating the aforesaid amount of maternity benefit the establishment admittedly excluded twelve sundays being wageless holidays which fell during the period of the respondent s actual absence immediately preceding and including the day of her delivery and the six weeks immediately following that day.
dissatisfied with this computation the respondent made a representation to her employers claiming maternity benefit for the entire period of twelve weeks under the act i e for 84 days on the plea that a week consisted of seven days.
as her demand did not evoke a favourable response the respondent applied to the labour court coimbatore under section 33c2 of the industrial disputes act for redress of her grievance.
the claim preferred by the respondent was resisted by the appellant herein who contended that the respondent was admittedly working and was being paid only for six days in a week and that a pregnant woman worker is entitled to maternity benefit for 72 days which are the normal working days in twelve weeks and not for 84 days as no wage is payable for the seventh day of the week i e sunday which is a nonworking wageless holiday.
aggrieved by this decision the respondent filed an appeal u cl 15 of the letters patent which as already stated was allowed by the letters patent bench of the high court observing that the maternity benefit which the respondent was entitled to receive was for the period of her absence before delivery including the day of delivery and also six weeks thereafter each week consisting of seven days including sundays.
dissatisfied with this decision the establishment has already stated come up in appeal to this court by special leave.
in support of his contention.
cochin v.
1975.
i c 848  a i r 1975.
2 incentive bonus and 3 the money value of the concessional supply of food grains and other articles but does not include.
s 4 of the act which prohibits the employment of or work by woman during certain period lays down 4 employment of or work by woman prohibited during certain period 1 no employer shall knowingly employ a woman in any establishment during the six weeks immediately following the day of her delivery or her mis carriage.
5 right to payment of maternity.
explanation.
no woman shall be entitled to maternity benefit unless she has actually worked in an establishment of the employer from whom she claims maternity benefit for a period of not less than one hundred and sixty days in the twelve months immediately preceding the date of her expected delivery.
provided that where a woman dies during this period the maternity benefit shall be payable only for the days up to and including the day of her death.
provided further that where a woman having delivered of a child dies during her delivery or during the period of six weeks immediately following the date of her delivery leaving behind in either case the child the employer shall be liable for the maternity benefit for the entire period of six weeks immediately following the day of her delivery but if the child also dies during the said period then for the days upto and including the day of the death of the child.
6 the failure to give notice under this section s not disentitle a woman to maternity benefit or any other amount under this act if she is otherwise entitled to such benefit or amount and in any such case an inspector may either of his own motion or on an application made to him by the woman order the payment of such benefit of amount within such period as may be specified in the order.
according to the explanation appended to s 51 of the act the average daily wage has to be computed taking into consideration the average of the woman s wager payable to her for the days on which she has worked during the period of three calendar months immediately preceding the date from which she absents herself on account of maternity or one rupee a day whichever is higher.
in stroud s judicial dictionary third editionit is stated that 1 though a week usually means any consecutive seven days it will sometimes be interpreted to mean the ordinary notion of a week reckoning from sunday to sunday and 2 probably a week usually means seven clear days.
the language in which the aforesaid sub s s are couched also shows that the legislature intended that computation of maternity benefit is to be made for the entire period of the woman worker s actual absence i e for all the days including sundays which may be wageless holidays falling within that period and not only for intermittent periods of six days thereby excluding sundays falling within that period for if it were not so the legislature instead of using the words for the period of her actual absence immediately preceding and including the day of her delivery and for the six weeks immediately following that day would have used the words for the working days falling within the period of her actual absence immediately preceding and including the day of her delivery and the six weeks immediately following that day but excluding the wageless days.
it has also to be borne in mind in this connection that in interpreting provisions of beneficial pieces of legislation like the one in hand which is intended to achieve the object of doing social justice to women workers employed in the plantations and which squarely fall within the purview of art 42 of the constitution the beneficent rule of construction which would enable the woman worker not only to subsist but also to make up her dissipated energy nurse her child preserve her efficiency as a worker and maintain the level of her previous efficiency and output has to be adopted by the court.
thus we are of opinion that computation of maternity benefit has to be made for all the days including sundays and rest days which may be wageless holidays comprised in the actual period of absence of the woman extending upto six weeks preceding and including the day of delivery as also for all the days falling within the six weeks immediately following the day of delivery thereby ensuring that the woman worker gets for the said period not only the amount equalling 100 per cent of the wages which she was previously earning in terms of s 3 n of the act but also the benefit of the wages for all the sundays and rest days falling within the aforesaid two periods which would ultimately be conducive to the interests of both the woman worker and her employer.
although costs have to be paid by appellant to respondent no 2 in terms of the court s order dated october 301975yet in view of the fact that the said respondent has not chosen to appear at the hearing of the case and mr k n bhat has assisted the court as amicus curiae we direct the appellant to pay rs 1000 to mr bhat as his fee.
appeal dismissed.
