interpretation and or application of the provisions of the gujarat town planning and urban development act1976 for short the act and the rules framed thereunder known as the gujarat town planning and urban development rules1979.
for short the rules is in question in this appeal which arises out of a judgment and order dated 27 12 2006 passed by a division bench of the high court of gujarat at ahmedabad in letters patent appeal no 1611 of 2006 arising out of a judgment and order dated 23 11 2006 passed by a learned single judge of the said court in sca no 7092 of 2001.
before embarking upon the issue involved in this appeal we may notice the admitted fact of the matter.
the government of gujarat in exercise of its power conferred upon it u s 65 of the act made a scheme in respect of the town of umra surat on 1 06 1999.
appellant was a tenant under the said respondent in respect of plot no 178 admeasuring 1067 sq m.
notices therefor were issued both to the appellant as also the respondent No appellant objected thereto.
in respect of the proceedings initiated for the purpose of re allotment of the land despite a public notice the appellant did not file any objection.
respondent no 4 was allotted a final plot bearing no 157 and the said 200 sq m of land of plot no 178 has merged in final plot no 165 owned by the respondent no 3.
the scheme was notified in the year 1999 respondent no 1 herein which is the statutory agency in terms of the act for the purpose of implementation of the scheme issued a notice u s 67 of the act upon the respondent no 4 on or about 15 01 2000 as he did not respond thereto a notice u s 68 of the act was served on him on 31 03 2000 stating as per the said approved preliminary scheme the plot no 157 is allotted to you.
thereafter the notice below s 67 for the change in occupation was issued on 15 1 2000 to you.
therefore as per the gujarat town planning and urban development rules1979 rule 33 the undersigned in exercise of powers conferred below s 681 and 82 of the bombay provincial municipalities act and below the s 68 notice under the gujarat town planning and urban development act this is to inform you that as shown in the sketch on the reverse the premises marked should be vacated within 7 days from receipt of the notice and had over the possession to the surat municipal corporation.
if you fail to do so then on completion of the stipulated time limit as per the rule 33 of the gujarat town planning and urban development rules1979 the said land and the occupation on the same will be summarily evicted and your occupation will be removed and if you obstruct interfere on it after taking away the possession you trespass then as provided under rule 33 of the gujarat town planning and urban development rules1979.
a learned single judge of the high court dismissed the said writ petition inter alia opining that the interest of landlord and tenant being common and in absence of any inter se dispute between them even if any portion of the land which remained in possession of the tenant was included in the scheme the proper remedy would be to claim compensation to that extent holding it appears that in the said decision the apex court while considering the scheme on the touch stone of the mandatory procedure to be followed by the authority under the bombay town planning rules has given directions to provide alternative accommodation based on the earlier decision in case of jaswantsingh mathurasingh and upheld the scheme.
further it appears that if the interest of the landlord and of the tenant is common and in absence of any inter se dispute between the landlord and tenant even if any portion of the land which is in possession of the tenant is included in the scheme the proper remedy for the tenant would be to claim for compensation to that extent and if such compensation is not received by him he may resort to proper remedy available for recovery of the compensation to the extent of the area in his occupation.
but if the area of original plot no 178 is included in the final scheme and in exchange of the original plot held by keshav gramini of 178 and 177the final plot is already allotted and as observed earlier it was even otherwise in the ownership of the original holder and it is only on account of inter se dispute the other persons are lawfully occupying the land the tenant can not insist that his landlord must be allotted the land of final plot no 157 simultaneously when he is to be evicted or deprived of the portion of the land of original plot no 178 therefore in my view considering the peculiar facts and circumstances of the present case the decision of the apex court in case of mansukhlal1991 indlaw sc 975 supra can not be made applicable to the present case.
the provisions of ss 52 and 81 being imperative in character no acquisition of land is permissible without service of any notice upon the persons interested which would include a tenant in occupation and carrying on business thereon.
the act was enacted to consolidate and amend the law relating to the making and execution of development plans and town planning schemes in the state of gujarat.
it is not necessary for us to delve deep into the statutory scheme.
suffice it to say that chapter iv of the act deals with control of development and use of land included in the development plans.
chapter v of the act provides for town planning schemes.
a declaration of intention to make a scheme is to be notified whereafter a draft scheme may be published.
s 52 contemplates issuance of a notice in a prescribed manner and in the prescribed form.
it inter alia provides for giving of a notice by the town planning officer as follows 1 in a preliminary scheme the town planning officer shall.
a all lands required by the appropriate authority.
for the purpose of preparing the preliminary scheme and final scheme the town planning officer shall give notice in form h of the date on which he will commence his duties and shall state the time as provided in rule 37 within which the owner of any property or right which is injuriously affected by the making of a town planning scheme shall be entitled u s 82 to make a claim before him.
such notice shall be published in the official gazette and in one or more gujarati newspapers circulated within the area of the appropriate authority and shall be pasted in prominent places at or near the areas comprised in the scheme and at the office of the town planning officer.
such notice shall also be posted at the officer of the town planning officer and of the appropriate authority and the substance of such notice shall be pasted at convenient places in the said locality.
33 procedure for eviction u s 68 1.
b if the person to be evicted fails to comply with the requirement of the notice the appropriate authority shall depute any officer or servant to remove him.
before embarking upon the rival contentions we may also notice that the provisions of the bombay town planning rules1955.
it makes it obligatory on the part of the officer to give notice of the date on which he will commence his duties and shall state therein the time within which the owner of any property or rights which is injuriously affected by the making of the town planning scheme shall be advertised in one or more newspapers published in the regional language and circulating within the jurisdiction of the local authority and shall be posted in prominent places at or near the area comprised in the scheme and at the office of the town planning officer.
sub rule 3 of rule 21 of the bombay rules provides for serving of a special notice of at least three clear days upon the person interested in any plot or in any particular area comprised in the scheme before the town planning officer proceeds to deal in detail with the portion of the scheme relating thereto.
it prescribes service of notice in form h a copy of the notice in the said form is kept at the office of the town planning officer during office hours.
in jaswantsingh mathurasingh1991 indlaw sc 972 suprait was reiterated that a tenant or a sub tenant is a person interested and is entitled to notice.
every owner or tenant or a sub tenant in possession on that date alone shall be entitled to a notice and opportunity.
amended rules are in pari materia with rule 26 of the rules.
when a statute makes an elaborate provision as regards the formalities required to be undergone at every stage by the local authority the state government and other authorities concerned in preparing and making the final town planning scheme the same should be considered to be exhaustively maneklal chhotalal.
m g makwana ors 1967 3 scr 65 1967 indlaw sc 138.
even if he had a claim he would be deemed to have waived the same for the reasons stated hereinafter.
it is not in dispute that a appellant although filed an objection with regard to the draft scheme did not choose to pursue it.
in halsbury s laws of england volume 1624th edition para 907it is stated the expression waiver may in law bear different meanings.
emphasis supplied.
the term waiver has been described in the following words waiver is the abandonment of a right in such a way that the other party is entitled to plead the abandonment by way of confession and avoidance if the right is thereafter asserted and is either express or implied from conduct.
no costs.
appeal dismissed.
