this appeal by special leave is directed against order dated 13 7 2005 passed by the division bench of the bombay high court.
dismissing letter patents appeal preferred by the appellant against the order of the learned single judge who dismissed his writ petition and confirmed the orders passed by the state minister for revenue in the proceeding r t s 3402 pra kra 309 l 6 dated 18th october2002.
it is the appellant s case that his father shri nawoosingh panjumal panjwani was a displaced person who migrated from pakistan to india during the period of partition and the appellant s family while in pakistan was having agricultural land over there admeasuring 4 acres 10 gunthas.
accordingly father of the appellant was allotted a land admeasuring 2 acres 5 gunthas bearing revenue survey nos 351 and 1182 situated at village lonavala taluka maval district pune.
it has been pleaded by the appellant that survey no 1181 and 1182 are one and the same thing.
the facts in brief as narrated in the impugned order are that survey nos 118328 and 351 of lonavala were originally owned by one haji habib tar mohammed janu.
the said haji habib tar mohammed janu migrated to pakistan and while going to pakistan he sold his property to one smt.
it appears that the regional settlement commissioner placed this property for auction through government auctioner and one gulabbai desaipurchased the said property in auction for a consideration of rs 16750 on 17 5 1956 and accordingly sale certificate was issued by the regional settlement commissioner bombay on behalf of the government.
on the basis of the said sale certificate the mutation entry no 1836 was effected in the village record in favour of gulabai desai and thereby her name was entered in survey nos 1181b and 328 of village lonavala to the extent of 29 30 ares and 70 ares respectively.
in the impugned order division bench made it clear that since the dispute between the parties was in respect of the area as to what has been purchased in auction sale by gulabai desai and what is the area allotted to the appellant by the orders of the deputy collector and deputy custodian of evacuee properties the appellant requested the bench not to enter into the merits on this question in this lpa since the parties may prosecute their remedies in the civil court for such adjudication and therefore that aspect was not considered by the high court.
in view of these directions the sub divisional officer haveli sub division pune initiated proceeding rts revision 14 of 1984 and by order dated 30 7 1985 cancelled the mutation entry no 1836 which comprises land admeasuring 7897 sq yards and directed necessary corrections in the record as per the observations made in the order.
thereafter the appellant filed letters patent appeal which was also dismissed by the division bench holding that when the state minister for revenue entertained the matter he was possessed of jurisdiction under section 257 of the maharashtra land revenue code and therefore the order passed by him under the said authority is within his jurisdiction power and competence.
all these proceedings will show that twice the sub divisional officer has exercised the revisional power under section 257 at the directions of the collector namely the rts revision no 14 of 1984 and rts revision no 12 of 1999 it will further reveal that the appeals as against the rts revision no 14 of 1984 was preferred by the parties in view of the provisions of section 247 and 249 sub section 2 it will equally appear that when the orders were passed in revision application no 12 of 1999 before the sub divisional officer in exercise of the powers under section 257 the parties have preferred two rts appeals in view of the provisions of section 247 and 249 sub section 2 not only that thereafter the rts revision application no 330 of 2001 was also preferred before the commissioner and if the view is taken that the second revision is not tenable then in that circumstances since the first order passed in rts revision no 12 of 1999 is a revisional order this second revision before the commissioner being rts revision no 330 of 2001 would not have been tenable.
mr huzefa ahmadi learned senior counsel appearing for the appellant mainly attacked the revisional power exercised by the minister concerned in purported exercise of jurisdiction under section 257 of the maharashtra land revenue code.
referring the decision of the bombay high court in the case of sambappa vs state of maharashtra 2002 scc on line bombay 1222learned counsel submitted that when the sub divisional officer additional collector and additional commissioner had concurrently recorded finding in favour of the appellant by observing that the revenue record is not in consonance with the factual aspect and they have directed to correct the revenue entries in such a case the second revisional authority exceeded its jurisdiction in entertaining the said application and interfering with the finding of fact.
the only question that falls for consideration is as to whether a second revision under section 257 is maintainable and that whether the state government exceeds its jurisdiction in entertaining the second revision.
the chief controlling authority in all matters connected with the land revenue in his division shall vest in the commissioner subject to the superintendence direction and control of the state government.
2 unless the state government directs otherwise all revenue officers in a division shall be subordinate to the commissioner and all revenue officers 2in a district including the city of bombay shall be subordinate to the collector.
section 5 makes it clear that the chief controlling authority in all matters connected with the land revenue in his division shall vest with the commissioner subject to superintendence directions and control of the state government.
section 11 provides that all revenue officers shall be subordinate to the state government.
section 257 reads as under 257 power of state government and of certain revenue and survey officers to call for and examine records and proceedings of subordinate officers.
petition dismissed.
