a suit was filed in s c suit no 493 of 1986 in the bombay city civil court bombay by vicco laboratories appellant herein manufacturers of ayurvedic pharmaceutical products against defendant nos 1 to 4respondents herein for a declaration that the title and format of the suit serial yeh jo hai zindagi exclusively belonged to them and respondents nos 1 to 4 have no right thereto and for permanent injunction restraining the said respondents from making use of the title or episodes belonging to the petitioners or any episodes hereafter made.
a number of averments germane to this case as set out in the plaint are set out hereunder.
the petitioners carried on business as manufacturers of ayurvedic pharmaceuticals products which were sold under the brand name of vicco and have acquired substantial reputation in the market.
the 1st respondent are an advertising agency and have been the advertising agents in respect of the products manufactured by the petitioners as aforesaid for number of years.
the 2nd respondent is a director andor partner of the 1st respondent and has mainly dealt with the petitioners on behalf of the 1st respondent.
respondents nos 3 4 are proprietary concerns of respondent no 2 the 5th respondent is the union of india and has been joined as the authority concerning television in india in the name and style of doordarshan which is a television media.
the petitioners had employed the respondent nos 1 to 4 as their advertising agents through the petitioners sister concern m s modern advertising agency and uta advertising agency and were dealing with the respondent no 1 mainly through the petitioners managing director g k pendharkar.
the petitioners are also pioneers in making use of doordarshan for advertising their products through the agency of the 1st respondent approached the 1st respondent to act as their agents for the purpose of producing a serial which would be shown as petitioners sponsored programme.
the petitioners agreed to pay the entire costs of the said production to the said advertising agency and requested it to look into the matter employed various persons on behalf of the petitioners and prepare a suitable serial for them.
pursuant to the said arrangement the respondent nos 1 to 4 as the agents of the petitioners prepared at the costs and expenses of the petitioners a serial entitled yeh jo hai zindagi.
the petitioners claimed that as a result of the employment of the respondent nos 1 to 4 and the finances paid by them the petitioners are the owners of the said serial yeh jo hai zindagi and the title thereof.
the first and second respondents under the arrangement produced about 60 episodes and the petitioners have spent a crore of rupees for the products and telecast of the said episodes and have also spent large sums of money on advertising to popularize the said programme.
yeh jo hai zindagi had gained popularity and had become one of the most exclusive and popular serial.
the petitioners claimed that the exclusive right to use the title thereof belonged to them and the 2nd episode of yeh jo hai zindagi was telecast without the name of the petitioners being mentioned as sponsors nor was their advertisement shown.
this was due to the negligence of the respondent nos 1 to 4 but the respondents recovered the cost of production from the petitioners.
further the said respondents had been recovering the cost of production well in advance of the serial episodes being actually produced.
the petitioners claimed that they were the real producers and owners of the said serial yeh jo hai zindagi and the petitioners to the knowledge of the respondents have entered into an agreement assigning the video rights in the said serial to one m s esquire distributing and servicing pvt.
ltd on.
1st and 2nd respondents had by their letter dated 14 december 1984 confirmed that the petitioners have all t v and video rights of the sponsored programme in hindi yeh jo hai zindagi and vest with the petitioners.
though original agreement was to have 27 episodes but having regard to the popularity of the programme the petitioners decided to increase the said serial to 52 episodes and by a letter dated 22 april 1985 the petitioners informed respondent nos 1 and 2 that in the title of the 27th and 28th episodes it has been stated that it is presented by oberoi films.
some time in may 1985the 1st respondent proposed to the petitioners that some other products should be tied up with the serial yeh jo hai zindagi.
by their letter dated 02 january 1986 the petitioners informed the 1st and 2nd respondents that it was not possible to increase the costs of production for the episodes and that in the circumstances the production of the serial may stop.
it was also pointed out that the name yeh jo hai zindagi is associated with the vicco laboratories and that if they wanted to obtain another sponsor they could produce a new serial under a different name.
the petitioners apprehended that the respondent nos 1 to 3 intended to produce further episodes under the title yeh jo hai zindagi making use of the same format as the earlier serial for and on behalf of the third party.
the respondent nos 1 to 4 in their written statement contested the suit.
thus the respondents name was shown in the title of the said serial as the producer thereof right from the beginning of the said serial but the petitioners did not protest against the same.
in the year 1967the 2nd respondent s wife mrs sunanda s oberoi started the proprietary business of advertising agency in the name and style of art commercial and the 2nd respondent used to work in various capacities for the said firm.
in course of time the 2nd respondent and partners of the petitioners especially g k pendharkar came very close to each other and developed very intimate relations.
the 5th respondent thereafter decided to entertain welcome andor encourage the proposals from the private producers to produce such serials or films at their own cost and responsibility and under the said scheme the advertisers desirous of linking up their advertisements with such films or serials were required to negotiate and settle directly with the producers of such films andor serials the royalty or consideration payable to such producers for linking up their advertisements and commercials with their film serial and under the said scheme further such advertisements were offered handsome concessions in the rates of advertisements for display of their ads on tv.
the petitioners agreed to pay fixed amount to these respondents per episode for linking up their commercials with the said serial and not on the basis of the actual cost of production of each episode so that if the cost of production exceeded the said fixed amount the respondents had to bear the same.
nor did the parties intend that the respondents should produce the said serial for the petitioners or at the instance of the petitioners and the respondents intended to embark on the production of the said serial on their own.
3 do the plaintiffs prove that the entire serial rights including the excluding the exclusive right to use the title thereof belong to the plaintiffs as alleged.
the defendants prove that the plaintiffs are not the owners of the copyright of the tv serial film viz.
the defendant nos 1 to 4 prove that it was intended between the parties that copyrights in respect of the said film should vest exclusively with the defendants or that the right of ownership was waived by the plaintiffs.
7 does.
9 are.
10 are.
the plaintiffs entitled to permanent injuction as prayed for.
12 what order.
