leave granted.
interpretation of the provisions of s 461b of the trade and merchandise marks act1958 hereinafter called and referred to for the sake of brevity as the said act is involved herein.
the factual matrix of the matter which is not much in dispute is as under.
first respondent is the registered proprietor of a trade mark field marshal for diesel engines since 1964 bearing no 228867 one m s jain industries got the trade mark field marshal registered under clause 7inter alia for flour mills centrifugal pumps couplings for machines pulleys included in class 7 and valves parts of machines the said registration was renewed for the periods 13 5 1972 and 12 5 1979 13 5 1979 and 12 7 1986 and 13 7 1986 and 12 7 1993 appellant is said to have commenced its business of manufacturing and selling centrifugal pumps also under the mark field marshall.
allegedly on the premise that the first respondent is the proprietor of the said mark by reason of long user and thus acquired a reputation in that behalf a legal notice was issued upon it questioning its right to use the said mark in respect of centrifugal pumps by the appellant laying a claim that it had been using the said mark since 1963.
respondent no 1 thereafter filed a suit in the delhi high court for grant of a decree of permanent injunction being suit no 2408 of 1985 alleging infringement of the said mark andor claiming right of passing off in respect thereof.
an ex parte order of injunction was passed on 19 12 1985 against the defendant appellant herein to the following effect.
notice for april 81986 meanwhile a temporary ex parte injunction is issued against the defendants restraining them from manufacturing or selling either themselves or through any dealer or representative diesel oil engines or parts thereof with the trade mark field marshal andor any other trade mark identical therewith and all goods falling in cl 7 of the trade and merchandise mark rules.
the plaintiff shall comply with the requirements of order 39 rule 4 of the code of civil procedure.
indisputably during the proceedings in the above suit m s.
jain industries by a deed of assignment assigned the said trade mark along with its goodwill in favour of the appellant.
indisputably first respondent filed an application under section 4656 and 107 of the act marked as c o no 9 of 1986contending that m s jain industries having not used the trade mark in respect of centrifugal pumps for a period more than five years and one month the mark should be taken off the register.
it claimed user of the said mark since 1963 and sought for rectification of the register by expunging the expression circulation and centrifugal pumps from the specification of goods.
may1965 in class 7 in respect of flour mills circulating and centrifugal pumps coupling for machines pulleys included in class 7and valves parts of machines in the name of pooran chand jain and kailash chand jain trading as jain industries1166phatak.
suraj bhan belanganj agra.
that pursuant to a request on form tm 23 dated 17th june1986 and order thereon dated 24th october1986.
ganga ram anil kumar hufsunil kumar and sumitra rani trading as thukral mechanical works railway road sirhind punjab are registered as subsequent proprietors of this mark as from 30th may1986 by virtue of agreement dated 30th may1986 and.
the registration of the aforesaid trade mark has been renewed from time to time and will remain in force for a period of a seven years from 13th.
may1986 and may be renewed at the expiration of that period and of each succeeding period of a seven years.
appellant s counsel appeared on that date and inter alia contended that presently it was the registered owner of the trade mark which was sought to be cancelled.
mr singh has filed a reply in this petition bringing out that presently he is the registered owner of the trademark which is sought to be cancelled in this petition.
in view of this situation learned counsel for the petitioner has submitted that he may be permitted to withdraw this petition with permission to file a fresh petition on this very cause of action after impleading m s thakural mechanical works etc.
let the statement of learned counsel for the petitioner be recorded.
in view of the submissions of m s thakural mechanical works i may be permitted to withdraw this petition with permission to file a fresh petition on this very cause of action.
statement of shri hemant singh counsel for m s thakural mechanical works without oath.
on the basis of the said statement the following order was passed this petition has been filed by m s pm diesels pvt ltd.
the notice was served upon the respondent 1a reply has been filed by m s thakural mechanical works bringing out there in that they are now the registered proprietors of said.
trade mark no 228867 in.
this view of the matter learned counsel for the petitioner has submitted that he may be permitted to withdraw this petition with permission to file a fresh petition on this very cause of action.
the request is not opposed on behalf of m s thakural mechanical works.
the petition is accordingly filed as withdrawn leaving the parties to bear their own costs.
a fresh application was filed by the first respondent.
the cause of action is continuous from day to day till the impugned registration is cancelled rectified.
correctness or otherwise of the said order has not been questioned.
the said application was dismissed.
section 56 power to cancel or vary registration and to rectify the register  1.
allegation of trafficking is a serious one.
it must not however be forgotten that s 461b provides for a special remedy.
