leave granted.
these appeals have been preferred from the judgment and order of the high court dated 25 11 2009 in writ petitions civil no 464572009.
the appellants challenge the acquisition of their agricultural lands by the state of uttar pradesh for the construction of the district jail of shahjahanpur.
the appellants themselves are bhumidar with transferable rights and are residents of village murchha tehsil puwayan in the district of shahjahanpur uttar pradesh.
the state of uttar pradesh vide its office memorandum dated 25 10 2004 constituted a committee under the chairmanship of the honourable minister of revenue to suggest its recommendations for transfer of prisons situated in the congested areas of various districts.
after conducting its second and final meeting on 10th.
january2005the said committee recommended to the state government the shifting of the district jails from congested areas to outside the city limits within the district.
as per the schedule this shifting was to be done in two phases 1 st phase 1 district jail shahjahanpur 2 district jail azamgarh 3 district jail jaunpur and 4 district jail moradabad 2 nd phase 1 district jail badaun 2 district jail varanasi 3 district jail barielly and 4 district jail muzaffarnagar.
the existing district jail of shahjahanpur constructed in 1870was one of the oldest and required shifting to new premises.
the government case is that the district jail is located in a densely populated area of the city and is overcrowded housing as many as 1869 prisoners while having a capacity of only 511.
thereafter the state government constituted a committee under the chairmanship of chief secretary government of u p vide office memorandum dated 12 9 2007 to evaluate and consider the shifting of prisons identified to be shifted in the first phase.
prisons in the districts of lucknow moradabad were added to the list.
this committee was also to evaluate and recommend the means for modernisation of existing old prisons.
in its meeting dated 10 10 2007 the committee recommended that a detailed project report dpr be prepared by the rajkiya nirman nigam and that acquisition of lands for shifting of the prisons be done on a priority basis.
these recommendations were accepted by the state government vide the approval of the cabinet dated 7 12 2007 following this decision the director general of prisons administration and reformsuttar pradesh vide letter dated 04 06 2008requested the district magistrate shahjahanpur to send all the relevant records to the state government for publication of notification u ss 41 and 17 of the land acquisition act1894 hereinafter the act the land suggested for such acquisition by the divisional land utility committee was.
one admeasuring 25 89 hectares 63 93 acres in village morchha tehsil puwayan in the district of shahjahanpur.
thereafter the district magistrate shahjahanpur forwarded the proposal to the commissioner and director directorate of land acquisition revenue board uttar pradeshfor the issuance of notifications u ss 41 and 17 of the act which in turn approved of it and further forwarded the recommendation to the state government vide letter dated 2 07 2008.
thus the state government issued notifications u ss 41 and 17 on 21 08 2008.
however the provisions of section 5a inquiry were dispensed with.
the state government explained that this was done in view of the pressing urgency in the matter of construction of the jails.
being aggrieved by the aforesaid notifications the appellants moved a writ petition before the high court u art 226 of the constitution of india.
the high court in its decision dated 25 11 2009 refused to interfere with the selection of the site for the construction of the jail premises on the ground that it was not required to do so unless it found the selection of the site was wholly arbitrary.
the high court also approved the invoking of emergency provisions u s 17 of the act as per the guidelines given in essco fabs private limited and another vs state of haryana and another.
2 scc 377 2008 indlaw sc 2494 having thus stated the high court dismissed the writ petition.
before this court the appellants broadly raised the following arguments 1 whether or not the state government was justified in acquiring the said pieces of fertile agricultural land when there were alternative sites of unfertile banjar land available.
2 whether or not the state government was justified in dispensing with the inquiry which is mandated to be conducted under section 5a of the act especially when one year elapsed between the notifications u s 4 and the one u s 6 they further stated that the high court had erred insofar as it upheld the factum of urgency in the absence of a categorical finding an enquiry under section 5a would have been detrimental to public interest.
it was urged that it was clear from the counter of the respondent that the contemplation of a new prison was under consideration of the state government for several years.
committee was formed matter was discussed at a leisurely pace at various levels and there is no material fact to justify the abridgement of the appellants right of raising an objection to acquisition and of a hearing under section 5a of the act.
this court finds a lot of substance in the contentions of the appellants.
in connection with land acquisition proceeding whenever the provision of s 17 and its various sub sections including s 174 is used in the name of taking urgent or emergent action and the right of hearing of the land holder under section 5a is dispensed with the court is called upon to consider a few fundamentals in the exercise of such powers.
admittedly the land acquisition act a pre constitutional legislation of colonial vintage is a drastic law being expropriatory in nature as it confers on the state a power which affects person s property right.
even though right to property is no longer fundamental and was never a natural right and is acquired on a concession by the state it has to be accepted that without right to some property other rights become illusory.
this court is considering these questions especially in the context of some recent trends in land acquisition.
this court is of the opinion that the concept of public purpose in land acquisition has to be viewed from an angle which is consistent with the concept of a welfare state.
the concept of public purpose can not remain static for all time to come.
the concept even though sought to be defined u s 3f of the act is not capable of any precise definition.
the said definition having suffered several amendments has assumed the character of an inclusive one.
it must be accepted that in construing public purpose a broad and overall view has to be taken and the focus must be on ensuring maximum benefit to the largest number of people.
any attempt by the state to acquire land by promoting a public purpose to benefit a particular group of people or to serve any particular interest at the cost of the interest of a large section of people especially of the common people defeats the very concept of public purpose.
even though the concept of public purpose was introduced by pre constitutional legislation its application must be consistent with the constitutional ethos and especially the chapter under fundamental rights and also the directive principles.
in construing the concept of public purpose the mandate of art 13 of the constitution that any pre constitutional law can not in any way take away or abridge rights conferred under part iii must be kept in mind.
by judicial interpretation the contents of these part iii rights are constantly expanded.
the meaning of public purpose in acquisition of land must be judged on the touchstone of this expanded view of part iii rights.
the open ended nature of our constitution needs a harmonious reconciliation between various competing principles and the overhanging shadows of socio economic reality in this country.
therefore the concept of public purpose on this broad horizon must also be read into the provisions of emergency power u s 17 with the consequential dispensation of right of hearing under section 5a of the said act.
the courts must examine these questions very carefully when little indians lose their small property in the name of mindless acquisition at the instance of the state.
if public purpose can be satisfied by not rendering common man homeless and by exploring other avenues of acquisition the courts before sanctioning an acquisition must in exercise of its power of judicial review focus its attention on the concept of social and economic justice.
while examining these questions of public importance the courts especially the higher courts cannot afford to act as mere umpires.
in this context we reiterate the principle laid down by this court in authorised officer thanjavur and another vs s naganatha.
the judiciary in its sphere shares the revolutionary purpose of the constitutional order and when called upon to decode social legislation must be animated by a goal oriented approach.
this is part of the dynamics of statutory interpretation in the developing countries so that courts are not converted into rescue shelters for those who seek to defeat agrarian justice by cute transactions of many manifestations now so familiar in the country and illustrated by the several cases under appeal.
this caveat has become necessary because the judiciary is not a mere umpire as some assume but an activist catalyst in the constitutional scheme.
in other words public purpose must be viewed through the prism of constitutional values as stated above.
the aforesaid principles in our jurisprudence compel this court to construe any expropriartory legislation like the land acquisition act very strictly.
the judicial pronouncements on this aspect are numerous only a few of them may be noted here.
these principles again found support in the decision of this court in chairman indore vikas pradhikaran vs pure industrial coke and chemicals.
ltd and ors 2007.
initially section 5a was not there in the land acquisition act1894 but the same was inserted long ago by the land acquisition amendment act1923 vide s 3 of act 38 of 1923.
gazette of india pt.
v dated 14th july1923.
a of the act.
acceptance of such contention or upholding of this argument will make sub s 4 of s 17 totally otiose redundant and nugatory.
appeals allowed.
