AV Rangam for the respondents.
The appellant was elected as a trustee by the Sengunatha Mudaliars of Manjakollai village at a meeting held on June 27 1957.
According to the appellant the temple was rounded two hundred years ago by the members of his community and since then the management of the temple and is affairs was always vested in the community of the Sengunatha Mudaliars and no person other than the elected trustee had at any time the right of management and control of the temple.
The appellant said that the temple was declared as an exempted temple under the provisions of Madras Act 1 of 1925.
The case of the appellant was that the trusteeship of the temple was hereditary.
The respondents however took a different view and proceeded on the basis that trusteeship of the Kumaran Koil was not hereditary.
The Subordinate Judge held that the appellant was a hereditary trustee and the suit was not barred by limitation.
Section 6 sub section.
The question to be considered in this appeal is whether the appellant is a hereditary trustee Within the meaning of the section.
The definition includes three types of cases 1 succession to the office of trusteeship devolving by hereditary right 2 succession 426 to such office being regulated by usage and 3 succession being specifically provided for by the founder on condition that the scheme of such succession is still in force.
The contention on behalf of the appellant is that the succession is regulated by usage.
The phrase regulated by usage in section 69 of the Act must be construed along with the phrase succession to this office and when so construed that part of the definition would only apply where the ordinary rules of succession under the Hindu law are modified by usage and succession has to be determined in accordance with the modified rules.
In Sital Das vs Sant Ram5 the law was taken as wellsettled that succession to mahantship of a mutt or religious institution is regulated by custom or usage of the particular institution except where the rule of succession is laid down by the founder himself who created the endowment.
In that case the custom in 1 2 63 I A 448.
1954 SC 606.
In Sri Mahant Paramanda Das Goswami vs Radhakrishna Das1 the Madras High Court took the view that where succession to the mahantship is by nomination by the holder in office it was not a hereditary succession.
Hereditary succession is succession by the heir to the deceased under the law the office must be transmitted to the successor according to some definite rules of descent which by their own force designate the person to succeed.
For these reasons we hold that this appeal fails and must be dismissed with costs.
