M C Chagla N D Karkhanis section P Chowdhury Bhuvanesh Kumari for the appellant.
This is an assessee s appeal by special leave against the judgment of the High Court of Patna dismissing in limini its writ petition under Arts 226 and 227 of the Constitution of India.
The assessee is having construction contracts under the Railways as well as the Government.
It is a partnership firm.
For the assessment year 1960 61 relevant to the accounting year 1959 60 after the assessee submitted its income tax return it was asked by the Income tax Officer during the income tax assessment proceedings to produce before him its books of account and the other relevant papers.
The assessee also produced before him a statement showing various creditors from whom it had borrowed on Hundis during the accounting year in question.
In that statement it gave the lull names and address of the alleged creditors.
On June 3 1966 the 1st respondent Income tax Officer Ward A  Muzaffarpur issued to the assessee a notice under section 148 of the Indian Income tax Act 1961.
The material portion of that notice reads as follows Notice under section 148 of the Income tax Act 1961.
Income Tax Officer Muzaffarpur Dated the 3 6 1966.
I therefore propose to re assess the income for the said assessment year and I hereby require you to deliver to me within 30 days from the date of service of this notice a return in the prescribed form of your income The income assessable relevant to the assessment year 1960 61 of in respect of which you are assessable for the said assessment year.
The notice is being issued after obtaining the necessary satisfaction of the Commissioner of IncomeTax Bihar and Orissa Patna.
Sd section P Chaliha Income Tax Officer Ward A Muzaffarpur.
As we are accepting the contention of the assessee that the impugned notice is invalid inasmuch as it did not comply with the requirements of section 1512 of the Act we have not thought it necessary to examine the other contentions advanced on behalf of the assessee.
In this case the notice was issued after four years but before eight years of the date of the original assessment.
2 The Income tax Officer shall before issuing any notice under this section record his reasons for doing so.
At this stage we need not refer to that section  We shall refer to that provision at a later stage.
Name of District Ward of Circle A Ward Muzaffarpur G IR No 303 C 11.
Name and address of the assessee MS Chugamal Rajpal Muzaffarpur.
446 4.
13 5 66 Commissioner of Income tax Bihar and Orissa Patna 9.
Whether the Board is satisfied that it is aSecretary Board of Revenuefit case for the issue of notice under section 148.
Sd section P Chaliha 30 4 66.
From the report submitted by the Income tax Officer to the Commissioner it is clear that he could not have had reasons to believe that by reason of the assessee s omission to disclose fully and truly all material  facts necessary for his assessment for the accounting year in question income chargeable to tax has escaped assessment for that year nor could it be said that he as a consequence of information in his possession had reasons to believe that the income chargeable to tax has escaped assessment for that year.
b of section 147.
