B Sen P L Juneja R N Sachthey and section P Nayer for the appellant.
The Judgment of the Court was delivered by Sikri CJ.
The judgment reproduced below was drafted by the late Mr Justice Roy and we all had subscribed to it.
448 This is an appeal by the Union of India by way of special leave.
On April 9 1959 the Central Government directed removal from service of Capt section K Rao under r 14 of the Army Rules 1954.
It was alleged that on April 4 1958 he committed acts of gross misconduct.
An inquiry into the matter was made by Court of Inquiry.
As he was of opinion that trial of the officer by a General Court Martial was inexpedient he ordered administrative action to be taken under r 14 of the Army Rules 1954.
By memorandum dated September 4 1958 Rao was called upon to submit his explanation by way of defence regarding the allegations against him.
The explanation of Rao was placed before the Central Government.
The Central Government found it to be unsatisfactory and on April 9 1959 an order was passed removing the respondent from service.
Rao thereupon filed a petition under article 226 of the Constitution for quashing the order of removal from service on the 449 ground inter alia that r 14 of the Army Rules 1954 was ultra vires the  and that the action taken thereunder was without any authority.
If this rule was intra vires the  Rao has no case.
The Army Rules 1954 including r 14 were framed in exer cise of the powers conferred by section 191 of the .
Rule 14 of the Army Rules 1954 is as follows 1 When after considering the reports on an officer s misconduct the Central Gove rnment is satisfied or the C in C is of the opinion that the trial of the officer by a court martial is inexpedient or impracticable but considers the further retention of the said officer in the service as undesirable the C in C shall communicate the view of the Central Government or his views as the case may be to the officer together with all reports adverse to him and he shall be called upon to submit his explanation and defence.
without the officer being tried by a court martial.
If the explanation is found to be unsatisfactory the Central Government has been given the power to dismiss or remove the officer.
Sub section 2a provides  Without prejudice to the generality of the power conferred by sub section 1 the rules made thereunder may provide for a the removal retirement release or discharge from the service of persons subject to this Act Sections 18  19 which appear in Ch.
 section 19 Subject to the provisions of this Act and the rules and regulations made thereunder the Central Government may dismiss or remove from the service any person subject to this Act.
 Offenses under the have been dealt with in sections 34 to 70 in Ch.
To give power to the Central Government to remove an officer without being tried and convicted by court martial was in derogation of section 45 of the .
Rule 14 is such a rule  it is therefore not ultra vires.
Section 45 provides that on conviction by court martial an officer is liable to be cashiered or to suffer such less punishment as is in this Act mentioned.
