This appeal by special leave has been preferred by Tata Consultancy Engineers against an award dated 20th December 1978 of the Industrial Tribunal Maharashtra Bombay revising the wage scales of certain categories of employees and granting various other benefits.
Tata Consultant Engineers at its inception was a partnership firm but subsequently the partnership was dissolved and in 1974 the undertaking became one of the divisions of Tata Sons Limited.
It functions as a consulting organisation and a service industry and does not manufacture any product or carry on trade.
They served a Charter of Demands in July 1974 on the appellant and as their demands were not accepted and conciliation proceedings proved fruitless the State Government made a reference of the dispute under section 101 d Industrial Tribunal Maharashtra for adjudication.
170 The Union filed a statement before the Tribunal claiming an upward revision of the wage scales and dearness allowance and an increase from fifteen years to twenty years in the span for earning annual increments.
The claim of the Union was resisted by the appellant who maintained that the existing wage scales were fair and reasonable on a region cum industry basis and that it would not be possible for the appellant to bear the additional financial burden if the demands of the Union were accepted.
Reference was made to the political uncertainty in Iran which had placed an appreciable part of the appellant s business in jeopardy and to various other factors peculiar to an engineering consultancy business beyond the appellant s control.
The appellant had introduced various pay scales in 1973 and some time later they were revised.
There was no separate dearness allowance until January 1977 when it was introduced for the first time.
Nothing those facts the Tribunal observed that compared with the increased paying capacity of the appellant an inference drawn from the prosperity enjoyed by the appellant over the years there was definite need for revising the wage scales.
In proceeding to revise the wage structure the Tribunal took into account the two principles involved in the process the financial capacity of the industry to bear the burden of an increased wage bill and the prevailing wage structure on an industry cum region basis.
The Tribunal took note of the elaborate scales of wages already existing in the wage structure of the appellant and decided to modify the existing structure of the scales with flat increases in each category.
Caretaker.
Steno 20 625 EB 25 725.
Asstt 35 1020 EB 40 1300 1265 EB 45 1490.
Asstt Canteen Asstt.
The Tribunal maintained the existing schemes of dearness allowance and house rent allowance and observed that in view of the revised basic wages there would be a resultant increase in the dearness allowance and house rent allowance.
The revised wage scales the Tribunal directed should take effect retrospectively from 1st January 1976.
It also laid down the principle enabling the actual fitment of the workmen in their respective wage scales as on that date and also provided for the number of increments to which they would be entitled having regard to the period of completed service.
173 Two days after the award was made an application was made by the Union stating In the said award your Honour has observed at the end of para 22 In view of the increase that is being allowed in the basic pay I do not propose to revise the existing scheme of Dearness Allowance.
However this is not clearly mentioned anywhere in the award due to accidental slip or omission.
Similarly the same words to each employee after the figure 100 were omitted.
The fitment has also to be done only after the flat increase is added to the present basic salary of each employee.
The cost of living had gone on increasing from 1972 onwards and as the Tribunal has found the dearness allowance and house rent allowance made no appreciable impact in neutralising the increasing cost.
The amendment made by the Tribunal has the effect of providing a second increase this time to each individual workmen.
The only contention of the workmen is that the Tribunal should have fixed the dearness allowance in communion with the cost of living index.
In the said award Your Honour has observed at the end of Para 22 In view of the increase that is being allowed in the basic pay I do not propose to revise the existing scheme of Dearness Allowance .
However this is not clearly mentioned anywhere in the award due to accidental slip or omission.
Similarly the same words to each employee after the figure 100 were omitted.
The fitment has also to be done only after the flat increase is added to the present basic salary of each employee.
Implicit and intrinsically connected with the question of revision of the wage scales were the questions of fitment of employees into the wage scales and flat or ad hoc increase of salaries of workmen wherever considered necessary.
For some years to come this is likely to be one of the few Consulting Engineers who will be securing major contracts.
