Civil Appeals Nos.
The challenge to the other provisions of the Act at the instance of persons engaged in gold trade ie manufacturers shroffs and dealers in gold was rejected by the High Court.
Section 28 of the Act runs thus 28.
 The High Court has struck down the aforesaid provision only on the ground that it suffers from the vice of excessive delegation of legislative power inasmuch as no criteria or guide lines have been 954 provided by reference to which the power conferred on the Administrator to refuse permission or grant permission should be exercised and that the section confers an arbitrary uncanalised power upon the Administrator with the result that the licensed dealer is at his mercy while seeking permission to carry on money lending or banking business on the security of any article ornament or both in the same premises in which he carried on business as such dealer.
The High Court s reasoning in this behalf is to be found in its judgment at page 87 of the paper book and it runs thus The Administrator as is evident from this provision is given unlimited authority or power to refuse permission or to grant permission.
No rules have been framed prescribing the conditions or circumstances under which the Administrator could refuse permission or grant permission.
It is clear that Section 28 confers an arbitrary and uncanalised power without any criteria for guiding the discretion of the Administrator.
Further the section does not provide nor is any rule brought to our notice which enjoins upon the Administrator to give a hearing to dealer who seeks permission under this Section and give reasons in case he decides to refuse the permission.
276 of the Act is clearly inapplicable.
It is true that no express rule prescribing the conditions or circumstances under which the permission can be granted or refused 1 955 has been framed nor any particular guide line has been expressly indicated in sec.
28 by reference to which the power conferred upon him thereunder could be exercised by the Administrator but that is not decisive of the matter.
 In Harakchand Banthria s case supra this Court has further pointed out that even though import of gold into India had been banned considerable quantities of contraband gold were finding their way into the country through illegal channels affecting the national economy and hampering the country s economic stability and progress that the Customs Department was not in a position to effectively combat the smuggling over the long borders and coast line that therefore anti smuggling measures had to be supplemented by a detailed system of control over internal transactions and that the Gold Control Act 1968 was passed for this purpose.
28 are meant to prevent the circumvention of other provisions of the Act.
