Both these challenge the order of detention dated 2nd January 1986 passed by the respondent no1.
The District Magistrate Dhanbad in respect of the petitioner under section 32 of the  hereinafter called the Act  on the ground that the petitioner s activities were prejudicial to the maintenance of public order.
On or about 2nd January 1985 the order of detention was passed on an incident relating to the exchange of fire between two rival groups.
In this case subject and his associates opened fire on police party who went to apprehend Raghunath Singh absconder under NSA.
When the order was passed the petitioner had not surrendered but when the order was served the petitioner had already surrendered in respect of the criminal charge against him.
910 It is the contention of the petitionerappellant that the order of preventive detention could only be justified against a person in detention if the detaining authority was satisfied that his release from detention was imminent and the order of detention was necessary for putting him back in jail.
In the affidavit of the District Magistrate the detaining authority it has been stated that the activities of the petitioner s brother and the petitioner have disturbed the normal tempo of life in Katras and Jogta Police Stations in Dhanbad area.
It further appears from the affidavit f f the District Magistrate filed before the High Court of Patna that the petitioner was absconding from the very day of the issuance of the detention order.
The grounds stated that there was indiscriminate firing on 24th December 1985 on Katras Coal Dump and the petitioner started indiscriminate firing to kill Birendra Pratap Singh a rival of his calendestine business of coal to establish the criminal superiority in full view of the shopkeepers customers and passers by of the area.
26986.
Judged on the basis of 911 the said principles there is no ground for interference with the order of detention as passed.
There is no indication that this factor or the question that the said detenu might be released or that there was such a possibility of his release was taken into consideration by the detaining authority properly and seriously before the service of the order.
It may be mentioned that in the petition it is nowhere stated that the detenu has since been released or that the prospect of his imminent release was properly and with seriousness considered by the detaining authority.
