238 red man.
It was stated that though the Forest Department had suggest ed that Salt Lake was a better place for establishing a Five Star Hotel there was no demand for a Five Star Hotel in that area and the request for a hotel in Salt Lake was confined to a Three Star Hotel.
The Commit tee was informed that now adays migratory birds were coming less in number though previ ously more foreign birds used to come here and in the opinion of the Managing Committee the main reason for this was due to air and sound pollution.
It was suggested that the Government may consider abandoning the proposal to set up a hotel on the Eastern side of the Zoo.
In the meanwhile WEBCON a West Bengal Government Consultancy Undertaking was asked to examine the proposals and to advise the Government.
On June 9 1981 the Secretary of the Animal Husbandary and Veterinary Services Department complained to the Secre tary of the Metropolitan Development Department that they were not aware of the decision to lease the Begambari land.
 The Minister for Metropolitan Development submitted a note to the Chief Minister on the resolution of the Managing Committee of the Zoo.
He added that the Managing Committee s resolution was not binding on the Government and suggested that the Director of the Zoo might be asked to allow the Taj Group to undertake soil testing etc.
This was passed by the majority of the members present the President Justice Shri RK Banerjee dissenting.
 On June 29 1981 the Director of the Zoo wrote to the Secretary of the Animal Husbandry and Veterinary Services Department stating his objections to the Proposal to lease the land for construction of a hotel.
4 post mortem room for carrying out pm findings 5 dumping ground for dumping huge garbages coming out of the Zoo daily 6 fodder cultivation area for growing fodder for the harbivorous animals and 7 pathological laboratory for carrying pathological tests of animals and birds.
Thereafter an expert Committee was consti tuted to supervise the construction Of alternative facili ties.
