TS Krishnamurthy lyer MJ Paul and Kailash Vasudev for the Appellant.
The second lease deed Ext.
1947 relating to Door No 3 Item 2 in Schedule A to the plaint covered an area of 8700 sq.
In respect of item 2 the fair rent claimed was Rs326650 as against Rs200 pm payable under the lease deed.
They claimed there fore that they were entitled to relief under the Madras 550 City Tenants  Protection Act and that the Rent Controller Court had no jurisdiction to fix a fair rent.
So far as item 2 was concerned it appears that at the time of the hearing it was conceded before the Rent Controller that the respondents were tenants of the entire properties covered by the lease deed and that they had not constructed any of the premises thereupon.
The order of the Rent Controller was dated 93.
There were appeals to the Court of Small Causes.
The fair rent fixed by the Rent Controller at Rs994 pm was upheld.
The tenants filed revision petitions against the order of the Court of Small Causes but these were dismissed on 20111968.
It came to the conclusion that exhibit P 1 did not in law create a valid lease between the co owners and the tenants.
After referring to the terms of the sale deed exhibit P 3 the superstructure constructed on the land was held to have been conveyed to the vendee under the sale deed dated 30 7 1953 and to have thus vested in the LIC.
In view of this finding it was held that the Rent Controller had no jurisdiction to entertain the application for fixation of fair rent in respect of the property which was only a vacant piece of land.
In conse quence it was held the LIC could not maintain the suit for recovery of rent based on the order made by the statutory tribunal under the Rent Control Act and claim the difference between the so called fair rent and the contract rent.
The present appeal by Special Leave granted on 37.
We therefore answer the first question posed by us in the affirmative.
But he submitted even the decision of a Tribunal or a Court of limited jurisdiction cannot be called in question so long as it acts within the scope of the jurisdiction conferred on it by the relevant statutes.
Sri Krishnamoorthy Iyer also contended that even if it may be an arguable question as to whether the decision in the earlier petitions constitutes res judicata or not and it may plausibly be argued that it does not constitute res judicata the question for our consideration really is whether the order passed in the 557 earlier eviction petition can be treated as a nullity being passed by a court totally without jurisdiction.
He submitted that if the tenants had filed a suit for declaration that the order passed in the earlier proceedings as a nullity that would have been bound to fail.
It was only this limited aspect eviction on the ground of non bona fide denial of title that was under consideration of the Court under section 102vii of the Act read with the proviso to section 101 and the Court s observa tions on the question of title were one on a collateral issue.
The trial Judge rejected the application holding that question of the applicability of the Act was res judicata since it had been finally decid ed by the High Court between the same parties in respect of the same land in the earlier proceeding for fixation of standard rent.
These documents were executed on January 7 1953 but the respondent contin ued in the possession of the house property throughout.
