/ 10 / per day and that led to the present claim made by the respondents under section 15 of the Act.
421 The authority has found that section 2(vi) includes wages prescribed by the Industrial Tribunal, and so, it has rejected the appellants ' contention that the applications made by the respondents were incompetent under section 15 of the Act.
In regard to the question of 'limitation, the authority did not decide the said question as a preliminary question, because it held, and, in our opinion, rightly, that it was a mixed question of fact and law, and so, it had to be tried after recording evidence.
The terms in question need not be express and can be implied; but they must be terms which arise out of the contract of employment, and since an award made by an Industrial Tribunal cannot be said to amount to a contract of employment, the wage structure prescribed by the award cannot fall within the definition prescribed by section 2(vi).
This question appears to have been considered by the Bombay and the Calcutta High Courts.
We are not inclined to hold that even under the unamended definition of wages, rates of remuneration prescribed by an award could not be included.
In our opinion, the Bombay view correctly represents the true legal position in the matter.
M. C. Setalvad, and R. C. Prasad, for the appellants.
This question has to be answered in the light of the definition prescribed by section 2(vi) before it was amended in 1958.
This observation clearly and emphatically bring out that the terms prescribed by an award, in law, and in substance, constitute a fresh contract between the parties.
In a sense, the latter wage structure must be deemed to be a contract between the parties, because that, in substance, is the effect of industrial adjudication.
In Jogendra Nath (1) A.I.R. 1964 S.C. 15.
The point which we have to decide in the present appeal is whether the remuneration payable under an award was not already included in the definition of wages before the said definition was amended.
In spite of the award and the agreement, the appellant paid its employees only As.
The development of industrial law during the last decade bears testimony to the fact that on references made under section 10(1) of the Industrial Disputes Act, terms of employment have constantly been examined by industrial adjudication and wherever it appeared appropriate to make changes in them, they have been made in accordance with the well recognised principles of fair play and justice to both the parties.
It is this order which the appellant seeks to challenge before us by its present appeal by special leave.
