If the other method is adopted, tax will not be payable .
If this is the true interpretation of the arrangement arrived at, the question arises whether the pension or allowance is agricultural income. 'Agricultural income ' is defined in section 2 of the Act as follows: "(1) "agricultural income" means (a) any rent or revenue derived from land which is used for agricultural purposes and is either assessed to land revenue in British India or subject to a local rate assessed and collected by officers of the Crown as such: . " In Maharajkumar Gopal Saran Narain Singh vs Commissioner of Income tax, Bihar and Orissa(2), the facts were that the assessee had conveyed the greater portion of his estate.
He refers to the following passage from the speech of Viscount Simon in Commissioner of Inland Revenue vs Wesleyan and General Assurance Society(1): "It may be well to repeat two propositions which are well established in the application of the law relating to Income tax.
The assessee appealed to the Appellate Assistant Commissioner who held that "the alleged cash grant of varying and unspecified amount received by the appellant, in relation to land revenue of Seyedpur now Tehsil of District Ghazipur, clearly fell within the definition of agricultural income under Section 2(1) of the Incometax Act." The Income tax Officer appealed to the Income tax Appellate Tribunal.
The letter by which the amount of pension was determined at Rs. 36,322/8/ is dated 7th of July, 1837 and was from H. Elliot Esqr., the Secretary Sadar Board of Revenue N.W.P. Allahabad, to J. Thompson Esqr., Offg.
We are unable to agree with his contention.
As a consideration for relinquishing the right to the land and the revenue thereof, the respondent and his ancestors were given an allowance of Rs. 30,612 13 0.
And rent is not land within the meaning of the definition." This Court observed in Mrs. Bacha F. Guzdar, Bombay Commissioner of Income tax, Bombay(4) as follow: "Agricultural income as defined in the Act is intended to refer to the revenue received by direct association with the land which is used for agricultural purposes and not by indirectly extending it to cases where that revenue or part thereof changes hands either by way of distribution of dividends or otherwise." (1) ; (2) (3) 16 I.T.R.325 (4) 705 The same test was adopted by this Court in Maharajadhiraja Sir Kameshwar Singh vs Commissioner of Income tax, Bihar and Orissa(1) and the Court again looked to the source of the right in order to determine whether income was agricultural income or not.
The position will be different if he exchanges (1) 30 T.C. II.
That particular doctrine of substance as distinct from form was, I hope, finally exploded by the decision of the House of Lords in the case of Duke of Westminster vs Commissioner of Inland Revenue(2)".
But the enquiry should stop as soon as the effective source is discovered.
" He, therefore, asked us to disregard the word 'pension ' in the letter dated July 7, 1837, and determine the real character of the payment.
