(3) Nothing in this rule shall be deemed to affect the provisions of the ." The controversy in the present case is a narrow one.
In a 12 hour shift, the nine hours of work on any day can be spread over 12 hours and the extra hours will necessarily be hours of rest.
It means a break in the work during which a workman, though present on duty, is not called upon to display either physical activity or sustained attention.
The Trustees cannot be compelled to break up the hours of work by interposing intervals for rest, if owing to the nature of the work there is difficulty in giving the intervals for rest in that manner on any particular day.
They point out that in the former there is 3 hours ' overtime and in the latter there is 4 hours of overtime in the 12 hour shifts, but at the Prince 's and Victoria Docks there is 2 hours ' overtime only.
It is whether the fixing of a two hours ' rest and two hours ' overtime involves a breach of the two sections of the Act and the two rules quoted here ? The workmen claim that under a scheme of 12hour shifts with 8 hours ' work, overtime should be at least 3 hours, if not 4, and by fixing only two hours ' overtime the Trustee are B guilty of the breach of the Act and the Rules.
Section 13 only authorises Government to fix the number of hours which shall constitute a normal working day, inclusive of on, .
The section so read lays down : "Where an employee. . . works on any day in excess of 9 hours, the employer shall pay him for every hour or for part of an hour so worked in excess at the overtime rate. . . " Under Rule 25 (1) (b) this overtime rate is double the ordinary rate of wages.
Unfortunately the provisions of the and the Minimum Wages 639 (Central) Rules, 1950, are not as clear as the corresponding provisions of the and they have led to long arguments before us.
We shall refer to the provisions of the later because for the present we must consider the provisions of the Act and the Rules without drawing any assistance from the .
Section 13 of the Act does not itself fix the hours of work or rest or overtime.
That is done by the Rules.
or more specified intervals.
The normal working day thus includes (a) hours of actual duty, and (b) one or more specified intervals.
By interval under section 13 is obviously meant interval of rest and this is clear from Rule 24(2).
There may be one interval of rest or there may be more intervals but whatever their number, they must be specified.
There is no definition of interval either in the Act or the Rules but the provisions of section 13 (2) (c) read with section 13 (3) give us an indication of what is meant by an interval of rest.
