Appeal No. 1375 of 1966.
Appeal from the judgment and order dated October 22, 1965 of the Bombay High Court Nagpur Bench in Special Civil Application No. 355 of 1964.
M. N. Phadke and Naunit Lal, for the appellant.
B. R. Agarwala and section B. Nerkar, for respondent No. 1.
Fixing of octroi limits and nakas.
A Panchayat shall, with the approval of the Collector or of any officer authorised by the Collector not below the rank of Mamlatdar Tehsildar, Naib Tehsildar or Mahalkari, fix octroi limits and the number and location of octroi Nakas within 219 the limits of its jurisdiction.
Rate of octroi Octroi may be levied by a panchayat, after following the procedure prescribed in rules 3 and 4, on all or any of the goods specified in column 1 of Schedule 1, annexed, to this Part, which are imported into the octroi limits for consumption, use or sale therein and at such rates as may be decided by it but not below the minimum and not exceeding the maximum rates specified in columns 2 and 3, respectively, of that Schedule.
Payment of octroi on introduction of goods, etc.
The octroi shall be paid at the octroi Naka at the time when the articles in respect of which it is leviable are imported into the octroi limits of a panchayat.
" Rules 30, 31, 32 and 33 deal with refund of octroi.
We may first deal with the question of the validity of the levy of octroi duty.
It seems to us that the octroi duty has been levied in accordance with law.
It would be noticed that the rule which authorises the levy is r.22, but it enjoins that the procedure prescribed in rr.3 and 4 should be followed before the octroi duty can be levied.
The inhabitants of the village would be entitled to object only to these two matters, namely, (1) the tax or fee imposed and the rate at which it is levied.
Under r.3(d) what the panchayat does is to consider objections and suggestions and then finally make the choice as regards two things, i.e., the tax or fee to be imposed and the rate at which it is to be levied.
A. K. Sen, A. section Bobde, G. L. Sanghi, and O. C. Mathur, for respondent No. 2.
M. section K. Sastri, R. N. Sachthey, section P. Nayar for R. H. Dhebar, for respondent No. 3.
The appellant had in this petition prayed for the issue of a writ quashing the resolution dated April 6, 1964, passed by the Standing Committee, Zila Parishad, Nagpur, and for a writ of mandamus directing the Standing Committee not to interfere with the right of the appellant to impose and collect the octroi duty pursuant to its resolution dated February 25, 1963.
In order to appreciate the points raised before us it is necessary to give the relevant facts and statutory provisions.
The Village Panchayat of Kanhan Pipri, hereinafter referred to as the Panchayat, was originally constituted under the C.P. & Berar Panchayat Act, 1946 (C.P. & Berar Act No. 1 of 1947).
When we turn to rr.3 and 4, it would be noticed that these rules prescribe the procedure for levying tax or fee and are not confined to octroi duty only.
