The Enquiry Officer made a report and on or about January 7, 1955, the following notice was issued to him calling upon him to show cause why he should not be dismissed from service "To Shri Bhaishanker A. Joshi, Accountant, Rajkot Central Prison (Under suspension) Charges framed against you under this office No. C/ 14 dated 27 3 54 and in particular the charges of having accepted illegal gratification from prisoner Ratilal Jivan have been established to the satisfaction of Government.
On March 25, 1954, he was suspended, and at that time he was acting as Accountant at Rajkot Central Jail.
It seems to us that the decree of the High Court decreeing payment of arrears of salary is truly a liability in proceedings relating to a contract within section 60(2)(a) of the Act.
It is true, as held by this Court in the State of Tripura vs The Province of East Bengal(1), that the words ,actionable wrong other than breach of contract ' in this context are wide words and include something more than torts, but even so where a suit is brought by a Government servant for arrears of salary, the decree more properly falls under section 60 of the Act rather than under section 61.
(3)This section shall have effect subject to the other provisions of this Part relating to the apportionment of liabilities in respect of loans, guarantees and other financial obligations; and bank balances and securities shall, notwithstanding that they partake of the nature of contractual rights, be dealt with under those provisions.
Where, immediately before the appointed day, the State of Bombay is subject to any liability in respect of any actionable wrong other than breach of contract, that liability shall, (a) if the cause of action arose wholly within the territories which, as from that day, are the territories of the State of Maharashtra or the State of Gujarat, be a liability of that State; and (b) in any other case, be initially a liability of the State of Maharashtra but subject to such financial adjustment as may be agreed upon between the States of Maharashtra and Gujarat or, in default of such agreement, as the Central Government may by order direct." The learned counsel for the State of Maharashtra contends that the liability to pay arrears of pay was not a liability arising out of a contract but was a liability in respect of an actionable wrong other than a. breach of contract.
R.K.P.S. Appeal dismissed.
This Court in State of Bihar vs Abdul Majid(1) held "that the rule of English Law that a civil servant cannot maintain a suit against the Crown for the recovery of arrears of salary does not prevail in India and it has been negatived by the provisions of the statute law in India".
(3) [1953] 2Q.B.482,499.
