V.P. Raman, D.N. Mishra, and J.B. Dadachanji, for the appellant.
In appeals under the Letters Patent preferred by the second defendant,.
Viscount Cave referred to Salaman vs Warner(2); Bozson Altrincham Urban District Council(a) and Issacs vs Salbstein(4) and observed: "The effect of those and other judgments is that an order is final if it finally disposes of the rights of the parties.
The orders now under appeal do not finally dispose of those rights, but leave them to be determined by the Courts in the ordinary way.
Applications by respondent No. 1 for revocation of the certificate granted by the Madras High Court on 15th October, 1968 under article 133(1)(a) & (b) of the Constitution of India.
AND Civil Appeals Nos. 2183 and 2184 of 1968.
Appeals from the judgment and order elated October 9, 1968 of the Madras High Court in O.S.A. No. 25 and 27 of 1968.
M.K. Ramamurthi, Shyamala Pappu and Vineet Kumar, for respondent No. 1.
Rameshwar Nath and Mahinder Narain, for respondent No. 2.
The Judgment of the Court was delivered by Shah, J.
M/s. Tarapore & Company hereinafter called the plaintiffs applied in Suit No. 118 of 1967 for an interim injunction restraining the Bank of India Ltd. the first defendant in the suit from taking any steps in pursuance of a letter of credit opened in favour of M/s. V/O Tractors Export, Moscow, the second defendant.
Ramamurthi, J., by order dated April 12, 1968, granted an interim injunction restraining encashment of the letters of credit pending disposal of the suit.
" The suit filed by the plaintiffs is a civil proceeding, and the suit involves some claim or question respecting property of not less than twenty thousand rupees.
That is a matter not in dispute.
The expression "judgment" in article 133 ( 1 ) in the context in which it occurs means a final adjudication by the Court of the rights of the parties, 'and that an interlocutory judgment even if it decides an issue or issues without finally determining the rights and liabilities of the parties is not a judgment, however cardinal the issue may be.
In the present case not even an issue has been decided, and it is not contended that the order of the High Court amounts to a judgment or 'a decree.
