The reason is obvious.
We are, therefore, satisfied that the proper inference was drawn in this case.
In our opinion, the law advocated by Mr. Chari is not correct.
It is legitimate therefore to raise the presumption in this case that the persons with whom the goods were found were the dacoits themselves.
It must not be forgotton that the offence was committed at night by as many as 20 persons or more.
The evidence strengthens the other evidence already against him.
As regards the sentence, the offence no doubt was serious.
(It is, impossible to think that within the short time available, these goods could have been easily disposed of to receivers of stolen property or could be placed in the custody of friends till such time as the original offenders could take them away.) The time gap in some cases is as short as two days and in some others it is not more than five days.
Disposal of the fruits of crime requires the finding of a person ready to receive them and the shortness of time, the nature of the property which is disposed of, that is to say, its quantity and its character determine whether the person who had the goods in his possession received them from another or was himself the thief or the dacoit.
There is then no question of presumption.
In this appeal, the only contention raised by Mr. A. section R. Chari is that the presumption that they were dacoits ought not to have been drawn since the circumstances do not admit the drawing of such a presumption in the case, According to Mr. Chari, the presumption to be drawn ought to have been one under section 41 1 722 of Indian Penal Code or at the most tinder section 412 of the Indian Penal Code but not of complicity in the crime of dacoity.
The High Court, and the Court below drew from this the conclusion that the appellants were themselves the dacoits, and convicted them accordingly under section 395 of the Indian Penal Code and sentenced them to ' 5 years ' rigorous imprisonment and fine of Rs. 100/ .
The sentence of fine will stand.
Therefore we think that a sentence of three years ' rigorous imprisonment will meet the ends of justice in this case.
According to him there is no other evidence in the case which points, to the complicity of the 14 appellants in the crime of dacoity and therefore as they cannot be suspected to be dacoits themselves, the only presumption to be drawn is one of receivers of stolen property or as receivers of property which was stolen in a dacoity.
