In re Gangipati Appayya(12) a view contrary to the one taken earlier by a Judge of that High Court was taken.
view that a person charged with an offence cannot rely on his default as an answer to the charge and so, if he was responsible for not calling the general meeting, he cannot be heard to say in defence to the charges brought against him that because the general meeting had not been called, the balance sheet and profit and loss account could not be laid before it.
The punishment under these sections is for default in filing copies of the balance sheet or the profit and loss account which are laid before a general body and for not sending a statement of the fact that the balance sheet was not adopted.
Referring to the decision of the Bombay High Court in that case this Court pointed out that decision turned on section 134 of the Companies Act, 1913 the language of which was to a certain extent different from the language used in sections 32 and 131 and refrained from going into the question whether the difference in language in section 134 on the one hand and sections 32 and 131 on the other made any difference to the decision of the case.
But section 134 lays down that after balance sheet and profit and loss account or the income and expenditure account, as the case may be, have been laid before the company at the general meeting three copies thereof shall be filed with the registrar, and a failure to do so is made punishable under sub section (4) of that section.
" In this state of difference of opinion among the various High Courts and the absence of a decision of this Court on section 134 this appeal has been filed.
It may be that copies of the balance sheet so laid before the general body may have been forwarded under sub section (1) of Section 134 of the Old Companies Act or sub section (1) of section 220 of the Act but nonetheless if the requirements of sub section (2) of the respective sections have not been complied with even then, the persons concerned would be liable for punishment for that default.
Though the respondent was not represented before this Court the learned Addl.
F. section Nariman, Additional Solicitor General of India and A. V. Rangam, for the appellants.
(5) A.I.R. 1969 Patna 445 & (1970) 40 C.C. 17.
If no general body meeting is held, it is obvious that no copies of the balance sheet (1) (3) A.I.R. 1969 Orissa 234.
That decision is also pending in appeal before this Court.
The Patna High Court in State vs Linkers Private Ltd.(5) and the Kerala High Court in Registrar of Companies vs Gopala Pillai & Ors.
If no general body meeting is held, the persons concerned cannot be said to have committed a default in complying with those provisions.
As we have noticed, this Court was not dealing there with the provisions of section 134 of 1913 Act which corresponds to section 220 of the 1956 Act.
We say nothing about section 32 about which this Court has already laid down the law.
(4) (5) (6) (7) , J. 92 & (8) A.I.R. 413 High Court, India Nutriments Ltd. vs Registrar of Companies(1) and P.S.N.S.A. Chettiar & Company vs Registrar of Companies(2) of the Madras High Court.
The responsibility of sending three copies of the balance sheet and profit and loss account or the income and expenditure account, as the case may be, arises only after they have been laid before the company at the general meeting.
We may now refer to some of the earlier decisions on this Point.
This is an appeal against the judgment of the Full Bench of the Andhra Pradesh High Court reported in A.I.R. (1970) A.P. 70.
The decision in Ballav Dass vs Mohan Lal Sadhu(9) did not refer to the wording of the section but merely stated that the provisions of section 134 were not complied with.
(3) (1875) 45 Law J. Rep. M. C. 41.
V.P.S. Appeal dismissed.
