No doubt, the effective membership as distinguished from Honorary membership of the Federation is open only to Chambers of Commerce or Commercial Associations of requisite strength and standing, but the fact remains that it carries on systematic activities not only to assist its members but also other traders or businessmen members of the constituents of the Federation.
This point will not require any additional material for its decision.
We therefore do not think that R. K. Mittal 's case (supra) was incorrectly decided and needs reconsideration.
We, therefore, overrule the preliminary objection.
" 352 It was then contended that the activities of the Federation carried on in the premises in question amounted to "work in connection with, or incidental or ancillary" to trade or business in general within the latter part of the definition of "commercial establishment".
As regards the preliminary objection, it is true that before the High Court, it was not argued that the activity of the Federation amounts to the carrying on of any business or trade in the premises in question.
It shall apply in the first instance.
Further, the definition of "commercial establishment" is wider than that of "shop".
it is predominantly a charitable organization and not a professional one.
The very definition of "commercial establishment" indicates that the activity of a registered society, charitable or other trust will not take it out of the definition if the activity carried on by it amounts to a busi (1)[1971] 1, S.C.R. 177.
and issues the same to member free of this Court in R. K. Mittal 's case (supra) we would hold that the commercial or industrial exhibitions, runs museums and makes profits.
A place in order to fall within the definition of "commercial Establishment" must in the first instance be "premises".
The question is only of drawing a correct inference 'about the point in issue from the material already on record.
It will bear repetition that the Federation also publishes periodicals, bulletins etc.
Before dealing with the contentions canvassed before us, it will be useful to notice briefly, the scheme and the relevant provisions of the Act.
This contention was also rejected with the observation that since the earlier part of the definition refers to "some particular business or trade carried on in a premises" the words "any work in connection with or incidental or necessary thereto" obviously refer to such particular business or trade and not to trade or business in general '.
The occasional exhibitions or , museums organised by it are activities which are only incidental or ancillary to the primary charitable object of the Federation.
" "Establishment" means a shop, a commercial establishment, residential hotel, restaurant, eating house, theatre or other places of public amusement or entertainment to which this Act applies and includes such other establishment as Government may by notification in the Official Gazette, 35 3 declare to be an establishment for the purposes of the Act.
therein, the Memorandum of Association, Articles of Association and the other material placed before the court were closely examined.
(1) To secure the interests and well being of the Indian business communities abroad.
This contention was negatived in these terms : " . that contention overlooks the fact that the advice in question is not tendered for any consideration.
There is no, doubt that the registered office of the Federation is premises.
Alternatively, it was contended that the case fell within part (b) of the definition of "commercial establishment" inasmuch as its activities were connected with trade and business, generally.
The title of the Act is Delhi Shops and Establishments Act, 1954.
