Hence this appeal by special leave which was obtained on March 29, 1968, after condonation of delay, in the peculiar circumstances of the case arising out of revocation by the High Court of its earlier certificate in favour of the appellant on account of default of deposit of security.
The last deed of gift is exhibit 38 and the donee is "Shri Vasudev Buwa Guru Balkrishna Buwa" described as the worshipper carrying on the "Vahiwat of Shri Vithal Rekhmai Sansthan".
And in such circumstances, proof of user by the public without interference would be cogent evidence that the dedication was in favour of the public".
x x x x x The Dindi of the said Sansthan from Amalner remains at Shivgaon on the 30th of Jeshta vadya or on the 1st of Ashad Shudha according to practice every year.
In accordance with this theory, it has been held that when property is dedicated for the worship of a family idol, it is a private and not a public endowment, as the persons who are entitled to worship at the shrine of the deity can only be the members of the family, and that is an ascertained group of individuals.
In the absence of anything to the contrary of a convincing nature, a grant by the Government in favour of the temple describing the property to be in charge of a manager leads to an unerring inference that the property is a public religious endowment.
The learned District Judge reversed the decision of the Charity Commissioner by his order of October 16, 1959, and declared the Sansthan to be a private property and not a public trust.
This evidence of Ramkrishna Deshpande stands corroborated by the Sanad which shows in the year 1860 61 the Manager of the Sansthan as Balkrishnabuwa Guru Govindbuwa.
After him the present Buwa Purshottam came to Gadi.
This Gadi goes to Shishya from the Guru".
You should spend the income of the said property for the purpose of Naivadya for the Deity Pandurang at night that day.
It is further pointed out that while nominating Prahlad as Adhikari, Balkrishnabuwa stated in the said document as follows: "You are entitled to the ownership of all the incomes that will come before the Deity, Shri Samarth and during the Swari (procession) as well as the income of Inam Najrana and the income of movable and immovable property".
Even if a few ascetics are fed and given shelter, such a purpose is not to be deemed an independent charity in which the public or a section of it has an interest.
Guru Govindbuwa was the second in the line of succession after Sakharam, the founder, and Balkrishnabuwa being the third in the line.
The donor, an old agriculturist of a different Taluka viz. Erandole, writes: "I give the gift deed in writing as follows: With the object of giving possible help through me to the above sansthan, I have given in gift my ancestral immovable property. x x x x x I have given in gift the above mentioned property as aforesaid of my free will for the purpose of religious work in order that my life may be of bliss as I have no male issue and wife.
The cardinal point to be decided is whether it was the intention of the founder that specified individuals are to have the right of worship at the shrine, or the general public or any specified portion thereof.
* * * * * "The residents of the place where the Bhajans are performed attend these Bhajans.
He stays there for about 4 months.
(3) There has been no evidence of any hindrance or restriction in the matter of continuous worship by the public extending over a long period.
From the evidence of Ramkrishna Deshpande, one of the constituted attornies, we find the origin and the devolution as follows: "The originator of this Sansthan is Sakharambuwa.
vs Sm.
B. D. Bal with A. G. Ratnaparkhi, for the appellant.
