It was open to them to move the State Government under Rule 6 of the Rules to make an order directing the Collector to follow .
After November 25, 1978, a large number of nominations were received by the Returning officer.
We, therefore, find it unnecessary to deal with the other points urged before us.
The period prescribed for preferring claims and objections under Rule 4(3) was 30 days.
The question whether in a given case the delay involved is such that it dissentients a person to relief under Article 226 is a matter within the discretion of the High Court which as in all matters of discretion has to exercise it judiciously and reasonably having regard to the surrounding circumstances.
It was also open to them to file a writ petition immediately after the publication of the said notice questioning its legality.
The petitioners were not entitled to any relief under Article 226 of the Constitution on account of the inordinate delay involved in the presentation of the writ petition.
None of the above courses was adopted by the petitioners.
It is not the case of the petitioners that they did not know immediately after the publication of such notice that in the said notice a period of 20 days had been mentioned in its preamble as the period within which the claims and objections could be preferred and in paragraph 7 thereof it had been stated that any such claim or objection filed beyond the prescribed period was liable to be rejected.
No satisfactory reason for the delay was set out in the petition.
The final list of candidates for the election with their symbols was published on December 20, 1978.
By that time, the nominations had all been received.
It is well settled that the power of the High Court under Article 226 of the Constitution to issue an appropriate writ is discretionary and if the High Court finds that there is not satisfactory explanation far the inordinate delay, it may reject the petition if it finds that the issue of Writ will lead to public inconvenience and interference with rights of others.
Persons whose claims were rejected could have filed an appeal under Rule S before the Collector.
The allegation that 34 persons had approached the Deputy 495 Collector requesting him to receive their applications for inclusion of their names in the electoral roll on October 20, 1978 was denied.
The writ petition itself was filed on December 28, 19?8 when the poll had to take place on December 31, 1978.
The other documents produced alongwith the writ petition referred to omissions of certain names from the electoral roll.
We have, therefore, to proceed on the basis that it was only on December S, 1978 for the first time that the attention of the Collector was drawn to the said error and that the writ petition itself was presented on December 28, 1978.
The final electoral roll was published on November 16, 1978.
It was contended that on account of noncompliance with Rule 4(3) of the Rules, which was mandatory, the entire election process held on the basis of the defective electoral roll '.
It was also alleged that on October 20, 1978, 34 persons mentioned in Annexure P 7 approached the Deputy Collector to entertain their claim for inclusion in the electoral roll and he refused to receive their applications.
They do not show that any 497 of the petitioners had raised any objection with regard to the date within which the claims and objections could be preferred to the electoral roll mentioned in the notice.
the provisions governing the preparation of the electoral roll.
They further pleaded that the authorities would have taken action to correct the error in the notice issued under Rule 4(1) of the Rules granting 20 days ' time to prefer claims and objections if it had been brought to their notice by the petitioners immediately after it was noticed by them.
