60 1700.
The revised wage scales, the Tribunal directed, should take effect retrospectively from 1st January, 1976.
The Tribunal has relied on this statement as evidence showing that the appellant knew that a flat increase of Rs. 150/ and Rs. 100/ was intended to each of the employees in the category of Draughtsmen and the other categories.
While workmen raising industrial disputes for revision of wage scales are certainly minded about their future prospects in the matter of wages, they, surely would be more concerned with the immediate benefits according to them That was why the Industrial Tribunal thought that an all round flat increase of Rs. 150/ in the case of Draftsmen and Rs. 100/ in the case of other workmen was called for.
Fitment: If as on 1st January, 1976, an employee is drawing a salary less than the beginning of the respective grade, he should be first stepped up to the beginning of the grade.
Tata Consultant Engineers, at its inception, was a partnership firm but subsequently the partnership was dissolved and in 1974 the undertaking became one of the divisions of Tata Sons Limited.
These statements cannot be regarded as evidence 178 that the appellant was cognizant of the intention of the Tribunal to provide a flat increase to the pay of each workman.
170 The Union filed a statement before the Tribunal claiming an upward revision of the wage scales and dearness allowance and an increase from fifteen years to twenty years in the span for earning annual increments.
This appeal by special leave has been preferred by Tata Consultancy Engineers against an award dated 20th December, 1978 of the Industrial Tribunal, Maharashtra, Bombay revising the wage scales of certain categories of employees and granting various other benefits.
It will be noted that the statement, Exhibit C 51, was prepared on the basis of the employees ' strength as in December, 1971.
The same has been made clear in paragraph No. 23, but it appears that the words "to each employee" after the figure "Rs. 150/ " were omitted.
The only contention of the workmen is that the Tribunal should have fixed the dearness allowance in communion with the cost of living index.
There was no separate dearness allowance until January, 1977 when it was introduced for the first time.
Since there was to be a flat increase of Rs. 150/ and Rs. 100/ in the case of draftsmen and other workmen respectively, the revised wage scale had necessarily to commence with figures Rs. 150/ and Rs. 100/ above the existing wage scales.
G. B. Pai, Manick K. Gagrat, J. B. Dadachanji, O. C. Mathur and K. J. John for the Appellants in CA No. 2299 and Respondents in CA 2300/79.
None of the alternatives was actually adopted by the Tribunal, because when the award was made the Tribunal proceeded instead to restructure the wage scales by the addition of Rs. 150/ in the case of the category of Draughtsmen and Rs. 100/ in the case of other categories to the initial pay in the wage scales pertaining to those categories.
For some years to come this is likely to be one of the few Consulting Engineers who will be securing major contracts".
Nor can it be doubted that fitment into the revised pay scales is certainly a part of the revision of pay scales.
There was only one increase contemplated in the award, in paragraph 23 of award, and it is more than plain that the increase was the one incorporated in the revised pay scales pertaining to different categories.
The cost of living had gone on increasing from 1972 onwards and, as the Tribunal has found, the dearness allowance and house rent allowance made no appreciable impact in neutralising the increasing cost.
The question is what should be the extent of such burden?" At the end of paragraph 18 of the award the Tribunal said: A" mere reading of Exhibit U 15 will immediately dispel the misgivings about the future of the present company.
In the said award, Your Honour has observed, at the end of Para 22, 'In view of the increase that is being allowed in the basic pay, I do not propose to revise the existing scheme of Dearness Allowance '.
II Driver/Asstt.
It was urged that the Efficiency Bar, as a feature of the wage scales, should be removed.
On the same date, the Tribunal disposed of the application by the following order: "There can be no doubt that a flat increase of Rs. 150/ to each of the employees in the category of Draftsmen and of Rs. 100/ to each employee in the other categories has been granted under my award.
I shall now consider Civil Appeal No. 2300 of 1979 filed by the workmen.
Rule 31 provides: "31.
The Tribunal has referred to various considerations which prevailed with it in giving retrospectivity to the revised pay scales.
Reference was made to the political uncertainty in Iran which had placed an appreciable part of the appellant 's business in jeopardy and to various other factors, peculiar to an engineering consultancy business, beyond the appellant 's control.
173 Two days after the award was made, an application was made by the Union stating: "In the said award, your Honour has observed, at the end of para 22, "In view of the increase that is being allowed in the basic pay, I do not propose to revise the existing scheme of Dearness Allowance.
CHINNAPPA REDDY, J. We have had the advantage of perusing the judgment prepared by our learned brother Pathak, J. we agree with 180 him that Civil Appeal No. 2300 of 1979 should be dismissed.
The amendment made by the Tribunal has the effect of providing a second increase, this time to each individual workmen.
I do not think that any problem would arise for interpretation of the award.
Nothing those facts, the Tribunal observed that compared with the increased paying capacity of the appellant, an inference drawn from the prosperity enjoyed by the appellant over the years, there was definite need for revising the wage scales.
The fitment has also to be done only after the flat increase is added to the present basic salary of each employee.
It functions as a consulting organisation and a service industry, and does not manufacture any product or carry on trade.
It is to the task of revising the pay scales that the Tribunal addressed itself, and throughout the material part of the award it is that task which held its focussed attention.
Finally at the end of paragraph 21 the Tribunal said : In view of this position, the Company can easily bear some burden that might fall as a result of the upward revision of the wage scales.
Even so we propose to examine whether the correction sought by the employees union was within the bounds of the authority of the Tribunal or whether it was in effect a fresh award.
The second contention of the appellant is entitled to succeed.
They are considerations which cannot be ignored.
The appellant had introduced various pay scales in 1973 and some time later they were revised.
The Labour Court, Tribunal or Arbitrator may correct any clerical mistake or error arising from an accidental slip or omission in any award it or he issues.
There is no order as to costs.
The statement afforded an indication merely of what the additional financial load would be if a flat increase was given to the individual workman on the alternative basis set forth therein.
It also laid down the principle enabling the actual fitment of the workmen in their respective wage scales as on that date and also provided for the number of increments to which they would be entitled having regard to the period of completed service.
Similarly, the same words "to each employee" after the figure "100" were omitted.
The profits have increased all along.
Even when considering the range of permissible retrospectivity the Tribunal stated in the award: "In view of the revision of the wage scales, there would be consequent increase in the dearness allowance and the house rent allowance.
The addition was integrated as a feature of the wage scales; it was not regarded as an addition to the pay of each individual workman.
And that is confirmed by what was stated in paragraph 23 of the award: "Considering this outgoing the flat increase of Rs. 150/ in the category of Draughtsman and Rs. 100/ in the case of the other categories would be fair.
V. M. Tarkunde, P. H. Parekh, section R. Deshpande and Miss Manik Tarkunde for the Respondents in CA 2299 and Appellants in CA No. 2300/79.
Steno 20 625 EB 25 725.
No second flat increase was envisaged at all.
Clerk/Steno/ Rs. 450 20 530 EB Rs. 550 25 675 30 Record Keeper/ 30 860 EB 35 1000.
Implicit and intrinsically connected with the question of revision of the wage scales were the questions of fitment of employees into the wage scales and flat or ad hoc increase of salaries of workmen wherever considered necessary.
However, we do not agree with our learned brother that Civil Appeal No. 2299 of 1979 should be allowed in so far as it relates to the order dated December 22, 1978 of the Industrial Tribunal which purports to correct the award dated December 20, 1978.
The claim of the Union was resisted by the appellant, who maintained that the existing wage scales were fair and reasonable on a region cum industry basis and that it would not be possible for the appellant to bear the additional financial burden if the demands of the Union were accepted.
Out of 665 employees at Bombay, the draftsmen and the administrative staff number 306.
It must not be a mistake or error which calls for rectification by modification of the conscious adjudication on the issues involved.
There was fierce competition also, it was asserted, from other similar organisations.
Asstt./ Canteen Asstt.
Asstt./ 35 1020 EB 40 1300 1265 EB 45 1490.
