C.S.S. Rao for the Respondent.
In doing so the Appellate Assistant Commissioner followed "Commissioner of Wealth tax Bihar and Orissa vs Vysyaraju Badreenarayana Moorthy Raju (Orissa)(1), The Wealth Tax Officer appealed to the Appellate Tribunal and contended that accrued interest was liable to be included in the wealth tax assessments of the assessee.
The reasons for defining the valuation date in terms of the last day of the income tax "previous year" stop there.
The Appellate Tribunal observed that the judgment of the Orissa High Court was binding on it, and accordingly by a consolidated order dated April 3, 1972, it dismissed the appeals.
Under section 3 of the Wealth Tax Act, wealth tax is charged for every assessment year in respect of the net wealth of the assessee on the corresponding valuation date.
There is an obvious advantage in adopting as the valuation date the last day of a period which is also the relevant period under the Income Tax Act.
In this view of the matter, we approve of the opinion expressed by the Andhra Pradesh High Court in Vedrevu Venkappa Rao (supra) 311 and in Commissioner of Wealth Tax, A.P. I vs Pachigolla Narasimha Rao(1) and the Calcutta High Court in Dipti Kumar Basu vs Commissioner of Wealth Tax, West Bengal(2) and hold that the view taken by the Orissa High Court in Commissioner of Wealth tax vs Vysyaraju Badreenarayana Moorthy Raju (Orissa) (supra) and by the Karnataka High Court in A. T. Mirji vs Commissioner of Wealth Tax, Karnataka(3) cannot be accepted.
That appears plainly from the definition or "net wealth" which speaks of "the aggregate value. of all the assets" belonging to the assessee on the valuation date.
The Wealth Tax Officer sought support from a judgment of the Andhra Pradesh High Court in Vedreva Venkappa Rao vs Commissioner of Wealth tax(2) A.P.
The Commissioner of Wealth Tax applied under sub section
(1) of section 27 of the Wealth (1) (2) 309 Tax Act for a reference of the cases to this Court in view of the conflict of opinion between the Orissa High Court and the Andhra Pradesh High Court, and so these references have been made.
" 310 The computation of the net wealth of an assessee calls for a determination of his assets and debts as on the valuation date.
The question can be disposed of shortly.
His financial activities during that period determine how his net wealth on a particular valuation date differs from his net wealth on the immediately preceding valuation date.
The expression "net wealth" is defined by cl.
When we speak of the value of a property, on a legal plane we refer to the value of the rights in that property.
That being so, the conclusion is inescapable that even though the accounts of the assessee are maintained on cash basis interest due on accrual basis, though not realised, on the outstandings of the money lending business are liable to be included in the net wealth of the assessee.
(m) of s.2 of the Act as "the amount by which the aggregate value . .
That is the "valuation date".
Where the asset is an asset other than cash, its value is determined pursuant to sub section
(I) of s.7 as the estimated price, which, in the opinion of the Wealth Tax Officer, the asset would fetch if sold in the open market on the valuation date.
The assets are not confined to cash.
