Though the permits to be granted are for tourist vehicles, the preference is confined to operators of tourist cars and travel agents.
Section 47(1 C) enables the State Government to reserve a certain percentage of stage carriage permits to persons belonging to economically weaker sections of the community.
One may understand a preference granted to operators of tourist vehicles but it is difficult to understand why preference should be given to operators of tourist cars in the matter of granting permits for tourist vehicles which may well be omnibuses required to travel long distances.
Special leave granted in all the cases.
The State Transport Authority, by its proceedings dated April 30, 1984, granted 11 out of the 14 permits to the Karnataka State Tourism Development Corporation, one permit to the Indian Tourism Development Corporation and two permits to the Karnataka State Road Transport Corporation.
Surely it cannot be said that experience of running a tourist taxi is a better qualification than running a tourist bus when the question of granting permits for tourist vehicles arises.
The High Court of Karnataka tided over the difficulty by interpreting the expression "tourist cars" as meaning "tourist vehicles".
By section 24 of Amending Act 47 of 1978, a proviso to section 63(7) was introduced.
These appeals raise common questions of law and may therefore, be disposed of by a common judgment.
The Tribunal took the view that having regard to the rule of preference enunciated by the proviso to section 63(7), the applications from the 'non preferred ' category had to be excluded as the number of applications from the applicants who were required to be given preference exceeded the number of permits to be granted.
In exercise of its powers under section 63(7) of the , the Central Government specified 50 as the number of 'All India Tourist Vehicle Permits ' which may be granted by the Karnataka State Transport Authority.
It is difficult to agree with the interpretation of the Karnataka High Court having regard to the definitions of "Transport Vehicle" and "motor car" contained in section 2(29 A) and section 2(16) respectively.
While a tourist vehicle may include a motor car, a motor car, by definition, excludes an omnibus.
The Judgment of the Court was delivered by CHINNAPPA REDDY, J.
Shri C.S. Vaidyanathan, learned counsel for the 'Preferred ' Operators has placed before us 'a Scheme for granting approval to tourist transport operators in India. ' The scheme makes no reference to the proviso to sec.
" Sections 68 C, 68 D and 68 E provide for the preparation and publication of schemes of road transport service to be provided by State Transport Undertakings, the procedure to be followed, etc.
In the second place, we have no indication as to the manner in which the approval of the Central Government is to be sought and granted and the considerations which are expected to weigh with the Central Government.
On the other hand, it mentions that approval carries with it certain privileges, such as, allotment of ex STC vehicles and that it is, therefore, necessary that the department is able to exercise some control on the functioning of these operators.
47(1 H) however, provides that in the case of inter State route, the Undertaking will have preference in the matter of stage carriage permit.
The terms and conditions to be fulfilled are that 'the party must have been in the car hire business for a period of 2 years with the help of cars of indigenous make or cars obtained from elsewhere and should have sufficient contacts with travel agencies hoteliers/airlines, etc.
Section 63(7) is the provision with whose interpretation and vires we are primarily concerned in this case.
The matter appears to be left to the total discretion of the Central Government, virtually as we said, pre empting the decision of the statutory tribunal.
Section 47(1) prescribes the matters to be taken into consideration in granting stage carriage permits and the first consideration, naturally, is "the interest of the public generally.
and should be financially sound or that they should be owning and operating five vehicles as tourist taxies of either indigenous make or acquired from elsewhere regardless of the period in the car hire business or that they should be ex Defence Service personnel, who satisfy certain prescribed conditions.
63(7) of the .
It is seen that the scheme excludes omnibus operators and requires applicants to have 1019 either two years ' experience in the car hire business with contacts in the tourist business or to own five tourist taxies.
We may now glance at some of the relevant provisions of the . section 2(33) defines a "transport vehicle" as meaning a "public service vehicle or a goods vehicle".
There are no guidelines as to how the discretion to grant approval is to be exercised once the minimum conditions are fulfilled.
We think that clause (iv) of the proviso to section 63(7) is unconstitutional and we so declare it.
In the result we set aside the orders of the State Transport Appellate Tribunal and the High Court and direct the State Transport Appellate Tribunal to hear the appeals in the light of what we have said.
Their merits and demerits must be ascertained keeping in view the requirements of (a) to (f) of section 47(1) and after comparing the merits and demerits of both, not with the yard stick of mathematical accuracy, but other things being equal, the application of the Undertaking will have preference over others.
