In those circumstances it appears that the grounds for forming the satisfaction for the need for the detention were there, and there was rational nexus between the object of the order as contemplated by the Act and the materials on record.
Nor does it appear that before the service there was consideration of this aspect properly.
The people started running helter and skelter for their lives.
Judged on the basis of 911 the said principles there is no ground for interference with the order of detention as passed.
The normal tempo of life was completely disturbed.
910 It is the contention of the petitioner/appellant that the order of preventive detention could only be justified against a person in detention if the detaining authority was satisfied that his release from detention was imminent and the order of detention was necessary for putting him back in jail.
In the facts and circumstances of this case, therefore, the continued detention of the detenu under the Act is not justified.
The grounds stated that there was indiscriminate firing on 24th December, 1985 on Katras Coal Dump and the petitioner started indiscriminate firing to kill Birendra Pratap Singh a rival of his calendestine business of coal to establish the criminal superiority in full view of the shopkeepers, customers and passers by of the area.
If a man is in custody and there is no imminent possibility of his being released, the power of preventive detention should not be exercised.
The writ petition and the appeal are allowed to the extent indicated above.
In the instant case when the actual order of detention was served upon the detenu, the detenu was in jail.
Grounds were all indicated.
There is no indication that this factor or the question that the said detenu might be released or that there was such a possibility of his release, was taken into consideration by the detaining authority properly and seriously before the service of the order.
The principles applicable in these types of preventive detention cases have been discussed in the decisions of Suraj Pal Sahu vs State of Maharasthra & Ors., W.P. (crl) No. 2 96/86 with SLP (crl) No. 1265/86 dt.
26.9.86.
In this case subject and his associates opened fire on police party who went to apprehend Raghunath Singh absconder under NSA.
Jogta P.S. Case No. 22/84 dated 11.3.84 u/s 147/148, 307/326/353/333/324/325 I.P.C./27 Arms Act.
A bald statement is merely an ipso dixit 912 of the officer.
The exchange of indiscriminate firing in the main market area of Katras created great panic and alarm in the area.
If that is the position, then however disreputable the antecedents of a person might have been without consideration of all the aforesaid relevant factors, the detenu could not have been put into preventive custody.
It may be mentioned that in the petition it is nowhere stated that the detenu has since been released or that the prospect of his imminent release was properly and with seriousness considered by the detaining authority.
When the order was passed, the petitioner had not surrendered but when the order was served, the petitioner had already surrendered in respect of the criminal charge against him.
