In the impugned judgment, the Allahabad High Court had followed the said decision.
Cash Balance was only Rs.7626.
(Not present ) The Judgment of the Court was delivered by SABYASACHI MUKHARJI, J.
The Madras High Court in the case of Mrs. Ida L. Cham bers and Three Others vs Kelland Huxford Chambers, was dealing with a case where C, proprietor of a business who had invested a large amount of capital in it, caused entries to be made in his account books crediting his wife and certain other members of his family with sums which were debited to his capital account.
It appears further that copies of this letter were sent to one Om Prakash Gupta and Ved Prakash Gupta.
In the case of banking companies or other firms and companies who have overdraft facilities, even if the sums are not in credit of the donor and are not with such companies or firms, gifts might be possible by adjustment of the book entries.
Rangoon High Court in Abba Dada and Company vs Commis sioner of Income Tax, Burma, held that the mere book entries were not sufficient in that case to constitute valid gift.
The decision of the Privy Council is reported in ILR 1944 at page 617. 130 The Punjab and Haryana High Court in Balireal Nawal Kishore vs Commissioner of Income Tax, Punjab, held that the credit cash balance of the donor was Rs.81,000 and cash balance with firm was only Rs.4,299 but the unuti lised overdraft of the firm was Rs. 1,27,088.
Memo of gift recorded on stamp paper.
But in that case, the question in the present form in which it arises before us in the instant case did not arise.
Shyamo Bibi, had to deal with a case where the credit balance of 2 1/2 lakhs was with the firm.
It was held by the Bombay High Court that there was no valid gift.
Rs.50,000 Pravin Kumar Gupta .
On that day, the assessee had addressed a letter to the Company stating that he had decided to gift away for love and affection various sums to the following persons: 125 Ved Prakash Gupta .
In the case of Commissioner of IncomeTax, Ahmedabad vs Digvijaysinghji Tin Factory, , on the contrary it was held that the gifts were valid though not sufficient cash with firm avail able but proper book entries were made.
Respondent in person.
A similar letter was written by Ved Prakesh thanking the assessee, his father, for the gift of Rs.25,000 made to him and Rs.50,000 gifted to his son.
It was held on the facts of that case that the asses see had made a valid gift of the value of Rs.50,000.
Such delivery may be made in the same way as goods sold may be delivered.
The Tribunal held that section 10 of the was not attracted and the sum of Rs. 1,50,000 could not be included in the property passing on the death of M; and the High Court, on a reference, affirmed the viewes of the Tribunal.
The Court in Controller of Estate Duty, Punjab, Haryana, J. & K., H.P., and Chandigarh vs Kamlavati, had to deal with gift by way of transfer in the account books.
C was not in a position to make gifts in cash of the amounts credited in favour of his wife and relatives.
Where moneys were actually paid by way of interest on the alleged gifts, those became completed gifts.
It may be noted that in E.M.V. Muthappa Chettiar vs Commission er of Income Tax, Madras, the Madras High Court held that mere entries were not enough to constitute valid gifts particularly when gift of fund continued to be used in the donors ' business.
Interest on the amounts was also credited in the accounts regularly for some time, until a bank from which C had obtained an overdraft objected to such crediting of interest.
The firm in which the donor may have account may or may not have sufficient cash balance but it must have sufficient provision for overdraft with the bank on the basis it could honour in structions given by the assessee.
Father had complete control and dominion over that amount.
The circumstances must be such as to make it clear that there were sufficient funds at the disposal of the donor by reason of which he could make the gift by such book entries.
Rs.25,000 Hari Prakash Gupta .
The Calcutta High Court had to consider this in the case of Commissioner of Gift Tax, West Bengal 111 vs Tara chand Maghraj, There the High Court after discussing various decisions 128 including certain decisions of the Allahabad High Court which we shall presently note and the provisions of section 122 of the , and the Sale of Goods Act.
The Tribunal held that they were not carrying on banking business.
It must be mentioned, however, that the company i.e. Messrs Tika Ram and Sons.
The next contention was regarding the inclusion of net wealth a sum of Rs.67,560/12/ standing to the credit of the assessee in the books of M/s Pearls & Beads.
Rs. 50,000 By that letter the assessee had directed the Company to debit his account to the extent of Rs. 1,50,000 and credit the respective amounts in the names of the aforesaid per sons.
The Rajasthan High Court in K.P. Brothers vs Commission er of Income Tax, New Delhi, held that there was a valid gift but in that case it was a banking company.
The assessee must also have sufficient credit balance to enable him to make the gift.
In Sukhlal Sheo Narain vs Commissioner of Wealth Tax, Haryana, the Punjab & Haryana High Court had dealt with a case where the father had gifted Rs.84,000 i.e. Rs.28,000 to each of his sons.
No letter as in the previous case was addressed by the assessee but only oral instructions were said to have been given.
