Because of the pendency of this matter, valuable time has been lost and if further time is lost, the respondent No. 5 may not have any further interest in the matter.
It was in pursuance of this general all India policy and, in particular, to fulfill the feltneeds of Calcutta that the Government of West Bengal was looking out for a suitable plot in a good location.
Like similar volumes going by whatever name, pub lished by the Boards of Revenue of other States, the West Bengal Land Management Manual also is compendium of (1) statutes and rules framed either by the Government or by the Board of Revenue pursuant to a statutory power conferred on them; (2) Orders issued by the Government from time to time; and (3) Orders, circulars, instructions and memoranda issued by the Board of Revenue from time to time.
The public has also suffered.
There was nothing discrminatory in the procedure adopted since no other lead ing hotlier had shown any inclination to come forward.
"As agreed by the said company during the various meetings its representatives had with various departments of this Government, the company will either place the necessary fund in the hands of Animal Husbandry and Veterinary Services Department or the Zoo Garden authorities as the case may be, for reconstruction of the aforesaid essential structures or reconstruction the aforesaid essential structures under its own supervision to the satisfaction of the the Zoo Garden authorities or Animal Husbandry and Veterinary Services Department as the case may be, such funds will in either case be advanced or deemed to be advanced by the Company without interest to 251 be adjusted against dues of the State Govern ment in accordance with the terms and condi tions of the lease.
Moreover, the staff quarters, hospitals for animals and the morgue are also situated near the said plot of land.
He proceeded to say, "The Government, therefore, cannot, for exam ple, give a contract or sell or lease out its property for a considerations less than the highest that can be obtained for it, unless of course there are other considerations which render it reasonable and in public interest to do so.
The further submission of Dr. Singhvi was that whatever might have been the terms of the grant in favour of the Zoological Garden, the Bengal Parks Act, 1904, vested the land in favour of the Zoological Garden and there was no way by which the Government could divest the Zoological Garden of the land except by a procedure known to the law such as acquisition or requisition.
The attention of the government was not focussed on these questions as evident from the fact that the Cabinet Memorandum hardly refers to any of the objections.
" The Act was made applicable to the public parks and gardens mentioned in the schedule.
Certain precepts and principles have to be observed.
The Chief Minis ter considered the objections and noted that if further facilities were necessary for the Zoo, Government would provide them.
He gave his reasons as follows: "The four acre plot assigned to the Hotel Company by the State Government is not within the boundaries of the area belonging to the Zoological Gardens but on the other side of Belvedere Road, an important thoroughfare parallel to the main boundary of the zoo and some 700 feet from the main part of the lake.
The hotel was porposed to be built away from the frontage of the plot in Belvedere Road and was to be a low rise structure, the highest point of which would not exceed 75 feet.
There was no report that the existing multistoreyed buildings had any adverse affect on the migratory birds or the animals.
State owned or public owned property is not to be dealt with at the absolute discretion of the executive.
It is immaterial whether the move come first from the Government or from the Taj Group.
"Dr. B. Biswas, a renowned ormitholo gist, who recently retired as Professor Emeri tus of the Zoological Survey of India, whom the Taj Management consulted, confirmed that a 75 feet high building on the location would not worry birds landing on the lake or climb ing out of it.
The Division Bench in an equally reasoned Judgment, adverting to all the factual aspects of the case, upheld the Judgment of the learned Trial Judge and dismissed the appeal.
This argument, plausible though it may seem is fallacious because it does not take into account the policy of the state not to allow export of resin outside its territories but to allot in only for use in factories set up within the State.
We do not think that the provisions of the Bengal Public Parks Act have any relevance to the question of the power of the Government to transfer the Begumbari land to the Taj Group of Hotels.
We are unable to agree with the submission of Dr. Singhvi, learned counsel for the appellants, that the Gov ernment of West Bengal decided to grant the lease of the Begumbari land to the Taj Group of Hotels without applying their mind to very important relevant considerations.
She drew the Chief Minister 's attention to the fact that 'apart from ' reduction in the already inadecu ate space for the Zoological Garden construction of a Five Star Multystoreyed Building would disturb the inmates and adversely affect birds migration which was a great attrac tion. ' She also mentioned that the expert Committee of the Indian Board for Wild Life also unanimously disapprove the idea.
In R.D. Shetty vs International Airport Authority (supra).
In Kasturilal Lakshmi Reddy vs State of Jammu and Kash mir (supra), Bhagwati, J. again, speaking for the Court reiterated what had said earlier in R.D. Shetty vs Interna tional Airport Authority (supra).
" Section 4 enables the Government to make rules for the management, and preservation of any park, and for regulating the use thereof by the public.
from the land allotted to them to the Zoo.
This was noticed and mentioned in the note prepared for the consideration of the Cabinet and it was suggested that separate provision would have to be made for them.
In the face of all this material, we do not see how it can be seriously contended that the interests and the requirements of the Zoo were totally ignored and not kept in mind when the decision was taken to lease the land to the Taj Group of Hotels.
The relevant clause of the rule reads as below: "The Managing Committee shall have custody and disposal of the property and funds of the Gardens and shall be responsible for proper maintenance.
In the place of a dilapidated hospi tal, operation theater and the like, they constructed build ings anew at a cost of Rs.30 lakhs which amount they were entitled to be reimbursed under clause 25 of the lease, which they voluntarily gave up.
It is timeless.
The Committee 's objections were two fold: (1) A muliti storied building in the vicinity of the Zoo will disturb the 258 animals and the ecological balance and will affect the bird migration (2) the land was already used for various pur poses, that is, fodder cultivation, burial ground for ani mals, hospital, operation theatre, quarantine area, post martom room and nursery.
It contains five small structures 253 including a cage and a small veterinary labo ratory or dispensary.
It was suggested that the Government may consider abandoning the proposal to set up a hotel on the Eastern side of the Zoo.
It was further expressly stipulated as follows: "The Alipur Zoological Garden will continue to get the services and facilities from the existing essential structures which fall within the demarcated in the annexed sketch map till such time when these essential struc tures i.e. hospital and operation theatre are reconstructed on the adjacent land occupied by the Zoological Garden.
" I wish to delineate the parameters of public interest litigation concisely, against the background of the facts of this case, so that this salutory type of litigation does not lose its credibility.
This case goes by the name "Public Interest Litigation.
He expressed the apprehension that if four acres of land were to be given for construction of a hotel, then the entire hospital and the dumping ground would have to be removed and the southern boundary of the hotel would come very close to the residential block.
Subsequent to the filing of the Writ Petition, a lease deed was executed by the Taj Group of Hotels in favour of the Government.
Since the Hastings House property, was not found acceptable by the Taj Group, it was decided to negotiate with them in regard to construc tion of a Five Star Hotel on the Begumbari land.
In their writ petition or in course of their submissions before us the appellants did not try to make out a case of personal malice against the State Government or its Ministers and Civil Servants . . " The Division Bench held that the decision taken was neither unreasonable nor arbitrary and that taking away of four acres of land from the Zoo was not detrimental to public interest.
We are told that a total sum of Rs. 30 lakhs has now been spent by Taj Group of Hotels in connection with the reconstruction.
In Clause 25 of the lease dead, it is expressly stipulated that the lessee shall reconstruct the structures now existing on the demised land (as found in the sketch accompanying the deed) on the adjacent plot of land and that the plan, design, lay out, estimates, etc.
The letter of the Director of the Zoo was followed by a note by the Secretary of the Animal Husbandry Department suggesting that the practical problems of the Zoo should receive de tailed consideration and that the immediate transfer of the land to the hotel would mean discontinuance of the existing facilities.
Though that is the ordinary rule, it is not an invariable rule.
On the same day the Taj Group of Hotels wrote to the Government of West Bengal stating that the proposed land could be seriously considerd for construction of a Hotel.
Correspondence went on.
The submission was that neither the Cabinet memorandum of Janu ary 7, 1981 nor the Cabinet Memorandum of September 9, 1981 revealed that relevant considerations had been taken into account.
The terms and conditions of the lease were set out.
They agreed to build not the usual skyscrapper hotel, but a garden hotel, the height of which would not go beyond 75 feet, despite the fact that there existed in the surrounding area buildings which were very high.
No one had raised any objection when those building were constituted.
Public interest is the paramount consideration.
A modern zoo hospital for animals has been constructed in the remaining extent of Begumbari land replacing the old hospital which was housed in a semi dilapidated building.
Among other things the report also suggested various financial alterna tives and recommended the second alternative based on nett sales as the best.
The learned counsel for the appellants drew our atten tion to a letter written by Dr. Biswas to the Statesman dated August 3, 1982 in which he disowned having made any statement to a press correspondent by name, Bachi J Karkaria that the hotel posed no threat at all to the migratory flight path.
The first alternative was the payment of annual rent on the basis of the valuation of the land, the second alternative was based on the concept of nett sales, nett sales being defined as sales after deducting all taxes and levies and service charges.
It was said that the principles of Natural Justice had not been observed and that those who are most interested in the Zoological Garden were not heard in the matter before the decision was taken.
Originally the writ petition was filed by five persons.
In Rash Bihari Panda vs State of Orissa (supra) the Government offered the option to purchase kendu leaves to certain old contractors on the same terms as in the previous year.
The decision of the Govern ment was also wrong as it was apparently based on some assumptions which had been made without inquiry and verifi cation.
The hospital as we have already mentioned has since been conveniently and comfortably accommodated in a new building and the proposal is to move the dumping ground elsewhere.
In any case, it was necessary either to held a public auction or to invite tenders atleast from the limited class of persons interested in utilising the land for the purpose for which the land was proposed to be transferred.
" The Minister for Metropolitan Development submitted a note to the Chief Minister on the resolution of the Managing Committee of the Zoo.
Today public spirited litigants rush to Course to file cases in profusion under this attractive name.
The construction of a Five Star Hotel was too heavy a cost to pay for the environmental detriment caused by it.
The West Bengal Land Management Manual, 1977 is pub lished under the authority of the Board of Revenue, West Bengal.
We are part of the earth and it is part of us.
The proposition that a decision must be arrived at after taking into account all relevant considera tions.
A hundred and thirty two years ago, in 1854, 'the wise Indian Chief of Seattle ' replied to the offer of 'the great White Chief in Washington ' to buy their land.
The Finance Depart ment also approved.
Certain norms and procedures had to be observed and nothing could be done which would result in loss to the public exchequer.
It was about 700 feet from the main part of the lake.
We are unable to find any sub stance in the argument.
The Bengal Land Manual prescribed the procedure to be followed in the matter of transferring land belonging to the Government.
Negotiations with the I.T.D.C. did not fructify while negotiations with the Taj Group of Hotels fruitioned.
L.M. Singhvi S.K. Jain, I. Makwana, A.M. Singhvi, Sud hanshu Atreya and S .D.
It was stated that though the Forest Department had suggest ed that Salt Lake was a better place for establishing a Five Star Hotel, there was no demand for a Five Star Hotel in that area and the request for a hotel in Salt Lake was confined to a Three Star Hotel.
Even to lay persons like us who are no financial experts, it appears that the 'nett sales ' method does and the rent based on market value method does not take into account the appreciating value of land, the inflation ary tendency of prices and the profit orientation.
The Chief Minister also pointed out that the lessee and their experts on wild life has assured them that in any case adequate precaution would be taken in regard to illumination of the hotel and the layout of the surrendings so that no disturbance would be caused to the flight path of the birds or animals.
Even on a prima facie, there appears to be nothing wrong or objection able in the 'nett sales ' method.
The Chief Minister 's attention was expressly drawn to the Managing Committee 's first Resolution expressing its opposition to the proposal to give the land for the construction of a hotel and detailing the objections and the Chief Minister had expressly noted that all facili ties necessary for the Zoo would be provided by the Govern ment.
They were Shri Pushp Kumar, Director of the Hyderabad Zoo and Mrs. Anne Wright.
He mentioned that Dr. Biswas, a renowned ornithologist had also been consulted by the Taj Management and he had also confirmed that a 75 feet building would not interfere with the landing or climb ing out of the birds from the lake.
Such an 273 approach serves the larger public purpose of expanding welfare activities primarily for which Constitution envisages the setting up of a welfare State." In Chenchu Rami Reddy vs Government of Andhra Pradesh (supra) it was observed that public officials entrusted with the care of 'public property ' were required to show exem plary vigilance.
* * * * * *The Commit tee came to learn that a big hotel was pro posed to be constructed on the plot of land where fodder for elephant are being grown to meet at least a portion of the elephants food.
It was not so.
The conditions were mentioned as: "1st.
We have already explained why the choice of the Taj Group of Hotels must be held to be beyond suspicion and above reproach.
To abridge it or to quote extracts from it is to destroy its beauty.
The zoo proper is about 40 acres on the Western side, while the eastern part comprises the Zoo Hospital, audiovisual centre acquari um, Zoo store and Staff quarters.
On September 1, 1982, Smt.
On a 276 perusal of the records I find that the State Government had made available to the Court all the relevant documents so as to satisfy the Court about the propriety of its action.
The State may choose to do so, if it thinks fit and in a given situation, it may even turn to be advantageous for the State to do so, but if any private party comes before the State and offers to set up an industry, the State would not be commit ting breach of any constitutional or legal obligation if it negotiates with such party and agrees to provide resources and other facilities for the purpose of setting up the industry.
Dr. Singhvi cited before us the well known decisions of this Court in Rohtas Industries Ltd. vs S.D. Agarwal, ; ; Barium Chemicals vs A.G. Rana, ; and Mohinder Singh Gill vs Central Election Commission, to urge that even an administrative decision must be arrived at after taking into account all relevant considera tions and eschewing irrelevant considerations and that the reasons for an order must find a place in the order itself and those reasons cannot be supplemented later by fresh reasons in the shape of an affidavit or otherwise.
It may also be stated in this connection that the Zoo cannot be run for a single day without these essential services, i.e. (i) burial ground for dead animals, a number of which die of infectious and commu nicable diseases, (2) quarantine area for keeping animals coming to the Zoo, at least for 15 days before being shifted to the Zoo proper, (3) isolation wards away from Zoo Hospital and quarantine area for treatment of animals suffering from infectious and conta gious diseases.
Section 3 enables the State Government to extend by a notification, the boundaries of a park but that can only be for the pur poses of the Act and not for the purpose of vesting or creating any title in a property.
Our dead never forget this beautiful earth, for it is the mother of the *Reproduced verbatim from Pariyavaran Vol.
His appetite will devour the earth and leave behind only a desert.
The objections of the Managing Committee were first brought to the notice of the Minister for Metropolitan Development who submitted a note to the Chief Minister pointing out that even if four acres of land out of the eight acres of Begumbari land was given to the Taj Group, there would still remain sufficient land for accommodating the existing facilities.
Thereafter an expert Committee was consti tuted to supervise the construction Of alternative facili ties.
The inspection was made in the presence of the Direc tor of the zoo.
(4) post mortem room for carrying out p.m. findings, (5) dumping ground for dumping huge garbages coming out of the Zoo daily, (6) fodder cultivation area for growing fodder for the harbivorous animals and (7) pathological laboratory for carrying pathological tests of animals and birds.
The zoo is situated on the left bank of the Tolly 's Nallla divided with two parts on either said of the Alipore Road.
It was on September 10, 1981 that the Cabinet finally took the decision to lease the Begumbari land to the Taj Group.
It is worth quoting.
"As regards the objection that arise from the hotel itself from vehicular traffic to and from the hotel would disturb the birds, the hotel will be totally airconditioned so that no noise will emanate from it, while noise from the heavy traffic on Belvedere Road does not seem to have bothered the birds upto now.
238 red man.
Another term was that the Zoological Garden Committee would be suitably compensated for any expenditure incurred by it on the construction of any building on the land.
We may refer here to the resolution of the Wild Life Board to which a reference was made by the Prime Minister in her letter to the Chief Minister.
A note was then prepared by the secretary, Metropoli tan Development Department and put up to the Chief Minister for his approval.
He further assured her that he had himself gone thoroughly into the project with special reference to the possible impace on the birds and the environment and had satisfied himself that project would not caused any disturbance to the birds or their free movement.
" Presumably as a consequence of the letter from the Director of the Zoo there was a note by the Secretary, Animal Husbandry and Veterinary Services Department suggest ing the postponement of the implementation of the Cabinet decision till the necessary facilities then available at Begumbari land were shifted to other land of the same extent within a reasonable distance from the Zoological Garden, as 249 these facilities were originally linked with the Zoo.
He is no expert on the subject of public health and no one has complained that there would be any hazard to the health of those living in the staff quarters by the re location Of the hospital, etc.
Whenever the Government dealt with the public, whether by way of giving jobs or entering into contracts or issuing quotas or li cences or granting other forms of larges, the Government could not act arbitrarily at its sweet will but must act in conformity with standards or norms without being arbitrary, irrational or irrelevant.
The Metropolitan Development Department expressed a preference for the second alternative and sug gested the constitution of a Committee.
There is infact no provision which deals with the vesting of property in a park.
The learned 267 counsel invited our attention to several decisions of the court: Rash Bihari Panda vs State of Orissa, ; ; R.D. Shetty vs International Airport Authority, ; ; Kasturi Lal Laxmi Reddy vs State of Jammu & Kashmir, ; ; State of Haryana vs Jage Ram, ; Ram & Shyam Co. vs State of Haryana, and Chenchu Rami Reddy vs Government of Andhra Pradesh, [1986] 3 SCC 391.
The assurance was also conveyed to the Managing Com mittee through the amissaries of the Chief Minister.
The Government was anxious that more Five Star Hotels should be established at Calcutta and the Taj Group was willing to establish one.
It may be mentioned that this four acres of land proposed to be taken is the only area available there and it is presently covered by structures of hospital buildings, Research Laboratory, Operation Theatre, Segregation Wards, Quarantine areas, post mortem room, burial ground for dead animals.
The Commit tee was informed that now adays migratory birds were coming less in number though previ ously more foreign birds used to come here and in the opinion of the Managing Committee, the main reason for this was due to air and sound pollution.
This was passed by the majority of the members present, the President Justice Shri R.K. Banerjee dissenting.
On September 10, 1981 the Cabinet took the final decision to grant a ninety nine years lease of the Four acres of Begumbari land to the Taj Group of Hotels.
In appropriate cases, the Court may go further, but how much further must depend on the circum stances of the case.
The matter was taken in appeal.
The whole area is in sheckingly unkept condition, most of it cov ered by a single or spear grass and other wild growth.
The Chief Minister further drew the attention of the Prime Minister to the fact that the hotel was likely to be a six storeyed one and would not be the only tail building near the Zoo.
The WEBCON submitted further reports.
We may add here that the Taj Group of Hotels have spent a sum of Rs. 30 lakhs towards the cost of the new constructions, but that they have waived their fight to claim reimbursement from the Government.
It forms part of an area belonging to the State Government which the Zoo authorities have upto now been allowed to use to look after sick animals of the Zoo and as labour quarters.
What is important is that the Managing Committee of the Zoological Garden never doubted the authenticity of the documents nor was any question ever raised to suggest that the terms of the grant were other than those mentioned in the letters.
He added that the Managing Committee 's resolution was not binding on the Government and suggested that the Director of the Zoo might be asked to allow the Taj Group to undertake soil testing etc.
But, after hearing the lengthy arguments advanced, I ask myself the question whether this exercise could not have been avoided.
The reply is profound It is beautiful.
" With reference to the particular facts of the case, it was stated, "The argument of the petitioners was that at the auctions held in December, 1978, January 1979 and April 1979, the price of resin rea lised was as much as Rs. 484, Rs. 520 and Rs. 700 per quintal respectively and when the market price was so high, it was improper and contrary to public interest on the part of the state to sell resin to the second respondents at the rate of Rs. 320 per quintal under the impugned order.
In addition there are flower nursery, dumping ground and fodder cultivation area.
In the meanwhile, WEBCON, a West Bengal Government Consultancy Undertaking, was asked to examine the proposals and to advise the Government.
It is to be mentioned here that even by February 21, 1981 the proposal to lease out the Begumbari land to the Taj Group of Hotels had become public knowledge and newspapers carried reports on the same.
According to the learned counsel, the 'nett sales ' method of calculating the compensation payable to the Government for the lease of the land had totally sacrificed the State 's interests.
Be it noted that Belvedere Road is to the east of the lake.
But what is the position here? Did the Act deal with the land at all? The Begumbari land was given to the Zoological Garden by the Government in 1880.
In particular, the rules may regulate the admission into the park of persons, animals and vehicles, prohibit the causing of any manner of injury to the trees, plants, monuments, furniture etc.
She queried whether the Hotel could not be located elsewhere.
The proposal to lease the Begumbari land was public knowledge as we have seen.
Taj Group suggested further modifications.
But the appellants felt that public interest would be served better by moving this Court for reconsideration of the factual details.
" This public interest:litigation takes its birth, perhaps from the righteous indignation of the petitioners, against the State Government at their bartering away of four acres of land belonging to the Zoo to the Taj Group of Hotels.
These essential services cannot be accommodat ed within the campus of the main zoo for risk of spreading of infection to other animals of the zoo.
Accordingly, I am not inclined to stay this matter any further.
A reference was made to the Committee of Secretaries who negotiated with the Taj Group of Hotels.
It is impossible to agree with the submission that there was any failure to observe principles of Natural Justice.
An affidavit to that effect was also filed before the trial court.
In State of Haryana vs Jage Ram (supra), it was held that it was not open to the Excise Authorities to pick and choose a few persons only as the recipients of the notice of reauc tion.
We do not for a moment doubt the genuineness of the two documents which have been produced from old official records.
Dr. L.M. Singhvi, learned counsel for the appellants made the following submission before us; The Begumbari land was statutorily vested in the Managing Committee of the Zoological Garden and that the Committee could not be di vested by an executive decision without proper procedure being followed.
At that stage, the Government of West Bengal appeared to have been on the search for two suitable plots of land which could be offered, one to the I.T.D.C. and the other to the Taj Group of Hotels for the construction of Five Star Hotels.
But one is led to think that it poses a threat to courts and public alike.
From the Preamble and the provisions of the Act, it is clear that the Act is intended to protect the inmates and the property of the park from injury by persons resorting to the park and to protect persons resorting to the park from molestation or annoyance by others.
N.N. Gooptu, Dipanker Gupta P. Mondal, D.K. Sinha, J.R. Das, T. Ray.
Factors such as per sonal attachment, or affinity, kinship, empa thy, religious sentiment or limiting the choice to whom he may be willing to sell, may permit him to sell the property at a song and without demure.
It was mentioned in the letter that the construction of the hotel should not be started till the lease deed was executed and registered.
The subject which was discussed by the Expert Committee on September 25, 1981 was "Construction of a Five Star Hotel within the premises of Alipore Zoo in Calcutta." The proceedings of the Commit tee were recorded as follows: "Director, Geological Survey of India ex plained the whole matter and pointed out the utter impropriety of the decision of the Government of West Bengal to construct a FiveStar Hotel within the premises of Alipore Zoo in Calcutta.
A welfare State as the owner of the public property has no such freedom while disposing of the public property.
These persons and institutions had made several points, none of which had been taken into account by the Government before it took the decision to lease the land.
You cannot scratch a painting and not diminish its beauty.
On June 5, 1981, a Committee of Secretaries was formally constituted.
Therefore, it is clear that it was not forgotten that if the land was to be allotted to the Taj Group, separate provision would have to be made for whatever use the land was being put to them.
The writ petition is mainly based on the ground that the deci sion of the Government is arbitrary.
The question of the migratory birds was first raised in the resolution of the Managing Committee dated June 11, 1981.
The WEBCON submitted its report on July 14, 1981 and on the request of the Committee of Secretaries a further report was submitted on July 22, 1981.
The Committee resolved that construction of a multistories buildings in the near vicinity of the zoo will be highly detrimental to the animals of the Zoo, its ecological balance and adversely affect the bird migration which is one of the greatest attractions of the zoo.
in the park, prohibit shooting, bird testing etc.
This is a case where the decision and the reasons for the decisions can only be gathered by looking at the entire course of events and circumstances stretching over the period from the initiation of the proposal to the taking of the final decision.
" The Committee also referred to a proposal to establish a 'Subsidiary Zoo ' some slight distance from Calcutta City and the request said to have been made for the allotment of 200 acres of land for that purpose.
On January 15, 1982, the Government of West Bengal wrote to the Land Acqui sition Officer, with 250 copies to the Taj Group of Hotels, directing the Land Acqui sition Officer to give possession of the land to the Taj Group of Hotels subject to their later executing a proper long term lease.
"In view of the letter issued to the Zoologi cal Gardens, Alipore and the Cabinet decision regarding the land of Begumbari Compound and in consideration of the assurance conveyed through Shri Ashoka Bose, Chief Whip and Member that the State Government will give to the Garden adjacent lands and matching grants for the purposes of shifting of the Depart ments of the Zoo within the said compound, the members do not press their objections as contained in the resolution of the Managing Committee held on 11.6.81.
" On June 29, 1981, the Director of the Zoo wrote to the Secretary of the Animal Husbandry and Veterinary Services Department stating his objections to the Proposal to lease the land for construction of a hotel.
This calculation conveniently forgets that what is involved here is not the sale of the land but a lease by the Government, as a policy decision to the hotel group to start a Five Star Hotel, which according to the Government was a prime need to the city of Calcutta.
Fodder for elephants should not again be considered to be problem.
"The white man 's dead forget the country of their birth when they go to walk among the stars.
My learned brother has considered the facts in detail and the questions of law relevant for the purpose of this appeal.
He pointed out that the Metropolitan Development Department had not consulted the Animal Husbandry Department before the Cabinet note was prepared and circulated.
In this case, ultimately the hearing was not confined only in respect of the mate rials specified .in the petition and affida vits or annexure to the same, but the submis sions were based on the further documents and files produced before me mainly by the State and also some documents by the private re spondent being respondent No. 5.1 ought to point out that this is one of the exceptional cases where the State has made available to this Court all documents in connection with the proposal for lending over a piece of the State Government land to respondent No. 5 to enable them to construct a 5 star hotel in Calcutta.
The Bengal Parks Act, 1904 was enacted "to protect public parks and gardens in Bengal from injury and to secure the public from molestation annoyance while resorting to such parks and gardens.
It is wrong to think that everything that is not mentioned in the Cabinet Memo randa did not receive consideration by the Government.
After excluding Salt Lake and after considering some properties in Chowringhee, the Government felt that two properties, the Hastings House property and the Begumbari property could be thought of as meeting the requirements.
They could have moved the Government or taken other steps to expedite the starting of an additional Zoo with a larger extent which the Government promised.
He treats his mother, the earth, and his brother, the sky, as things to be bought, plundered, sold like sheep or bright beads.
The Secretary, Metropolitan Development Department made an endorsement on the letter to the effect that the Minister for Animal Husbandry and Veterinary services had himself visited the site.
It would be impossible, according to the Committee to accommodate these essential services within the campus of the main Zoo.
The report of WEBCON is a 246 comprehensive report on various topics connected with the establishment of a Five Star Hotel in Calcutta.
"* * * * * * Originally this zoo was on the outskirts of the City but the City has grown in such a fashion that the zoo has vertually become the City Centre and there is hardly any scope for its expansion.
They must inspire confidence in Courts and among the public.
They wanted a suitable plot for its construction.
