Soli J. Sorabjee, K.J. John and A.K. Desai for the Respondents.
" In Govind T. Jagtiani vs Sirajuddin section Kazi, (supra), Kanade, J. fol lowed the critical analysis of section 630 made by Kotwal, J. as above, and observed that the entitlement of an officer to the property of the company and the duration of such right would be co terminus with the terms of employment and the right would stand extinguished with the termination to the employment giving rise to an obligation to hand over the property back to the company, and observed: "If the property is held back, the retained possession would amount to wrongful withholding of the property of the company.
After the expiry of the said period of six months, the company addressed a letter dated April 26, 1985 requesting the petitioner to vacate the premises stating that if he failed to do so, he would be liable to pay higher compensation as per the company 's rules.
He had been allotted the premises of a flat, approximately 3,500 square feet in area, located at Mayfair Gardens, Little Gibbs Road, Bombay.
While the existence of the capacity, right and possession would be during employment, the withholding may be even after the termination of the employment and though the possession as it precedes the act of retention or withholding may be rightful in the past affording an 179 Opportunity to withhold, the withholding may be wrongful as in the present case.
The petitioner Baldev Krishan Sahi was an Under Secretary to the Government of India in the Ministry of Shipping & Transport and on May 21, 1974 accepted employment as Joint Manager in the Mogul Line Limited, a Government of India undertaking, after obtaining release from government service.
The learned Magistrate by his order dated May 22, 1986 took cognizance of the complaint against the petitioner and directed issue of process.
(b) with the capacity of creating penal liability 4 embracing the case of an existing employee or officer of the company.
The petitioner there was the General Manager of a company known as the English Electrical Company of India Limited, a company incorporated under the having its registered office at Calcutta.
Secondly, it is contended that the legislature never intended to include past officers and employees of a company within the ambit of section 630 of the Act which provides for prosecution of an officer or employee of a company for wrongfully withholding the property of the company inasmuch as it has used different languages where it was so intended, namely, in sections 538 and 545.
(1) of section 630 of the Act makes it an offence where any officer or employee of a company wrongfully withholds possession of 175 such property of the company.
(a) and (b) are separated by the word 'or ' which must in the context in which it appears be read as 'and ' and so construed, must mean withholding of property wrongfully obtained by an existing officer or employee.
He was first allotted a service quarter.
The first and foremost argument of learned counsel for the petitioner is that the provision contained in section 630 of the Act is a penal provision and therefore must be subject to a strict construction and there is no room for intendment.
(I) of section 630 of the Act which defeats the very purpose and object with which it had been introduced.
V.N. Ganpule for the Petitioner.
(1) for the contention that cl.
The issues involved in the special leave petition are of considerable importance to the corporate sector as many of the business organisations, both in the public as well as the private sector, are required to provide residential accommodation to their officers and employees as a condition of their service to attract better talent and have of necessity to purchase residential flats in multi storeyed buildings in large cities and towns for the use of such officers and employees during the course of their employment, and the question is whether the provisions contained in sub section
" The learned Judge (Ashok Agarwal, J.) observes that that has been the consistent view of the High Court and has referred to the subsequent decisions of Khatri j J. and Kurdukar, J.
It is asserted that the petitioner with a dishonest intention is wrongfully with holding the flat and has instituted false and frivolous proceedings with the ulterior object of protracting and delaying the eviction proceedings.
It is further pleaded that the petitioner was given the flat for his residence during the period of his employment and that he was bound to vacate the same after his retirement.
On a careful analysis of section 630 held that the provisions of the section apply not only to the present officers and employees of the company but also to past officers and employees, and observed: "It is held that the features and deductions which flow logically and inescapably on an analysis of section 630 are that: (i) Clause (a) of the section is self contained and independent of cl.
We are informed that the petitioner has been deliberately and dishonestly withholding the flat covering an area of 1750 square feet in Cuffe Parade which is a posh area, valued at approximately Rs.30 lakhs and putting it to his own use contrary to the terms of his employment.
The Estate officer by order dated December 2, 1985 directed the eviction of the petitioner.
(b) of sub section
Since the petitioner failed to vacate the flat, the company initiated proceedings for his eviction under the Public Premises (Eviction of Unauthorised occupants) Act, 1971.
P.S.S. Petition dismissed.
The facts were also identical as here.
(2) against such officer or employee.
(b) was wide enough to include former or past officer or employee of the company inasmuch as on a plain reading of the section the two clauses do not permit different interpretations, as suggested.
It is submitted that on a true construction, the scope and effect of the section was limited to such property of the company which was wrongfully obtained by an officer or employee of the company.
Instead of availing of that opportunity, the petitioner on March 3, 1986 moved the High Court by a petition under article 226 of the Constitution and obtained ad interim stay of the proceedings before the Estate officer.
(b) does not stand by itself but is inter connected with cl.
Kotwal, J.
In essence, the submission is that sub section
