Similarly section 13DD of the Act empowers the Central Government to constitute a Tribunal where it is of opinion that the Board constituted under section 13C of the Act has not been able to function effectively.
Though the 787 publication of these items by itself may not occupy a substantial part of a law report to make it a newspaper, the publication of the recent judgments itself is sufficient to make a law report a newspaper which may after some time cease to be a newspaper and become a book of reference.
The Ist respondent cannot derive any assistance from the deci 786 sion of the High Court of Bombay in Commissoner of Sales Tax vs M/s. Express Printing Press, AIR 1983 Bombay 191 in which the Bombay High Court held that the two publications by name `Jocker ' and `Jabara ' which contained predictions or forecasts of lucky numbers were not newspapers since those publications had nothing to do with any recent event which had taken place.
" Newspapers and books are no doubt shown as separate items but the distinction between them sometimes becomes very thin or totally vanishes.
The term `newspaper ' is usually applied (except so far as concerns the important class of trade newspapers) to publications devoted mainly to recording current events, and `periodicals ' to magazines, reviews, and journals which, in so far as they are concerned with current events at all, are concerned to comment rather than to report; but newspapers merge into advertising sheets, periodicals into books and pamphlets, and both into one another; . ." The expression "news" is not defined in the Act.
" It is significant that the expression `newspaper ' as defined in the Act includes not merely `public news ' but also `comments on public news '.
We find it also difficult to agree with the submission made on behalf of the Ist respondent that since the law reports are going to be preserved by the lawyers as reference books after getting them rebound subsequently they should be treated as books.
Several definitions of the expression "news" collected from the different dictionaries and digests have been cited before us.
The only question which remains to be 782 considered is whether they contain public news or comments on public news.
Therefore I am clearly of the opinion that the expression `public news ' is of sufficiently wide amplitude to cover the publications of both the petitioners in question.
In a catalogue of Russian papers for 1958 all the above categories of newspapers and periodicals have been included in addition to many others which deal exclusively with party affairs.
Tax on the sale or purchase of newspapers and on advertisements published therein.
In the course of the said report it is obversed thus: "In this connection the Press Registrar scrutinised reports published in certain foreign countries regarding their own Press and it was noticed that in the catalogues prepared by them specialised newspapers such as the one under consideration were not excluded from the list of newspapers.
But we are concerned in this case with the narrow question whether the six law reports which are being published by the Ist respondent are newspapers within the meaning of the Act and whether the employees engaged in their production or distribution are entitled to the benefit of the orders made by the Central Government on the basis of the recommendations of the Palekar Tribunal.
Its limits are ill defined, for there is no definition of either `newspaper ' or `periodical ' which enables each to be infallibly distinguished from the other and from publications which are properly speaking neither.
The Ist respondent, All India Reporter Limited, and other publishers of law reports in the interests of their own business vie with each other to publish the judgments of the Supreme Court or of the High Courts as early as possible in their law reports which are published periodically either weekly, fortnightly or monthly.
Initially the State of Maharashtra, the Commissioner of Labour and the Deputy Labour Commissioner, Nagpur had been impleaded as respondents.
The decisions of the Supreme Court and of the High Courts are almost as important as statutes, rules and regulations passed by the competent legislatures and other bodies since they affect the public generally.
It was urged before the High Court on behalf of the Ist respondent, All India Reporter Limited, that the law reports publised by it were not newspapers as defined in the Act and therefore the order made by the Central Government on the basis of the recommendations of Justice Palekar were not applicable to its establishment.
It reads thus: "The newspaper and periodical Press of Great Britain consists of over 4,000 publications ranging from newspapers famous throughout the world to the journals of obscure societies.
There is no dispute in the present case that the law reports are printed works and that they are periodicals.
The law reports which are being published by the Ist respondent are reports of recent decisions of the Supreme Court of India and of the High Courts in India which are supplied to it by its agents appointed at New Delhi and other places where High Courts are situated.
the High Court of Orissa held that the Cuttack Law Times was not a newspaper because according to it the necessary pre requisite of a periodical in order to make it a newspaper was that it should contain mainly publicnews or comments on public news and that books containing authoritative reports for future reference could, by no means, be said to contain news so as to become newspaper.
S.L. Appeal allowed.
Section 13AA and section 13DD of the Act came into force with effect from January 31, 1979.
It is by reading these law reports they come to know of the latest legal position prevailing in the country on any question decided in the decisions reported in the said reports.
Thereafter during the pendency of the Writ Petition the Indian Federation of Working Journalists and the All India Reporter Karamachari Sangh were impleaded as respondents in the writ petition.
In the Annual Report of the Registrar of Newspapers for India, 1957 there is an interesting discussion of certain specific cases in which the question whether the publications involved were newspapers or not.
In order to be a newspaper a work must be a (i) printed work; (ii) a periodical; and (iii) should contain public news or comments on public news.
In exercise of its powers under section 12 of the Act the Central Government accepted a part of the recommendations and made an order thereon on 26.12.1980 and accepted the remaining part of the recommendations and made another order thereon on 20.7.1981.
