It is now well established that the classification can be based on some qualities or characteristics of persons grouped together and not in others who are left out.
If there is any such determination by a Commission or Committee, the court should normally accept it.
The new recruits got the benefit of revision of scales, but not the petitioner.
He challenged that discrimination in this Court as being violative of the right to have equal pay for equal work.
But the different grade for persons of same even on seniority cum merit with same work and responsibility cannot amount to promotion.
The High Court directed that all Bench Secretaries irrespective of their grades should be given the pay scale admissible to Bench Secretaries Grade I with effect from October 1, 1975.
Article 39(d) of the Constitution proclaims "equal pay for equal work" .
Rule 18 deals with method of selection for all promotional posts.
And that violates the concept of equality which visualises that whatever condition are guaranteed and secured by law to one shall be guaranteed to owners who are of the same group or class.
Even if they have voluntarily accepted the employment on unequal terms, the State should not deny their basic rights of equal treatment.
vs UOI, WP No. 1230 of 1987 disposed of dt. 10.2.1988; Jaipal and Ors.
To the vast majority of the people the equality clauses of the Constitution would mean nothing if they are unconcerned with the work they do and the pay they get.
In Dhirendra Chamoli and Anr.
Thereunder Bench Secretaries Grade I and Grade II were classified as Class II and Class III posts respectively.
" The Anomalies Committee also thus rejected the claim of Bench Secretaries for placing them at par with Section Officers.
It cannot be denied that the quality of work performed by persons of longer experience is superior than the work of newcomers.
vs State of Haryana, WP No. 455 and connected petitions of 1987 of DD 2.6.1988 and Y.K. Mehta vs UOI, WP No. 1239 of 1979 and connected petitions DD 26.8.1988.
We cannot go against that opinion and indeed, we must accept that opinion.
" With these conclusions, the High Court quashed a part of the notification dated July 4, 1976 which created Bench Secretaries Grade I.
That is senior Bench Secretary although doing the same work as his junior became entitled to higher grade.
Keeping in view the fact that vacancies in Upper Division/Lower Division Assistants are filled up by promotion from Routine Grade Assistants, it is clear that this is a second promotion for those who come directly from Lower Division Assistants and a third promotion for those who are promoted first to Upper Division Assistant and then a Bench Secretary.
As observed by Hegde and Mukherjee, JJ.
No attempt was made to sustain the scales of pay for the post of Professor on the doctrine of classification because the classification of existing incum bents as being distinct and separate from newly recruited hand with flimsy change in essential qualification would be wholly irrational and arbitrary.
It was observed (at 628): PG NO 302 "It must be remembered that in this country where there is so much unemployment,the choice for the majority of people is to starve or to take employment on whatever exploitative terms are offered by the employer.
We may make it clear that this decision of ours shall not affect the Bench Secretaries to get that pay scale accordingly with effect from January 1, 1986.
The High Court has completely overlooked the criterion provided under the Rules The merit governs the grant of higher pay scale and that merit will be evaluated by a competent authority.
Second, this principle has no mechanical application in every case of similar work.
After the argument was concluded in this appeal, counsel on both sides brought to our attention that the State Government has granted uniform pay scale of Rs.1600 2950 to both the grades of Bench Secretaries with effect from January 1, 1986.
If it has a rational nexus with the object to be sought for, as reiterated before a certain amount of value judgment of the administrative authorities who are charged with fixing the pay scales has to be left with them and it cannot be interfered with by the Court unless it is demonstrated that either it is irrational or based on no basis or arrived mala fide either in law or in fact.
The Bench Secretaries, therefore, cannot claim as of right the pay scale admissible to Section Officers.
It makes no difference whether they are appointed in sanctioned posts or not.
With regard to rule framed by the Chief Justice for the purpose of promotion to Bench Secretary Grade I, thee High Court said: "Rules were made not because the Court agreed with the classification of Bench Secretaries in Group I and Group II PG NO 298 but because of the Government order dated July 2, 1976.
They demanded parity in their wages, and allowances with those of regular and permanent employees of the Department on the basis of performing similar work.
No other basic or qualification or test or be it was laid down.
The question is whether there could be two scales of pay in the same cadre of persons performing the same or similar work or duties.
It must be determined by expert bodies like Pay Commission.
This Court while granting relief to the workmen observed (at 642) : "The Central Government, the State Government and likewise, all public sector undertakings are expected to function like model and enlightened employers and arguments such as those which were advanced before us that the principle of equal pay for equal work is an abstract doctrine which cannot be enforced in a court of law should ill come from the mouths of the State and State Undertakings.
It is pertinent to all such cases.
It is the duty of the State to see that the under privileged or weaker sections get their dues.
So long as they are performing the same duties, they must receive the same salary and conditions of service as class IV employees.
More often functions of two posts may appear to be the same or similar, but there may be difference in degrees in the performance.
