In the circu m stances of the case, however, there shall be no order as to costs.
We are further of the opinion that it is not a fit case for initiating any proceedings for contempt again st the respondents.
No formal foundation has been raised in t he pleadings in the writ petition in support of the grou nd based on Article 16 of the Constitution.
" It is against this judgment that Civil Appeal No. 441 of 1981 was preferred in this Court.
With regard to the circular dated 6 th November, 1962 the learned Judges took the view that it w as difficult to read in that circular any intention or delibe r ation on the part of the Director General of Ordnance Fact o ries that as soon as two years were completed by a diplo ma holder in the Grade of Supervisor 'A ' there would be an automatic promotion to the post of Chargeman Il.
This circumstance by itself is sufficient to indicate that when Civil Appeal No. 441 of 1981 was heard by this Court either the subsequent ord er dated 28th December, 1965 as well as the circular dated 20 th January, 1966 and the legal consequences flowing therefr om were not brought to the notice of the learned Judges by t he learned counsel for the respondents, or the same was n ot properly emphasised, the judgment dated 2nd February, 19 81 being completely silent on the point and the appeal w as allowed only on the ground that some Supervisors having be en promoted as Chargeman II on expiry of 2 years of the ir service in view of the circular dated 6th November, 1962 t he non promotion of the appellants was discriminatory being in violation of Article 16.
Apparently, after t he coming into force of the 107 order dated 28th December, 1965 and the circular dated 20 th January, 1966 promotions could not be made just on compl e tion of 2 years ' satisfactory service under the earli er circular dated 6th November, 1962 the same having be en superseded by the later circular.
The right to promotion on the oth er hand was to be governed by the Rules.
Having heard learned counsel for the parties we fi nd substance in the submission made by the learned counsel f or the respondents.
The Judgment of the Court was delivered by OJHA, J.
Petition No. 596 of 1978 had disallowed t he relief for the petitioners of that writ petition bei ng treated as Chargeman II on completion of two years ' servi ce as Supervisor 'A ' by its order dated 16th April, 1979 as is apparent from the said judgment dated 4th April, 1983 b ut the subse 106 quent writ petitions which seem to have been filed after t he decision of this Court dated 2nd February, 1981 in Civ il Appeal No. 441 of 1981 were allowed in view of the aforesa id decision of this Court.
In oth er words it resulted in delayed chance of promotion.
If there is a conflict between the executive instructions and the rul es made under the proviso to Article 309 of the Constitution of India, the rules made under the proviso to Article 309 of the Constitution of India prevail, and if there is a co n flict between the rules made under the proviso to Artic le 309 of the Constitution of India and the law made by t he appropriate Legislature, the law made by the appropria te Legislature prevails.
vs The State of Mah a rashtra & Ors.; , that in the absence of legislative Rules it was competent to the State Governme nt to take a 103 decision in the exercise of its executive power under Art i cle 162 of the Constitution.
In paragraph 2(i) it has be en stated that during 1962 63 due to sudden expansion of Or d nance Factories Organisation in the wake of Chinese aggre s sion a large number of posts of Chargeman 11 and other pos ts were created and as a result thereof persons already in service as Supervisors 'A ' were promoted to the posts of Chargeman II on completion of 2 years ' service.
The matter has been consider ed in a recent decision of this Court in the case of Union of India & Ors.
Nothing substantial has been brought to our notice on beha lf of the petitioners on the basis of which the aforesa id statements made in the counter affidavit may be doubted.
or equivalent grades.
The requirements of rule 8 in brief have already been indicated above.
The petitioners in the aforementioned wr it petitions claim to have been appointed as Supervisors Gra de 'A ' in various ordnance factories between 1962 to 1966 a nd have filed these writ petitions with the prayer that t he same relief may be granted to them also as was granted by this Court to 75 appellants in Civil Appeal No. 441 of 19 81 vide its order dated 2nd February, 1981.
The grievance of the petitio n ers, however, is that this promotion tantamounts to impl e mentation of the order of this Court dated 2nd Februar y, 1981 only on paper inasmuch as they have not been grant ed the difference of back wages and promotion to higher pos ts on the basis of their back date promotion as Chargeman I I.
We see no justific a tion for any such differential treatment being given to t he appellants.
This right was co n ferred by Rule 7 which inter alia provides that subject to the exception contained in Rule 11, vacancies in the pos ts enumerated therein will normally be filled by promotion of employees in the grade immediately below in accordance wi th the provisions of Rule 8.
T he learned Single Judge, however, did not go into the merits of the controversy and dismissed the writ petition on t he ground of unexplained laches and also on the ground that a previous petition for similar relief had not been presse d. Against the 98 judgment of the learned Single Judge the appellants pr e ferred a special appeal before a Division Bench of th at Court.
At this place it will be usef ul to refer to an affidavit dated 19th November, 1983 of D. P. Gupta, who is one of the appellants in Civil Appeal No. 4 41 of 1981, filed in C.M.P. Nos.
We Therefore direct that the concerned authoriti es will consider the cases of the appellants for promotion as Chargeman Grade II and promote them to the said posts unle ss they are found to be unfit.
9522 27 of 1983 it has been pointed o ut that employees who had joined much later than 20th Januar y, 1966, namely, the date of the subsequent circular of t he Director General of Ordnance Factories superseding h is earlier circular dated 6th November, 1962, have also g ot benefit under the orders of this Court dated 2nd Februar y, 1981 aforesaid as also under the orders of the Madhya Pr a desh High Court dated 4th April, 1983 in the writ petiti on filed before that Court.
A rule which merely affects chances of promoti on cannot be regarded as varying a condition of service.
vs State of Mysore & Ors., 82 and Sant Ram Sharma vs State of Rajasthan & Anr.
Accordi ng to the learned Judges such a view would militate again st Rule 12 of the Rules mentioned above.
The three civ il miscellaneous petitions referred to above on the other ha nd have been made by the appellants of Civil Appeal No. 441 of 1981 asserting that the direction given by this Court on 2 nd February, 1981 has not been complied with in the manner as it ought to have been by the respondents and they should be consequently required to comply with the said direction.
They were thereaft er promoted as soon as vacancies became available and th at during the period that they were on the approved panel no person junior to them or of equal seniority superseded the m.
T he petitioners are also entitled to get their present sala ry re fixed after giving them notional seniority so that t he same is not lower than those who are immediately bel ow them.
It appears th at the criterion of promotion is seniority cum merit.
Sd/ K.G. Bijlani ADGOF/Est.
The prayer made in Civil Miscellaneo us Petition No. 3325 of 1987 is for the issue of an inter im order restraining the respondents from making any furth er promotions during the pendency and final heating of t he miscellaneous petition and for initiating contempt procee d ings.
With regard to the plea based on Artic le 16 of the Constitution.
29.6.65.
It was urged that in case the sa me relief is not granted to the petitioners they are likely to become juniors to some of the appellants in Civil Appeal N o. 441 of 1981 and the petitioners in the writ petitions deci d ed by the Madhya Pradesh High Court on 4th April, 1983.
