the date of assumption if it is not terminated earlier by giving a one month 's notice by the Hon 'ble Gover nor or on paying one month 's salary in lieu thereof or by giving one month 's notice, by the Officer.
" The respondent was required to furnish his acceptance of the terms and conditions contained in the said order includ ing the above term relating to the period of appointment and on his accepting the terms and conditions he was appointed as the Secretary in the District Soldiers Board in the district of Unnao in the State of Uttar Pradesh '.
243 The respondent who was not satisfied by the order allow ing the Writ Petition as stated above preferred a Review Petition before the High Court contending that he was enti tled to be reinstated in service on the pronouncement of the Judgment on 24.3.
The relevant part of the last of such orders, namely, the order dated 1st June, 1983 reads as follows: "Sir, With reference to your letter No. 1020/Sa.
The respondent aggrieved by the said order of termina tion filed a Writ Petition on the file of the High Court of Allahabad in Writ Petition No. 3 164 of 1985.
It is not necessary to set out all the reasons given by the High Court for setting aside the order of termination.
Even the order passed on Review on 26.7.1988 does not make out that the respondent had put forward at that stage such a case.
T.N.A. Appeal allowed.
His only case was that the interim order that had been passed on 10.7.86 entitled him to be reinstated in service even though there was no order of extension of service.
We, however, make it clear that what we have stated above does not affect in any way what the High Court has stated in the penultimate paragraph of the Judgment dated 24.3.1988 which reads thus: "It is open for the opposite parties to con sider the claim of the petitioner for continu ation in service or the fresh appointment and no observations in this regard are being made by this Court.
The order passed on review is wholly unsustainable.
