In the instant case the levy is made under a law made by the Central Gov ernment.
Under rule 18 of the Rules the period of lease in the case of the minor minerals can be for a much longer period, it can be upto 10 years in respect of minor minerals except in the case of ordinary sand, Kankar, Mur ram, Gravel and in the case of Kankar, Murram and gravel a lease can be granted upto three years, and the area or land covered by a mining lease is governed by rule 15 which says that no quarry lease shall be granted for an area exceeding 10 hectares in case of specified minor mineral and 20 hec tares in the case of other minerals.
We do not, therefore, find any substance in the above conten tion.
We have taken this view after going through the observations made by this Court in Trivedi 's case (supra) at page 544 where this Court has observed that where a statute confers discretion ary powers upon the executive or an administrative authori ty, the validity or constitutionality of such power cannot be judged on the assumption that the executive or such authority will act in an arbitrary manner in the exercise of the discretion conferred upon it.
We do not also find much substance in the contention that the levy in question is unreasonably heavy and has been imposed in an arbitrary manner.
We do not, therefore, find any substance in any of the contentions urged before us.
He con tended that the concession shown in favour of Parwana hold ers was discriminatory and violative of Article 14.
(2) Until rules are made under sub section (1), my rules made by a State Government regulating the grant of (quarry leases, mining leases or other mineral concessions) in re spect of minor minerals which are in force immediately before the commencement of this Act shall continue in force.
Whoever is given an exclusive right to exploit a mine will have to pay some amount by way of return to the Govern ment of India as authorised by entry 50 of List II of the 7th Schedule to the Constitution.
It is not an imposition made by a law made by the State Legislature on which alone the restriction contemplat ed under Article 304(b) applies.
The compe tent officer may grant such Parwana in the following priorities: (a) Individual families to Khanias belonging to the Scheduled Castes or the Scheduled Tribes, who do physical work I of excavating minor mineral in the area applied for. 415 (b) Individual families of 'Khanias ' who do physical work in excavating minor minerals in the area applied for.
Having regard to the broad policy underlying the Constitution if a concession is shown in favour of the poor and the down trodden, it cannot be said that the exemption or concession is invalid.
(c) New individual Khanias who do physical work in excavating minor minerals in any other areas.
We do not find that clause (b) of Article 304 has any relevance on the point in question.
Re cently a Constitution Bench of this Court has held in The India Cement Ltd. etc.
