On 21.10.1975, the appellant is stated to have pressed the demand to PW 1.
The order made was not disclosed to PW 1 and till 22.10.1975, the file itself was kept by the appellant in his personal custody.
This was on the basis of a complaint made by the appellant that the food served in the canteen was substand ard.
This conduct of the appellant is clearly incon sistent with the transaction of loan or return of money by PW 1. 338 This Court observed in Dhanvantrai Balwantrai Desai vs State of Maharashtra, AIR 1964 SC 575 as under: "Where any gratification (other than legal gratification) or any valuable thing is proved to have been received by an accused person the court is required to draw a presumption that the person received that thing as a motive of reward such as is mentioned in section 161, I.P.C. Therefore, the Court has no choice in the matter, once it is established that the accused person has received a sum of money which was not due to him as a legal remuneration.
The burden resting on the accused person in such a case would not be as light as it is where a presumption is raised under section 114 of Evidence Act and cannot be held to be discharged merely by reason of the fact that the explanation offered by the accused is reasonable and probable.
The appellant had taken food in the canteen for two days and being dissatisfied discontinued the practice before the notice was issued.
PW 1 handed over the money to the appellant who received the same.
A fact is said to be proved when its existence is directly established or when upon the material before it the Court finds its existence to be so probable that a reasonable man would act on the supposition that it exists.
He had thereafter received the amount of Rs. 100 from PW 1.
The learned counsel appearing for the appellant, however, maintained that the appellant had a consistent case even from the earliest opportunity that the currency notes found in his possession was the money returned by PW 1, the cir cumstances of the case would probabalise this case of the appellant and the presumption, if any, arising under section 4 is rebutted and the conviction cannot therefore be sus tained.
PW 1 affirmed the fact that the appellant made the demand and had also received the amount on 22.10.
PW 6 conducted the phenolphthalein test with reference to the fingers of the appellant.
P 2 memo had been issued on the basis of the complaint received from the appellant that on getting the explanation from PW 1 he on 18.10.1975 itself passed orders and closed the file.
PW 3, the Principal has averred in unequivocal terms that Ex.
The words 'unless the contrary is proved ' which occur in this provision make it clear that the presumption has to be rebutted by 'proof ' and not by a bare explanation which is merely plausible.
it must further be shown that the explanation is a true one.
From the Judgment & Order dated the 27.10.1979 of the Madras High Court in Crl.
At the trial, the prosecution witnesses supported the case.
The appellant has reiterated the contentions before us.
We find no merit in the appeal.
It was also urged that the appellant being new in the office could exert little influence on the Principal and the whole story is, therefore improbable.
