He submitted that if the tenants had filed a suit for declaration that the order passed in the earlier proceedings as a nullity that would have been bound to fail.
The present appeal, by Special Leave granted on 3.7.
The Division Bench observed: " . .
Section 97(3) of the Amendment Act declares that the new provi sion applies to pending suits, proceeding, appeals and applica tions.
We, therefore, answer the first question posed by us in the affirmative.
Thereafter, it cannot be within the exclusive jurisdiction of the Reve nue court, and the decision of such a dispute by a revenue court cannot be binding in a civil court.
Under Rule 12(2) he is required to decide applications by recording a brief note of the evidence of parties and 561 witnesses and decide matters after giving the parties an opportunity to state their case: more or less, in the manner in which a Court of Small Causes decides cases before it.
Can it possibly be said that the finding of the revenue court on the issue of adop tion is binding on the parties in a subsequent suit in a civil court in which the validity of the adoption might fall to be decided? There can be no doubt about the answer.
So also, in an application under section 4, the jurisdiction of the Rent Controller is to determine a fair or standard rent for the premises.
1947 relating to Door No. 3 (Item 2 in Schedule A to the plaint) covered an area of 8700 sq.
Reliance was also placed on section 92 of the Indian Evidence Act.
It is the quantum of fair rent that arises for deter mination by the Rent Controller.
The Supreme Court, however, reversed the judgment of the High Court.
For instance, the "owner" may claim title under an adoption or a will or a trust deed or a gift deed and there may be contentious claims among several persons which it will not be possible for the Rent Controller to decide.
After referring to the terms of the sale deed (exhibit P 3), the superstructure constructed on the land was held to have been conveyed to the vendee under the sale deed dated 30 7. 1953 and to have thus vested in the LIC.
At that stage, therefore, the respondents could not have hoped to succeed even if their stand that they were the owners of the superstructure had been accepted.
The tenants wanted to contend in reply that the village in question was an "estate" within the meaning of the Act and they had occupancy rights therein.
We are concerned with the jurisdiction of a civil court.
We do not think mat these contentions have any force.
It was only this limited aspect eviction on the ground of non bona fide denial of title that was under consideration of the Court under section 10(2)(vii) of the Act read with the proviso to section 10(1) and the Court 's observa tions on the question of title were one on a collateral issue.
" After reference to certain other decisions of the Court, it was observed: "If a lessor brings a suit for eviction, he is to prove the existence of a lease, the relationship of lessor and lessee between himself and the defendant and the determination of the lease.
If he fails to prove this, the plaint is not returned because the suit is one which the Court has no jurisdiction to entertain; but the suit is dismissed as revealing no cause of action . .
We do not, therefore, think that the 1969 decision can be an effective answer to the appellant 's contention based on the 1967 decision.
, It arose under the Madras Estates Land Act (1 of 1908).
The High Court held that the sale deed and rent note were sham documents, that the decrees of the Court of Small Causes did not operate as res judicata and that section 92 of the Indian Evidence Act did not preclude the respondent from establishing the true nature of the transac tion.
The plaintiffs, however, objected that this plea was not open to the tenant in view of the earlier decision of Revenue Divisional Officer.
For deciding these issues, he may have no doubt also to consider the oral and documentary evidence adduced by the parties.
(7) We may lastly refer to the decision of this Court in State of Tamil Nadu vs Ramalinga Samigal Madam and Ors., [1985] 4 SCC.
These documents were executed on January 7, 1953, but the respondent contin ued in the possession of the house property throughout.
The rent authorities cannot grant the reliefs of declaration of occupancy rights.
Thirdi.v, even assuming 'the argument of learned counsel to be correct, all that can be said is that, in the second set of proceedings, the tenants could have contended that it was not open to the Court of Small Causes to go into the question of title in view of the decision in the first set of proceedings.
Sri Parasaran also sought to explain the reasons why the respondents did not prefer any appeal or revision from the order of the Court of Small Causes in H.R.A. 534/66 He submitted that the law then prevalent in Tamil Nadu as laid down in the decisions of the Madras High Court in Palaniappa Chettiar and Others vs Vairavan Chettiar, [1963] 76 L.W. 21 and Palaniappa Chettiar vs Babu Sahib alias Sheik Mytheen Sahib and Others, [1964] 77 L.W. 551, was that the Rent Control Act would apply even in cases where the landlord had leased out only a vacant site and the tenant had put up his own construction thereon.
There is nothing in the Tamil Nadu Rent Control Act which, in any way, takes away, or narrows down, the civil court 's juris diction as, for example, there is in the Delhi Rent Control Act (section 50).
The trial Judge rejected the application holding that question of the applicability of the Act was res judicata since it had been finally decid ed by the High Court between the same parties in respect of the same land in the earlier proceeding for fixation of standard rent.
A tenant shall not be evicted whether in execution of a decree or otherwise except in 560 accordance with the provisions of this section or sections 14 to 16: Provided that nothing contained in the said sec tions shall apply to a tenant whose landlord is the Govern ment: Provided further that where the tenant denies the title of the landlord or claims right of permanent tenancy, the Controller shall decide whether the denial or claim is bona fide and if he records a finding to that effect, the landlord shall be entitled to sue for eviction of the tenant in a Civil Court and the Court may pass a decree for evic tion on any of the grounds mentioned in the said sections, notwithstanding that the Court finds that such denial does not involve forfeiture of the lease or that the claim is unfounded.
In a suit by a landlord against his tenant for eviction, the determination of the tenancy is merely one of the constituents of the cause of action that the landlord has to prove against his tenant in order to succeed in the suit.
Since the relationship is denied by the landlord, the Rent Con troller had decided that question incidentally.
It came to the conclusion that exhibit P 1 did not, in law, create a valid lease between the co owners and the tenants.
P. Kondalamma and another, AIR 1983 AP 2 19.
We think that this contention is well founded.
Per contra, he may reach the conclusion on the materials before him that the landlord has no title; yet, it seems, if he finds that the applicant is otherwise a landlord and that the grounds on which the tenant 's denial was based were not bona fide, he will have to order eviction.
It will not be open to the civil court to re determine the rent payable by the tenant to the landlord because that is a matter squarely and exclusively within the jurisdiction of the Rent Controller and, therefore, impliedly excluded from the purview of the civil court.
It cannot be described as a matter that is squarely and directly in issue in these proceedings to which any finality can be attached, as the Rent Control ler, by deciding the issue wrongly, cannot clothe himself with jurisdiction where none exists.
Where a fair rent is fixed by a Controller, the Rent Control Act does not provide for a machinery for recovery of the amount.
if such application raises between the same parties or between parties under whom they or any of them claim.
All that the Rent Controller has to do is to satisfy himself that the person seeking eviction or fixation of fair rent is a "landlord" who has, prima facie, ' the right to receive the rents of the property in question.
In deciding whether the decision constitutes res judicata or not, we are not entitled to go into the correctness of that decision.
However, if the property is an inam village, whether the "inam village" is an "inam estate" is, within his exclusive jurisdiction and in regard to it the jurisdic tion of the Civil Courts is clearly barred.
The order was confirmed by the first appel late court and on fur*her appeal by the High Court.
There is no doubt that, since an application for this purpose cannot lie except at the instance of a landlord or a tenant, the Rent Controller has to deal with this incidentally but this is not one of the direct issues before the Rent Controller.
