Criminal Appeal No. 400 of 1979.
From the Judgment and Order dated 27.4.79 of the Madras High Court in Criminal Misc.
" Thus, the definition of a public servant is very wide enough to include Judges of the Supreme Court as well as Judges of the High Court.
Section 77 of the Indian Penal Code provides immunity to the Judges in respect of any act done by a Judge when acting judicially in the exercise of any power which is, or which in good faith he believes to be, given to him by law.
The next question is whether a judge of the Supreme Court or a Judge of High Court including the Chief Justice of the High Court can be prosecuted for having committed the offence of criminal misconduct as referred to in clause (e) of sub section 1 of section 5 of the Prevention of Corrup tion Act, 1947.
The extraordinary power which the Constitution has conferred on the President by article 222(1) cannot be exercised in a manner which is calculated to defeat or destroy in one stroke the object and purpose of the various provisions conceived with such care to insulate the judiciary from the influence and pressures of the executive.
, AIR 1982 (SC) 149.
"The concept of independence of judiciary is a noble concept which inspires the Constitutional Scheme and constitute the foundation on which rests the edifice of our democratic polity.
namely fearlessness of other power centres economic or political, and freedom from prejudices acquired and nourished by the class of which the Judges belong.
If we may again quote the eloquent words of Justice Krishna Iyer: "Independence of the judiciary is not genuflexion; nor is it opposition to every proposition of Government.
It is neither judiciary made to opposition measure nor Government 's pleasure.
221 The tyceon, the communalist, the parochialist, the faddist, the extremist and radical reactionary lying coiled up and sub consciously shaping judicial menrations are menaces to judicial independence when they are at variance with parts III and IV of the Paramount Parchment".
Judges should be of stern stuff and tough fibre, unbending before power, economic or political, and they must uphold the core principle of the rule of law which says "Be you ever so high, the law is above you.
" This is the principle of independence of the judi ciary which is vital for the establishment of real participatory democracy, maintenance of the rule of law as a dynamic concept and delivery of social justice to the vulnerable sections of the community.
It is this princi ple of independence of the judiciary which we must keep in mind while interpreting the relevant provisions of the Constitution.
The third most crucial question that fails for consider ation in this case is who is the competent authority to remove a Judge either of the, Supreme Court or of the High Court from his office in order to enable that authority to grant sanction for prosecution of the Judge under the provi sions as enjoined by Section 6 of the Prevention of Corrup tion Act, 1947.
Section 6 has been couched in negative terms to the following effect: "No Court shall take cognizance of an offence punishable under Section 16 1 or Section 164 or Section 165 of the Indian Penal Code (45 of 1860), or under sub section (2) or sub section (3A) of Section 5 of this Act, alleged to have been committed by a public servant, except with the previous sanction, . (c) in the ease of any other person, of the authority competent to remove him from his office.
In order to launch a prosecution against a Judge either of the Supreme Court or of the High Court or the Chief Jus tice of the High Court previous sanction of the authority competent to remove a Judge from his office is mandatorily required.
The question, therefore, arises who is the author ity competent to grant sanction.
The Judge of the Supreme Court or the Judge of the High Court is appointed under the provisions of Article 124 or under the provisions of Article 217 respec 222 tively.
A Judge of the Supreme Court shall be appointed by the President by the warrant under his hand and seal after consultation with such Judges of the Supreme Court and of the High Court in the State as the President may deem neces sary for the purpose and shall hold office until he attains the age of 65 years.
Similarly, a Judge of the High Court shall be appointed by the President by the warrant under his hand and seal after consultation with the Chief Justice of India, the Governor of the State, and in case of an appoint ment of the Judge other than the Chief Justice, the Chief Justice of the High Court and shall hold office except in the case of an additional judge till he attains the age of 62 years.
It is, therefore, evident that a Judge of the Supreme Court as well as a Judge of the High Court is a constitutional functionary as has been observed by this Court in the decisions cited hereinbefore and to maintain the independence of the judiciary and to enable the Judge to effectively discharge his duties as a Judge and to maintain the rule of law, even in respect of lis against the Central Government or the State Government.
The Judge is made total ly independent of the control and influence of the executive by mandatorily embodying in article 124 or article 217 that a Judge can only be removed from his office in the manner provided in clause (4) and (5) of article 124.
Thus, a Judge either of the High Court or of the Supreme Court is inde pendent of the control of the executive while deciding cases between the parties including the Central Government and State Government uninfluenced by the State in any manner whatsoever.
It is beyond any pale of doubt that there is no master and servant relationship or employer and employee relationship between a Judge of the High Court and the President of India in whom the executive power of the Union is vested under the provisions of Article 53 of the Consti tution.
The President has not been given the sole power or the exclusive power to remove a Judge either of the Supreme Court or of the High Court from his office though the Presi dent appoints the Judge by warrant under his hand and seal after consultation with such of the Judges of the Supreme Court and of the High Court in the States as he may deem necessary for that purpose and in case of the appointment of the Judge of the High Court, the President appoints a Judge by warrant under his hand and seal after consultation with the Chief Justice of India, the Governor of the State and in a case of appointment of a Judge other than the Chief Jus tice, the Chief Justice of the High Court.
The only mode of removal of a Judge from his office on the ground of proved misbehaviour or incapacity is laid down in clauses (4) and (5) of Article 124.
It is has been eloquently and vehemently urged on behalf of the appellant that since the Judge of the Supreme Court as well as of the High Court is a constitu tional functionary and 223 there is no employer and employee relationship or master and servant relationship between the Judge and the President of India and for that the Central Government or the State Government there is no authority to remove the Judge from 'his office by the executive except by taking recourse to procedure of impeachment as envisaged in Article 124(4) and (5) of the Constitution of India.
It has been further urged in this connection that if it is assumed that the President has the power to remove a Judge of the Supreme Court or of the High Court from his office it will do away with the independence of the judiciary and will being the judiciary under the control of the executive indirectly in as much as under Article 74 of the Constitution of India, the President while exercising his executive power has to act on the aid and advice of the Council of Ministers with the Prime Minis ter at the Head, as has been held by this Court in Shamsher Singh & Anr.
vs State of Punjab, ; and S.P. Gupta & Ors. etc.
vs Union of Inida & Ors. etc.
It has been, therefore, urged that Section 6(i)(C) of the Prevention of Corruption Act, 1947 is not applicable to the case of a Judge of the Supreme Court or of the High Court No prosecution can be launched against a Judge of the Supreme Court or of the High Court under the provisions of the said Act except in the mode envisaged in Article 124, clauses 4 and 5 of the Constitution for removal of the Judge.
The FIR in question, which has been lodged against the appellant should be quashed and set aside Section 2 of the Prevention of Corruption Act denotes a public servant as defined in Section 21 of the Indian Penal Code (45 of 1860).
It has been noticed hereinbefore that the third clause particularly of Section 21 of the Indian Penal Code includes every Judge including any person empowered by law to dis charge whether by himself or as a member of any body of persons any adjudicatory functions.
Therefore a Judge of the High Court or of the Supreme Court comes within the defini tion of public servant and he is liable to be prosecuted under the provisions of 'the Prevention of Corruption Act.
It is farthest from our mind that a Judge of the Supreme Court or that of the High Court will be immune from prosecu tion for criminal offences committed during the tenure of his office under the provisions of the Prevention of Corrup tion Act.
In these circumstances the only question to be consid ered is who will be the authority or who is the authority to grant sanction for prosecution of a Judge of the High Court under section 6(1)(c) of the said Act.
The Judge as a con stitutional functionary being appointed by the President can only be removed by mandatory procedure provided under Arti cle 124 of the Constitution and in no other manner.
The has been enacted by Parliament to regulate 224 the procedure for the investigation and proof of the misbe haviour or incapacity of a Judge of the Supreme Court under clause (5) of subsection 1 of Article 124 of the Constitu tion.
The Judges (Inquiry) Rules, 1969 have been framed under section 7(4) of the .
The said Act and the Rules made thereunder only provide for removal of a Judge on the ground of proved misbehaviour or inability.
It does not provide for prosecution of a Judge for offences under section 5(1)(e) of the Prevention of Corruption Act.
It is apropos to mention in this connection that in England, before the full development of ministerial responsibility, impeachment was a weapon enabling the Com mons to call to account ministers appointed by, and respon sible to, the Crown.
As the commons acquired direct control over ministers, there was no need to employ the cumbersome machinery of impeachment and there has been no impeachment since 1805.
The President, therefore, being the authority competent to appoint and to remove a Judge, of course in accordance with the procedure envisaged in Article 124, clauses (4) and (5) of the Constitution, may be deemed to be the authority to grant sanction for prosecution of a Judge under the provisions of Section 6(1)(c) in re spect of the offences provided in section 5(1)(e) of the Prevention of Corruption Act, 1947.
In order to adequately protect a Judge from frivolous prosecution and unnecessary harassment the President will consult the Chief Justice of India who will consider all the materials placed before him and tender his advice to the President for giving sanction to launch prosecution or for filing FIR against the Judge concerned after being satisfied in the matter.
The President shall act in accordance with advice given by the Chief Justice of India If the Chief Justice of India.
If it is con templated to prosecute public servant who has committed such offences, when the court is called upon to take cognizance of the offence, a sanction ought to be available otherwise the court would have no jurisdiction to take cognizance of the offence.
A trial without a valid sanction where one is necessary under section 6 has been held to be a trial without jurisdiction by the court.
(R.R. Chari vs State of U.P., and S.N. Bose vs State of Bihar), In Mohd. Iqbal Ahmed vs State of A.P., it was held that the terminus 228 a quo for a valid sanction is the time when the court is called upon to take cognizance of the offence.
Therefore, when the offence is alleged to have been committed the accused was a public servant but by the time the court is called upon to take cognizance of the offence committed by him as public servant, he has ceased to be public servant, no sanction would be necessary for taking cognizance of the offence against him.
This approach is in accord with the policy underlying Sec. 6 in that a public servant is not to be exposed to harassment of a frivolous or speculative prosecution.
" In the present appeal the appellant ceases to be a public servant as h. resigned from the office.
Therefore at the time of filing the FIR the appellant ceases to be a public servant and so no sanction under Sec.
6(1)(c) of the said act is necessary.
The appeal is, therefore, dismissed.
The appeal raises the questions of singular importance and consequence to Judges of the High Courts and this Apex Court.
The central issue is whether the Judges could be prosecuted for offence under the Prevention of Corruption Act, 1947 ( 'the Act ').
They are various and varied.
The last and 231 perhaps the most important contention urged before the High Court was regarding the necessity to obtain prior sanction from the competent authority for prosecution of the appellant as required under Section 6 of the Act.
And since there was no such sanction obtained the Court has no juris diction to take cognizance of the case.
The first concerns with the ingredients of the offence alleged and the requirements of the charge sheet filed against the appellant.
It also involves the duties of the Investigating Officer.
In this regard counsel sought to support the views expressed by Balasubramanyan, J., in his dissenting judgment.
The second proposition relates to the inapplicability of the Act to Judges of the High Courts and Supreme Court.
The essence of the submissions made on this aspect is based on the special status and role of Judges of the higher judiciary and in the need to safeguard judicial independence consistent with the constitutional provisions.
We will take up the second question first for considera tion because.
(4) The provisions of this section shall be in addition to, and not in derogation of, any other law for the time being in force, and nothing contained herein shall exempt any public servant from any proceeding which might, apart from this section, be instituted against him.
Section 6 is in the following terms: "6.
No court shall take cognizance of an offence punishable under section 161 (or section 164) or section 165 of the Indian Penal Code, or under sub section (2) (or sub section 3A) of section 5 of this Act, alleged to have been committed by a public servant, except with the previous sanction, (a) in the case of a person who is employed in connection with the affairs of the (Union) and is not removable from his office save by or with the sanction of the Central Government (of the) State Government; (b) in the case of a person who is employed in connection with the affairs of (a State) and is not removable from his 236 office save by or with the sanction of the Central Government (of the) State Government (c) in the case of any other person, of the authority competent to remove him from his office.
and corruption by public servant.
Nor it was meant to afford protection to public servant from criminal prosecution for such offences.
It is only to protect the honest public servants from frivolous and vexatious prosecution.
" The construction which would promote the general legislative purpose underlying the provision in question, is to be preferred to a construction which would not.
But that is no ground for withholding criminal prosecution till the Judge is removed by Parliament as suggested by counsel for the appellant.
Likewise, Section 77 IPC gives them protection from criminal liability for an act performed judicially.
Section 77 states that ?nothing is an offence which is done by a Judge when acting judicially in the exercise of any power which is, or which in good faith he believes to be, given to him by law".
A discussion on the conduct of Judges of the High Courts and the SUpreme Court in the discharge of their duties shall not take place in the State Legislatures or in Parliament (Articles 12 1 and 211).
The High Courts and the Supreme Court have been constituted as Courts of record with the power to punish anybody for committing contempt.
The (Act 7 0 71) provides power to the Court to take civil and criminal contempt proceedings.
252 But we know of no law providing protection for Judges from Criminal prosecution.
Article 361(2) confers immunity from criminal prosecution only to the President and Governors of States and to no others.
Even that immunity has been limited during their term of office.
The Judges are liable to be dealt with just the same way as any other person in respect of criminal offence.
It is only in taking of bribes or with regard to the offence of corruption the sanction for crimi nal prosecution is required.
The position in other countries seems to be not differ ent.
In the book "Judicial Independence The Contemporary Debate" by section Shetreet and J. Deschenes '(1985 ed.) there is an article titled as "Who watches the Watchman" by Mauro Cappelletti.
The author has surveyed the penal liability of judges in the legal systems of some of the countries.
There is no criminal sanction which is specifical ly applicable only to judicial behaviour; rather, the judges are included in those criminal provisions which apply gener ally to public servants, such as provisions concerning corruption, omission or refusal to perform activities of office, vexation, etc.
" If we take the early English law it will be seen that the corruption on the part of a Judge was the most reprehen sible crime and punishable as high treason.
There shall be similar consul tation at the stage of examining the question of granting sanction for prosecution and it shall be necessary and appropriate that the question of sanction be guided by and in accordance with the advice of the Chief Justice of India.
Accordingly the directions shall go to the Government.
These directions, in our opinion, would allay the apprehension of all concerned that the Act is likely to be misused by the Executive for collateral purpose.
For the reasons which we have endeavoured to outline and subject to the directions issued, we hold that for the purpose of clause (c) of Section 6(1) of the Act the Presi dent of India is the authority competent to give previous sanction for the prosecution of a Judge of the Supreme Court and of the High Court.
It remains only to deal with one short point in this part of the discussion.
A.R. Antulay, The question is, therefore, no longer res integra.
This brings us to the end of the second question and takes us on to the first question.
P.C. and clause (e) of Section 5(1) of the Act.
But a Judge must keep himself absolutely above suspicion" to preserve the impartiality and independence of the judiciary.
It is signifi cant to note that Article 124(4) speaks of "removal from his office", and Section 6 of the Act uses similar language.
The removal of a Judge does not take .place automatically on commission or omission of a particular act or acts or on fulfilment of certain prescribed conditions.
It is dependant on certain steps to be taken as mentioned)in the Article through human agency.
Initially some members 9f the Parlia ment have to move in the matter and finally an order has to be passed by the President.
Thus although more than one person are involved in the process, it is not permissible to say that no authority exists for the purpose of exercising the power to remove a High Court Judge from his office.
As to who is precisely the authority in this regard is a matter which, in my view, does not arise in the present case, but the vital question whether such an authority exists at all must be answered in the affirmative.
It has been strenuously contended by Mr. Sibal, learned counsel for the appellant, that the Constitution envisages an independent judiciary, and to achieve this goal it is essential that the other limbs of the State including the executive and the lagislature should be denied a posi tion from where the judiciary can be pressurized.
The State is an organisation committed to public good; it is not an end in itself.
They must, therefore, be free from pressure from any quarter.
A large number of cases are finally decided at the stage of the subordinate judiciary.
The subordinate judici ary, therefore, also needs the same independence which is essential for the higher judiciary.
It is, therefore, not safe to assume that the Act intended to make in its applica tion any discrimination between the lower and the higher judiciary.
Protection to the public servant in general is provided under Article 311 and the interest of the subordi nate judiciary is further taken care of by the High Court, and this along with the provisions regarding previous sanc tion shields them from unjustified prosecution.
In a civi lised society the law cannot be assumed to be leading to such disturbing results.
In adopting the other view I do not see any difficul ty created either by the scheme or the language of the Act or by any constitutional provision.
The difficulty in accepting this argument is that the Governor of the State and the Chief Justice of the High Court are as much involved in the matter of appointment of a Judge of the High Court as the Chief Justice of India.
Several arguments including the allegation of mala fides against the Central Government were advanced in the High Court on behalf of the appellant.
It is, however, unnecessary to refer to all of them since at the hearing of the appeal before us, the appellant 's case was confined only to the grounds stated hereafter and the ground of mala fides alleged in the High Court was expressly given up at the hearing before us by Shri Kapil Sibal, learned counsel for the appellant.
They argued that there is no immunity to the superior Judges as in the case of the President and the Governor under Article 36 1 of the Constitution and, therefore, there was no reason to exclude to superior Judges from the purview of the Act.
The difficulty of sanction under Section 6 for the prosecution of superior Judges and the special provisions contained in clauses (4) and (5) of Article 124 read with Article 2 18, it was suggested, pre sented no difficulty since the President of India could be treated as the competent authority to grant sanction in accordance.
with Section 6(1)(c) of the Act in the case of the High Court and Supreme Court Judges.
It was sug gested that some machinery involving the Chief Justice of India for grant of sanction for prosecution by the President of India, even for investigation into the offence, could be suggested by this Court for implicit compliance by the executive.
It was argued that in this manner preservation of independence of the judiciary could be ensured while treat ing the superior Judges also within the purview of the Act to enable the prosecution and punishment of the corrupt ones.
In view of the great significance of the point involved for decision which has arisen for the first time, the matter was heard at considerable length to illuminate the grey areas.
At the hearing the consensus was that, this unfortu nate controversy not envisaged earlier, having now arisen, may be, it is time that a clear provision be made within the constitutional scheme to provide for a machinery to deal with the corrupt members of the superior judiciary, which itself is necessary for preservation of the independence of the judiciary.
However, the difference is with regard to the adequacy of machinery enacted in the existing legislation for this purpose.
In other words, the difference is about the law as it is and not about what it should be.
For the purpose of deciding this case, we have to see the law as it now exists.
The main point for consideration is whether the Chief Justices and puisne Judges of the High Courts are within the purview of the Act.
It is implicit that if the answer is in the affirmative, then the Chief Justice and Judges of the Supreme Court also would fall within the purview of the Act and so also the Comptroller and Auditor Genera 273 and the Chief Election Commissioner, whose terms and condi tions of office are the same as those of a Judge of the Supreme Court of India.
If for any reason the Comptroller and Auditor General and the Chief Election Commissioner be considered outside the purview of the Act, that would itself indicate exclusion of certain similar constitutional func tionaries from the purview of the Act.
The real question, therefore, is: Whether these constitutional functionaries were intended to be included in the definition of 'public servant ', as defined in the Act, and the existing enacted law is to that effect.
The desirability of enacting such a law applicable to them, it was strenuously urged at the hearing, would be a matter primarily for the Parliament to consider in case the existing law as enacted does not apply to them.
Thus, no Court shall take cognizance of an offence punishable under Sub section (2) of Section 5 of the Act except with the previous sanction of the competent authority envisaged by clauses (a), (b) and (c) of Sub section (1) of Section 6 of the Act.
For the purposes of this Act, "public servant" means a public servant as defined in Section 21 of the Indian Penal Code (45 of 1860).
Section 165 or Section 165A of the Indian Penal Code (45 of 1860) or under Section 5 of this Act without the order of a Presidency Magistrate or a Magistrate of the first class, as the case may De, or make any arrest therefor without a warrant: Provided that if a police officer not below the rank of an Inspector of Police is authorised by the State Government in this behalf by general or special order, he may also investigate any such offence without the order of a Presidency Magistrate or a Magis trate of the first class, as the case may be, or make arrest therefor without a warrant: Provided further that an offence referred to in clause (e) of sub section (1) of Section 5 shall not be investigated without the order of a police officer not below the rank of a Superintendent of Police.
(2) If, from information received or otherwise, a police officer has reason to suspect the commission of an offence which.he is empowered to investigate under subsection (1) and considers that for the purpose of investigation or inquiry into such offence, it is necessary to inspect any bankers ' books, then, notwithstanding anything conrained in any law for the time being in force, he may inspect any bankers ' books in so far as they relate to the accounts of the person suspected to have committed that offence or of any other person suspected to be holding money on 278 behalf of such person, and take or cause to be taken certified copies of the relevant entries therefrom, and the bank concerned shall be bound to assist the police officer in the exercise of his powers under this sub section: Provided that no power under this sub section in relation to the accounts of any person shall be exercised by a police officer below the rank of Superintendent of Police, unless he is specially authorised in this behalf by a police officer of or above the rank of a Superintendent of Police.
Restriction on discussion in Parliament .
No discussion shall take place in Parliament with respect to the conduct of any Judge of the Supreme Court or of a High Court in the discharge of his duties except upon a motion for presenting an address to the President praying for the removal of the Judge as hereinafter provided.
Restriction on discussion in the Legislature.
No discussion shall take place in the Legislature of a State with respect to the conduct of any Judge of the Supreme Court or of a High Court in the dis charge of his duties.
In a society governed by rule of law power is conferred on office or acquired by statutory status and the individual occupying the office or on whom status is conferred enjoys the power of office or power flowing from the status.
The holder of the office alone would have opportunity to abuse or misuse the of fice.
The scheme of the exist ing law to deal with such situations was considered at length and it was also held that even the power to transfer under Article 222 of the Constitution to another High Court could not be exercised for these reasons.
In this context, clause (5) of Article 124 is also of considerable significance.
The construction made of the provisions of the Act must also fit in with the scheme of clauses (4) and (5) of Article 124 read with Article 2 18 of the Constitution in order to present a harmonious scheme.
Clause (5) of Article 124 enables enactment of a special law by the Parliament to regulate the procedure for presentation of an address and for the 'investigation ' and 'proof ' of the 'misbehaviour ' or incapacity of a Judge under clause (4).
It is in exercise of this power that the Parliament has enacted the .
It is significant that clause (5) of Article 124 covers the field of 'investiga tion ' and 'proof ' of the 'misbehaviour ' of a Judge.
There can be no doubt that the expression 'misbehaviour ' is of wide import and includes within its ambit criminal miscon duct as defined in Sub section (1) of Section 5 of the Act as also lesser misconduct of a Judge falling short of crimi nal misconduct.
By that age the personality is fully developed and the propensities and background of the appointee is well known.
Due emphasis must, therefore, be laid on prevention even while taking curative measures.
It is a sad commentary on the working of the appointment process and the behaviour of some of the appointees which has led to this situation.
The patchwork of proposing guidelines suggested by the learned Solicitor General apart from being an impermissible judicial exercise, also does not present a complete and harmonious picture and fails to provide answers to several obvious querries which arise.
The inescapable con 304 clusion, therefore, is that the Prevention of Corruption Act, 1947, as amended by the 1964 amendment is inapplicable to Judges of the High Courts and the Supreme Court.
There is nothing strange about the above view since the scheme in some other countries also appears to be the same.
In recent years in some countries, there were instances which provoked a strong debate on the subject and different remedies were advocated to deal with the situation.
It may be mentioned that instances of punishment for corruption in earlier centuries including the indictment of Lord Bacon is not apposite for the reason that the situation then was not akin to the scheme in the Indian Constitution for the judges of the High Courts and the Supreme Court and the protection given to them for ensuring the independence of judiciary.
As indicated earlier, while adopting curative measures for the malady, a renewed emphasis on its prevention in the future has to be borne in mind.
All communications in respect of the appointments and the griev ances, if any, of the judges should come from the Chief Justice of the provincial High Court, through the Governor and not through the Home Department of the province.
I recog nise that the Governor General or the Presi dent, who will be an elected person, will have to consult the Cabinet according to the 305 Rules of Business framed for working the Central Government.
It seems to me, however, fundamentally essential that the High Courts, the Federal Court and the Supreme Court (when established) should not be considered a part of, or working under, any department of the executive Government of India.
It should be an independent branch of the Government in touch directly with the GovernorGeneral or the President of the Dominion of India.
I am sure the Cabinet will agree to the principle of keeping the judiciary free from the control of the executive.
The duty and credit for maintaining this high tradition is on the Government in existence when the 'Constitution and the statutory rules are framed, and I have written this to you confi dently hoping that you share my desire to safeguard the dignity and independence of the judiciary and will do the needful in the matter." Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel promptly replied to the Chief Justice of India saying 'your views will be very helpful to us in dealing with the subject. ' (Sardar Patel 's Correspondence, 1945 50, edited by Durga Das, Vol.
VI, pp. 274 76) The framers of the Constitution had visualized the higher echelons of the judiciary as comprised of men of strong moral and ethical fibre who would provide moral leadership in the society of free India and function as the sentinel of the other wings of the State not needing scruti ny themselves.
Our Constitution provides for separation of powers of the three wings of the State with judicial review as one of the essential tenets of the basic structure of the Constitution.
It is thus the judiciary which is entrusted with the task of interpretation of the Constitution and ensuring that the other two wings do not overstep the limit delineated for them by the Constitution.
With this duty entrusted to the higher judiciary, it was natural to expect that the higher judiciary would not require any other agency to keep a watch over it and the internal discipline flowing from the moral sanction of the community itself will be sufficient to keep it on the right track without the re quirement of any external check which may have the tendency to interfere with the independence of the judiciary, a necessary concomitant of the proper exercise of its consti tutional obligation.
It is for this reason that the higher.
judiciary was treated differently in the 306 Constitution indicating the great care and attention be stowed in prescribing the machinery for making the appoint ments.
It was expected that any deviation from the path of rectitude at that level would be a rare phenomenon and for the exceptional situation the provision for removal in accordance with clause (4) of Article 124 was made, the difficulty in adopting that course being itself indicative of the rarity with which it was expected to be invoked.
It appears that for a rare aberrant at that level, unless he resigned when faced with such a situation, removal from office in accordance with Article 124(4) was envisaged as the only legal sanction.
If this was the expectation of the framers of the Constitution and their vision of the moral fibre in the higher echelons of the judiciary in free India, there is nothing surprising in the omission to bring them within the purview of the Prevention of Corruption Act, 1947, or absence of a similar legislation for them alone.
Obviously, this position continued even during the delibera tions of the Santhanam Committee which clearly mentioned inits Report submitted in 1964 that it has considered the judiciary outside the ambit of its deliberations.
Clearly, it was expected that the higher judiciary whose word would be final in the interpretation of all laws including the Constitution, will be comprised of men leading in the spirit of self sacrifice concerned more with their obligations than rights, so that there would be no occasion for anyone else to sit in judgment over them.
If it is considered that the situation has altered requiring scrutiny of the conduct of even Judges at the highest level and that it is a matter for the Parliament to decide, then the remedy lies in enacting suitable legislation for that purpose providing for said guards to ensure independence of judiciary since the exist ing law does not provide for that situation.
Any attempt to bring the Judges of the High Courts and the Supreme Court within the purview of the Prevention of Corruption Act by a seemingly constructional exercise of the enactment, appears to me, in all humility, an exercise to fit a square peg in a round hole when the two were never intended to match.
I would, therefore, allow the appeal even though by the majority view it must fail.
ORDER In view of the majority judgments, the appeal is dismissed.
P. No. 265 of 1978.
216 Kapil Sibal, B.R.L. Iyengar, K.V. Mohan, S.R. Setia, K.R. Nambiar and A.K. Nigam for the Appellant.
A.D. Giri, Solicitor General, K.T.S. Tulsi, Additional Solicitor General, A.M. Khanwilkar and P. Parmeswaran for the Respondent.
The Judgment of the Court was delivered by RAY, J.
I have had the advantage of deciphering the two draft judgments prepared by my learned brothers Shetty and Verma, JJ.
I agree with the conclusions arrived at by my learned brother Shetty, J. Yet considering the great impor tance of the questions involved in this matter, I deem it just and proper to consider the same and to express my own views.
Three very important questions fall for decision in this case.
First of all whether a Judge of the Supreme Court or a Judge of a High Court is a public servant within the meaning of Section 2 of the Prevention of Corruption Act, 1947.
Section 2 of the Prevention of Corruption Act interprets a public servant as meaning a public servant as defined in section 21 of the Indian Penal Code i.e. Act 45 of 1860.
Section 21 of the Indian Penal Code states that a public servant denotes a person falling under any of the descrip tion mentioned therein: "Third Every Judge including any person empowered by law to discharge, whether by himself or as a member of any body of persons any adjudicarory functions.
On a plain reading of the provisions of sub article 4 of Article 124, a Judge of the Supreme Court can only be re moved on the ground of proved misbehaviour or incapacity by an order of the President passed after an address by each House of Parliament supported by a majority of the total membership of that House and by a majority of not less than two thirds of the members of that House present and voting, has been presented to the President in the same session for such removal on the ground of proved misbehaviour or inca pacity.
In other words, the President cannot on its own remove a Judge of the Supreme Court unless an address by each House of Parliament supported by a majority of the total membership of that House and by a majority of not less than two thirds of the members of that House present and voting, is passed and presented to him for removal of the Judge on the ground of proved misbehaviour or incapacity.
The power to punish a High Court Judge, if one may so describe it, is to be found only in article 2 18 read with article 124(4) and (5) of the Constitu tion, under which a Judge of the High Court can be removed from his office by an order of the President passed after an address by each House of Parliament, supported by a majority of the total membership of that House and by a majority of not less then two thirds of the members of that House present and voting, has been presented to the President in the same session for such removal on the ground of proved misbehaviour or incapacity.
Thus, if the power of the President, who has to act on the advice of the Council of Ministers, to transfer a High Court Judge for reasons not bearing on public interest but arising out of whim, caprice or fancy of the executive or its desire to bend a Judge to its own way of thinking, there is no possibility of any interference with the independence of the judiciary if a Judge is transferred without his consent.
The same view about the independence of the judiciary from the con 220 trol of the executive has been spelt out by the observations of the Constitution Bench of Seven Judges in the case of S.P. Gupta & Ors.
vs President of India and Ors.
If there is one principle which runs through the entire fabric of the Constitution, it is the principle of the rule of law and under the Constitution, it is the judiciary which is entrusted with the task of keeping every organ of the State within the limits of the law and thereby making the rule of law meaningful and effective.
It is to aid the judiciary in this task that the power of judicial review has been conferred upon the judiciary and it is by exercising this power which constitutes one of the most potent weapons in armoury of the law, that the judi ciary seeks to protect the citizen against violation of his constitutional or legal rights or misuse of abuse of power by the State or its officers.
The judiciary stands between the citizen and the State as a bulwark against executive excesses and misuse or abuse or power by the executive and there it is absolutely essential that the judiciary must be free from executive pressure or influence and this has been secured by the Constitution makers by making elaborate provisions in the Constitution to which detailed reference has been made in the judgments in Sankalchand Sheth 's case (AIR 1977 SC 2326) (supra).
But it is necessary to remind ourselves that the concept of independence of the judiciary is not limited only to independence from execu tive pressure or influence but it is a much wider concept which takes within its sweep independence from many other pressures and prejudices.
In practice, however, an address to the Crown for the removal of a judge must originate in the House of Commons; the procedure is judicial and the judge is entitled to be heard.
There is no instance of the removal of a judge by this method since the Act of Settlement.
This power to remove by impeachment or address, a person holding office during good behaviour, is an essential counterpart to the independence secured to the holders of high office by making their tenure one of good behaviour instead of at pleasure.
Under article II, section 4, U.S. Constitution, the President, VicePresident and 'all civil officers of the United States can be removed from office on impeachment for, and convic tion of, "Treason, Bribery or other high Crimes and misde meanours".
Since the President of the United States who is the, highest executive authority of the State, an impeach ment has been provided for and in fact, President Johnson was impeached in 1867 for high crimes and misdemeanours.
In 1917, Justice Archibald of the Commerce Court was 'removed from office by impeachment for soliciting for himself and others, favours from railroad companies, some of which were at the time litigants in his court; in 1936 the removal of Judge Wright of the Florida Court for conduct in relation to a receivership Which evoked serious doubts as to this integ rity, although he was acquitted of specific charges, seem to have restored the wider view.
For, in neither case, were the two judges found guilty of an indictable offence.
It has been said that: 225 "As to the Judges of the United States at least lack of 'good behaviour ' and 'high crimes and misdemeanours ' are overlapping if not precisely coincidental concepts." (Seervai 's Constitutional Law of India, Third Edition, Vol.
II, page 1698 paras 18.8 and 18.9).
It has been urged by the Solicitor General as well as the Additional Solicitor General that the Judges of the High Court cannot be said to be exempted from prosecution in respect of offences provided in the Prevention of Corruption Act.
It has been urged further that under Article 361, the President and the Governor have been given protection from being answerable to any court for the exercise and perform ance of the powers and duties of his office or for any act done or purporting to be done by him in the exercise and performance of those powers and duties.
Clause 2 of the said Article further provides that no criminal proceedings what soever shall be instituted or Continued against the Presi dent, or the Governor of a State, in any court during his term of office.
No such immunity from criminal prosecution has been provided for in the case of a Judge of the High Court or of the Supreme Court.
It has, therefore, been urged that the High Court should ensure modalities for launching prosecution against a Judge under the said Act.
Undoubtedly, respect for the judiciary and its public credibility and dignity has to be maintained in order to ensure respect for the Judges in public and also for the decisions rendered by the judges.
It is, therefore, necessary to evolve some method commensurate with the grant of sanction in cases of serious allegation corruption and acquisition or the posses sion of disproportionate assets which the Judge cannot satisfactorily account for 'or possession of property dispro portionate to the sources of income of the Judge.
If these things are allowed to go unnoticed it will create a serious inroad on the dignity respect, and credibility and integrity of the High Office which a Judge of the Supreme Court and of the High Court occupies resulting in the erotion on the dignity and respect for the high office of the Judges in the estimation of the public.
As has been suggested by my learned Brother Shetty, J. that the President is given the power to appoint the Judges of the Supreme Court as well as of the High Court by warrant under his hand and seal and similarly even after passing of an address by both the Houses of the Parliament in the manner provided in Article 124, clauses (4) and (5) and placed before the President, a Judge cannot be removed from his office unless and order to that effect is passed by the President.
The President, therefore, has the power to appoint as well as to remove a Judge from his office on the ground of 226 proved misbehaviour or incapacity as provided in Article 124 of the Constitution.
If the chief Justices of opinion that it is not a fit case for grant of sanction for prosecution of the Judge concerned the Presi dent shall not accord sanction to prosecute the Judge;This will save the Judge concerned from unnecessary harassment as weal as from frivolous prosecution against him as suggested by my learned brother Shetty, J. in his judgment.
Similarly in the case of Chief Justice of the Supreme Court the Presi dent shall consult such of the Judges of the Supreme Court as he may deem fit and proper and the President shall act in accordance with the advice given to him by the Judge or Judges of the Supreme Court.
The purpose of grant of previ ous sanction before prosecuting a public servant i.e. a Judge of the High Court or of the Supreme Court is to pro tect the Judge from unnecessary harassment and frivolous prosecution more particularly to save the Judge from the biased prosecution for giving judgment in a case which goes against the Government or its officers though 'based on good reasons and rule of law.
O.P. Gupta, A.I.R. 197 1 SC 1132, wherein it has been observed: "It seems to us that whoever drafted the Impeachment Motion drafted it with a view to bring the facts within the meaning of the express "misbehaviour" in Article 124(4) for he must have realised that to say that a Judge has committed errors, even gross errors, cannot amount to "misbehaviour".
The contention that frivolous prosecution can be launched against a Judge for giving a judgment against the Central Government or any of its Officers is of no avail in as much as such decision does not amount to misbehaviour within the meaning of the Article 124 of the Constitution.
A.R. Antulay; , before a Constitution Bench of this Court where it has been observed: "Section 6 bars the Court from taking cogni zance of the offences therein enumerated alleged to have been committed by a public servant except with the previous sanction of the competent authority empowered to grant the requisite sanction . . .
Section 6 creates a bar to the court from taking cogni zance of offences therein enumerated except with the previous sanction of the authority set out in clause (a) (b) & (c) of sub sec.
The object underlying such provision Was to save the public servant from the harassment of frivolous or unsubstantiated allegations.
The main plank of the argument regarding sanction is, therefore, non existent.
P.C. to quash that criminal proceedings before the High Court he contended that the proceedings initiated against him were unconstitutional, wholly without jurisdiction, illegal and void.
We may briefly refer to those contentions not for the pur pose of examining them, since most of them have not been pressed before us, but only to indicate as to how the appel lant projected his case.
It was inter alia, contended that the Judges of the High Court and Supreme Court shall not be answerable before the ordinary criminal courts but only answerable to Parliament.
The Parliament alone could deal with their misbehaviour under the provisions of Articles 124(4) and (5) read with Articles 217 and 218 of the Consti tution.
The Judge shall hold office until the age of super annuation subject to earlier removal for proved misbehaviour or incapacity.
This protection to Judges will be defeated if they are compelled to stand trial for offence committed while discharging duties of their office even before retire ment.
Even the Parliament or the State Legislatures are not competent to make laws creating offences in matters relating to discharge of Judge 's duties.
Any such law would vitiate the scheme and the federal structure of the Constitution particularly the scheme of Article 124(4) read with Article 2 17 and 2 18.
If the Legislatures are held to have powers to create offence for which Judges could be tried in ordi nary criminal Courts then, it may affect the very independ ence of the Judiciary and the basic structure of the Consti tution.
Though the definition of "public servant" under Section 21 of the Indian Penal Code may include a Judge of the Higher Judiciary, since the Judge is not 'employed in connection with the affairs of the Union or State ', the definition Should be narrowed down only to Judges other man the Judges of the Higher Judiciary.
The jurisdiction of the CBI to register the case against the appellant and to investigate the offence was also questioned.
The issuance of the First Information RepOrt and the subsequent filing of the charge sheet were impeached.
It was alleged that they were actuated by collat eral considerations.
It may be of importance to remember that the power to take cognizance of an offence is vested in the Court of competent jurisdiction.
Section 6 is primarily concerned to see that prosecution for the specified offences shall not commence without the sanction of a competent authority.
The competent authority has to examine independently and impartially the material on record to form his own opinion whether the offence alleged is frivolous or vexatious.
The competent authority may refuse sanction for prosecution if the offence alleged has no material to support or it is frivolous or intended to harass the honest officer.
But he cannot refuse to grant sanction if the material collected has made out 238 the commission of the offence alleged against the public servant.
Indeed he is duty bound to grant sanction if the material collected lend credence to the offence complained of.
There seems to be another reason for taking away the discretion of the investigating agency to prosecute or not to prosecute a public servant.
When a public servant is prosecuted for an offence which challenges his honesty and integrity, the issue in such a case is not only between the prosecutor and the offender, but the State is also vitally concerned with it as it affects the morale of public serv ants and also the administrative interest of the State.
The discretion to prosecute public servant is taken away from the prosecuting agency and is vested in the authority which is competent to remove the public servant.
The authority competent to remove the public servant would be in a better position than the prosecuting agency to assess the material collected in a dispassionate and reasonable manner and determine whether sanction for prosecution of a public servant deserves to be granted or not.
Section 6 may now be analysed.
Clause (a) of Section 6(1) covers public servants employed in connection with the affairs of the Union.
The prescribed authority for giving prior sanction for such persons would be the Central Govern ment.
Clause (b) of Section 6(1) covers public servants employed in connection with the affairs of the State.
The authority competent to give prior sanction for prosecution of such persons would be the State Government.
Clauses (a) and (b) would thus cover the cases of public servants who are employed in connection with the affairs of the Union or State and are not removable from their office save by or with the sanction of the Central Government or the State Government.
That is not the end.
The Section goes further in clause (c) to cover the remaining categories of public servants.
Clause (c) states that in the case of any other person the sanction would be of the authority competent to remove him from his office.
Section 6 is thus all embracing bringing within its fold all the categories of public serv ants as defined under Section 21 of the IPC.
It is common ground that clauses (a) and (b) of Section 6(1) of the Act cannot cover the Judges of the High Courts and the Supreme Court since they are not employed in connec tion with the affairs of the Union or State.
The question is whether they could be brought within the purview of clause (c) of Section 6(1).
Mr. Kapil Sibal learned Counsel for the appellant stressed the need to read clause (c) in "ejusdem generis" to clauses (a) and (b).
According to him the entire Section 6 seems to apply only to such public servants where there is relationship of master and servant between, them and their employer.
239 If there is no relationship of master and servant, as be tween public servant and the authority to appoint him, clause (c) has no application to the public servant.
So far as the Judges of the High Courts and the Supreme Court are concerned, it was contended that there is no relationship of master and servant between them and the Government.and clause (c) of Section 6(1) is inapplicable to them.
It is true that the relationship of master and servant as is ordinarily understood in common law does not exist between the Judges of higher judiciary and the Government.
Where there is relationship of master and servant the master would be in commanding position.
He has power over the employee not only to direct what work the servant is to do, but also the manner in which the work is to be done.
The servant undertakes to serve the master and obey the reasona ble orders within the scope of his duty.
It is implicit in such relationship that the servant may disobey the master 's order only at his peril.
But there is no such relationship between the Judges and their appointing authority that is, the Government.
The Judges are not bound nor do they under take to obey any order of the Government within the scope of their duties.
Indeed, they are not Judges if they allow themselves to be guided by the Government in the performance of their duties.
In Union of India vs S.H. Sheth, ; at 450 Chandrachud, J., as he then was, has illu mined this idea: "the Judges owe their appointment to the Constitution and hold a position of privilege under it.
They are required to 'uphold the Constitution and the laws ', 'wit hout fear ' that is without fear of the Executive; and 'without favour ' that is without expecting a favour from the Executive.
There is thus a fundamental distinction between the master and servant relationship between the Government and the Judges of High Courts and the Supreme Court.
" But we cannot accept the contention urged for the appellant that clause (c) should be read in "ejusdem generis" to clauses (a) and (b) of Section 6(1) of the Act.
The application of the ejusdem generis rule is only to general word following words which are less general, or the general word following particular and specific words of the same nature.
In such a case, the general word or expression is to be read as com prehending only things of the same kind as that designated by the preceding specific words or expressions.
The 'general word is presumed to be restricted to the same genus as those of the particular and specific words.
(See Maxwell on The Interpretation of Statutes, 12th Ed.
What do we have here? Section 21 of the IPC while defining "public servant" has denoted as many as twelve categories of per sons.
It includes not only the State and Central Government employees but also others like Judge, juryman, assessor 240 and arbitrator.
It also includes every person in the service or pay of the Government or remunerated by fees or commis sion by the Government.
Each category is different from other and there is hardly any relationship of master and servant in some of the categories.
The provisions of clauses (a) and (b) of Section 6(1) of the Act covers certain cate gories of public servants and the 'other ' which means re maining categories are brought within the scope of clause (c).
