" According to them, therefore, the substance manufactured by them would not come within the amended Rules.
Though in the beginning the petitioners were contending that in substance manufactured by them did not come within Rule 2(x)(2) and there were some correspondence in this regard, when the competent authority held that the substance manufactured by the petitioners would come within the definition of 'thinner ' as contained in Rule 2(x)(2) of the Rules, the petitioners did not question the finding on any material.
and not all solubles.
In many cases deaths have also occurred due to drinking such substance.
" It was a law in force in the territory of India before the commencement of the Constitution and as such continued in force.
Rules of 1926 were made in exercise of the rule making power under Section 3 of the Act.
Rules were amended in 1973 and duly notified as required by the Act.
It is also not necessary that the same substance should be declared as poison for the entire country.
Originally the Act contained a schedule in which the list of substances declared as poisons were listed.
Before us also they had not placed any materi al to show that the finding was wrong or that the substance would not come within Rule 2(x)(2).
It was the con tention of the petitioners before the authorities that their "unit is manufacturing only those thinners which contain only liquid substance, like as ecotone, ethyl acetate SDS etc.
Under this term would fall anything calcu lated to destroy life.
A law in such circumstance can regulate the trade.
That is what the Government have done in this case.
Of course no comprehensive definition can be given to the word poison.
P.N. Duda, N. Safaya, P.K. Choudhary and Ms. Rekha Pandey for the Petitioners.
It states that the State Government may by rule regulate the posses sion of any specified poison in any local area in which the use of such poison for the purpose of committing murder or mischief by poisoning cattle appears to it to be of such frequent occurrence as to render restriction on the posses sion thereof desirable.
It has become a notorious fact, which we can even take judicial notice of, that the substance known as 'thinner ' as it is or mixing with some other substances are taken as intoxicating spirits endangering the life.
Any substance which is used for purposes mentioned therein can definitely be declared as poison.
The notification and its application to any area would depend on the necessity 225 to declare the substance as poison on the particular facts and situation prevailing in that area and the need to regu late the possession and sale in that area.
" We are not impressed with the argument that any require ment in this Rule is unreasonable or offends the petition ers ' right to carry on any trade or business.
Section 2(3) of the , 1/1904 defined poison as: "Any substance which were applied to the body internally or externally, or in any way intro duced into the system, is capable, without acting mechanically, but by its own inherent qualities,.
In fact the learned counsel argued the petition on the basis that the petition ers are a manufacturer of 'thinner ' within Rule 2(x)(2) which has been declared as poison for purposes of the Act.
(ii) All 'poisons ' mentioned in clause (x) of rule 2 shall be kept in a room or building (according to quantity maintained) which shall be secured by lock and key in a separate receptacle of glass, metal and earthenware etc.
Section 4 of the Act impliedly sets out certain guidelines when the State can notify a substance as poison.
This limitation is inherent in the scheme of the Act itself.
