The High Court, therefore, held that the decree passed by the Civil Court was unsustainable.
Feeling aggrieved by the order of dismissal of the appeal, the defendants preferred separate Second Appeals Nos.
Therefore, the question which arose in the suit was whether defendant No.1 proved that he was a tenant in respect of the land in question.
To preclude the plaintiff from so doing it is provided that if he omits any part of the claim or fails to claim a remedy available to him in respect of that cause of action he will thereafter be precluded from so doing in any subsequent litigation that he may commence if he has not obtained the prior permission of the court.
There can, therefore, be no doubt that after the Fifth Amendment became effective in regard to land used primarily for growing coconut trees and garden produce, the jurisdiction of the civil court was ousted by virtue of section 58(2) of the Act.
1023 The next contention which found favour with the High Court was based on the language of Order 2 Rule 2(3) of the Code of Civil Procedure.
The question whether the Fifth Amendment is prospective or retrospective really recedes in the background if we examine the question from the angle whether the Civil Court can decide any question falling within the jurisdiction of the special forum under the Act in a pending litigation in the absence of an express provision in that behalf.
We are, therefore, of the opinion that the High Court was wrong in holding that the second suit was barred by res judicata.
In the previous suit the relief for possession was not claimed whereas in the second suit the relief was for restoration of possession.
Sub rule (1) of Rule 2, inter alia, provides that every suit shall include the whole of the claim which the plaintiff is entitled to make in respect of the cause of action.
So also where a tenant is evicted illegally, section 8(2) permits him to approach the Mamlatdar for recovery of possession.
In such a situation the Civil Court would not be competent to pass any order for restoration of possession to the deemed tenant.
That suit was for a declaration that the plaintiff was a lessee and for an injunction to restrain the defendants from interfering with his possession of the suit property.
However, during the pendency of the suit, a notification was issued under section 6 of the Bombay Rents, Hotel and Lodging House Rates Control Act, 1947, (hereinafter called 'the Rent Act ') applying Part II of the Act to areas where the property in question was situate.
The High Court was, therefore, wrong in thinking that the difference in the reliefs claimed in the two suits was immaterial and irrelevant.
The court came to the conclusion that a mere declaration of his status as a tenant could not be granted unless the consequential relief for possession was prayed.
Against the said decree both the defendants preferred an appeal No. 82/85.
If the defendant who is sued as a trespasser raises a plea of tenancy, a question arises whether his plea of tenancy can be decided by the Civil Court as incidental to the grant of relief for possession or is the Civil Court precluded from deciding the same in view of section 7 read section 58(2) of the Act.
suit was not identical to the relief claimed in the previous suit.
The first ground on which the High Court dismissed the suit is that the suit was barred by the principle of res judicata in view of the dismissal of the former suit No. 157/68.
The lite is also the same.
The relief is only a consequence.
Therefore the second suit is to be deemed as barred by res judicata. ." With respect it is difficult to accept this line of reasoning.
The foundation for that suit was that the plaintiff who claimed to be a lessee in respect of the demised property apprehended his forcible dispossession therefrom.
Thus the amendment came into force during the pendency of the suit.
Once it was found that the plaintiff was not in actual physical possession of the demised property, the suit had become infructuous.
Since the paper book in this appeal does not contain the original plaint and the written statement and counsel were unable to enlighten us on the actual nature of the pleadings we have tried to indicate the procedure to be followed by the Civil Court on illustrative fact situations.
It would have been a different matter if in the previous suit the court had decided the question of status as lessee against the plaintiff, in which case, perhaps, it could be argued that the second suit based on the factum of tenancy was not maintainable.
Section 58 bars the jurisdiction of courts.
We would like to make it clear that the hypothetical situations may or may not apply to the fact situation that may emanate of the pleadings in this case and it would be for the Trial Court to determine the course of action to be adopted in the light of the guidelines indicated hereinabove.
Therefore, the subsequent suit was based on a distinct cause of action not found in the former suit and hence we do not think that the High Court was right in concluding that the suit was barred by Order 2 Rule 2(3) of the Code of Civil Procedure.
Ever where a tenant apprehends that his possession is likely to be interfered with contrary to the provisions of the Act he can make an application in the prescribed manner to the Mamlatdar for safeguarding the, same.
Section 8(2) has limited operation where a person referred to in section 4 has been evicted on or after 1st July, 1962.
However, the Act does not preclude the institution of a suit by a tenant for restoration of possession from a trespasser.
It may not be out of place to clarify that the doctrine of res judicata differs from the rule embodied in Order 2 Rule 2, in that, the former places emphasis on the plaintiff 's duty to exhaust all available grounds in support (if his claim while the latter requires the plaintiff to claim all reliefs emanating from the same cause of action.
Rule 2 thereof requires that the plaintiff shall include the whole of his claim in the framing of the suit.
His remedy would, therefore, to be entirely under the Act.
Applying the same principle to the facts of the present case, we have no hesitation in concluding that the provisions of the Fifth Amendment would apply to pending suits also.
We are, therefore, of the opinion that it would be just and fair that the issue whether defendant No.1 was a tenant in respect of the lands in question should be referred to the Mamlatdar for decision and after his decision is received by the Civil Court if the issue is held against defendant No.1, the Civil Court may consider passing of a decree in eviction but if on the other hand he is held to be tenant, the Civil Court may be required to dismiss the suit.
It will be seen from the aforesaid provisions that the forum created for determination of the question whether a person is a 1026 tenant or a deemed tenant under the Act is the Mamlatdar.
It says that a tenant entitled to possession of any land under any of the provisions of the Act may apply in writing for such possession to the Mamlatdar.
But in the case of a deemed tenant who has been evicted from the land on or after 1st July, 1962 since a remedy has been provided under 1032 the Act, the Jurisdiction of the Civil Courts stands wholly barred by virtue of Section 58 (2) of the Act.
