Agent for respondent No. 1: P.A. Mehta.
Iswarlal C. Dalai and R.B. Dalai, for the appellant.
The complainant actually paid the accused two sums of 420 Rs. 500 each on 7th November, 1948, and 17th November, 1948.
The consent of the landlord to an assignment is not necessary, in the absence of a contract or local usage to the contrary.
Agent for respondent No. 2: Ganpat Rai.
Section 18 deals with the grant, renewal or continuance of a lease of any premises or the giving of his consent by the landlord to the transfer of a lease by sub lease or otherwise, and it provides that the landlord, who receives any fine, premium, or other like sum or deposit, or any consideration for the grant, renewal or continuance or the accord of consent oh would be guilty of an offence and liable to the punishment therein specified.
As section 18 (1) of the Act was not applicable he convicted him under section 19(2) of the Act and sentenced him, in view of his old age and blindness, to one day 's simple imprisonment and a fine of Rs. 30,000.
Then follows section 19 which speaks of the relinquishment of his tenancy of any premises by a tenant.
The learned Solic itor General urged that 'the word "relinquishment" was not a term of art and was used in the section not in any strict technical sense but in its comprehensive meaning as giving up of possession of the premises; and he pointed out that if it was intended by the legislature that "relinquish ment" should have the limited meaning sought to be placed upon it on behalf of the appellant, the word "surrender" used in the Transfer of Property Act would have been more appropriate.
The wife of the appellant denied any aiding and abetting.
It is said that the appellant wanted to go to the United Kingdom for treatment of his failing eye sight and he got into touch with the complainant Mulchand Kodumal Bhatia, who is the second respondent in this appeal, through one Sayed for the purpose of making necessary ar rangements about the flat occupied by him in view of his intended departure.
It is the landlord 's consent to the transfer of a lease by sub lease or otherwise on receipt of consideration that has been made an offence.
