Appeal No 52 of 1957.
On August 2 1894 Raja of Jharia granted mukarrari lease of the coal and coal mining rights in 300 bighas of land in village Kujama to Satya Karan Banerjee and Girish Chandra Samanta.
On June 10 1901 Jugal Kishore Lal granted a lease of 96 bighas out of his 400 bighas to one D M Mathews.
dThat an enquiry be made and the quantity of coal cut and removed by the defendants from the plaintiffs  coal land as also the quantity of the coal rendered unworkable be ascertained and a decree for the value thereof by way of damages be granted to the plaintiffs against the defendants.
The learned Subordinate Judge held that the defendant had encroached upon the plaintiff  coal land that the suit was not barred by limitations and that they would be entitled to the reliefs prayed for.
Learned counsel for the appellant contends that the said boundary should be fixed solely with reference to the boundaries given in the lease of 1894 whereas learned counsel for the respondents contends that no plan has been annexed to the said lease and therefore the boundary could more satisfactorily and definitely be fixed with reference to the plans annexed to the subsequent lease deeds executed in favour of the successors in interest of the appellant and the respondents.
No plan was annexed to this lease deed.
It appears that Samanta purchased the interest of Banerji in the leasehold of 1894 and thereafter at the request of Samanta on November 23 1900 Durga Prasad Singh gave a fresh lease of the same holding to Samanta and incorporated a map in that lease ie exhibit 3b.
The plan exhibit 3b annexed to this lease deed shows the boundary line between the two leaseholds.
One interesting feature is that a map has been referred to in each of the documents and the said map shows that the line drawn from point A to point B is the boundary between the two leaseholds.
But a perusal of exhibit I shows that there is no reference in regard to the western boundary to revenue records.
The appellant denied the said allegation and stated that the respondents all along knew and had been aware that the portion of coal land in question belonged to and was the property of the appellant.
sion itis.
That apart section 3 of the Limitation Act makes it obligatory on a court to dismiss a suit barred by limitation although limitation has not been set up as a defence indicating thereby that it is the duty of a plaintiff to establish at any rate prima facie that the suit is within time.
But the question is whether they have adduced evidence which had the effect of shifting the onus of proof to the appellant.
There the suit was for conversion of property and the learned Judges applied article 48 of the Limitation Act to the said suit.
503 onus of proof may shift to the defendant.
 In Talyarkhan vs Gangadas 3 Rangnekar J formulated the legal position thus The onus is on the plaintiff to prove that he first learnt within three years of the suit that the property which he is seeking to recover was in the possession of the defendant.
504 took us through the correspondence that passed between the parties and the Mining Department in 1932.
But it does not prove that the respondents had knowledge of the fact that the appellant had encroached upon any portion of their coal mines.
The High Court accepted the finding.
Nor can we hold in favour of the appellant on the basis of such a possibility.
The appeal fails and is dismissed with costs.
Appeal dismissed.
