Appeal No 949 of 1966.
Appeal by special leave from the judgment and order dated September 11 1964 of the Madras High Court in Tax Case No 181 of 1962.
M C Chagla and B R Agarwala for the appellant.
CJ V Ramaswami and A N Grover JJ.
The case was twice re manded to the Tribunal.
The first Order of the Court remanding the case to the Tribunal was delivered by Shah Ag C J Ms Amarchand Sobhachand a firm registered under the Indian Income tax Act 1922 carried on business at Madras in drugs chemicals mercury camphor and silk yam and as money lenders.
There were two partners of the firm Mohanlal Sagmal and Seshmal Sobhachand and Ramniklal and Lakshmichand minors were admitted to the benefits of the partnership each with 732 share in the profits.
The appellants had for a long time business relations with a firm styled Bhojaji Sobhachand carrying on business at Bombay as importers of yam and also as agents and adathias.
Sobhachand one of the partners of Bhojaji Sobhachand with 16 share in the profit and loss is the father of Seshmal Ramniklal and Lakshmichand partners of the appellants.
In the books of account of the appellants which were main tained according to the mercantile system there was a current sarafi account in respect of their transactions with the Bombay firm in which were credited the funds transmitted from Bombay in respect of their business transactions.
Entries relating to interest were posted till the end of Samvat Year 2006 in the account on the amount due at the foot of the account.
The assessee firm then applied to the Tribunal to refer the following question to the High Court of Madras Whether on the facts and in the circumstances of the case the disallowance of the bad debt of Rs 268385 is right in law  The Tribunal rejected the application but pursuant to an order made by the High Court of Madras under section 662 submitted a statement of the case on the following question Whether on the facts and in the circumstances of the case the Tribunal was right in law in holding that the debt of Rs 268385 was not one incurred in the course of money lending business of the assessee  In the opinion of the High Court the debt of Rs 268385 due to the appellants was not a bad and doubtful debt in its money lending business not a debt representing loss sustained in the other business.
Section 102 xi of the Indian Income tax Act 1922 as in force at the relevant time provided  2 Such profits or gains shall be computed after making the following allowances namely  xi When the assessee s accounts in respect of any part of his business profession or vocation are not kept on the cash basis such sum in respect of bad and doubtful debts due to the assessee in 807SupCI71 418 respect of that part of his business profession or vocation and in the case of an assessee carrying on a banking or money lending business such sum in respect of loans made in the ordinary course of such business as the Income tax Officer may estimate to be irrecoverable but not exceeding the amount actually written off as irrecoverable in the books of the assessee Provided      Clause xi was in two parts.
A bad and doubtful debt due to an assessee in respect of banking or money lending business is allowable under section 102 xi if it is in respect of loans made in the ordinary course of such business.
In the interest of justice we direct that the question be reframed as follows  Whether on the facts and in the circumstances of the case the Tribunal erred in disallowing the debt of Rs 268385 written off by the assessee in their books of account as irrecoverable.
 The two branches of the question as reframed then are 1 Whether the debt or any part thereof is in respect of loans made 419 in the ordinary course of money lending business of the appellants and 2 whether the debt or any part thereof is in respect of the other business of the appellants.
We are of the view that before the question may be answered it is necessary to call for a supplementary statement of the case from the Tribunal.
The Tribunal s order is very brief  it gives no reasons in support of the conclusions.
The statement submitted by the Tribunal is also inadequate.
But the Tribunal has not raised any inference from these circumstances and has merely observed that charging of interest cannot make it a money lending account.
The order of the Court was delivered by Shah J.
In the assessment of income tax of the appellant for the assessment year 1952 53 relevant to the account year Samvat 2008 the assessee claimed a deduction of Rs 268385 as bad debt due from the Bombay firm incurred by that firm in the course of business transactions.
It accordingly .
It is also true that the tribunal after catalogueing the arguments advanced at the bar has come to certain abrupt conclusions but all the tame it cannot be denied that the findings reached by the tribunal are findings of fact and those findings are supported by the evidence on record.
