Appeal No 1653 of 1967.
An inquiry into the matter was made by Court of Inquiry.
If this rule was intra vires the  Rao has no case.
The Army Rules 1954 including r 14 were framed in exer cise of the powers conferred by section 191 of the .
Rule 14 of the Army Rules 1954 is as follows 1 When after considering the reports on an officer s misconduct the Central Gove rnment is satisfied or the C in C is of the opinion that the trial of the officer by a court martial is inexpedient or impracticable but considers the further retention of the said officer in the service as undesirable the C in C shall communicate the view of the Central Government or his views as the case may be to the officer together with all reports adverse to him and he shall be called upon to submit his explanation and defence.
450 Before removal he must under the rule be asked to submit his explanation and defence.
If the explanation is found to be unsatisfactory the Central Government has been given the power to dismiss or remove the officer.
Sub section 1 of section 191 gives power to the Central Government to make rules for the purpose of carrying into effect the provisions of the Act.
Sub section 2a provides  Without prejudice to the generality of the power conferred by sub section 1 the rules made thereunder may provide for a the removal retirement release or discharge from the service of persons subject to this Act Sections 18  19 which appear in Ch.
IV of the dealing with Conditions of Service provide as follows  S18 Every person subject to this Act shall hold office during the pleasure of the President.
 Offenses under the have been dealt with in sections 34 to 70 in Ch.
VI of which section 45 is as follows  section 45 Any officer junior commissioned officer or warrant officer who behaves in a manner unbecoming his position and the character expected of him shall on conviction by court martial if he is an officer be liable to be cashiered or to suffer such less punishment as is in this Act mentioned and if he is a junior commissioned officer or a warrant officer be liable to be dismissed or to suffer such less punishment as is in this Act mentioned It was argued by counsel for the respondent Rao that the contained specific provisions for punishment for unbecoming conduct viz section 45.
To give power to the Central Government to remove an officer without being tried and convicted by court martial was in derogation of section 45 of the .
Section 191 2 a specifically gives.
Rule 14 is such a rule  it is therefore not ultra vires.
But the power under section 19 is an independent power.
Section 45 provides that on conviction by court martial an officer is liable to be cashiered or to suffer such less punishment as is in this Act mentioned.
For removal from service under section 19 of the read with r 14 of the Army Rules 1954 a court martial is not necessary.
The result is that r 14 of the Army Rules 1954 is not ultra vires the .
The case will now go back to the High Court for disposal on merits on the other questions raised by the respondent herein in the High Court.
VPS Appeal allowed.
