39 40 of 1976.
The letter was signed by 15 members of the Bar belonging to the District Bar Association Bhiwani.
Besides the learned Judge was openly attacking the Govern ment in its political as well as administrative decision.
On the  whole he gave an impression that he was not a Judge but a politician who had come to Bar Room.
The Judge further said that the prevailing system of Government is not good in this country and we must adopt the communist form of Govern ment which can save the nation.
Later on he had some pri vate political discussion with the local CPM leaders.
In that letter they said that Justice DS Tewatia visited the Bar and inspected the court at Charkhi Dadri on 17 February 1975.
Chandrawati.
He also enquired all about Shri Sohan Lal a leader of the teacher s movement in the State.
On a perusal of the con tents thereof a prima facie case of criminal contempt is made out.
We therefore direct that the contempt of Court Punjab and Haryana Rules 1974 be issued to each of the signatories of the above said application returnable for the 1st of April 1975.
The High Court did not take any action against two persons on the letter written by five members of the Bar Association of Charkhi Dadri.
It was intended to be a privileged communication made solely with a view to uphold the dignity of the Court.
have no relevance or relation to the functioning of the learned Judge of the High Court.
 The Full Bench of the High Court consisting of Justice Surjit Singh Sandhawalia Justice Prem Chand Jain and Jus tice Bhupinder Singh Dhillon extracted portions from the affidavit of the appellants to which references has been made.
The elementary basis of acceptance of apology is that there is to be a finding of committal of contempt.
In the absence of any finding by the High Court that the appellants committed any contempt of court there was never any occasion for acceptance of apology.
It is no part of the duty of a Judge nor is it a duty in discharge of office of a Judge to go and address a meeting on political matters to redress grievances of the people.
To say that will not by itself be a contempt.
247 The judgment is set aside.
