Appeals by Special Leave granted by Supreme Court on the 18th January 1954 from the Judgment and Order dated the 18th June 1953 of the High Court of Judicature at Hyderabad in Confirmation Case No 3766 of 1952 53 and Criminal Appeals Nos3946 3956 and 3926 of 1952 53 arising out of the Judgment and Order dated the 2nd June 1952 of the Court of the Sessions Judge at Bidar in Sessions Case No 98 of 1951 52.
J B Dadachanji and Rajinder Narain for the appellant.
December 3.
The other two have not appealed.
Rasika Bai shouted out to the assailants not to beat Ramchander but they threatened her and then ran away.
Subhana does not say that the other two struck any particular blow.
It is to be noted that the SubInspector does not say that Tukaram brought the report to him but that exhibit 4 the report received from the Police Patel states that Tukaram gave the Police Patel the information.
That leaves the matter equivocal but in view of what the Police Patel tells us we think that he did mean to convey that 1089 Tukaram was the complainant probably because he did not want to enter a woman s name and so picked on the nearest male relative.
What is certain is that there was no point in sending off a report without names the next morning if the idea of delay was to concoct a story and implicate innocent persons.
Moreover the whole village probably turned out as soon as the news spread in any case the witnesses are agreed that there was a large crowd there.
We refer to the other eye witnesses here to show that there is no discrepancy on this point but we only rely on Rasikabai and Subhana for determining the fact Bhilia was directly charged with the murder and the injury on the throat is ascribed to him in the charge.
Turning now to section 34 that was not charged in Pandurang s case but we need not consider whether such an omission is fatal because even if it had been charged there is no evidence from which a common intention embracing him can legitimately be deduced.
People do not ordinarily act in unison like a Greek chorus and quite apart from dishonesty this is a favourite device with witnesses who are either not mentally alert or are mentally lazy and are given to loose thinking.
It requires a pre arranged plan because before a man can be vicariously convicted for the 1095 criminal act of another the act must have been done in furtherance of the common intention of them all Mahbub Shah vs King Emperor1.
2 19241 LR 52 IA 40 49.
Pandurang is accordingly only liable for what he actually did.
