Respondent in person.
On 1st January 1957 the account showed a credit of Rs 150740.
It appears further that copies of this letter were sent to one Om Prakash Gupta and Ved Prakash Gupta.
A similar letter was written by Ved Prakesh thanking the assessee his father for the gift of Rs25000 made to him and Rs50000 gifted to his son.
The Tribunal held that they were not carrying on banking business.
Such delivery may be made in the same way as goods sold may be delivered.
The next contention was regarding the inclusion of net wealth a sum of Rs6756012 standing to the credit of the assessee in the books of Ms Pearls  Beads.
In the case of banking companies or other firms and companies who have overdraft facilities even if the sums are not in credit of the donor and are not with such companies or firms gifts might be possible by adjustment of the book entries.
The circumstances must be such as to make it clear that there were sufficient funds at the disposal of the donor by reason of which he could make the gift by such book entries.
The assessee must also have sufficient credit balance to enable him to make the gift.
In the case of Commissioner of IncomeTax Ahmedabad vs Digvijaysinghji Tin Factory  on the contrary it was held that the gifts were valid though not sufficient cash with firm avail able but proper book entries were made.
It was held by the Bombay High Court that there was no valid gift.
It may be noted that in EMV Muthappa Chettiar vs Commission er of Income Tax Madras the Madras High Court held that mere entries were not enough to constitute valid gifts particularly when gift of fund continued to be used in the donors  business.
The Madras High Court in the case of Mrs Ida L Cham bers and Three Others vs Kelland Huxford Chambers was dealing with a case where C proprietor of a business who had invested a large amount of capital in it caused entries to be made in his account books crediting his wife and certain other members of his family with sums which were debited to his capital account.
C was not in a position to make gifts in cash of the amounts credited in favour of his wife and relatives.
Interest on the amounts was also credited in the accounts regularly for some time until a bank from which C had obtained an overdraft objected to such crediting of interest.
It was further held that there was no trust either and that there was nothing in the acts or conduct of C to show that he intended to create a trust or to constitute himself a trus tee.
In Sukhlal Sheo Narain vs Commissioner of Wealth Tax Haryana the Punjab  Haryana High Court had dealt with a case where the father had gifted Rs84000 ie Rs28000 to each of his sons.
Rangoon High Court in Abba Dada and Company vs Commis sioner of Income Tax Burma held that the mere book entries were not sufficient in that case to constitute valid gift.
Memo of gift recorded on stamp paper.
Cash Balance was only Rs7626.
In the impugned judgment the Allahabad High Court had followed the said decision.
The Tribunal held that section 10 of the was not attracted and the sum of Rs 150000 could not be included in the property passing on the death of M and the High Court on a reference affirmed the viewes of the Tribunal.
