The reply is profound It is beautiful.
      Originally this zoo was on the outskirts of the City but the City has grown in such a fashion that the zoo has vertually become the City Centre and there is hardly any scope for its expansion.
The Commit tee was informed that now adays migratory birds were coming less in number though previ ously more foreign birds used to come here and in the opinion of the Managing Committee the main reason for this was due to air and sound pollution.
On June 5 1981 a Committee of Secretaries was formally constituted.
The report of WEBCON is a 246 comprehensive report on various topics connected with the establishment of a Five Star Hotel in Calcutta.
 The Minister for Metropolitan Development submitted a note to the Chief Minister on the resolution of the Managing Committee of the Zoo.
This was passed by the majority of the members present the President Justice Shri RK Banerjee dissenting.
The WEBCON submitted further reports.
Taj Group suggested further modifications.
On September 1 1982 Smt.
The Committee s objections were two fold 1 A muliti storied building in the vicinity of the Zoo will disturb the 258 animals and the ecological balance and will affect the bird migration 2 the land was already used for various pur poses that is fodder cultivation burial ground for ani mals hospital operation theatre quarantine area post martom room and nursery.
The objections of the Managing Committee were first brought to the notice of the Minister for Metropolitan Development who submitted a note to the Chief Minister pointing out that even if four acres of land out of the eight acres of Begumbari land was given to the Taj Group there would still remain sufficient land for accommodating the existing facilities.
The letter of the Director of the Zoo was followed by a note by the Secretary of the Animal Husbandry Department suggesting that the practical problems of the Zoo should receive de tailed consideration and that the immediate transfer of the land to the hotel would mean discontinuance of the existing facilities.
