VN Ganpule for the Petitioner.
Soli J Sorabjee KJ John and AK Desai for the Respondents.
The Judgment of the Court was delivered by SEN J.
The by section 630 enacts 630.
Penalty for wrongful withholding of property 1 If any officer or employee of a company a wrongfully obtains possession of any property of a company or D b having any such property in his possession wrongfully withholds it or knowingly applies it to purposes other than those expressed or directed in the articles and authorised by this Act he shall on the complaint of the company or any creditor or contributory thereof be punishable with fine which may extend to one thousand rupees.
1 of section 630 of the Act.
1 of section 630 of H 172 the Act the High Court of Calcutta in Amritlal Chum vs Devi Ranjan Jha  Anr held that it refers only to the existing officers and employees of a company.
a viz property of a company wrongfully taken possession of by a present officer or employee of the company.
The issues involved in the special leave petition are of considerable importance to the corporate sector as many of the business organisations both in the public as well as the private sector are required to provide residential accommodation to their officers and employees as a condition of their service to attract better talent and have of necessity to purchase residential flats in multi storeyed buildings in large cities and towns for the use of such officers and employees during the course of their employment and the question is whether the provisions contained in sub section.
1 of section 630 which provide for the launching of a prosecution against an officer or employee of a company for wrongful possession of such property under cls.
1 of section 630 and for the recovery of such property by the issue of process under sub section 2 also extends to past officers and employees of the company and whether the Court trying the offence has the power to issue a process under sub section.
2 against such officer or employee.
The reasons therefor follow.
The petitioner Baldev Krishan Sahi was an Under Secretary to the Government of India in the Ministry of Shipping  Transport and on May 21 1974 accepted employment as Joint Manager in the Mogul Line Limited a Government of India undertaking after obtaining release from government service.
He was first allotted a service quarter.
After the expiry of the said period of six months the company addressed a letter dated April 26 1985 requesting the petitioner to vacate the premises stating that if he failed to do so he would be liable to pay higher compensation as per the company s rules.
Since the petitioner failed to vacate the flat the company initiated proceedings for his eviction under the Public Premises Eviction of Unauthorised occupants Act 1971.
The Estate officer by order dated December 2 1985 directed the eviction of the petitioner.
Instead of availing of that opportunity the petitioner on March 3 1986 moved the High Court by a petition under article 226 of the Constitution and obtained ad interim stay of the proceedings before the Estate officer.
The learned Magistrate by his order dated May 22 1986 took cognizance of the complaint against the petitioner and directed issue of process.
It is further pleaded that the petitioner was given the flat for his residence during the period of his employment and that he was bound to vacate the same after his retirement.
It is asserted that the petitioner with a dishonest intention is wrongfully with holding the flat and has instituted false and frivolous proceedings with the ulterior object of protracting and delaying the eviction proceedings.
We are informed that the petitioner has been deliberately and dishonestly withholding the flat covering an area of 1750 square feet in Cuffe Parade which is a posh area valued at approximately Rs30 lakhs and putting it to his own use contrary to the terms of his employment.
The first and foremost argument of learned counsel for the petitioner is that the provision contained in section 630 of the Act is a penal provision and therefore must be subject to a strict construction and there is no room for intendment.
It is submitted that on a true construction the scope and effect of the section was limited to such property of the company which was wrongfully obtained by an officer or employee of the company.
b of sub section.
1 for the contention that cl.
b does not stand by itself but is inter connected with cl.
In essence the submission is that sub section.
1 of section 630 of the Act makes it an offence where any officer or employee of a company wrongfully withholds possession of 175 such property of the company.
Secondly it is contended that the legislature never intended to include past officers and employees of a company within the ambit of section 630 of the Act which provides for prosecution of an officer or employee of a company for wrongfully withholding the property of the company inasmuch as it has used different languages where it was so intended namely in sections 538 and 545.
I of section 630 of the Act which defeats the very purpose and object with which it had been introduced.
wrongfully withholds possession of it after the termination of his employment.
Sub section.
a namely where an officer or employee of a company wrongfully obtains possession of any property of the company during the course of his employment to which he is not entitled.
This is the function of cl.
In contrast cl.
b contemplates a case where an officer or employee of a company having any property of a company in his possession wrongfully withholds it or knowingly applies it to purposes other than those expressed or directed in the 176 articles and authorised by the Act.
b also makes it an offence if any officer or employee of a company having any property of the company in his possession knowingly applies it to purposes other than those expressed or directed in the articles and authorised by the Act.
1 of section 630 of the Act.
The High Court of Calcutta in Amritlal Chum s case obviously fell into an error in seeking to curtail the ambit of section 630lb by giving a restrictive meaning to the terms officer or employee  which must take its colour from the context in which it appears.
1 of section 630 is the preservation of the property of a company by the creation of two distinct offences by clauses a and b which arise under different sets of circumstances and it would be rendered nugatory by projecting cl.
By a curious process of reasoning the High Court of Calcutta in Amritlal Chum s case held that section 630 of the Act applies only to the existing officers and employees and not to those whose employment has been terminated.
a of section 6301 was referable to existing officer or employee of a company while cl.
b was wide enough to include former or past officer or employee of the company inasmuch as on a plain reading of the section the two clauses do not permit different interpretations as suggested.
In particular the learned judge referred to section 538 which provides for prosecution for offences by officers of companies in liquidation and uses the expression a past or present officer of a company etc  as also section 545 which provides for prosecution of delinquent officers and members of a company during the course of winding up and uses the words any past or present officer etc  Upon that basis he observed that there was no reason to give a twisted and laboured interpretation to the provisions of section 630 of the Act which its plain reading does not permit.
which is an offence under section 630lb of the Act as rightly pointed out by VS Kotwal J in Harkishan Lakhimal Gidwani vs Achyut Kashinath Wagh supra.
The facts were also identical as here.
The petitioner there was the General Manager of a company known as the English Electrical Company of India Limited a company incorporated under the having its registered office at Calcutta.
He had been allotted the premises of a flat approximately 3500 square feet in area located at Mayfair Gardens Little Gibbs Road Bombay.
He had been inducted into the flat only by virtue of his capacity as the General Manager of the company s branch office at Bombay but the company allowed him to retain the same on humanitarian grounds for a short period after his retirement to enable him to find alternative accommodation.
The Court repelled the contention that section 630 of the Act applies only to the existing officers and employees of the company and not to former officers and employees and that the phrase any such property  used in cl.
a and b are separated by the word or  which must in the context in which it appears be read as and  and so construed must mean withholding of property wrongfully obtained by an existing officer or employee.
Kotwal J.
On a careful analysis of section 630 held that the provisions of the section apply not only to the present officers and employees of the company but also to past officers and employees and observed It is held that the features and deductions which flow logically and inescapably on an analysis of section 630 are that i Clause a of the section is self contained and independent of cl.
b with the capacity of creating penal liability 4 embracing the case of an existing employee or officer of the company.
iii The entitlement of an officer to the property of the company is contingent on the right and capacity of the officer by virtue of his employment which is transformed into the actual possession of the property and the duration of such right would be co terminus with the terms of employment.
 In Govind T Jagtiani vs Sirajuddin section Kazi supra Kanade J fol lowed the critical analysis of section 630 made by Kotwal J as above and observed that the entitlement of an officer to the property of the company and the duration of such right would be co terminus with the terms of employment and the right would stand extinguished with the termination to the employment giving rise to an obligation to hand over the property back to the company and observed If the property is held back the retained possession would amount to wrongful withholding of the property of the company.
While the existence of the capacity right and possession would be during employment the withholding may be even after the termination of the employment and though the possession as it precedes the act of retention or withholding may be rightful in the past affording an 179 Opportunity to withhold the withholding may be wrongful as in the present case.
 The learned Judge Ashok Agarwal J observes that that has been the consistent view of the High Court and has referred to the subsequent decisions of Khatri j J and Kurdukar J.
Case No 76S1986 and dispose it of as expeditiously as possible and in any event not later than four months from today.
PSS Petition dismissed.
