Civil Appeal No 1709 of 1988.
From the Judgment and Order dated 9101987 of t he Central Administrative Tribunal Chandigarh in Appln.
WITH SLP Civil No 6998 of 1988 VC Mahajan Mrs Indu Goswami CV Subba Rao P Parmeshwaran for the Appellant in CA No 1709 of 1988.
MKD Namboodary for the Petitioner in SLP Civil N o 6998 of 1988.
SM Ashri and Mahabir Singh for the Respondents.
The Judgment of the Court was delivered by K JAGANNATHA SHETTY J.
The civil appeal by speci al leave and the connected SLP raise an important issue as to the power of the Central Administration Tribun al Tribunal to examine the adequacy of penalty awarded by the competent authority to a Government servant in discipl i nary proceedings.
Short factual background is this Parmanand Respondent in the appeal was a Time Keeper in Beas Sutlej Link Project Sundernagar.
He was incharge of preparing the pay bills and other bills of the work charg ed employees of the project.
It was alleged that he maSte r minded and prepared the pay roll pertaining to T  Token of Central Survey Division Sundernagar for the month of M ay 1969 and entered the name of one Shri Ashok Kumar Token N o 59 T at serial No 10 on page 2 of the relevant pay roll.
He made this entry with ulterior motive to withdraw the pay of Ashok Kumar for the month of May 1969 even though Ash ok Kumar was not working in that Division.
A bogus identi ty card in the name of Ashok Kumar TNo.
59 T with the sign a tures of the issuing officer was also prepared by the r e spondent although it was not his duty to prepare the ident i ty card.
The said fictitious identity card was used by o ne Suraj Singh cleaner T No 210 K of Beggi Tunnelling Div i sion for the purpose of withdrawing the pay of Ashok Kuma r.
While Suraj Singh by impersonation was receiving the pay of Ashok Kumar he was recognised by the Cashier since he kn ew him personally.
There then started an enquiry followed by departmental proceedings against three persons includi ng the respondent herein.
The Personnel Officer of the 23 BSL Project was appointed as Inquiry Officer.
The enqui ry was conducted under the Punjab Government Servants Condu ct Rules 1966.
He also prepared a bogus identity card in the name of the abo ve Shri Ashok Kumar and initiated it below the signatures of issuing officer and this identity card Was used by Sh ri Suraj Singh Cleaner Token No 210 K Boggi Tunnelli ng Division at the time of attempting to receive the pay of Shri Ashok Kumar from the Cashier.
access to the records which 24 were fabricated at the relevant time the Inquiry Officer h ad come to the conclusion that the applicant was the mast er mind behind the scheme to defraud the Project.
 It was also observed that there was no denial of a reasonable opportunity for the respondent to set up prop er defence.
In the intere st of 25 justice it is necessary to modify the punishment awarded to the applicant.
The Tribunal however h as held that the respondent was guilty of entering the name of Ashok Kumar in the pay roll of May 4969.
From an analysis of secs.
