it case for initiating any procee d ings for contempt against the respondents.
Under Article 32 of the Constitution of India.
VA Bobde Shyam Mudaliar VM Tarkunde GL Sangh i AK Sanghi Mrs R Karanjawala Mrs Meenakshi Karanjawa la NM Popli and VJ Francis for the Petitioners.
The Judgment of the Court was delivered by OJHA J.
The petitioners in the aforementioned wr it petitions claim to have been appointed as Supervisors Gra de A  in various ordnance factories between 1962 to 1966 a nd have filed these writ petitions with the prayer that t he same relief may be granted to them also as was granted by this Court to 75 appellants in Civil Appeal No 441 of 19 81 vide its order dated 2nd February 1981.
The three civ il miscellaneous petitions referred to above on the other ha nd have been made by the appellants of Civil Appeal No 441 of 1981 asserting that the direction given by this Court on 2 nd February 1981 has not been complied with in the manner as it ought to have been by the respondents and they should be consequently required to comply with the said direction.
Sd KG Bijlani ADGOFEst.
It appears th at the criterion of promotion is seniority cum merit.
T he learned Single Judge however did not go into the merits of the controversy and dismissed the writ petition on t he ground of unexplained laches and also on the ground that a previous petition for similar relief had not been presse d Against the 98 judgment of the learned Single Judge the appellants pr e ferred a special appeal before a Division Bench of th at Court.
With regard to the circular dated 6 th November 1962 the learned Judges took the view that it w as difficult to read in that circular any intention or delibe r ation on the part of the Director General of Ordnance Fact o ries that as soon as two years were completed by a diplo ma holder in the Grade of Supervisor A  there would be an automatic promotion to the post of Chargeman Il.
Accordi ng to the learned Judges such a view would militate again st Rule 12 of the Rules mentioned above.
With regard to the plea based on Artic le 16 of the Constitution.
No formal foundation has been raised in t he pleadings in the writ petition in support of the grou nd based on Article 16 of the Constitution.
 It is against this judgment that Civil Appeal No 441 of 1981 was preferred in this Court.
It reads Heard counsel.
We see no justific a tion for any such differential treatment being given to t he appellants.
We Therefore direct that the concerned authoriti es will consider the cases of the appellants for promotion as Chargeman Grade II and promote them to the said posts unle ss they are found to be unfit.
This order will dispose of the appeal.
There will be no order as to costs.
The prayer made in Civil Miscellaneo us Petition No 3325 of 1987 is for the issue of an inter im order restraining the respondents from making any furth er promotions during the pendency and final heating of t he miscellaneous petition and for initiating contempt procee d ings.
It was urged that in case the sa me relief is not granted to the petitioners they are likely to become juniors to some of the appellants in Civil Appeal N o 441 of 1981 and the petitioners in the writ petitions deci d ed by the Madhya Pradesh High Court on 4th April 1983.
On the other han d promotion depended inter alia on availability of posts a nd the incumbent being found fit by the Departmental Promoti on Committee for being included in the selection list.
29665.
or equivalent grades.
Having heard learned counsel for the parties we fi nd substance in the submission made by the learned counsel f or the respondents.
vs State of Mysore  Ors 82 and Sant Ram Sharma vs State of Rajasthan  Anr.
vs The State of Mah a rashtra  Ors  that in the absence of legislative Rules it was competent to the State Governme nt to take a 103 decision in the exercise of its executive power under Art i cle 162 of the Constitution.
The matter has been consider ed in a recent decision of this Court in the case of Union of India  Ors.
vs Sh.
If there is a conflict between the executive instructions and the rul es made under the proviso to Article 309 of the Constitution of India the rules made under the proviso to Article 309 of the Constitution of India prevail and if there is a co n flict between the rules made under the proviso to Artic le 309 of the Constitution of India and the law made by t he appropriate Legislature the law made by the appropria te Legislature prevails.
The right to promotion on the oth er hand was to be governed by the Rules.
This right was co n ferred by Rule 7 which inter alia provides that subject to the exception contained in Rule 11 vacancies in the pos ts enumerated therein will normally be filled by promotion of employees in the grade immediately below in accordance wi th the provisions of Rule 8.
The requirements of rule 8 in brief have already been indicated above.
Rule 12 provides 104 that no appointment to the posts to which these rules app ly shall be made otherwise than as specified in these rule section This right of promotion as provided by the Rules was neith er affected nor could be affected by the circular.
The ord er dated 28th December 1965 which provided a minimum period of service of three years in the lower grade for promotion to the next higher grade and the circular dated 20th Janua ry 1966 which provided that promotions in future will be e f fected in accordance with the normal rules and not merely on completion of 2 years  satisfactory continuous service h ad the effect of doing away with the accelerated chance of promotion and relegating Supervisors A  in the matter of promotion to the normal position as it obtained under t he Rules.
In the case of Ramchandra Shankar Deodhar  Ors  supra the petitioners and other allocated Tehsildars fr om ex Hyderabad State had under the Notification of the R aj Pramukh dated September 15 1955 all the vacancies in t he posts of Deputy Collector in the ex Hyderabad State avai l able to them for promotion but under subsequent rules of July 30 1959 fifty per cent of the vacancies were to be filled by direct recruitment and only the remaining fif ty per cent were available for promotion and that too on div i sional basis.
The effect of this change obviously was th at now only fifty per cent vacancis in the post of Depu ty Collector being available in place of all the vacancies it was to take almost double the time for many other allocat ed Tehsildars to get promoted as Deputy Collectors.
In oth er words it resulted in delayed chance of promotion.
It wa s inter alia urged on behalf of the petitioners that t he situation brought about by the rules of July 30 1959 co n stituted variation to their prejudice in the conditions of service applicable to them immediately prior to the reorga n isation of the State and the Rules were consequently i n valid.
A rule which merely affects chances of promoti on cannot be regarded as varying a condition of service.
vs Union of India  Ors.
9522 27 of 1983 it has been pointed o ut that employees who had joined much later than 20th Januar y 1966 namely the date of the subsequent circular of t he Director General of Ordnance Factories superseding h is earlier circular dated 6th November 1962 have also g ot benefit under the orders of this Court dated 2nd Februar y 1981 aforesaid as also under the orders of the Madhya Pr a desh High Court dated 4th April 1983 in the writ petiti on filed before that Court.
This circumstance by itself is sufficient to indicate that when Civil Appeal No 441 of 1981 was heard by this Court either the subsequent ord er dated 28th December 1965 as well as the circular dated 20 th January 1966 and the legal consequences flowing therefr om were not brought to the notice of the learned Judges by t he learned counsel for the respondents or the same was n ot properly emphasised the judgment dated 2nd February 19 81 being completely silent on the point and the appeal w as allowed only on the ground that some Supervisors having be en promoted as Chargeman II on expiry of 2 years of the ir service in view of the circular dated 6th November 1962 t he non promotion of the appellants was discriminatory being in violation of Article 16.
As regards the order of the Madh ya Pradesh High Court dated 4th April 1983 it may be point ed out that the said High Court in an earlier writ petiti on being Misc.
Petition No 596 of 1978 had disallowed t he relief for the petitioners of that writ petition bei ng treated as Chargeman II on completion of two years  servi ce as Supervisor A  by its order dated 16th April 1979 as is apparent from the said judgment dated 4th April 1983 b ut the subse 106 quent writ petitions which seem to have been filed after t he decision of this Court dated 2nd February 1981 in Civ il Appeal No 441 of 1981 were allowed in view of the aforesa id decision of this Court.
At this place it will be usef ul to refer to an affidavit dated 19th November 1983 of D P Gupta who is one of the appellants in Civil Appeal No 4 41 of 1981 filed in CMP Nos.
It appears that the remaining 50 diploma holde rs recruited in 1963 and those who had been recruited in t he begning of 1964 or thereafter could not be promoted inasmu ch as by the time their cases could be considered for promoti on the subsequent order dated 28th December 1965 had come in to force and had also come into force the circular dated 20 th January 1966 which had superseded the circular dated 6 th November 1962 and had provided that in future promotions of all such individuals will be effected in accordance with t he normal rules and not merely on the completion of two yea rs satisfactory continuous service.
Apparently after t he coming into force of the 107 order dated 28th December 1965 and the circular dated 20 th January 1966 promotions could not be made just on compl e tion of 2 years  satisfactory service under the earli er circular dated 6th November 1962 the same having be en superseded by the later circular.
In paragraph 2i it has be en stated that during 1962 63 due to sudden expansion of Or d nance Factories Organisation in the wake of Chinese aggre s sion a large number of posts of Chargeman 11 and other pos ts were created and as a result thereof persons already in service as Supervisors A  were promoted to the posts of Chargeman II on completion of 2 years  service.
It h as further been stated therein that after the newly creat ed posts were thus filled by promotion chances of promotion of those who were appointed subsequently diminished and f or want of sufficient number of 108 vacancies as Chargeman II they could not be promoted to th at post soon after the completion of 2 years  service.
There is a further averment in the said counter affidavit that pet i tioners were duly considered in their turn and their nam es were brought on the approved panel.
They were thereaft er promoted as soon as vacancies became available and th at during the period that they were on the approved panel no person junior to them or of equal seniority superseded the m.
Nothing substantial has been brought to our notice on beha lf of the petitioners on the basis of which the aforesa id statements made in the counter affidavit may be doubted.
The grievance of the petitio n ers however is that this promotion tantamounts to impl e mentation of the order of this Court dated 2nd Februar y 1981 only on paper inasmuch as they have not been grant ed the difference of back wages and promotion to higher pos ts on the basis of their back date promotion as Chargeman I I.
Against t he aforesaid judgment of the Madhya Pradesh High Court dat ed 4th April 1983 Special Leave Petitions Civil Nos.
5987 92 of 1986 were filed in this Court by the Union of India a nd were dismissed on 28th July 1986.
T he petitioners are also entitled to get their present sala ry re fixed after giving them notional seniority so that t he same is not lower than those who are immediately bel ow them.
We are further of the opinion that it is not a fit case for initiating any proceedings for contempt again st the respondents.
In the circu m stances of the case however there shall be no order as to costs.
