They are termed as daily rated employees.
In this petition under Article 32 of the Constitution they are seeking enforcement of their fundamental right to have equal pay for equal work.
They demand payment in terms paid to their counterparts in regular services.
They also seek regularisation of their services with the benefits of pen sion gratuity etc.
Apart from giving training the Corporation also ensures marketing support to the artisans and craftsmen by purchasing their products at remunerative prices and sell them through the marketing network of the Corporation.
Nonetheless for the purpose of preserv ing and promoting traditional arts and crafts the Corpora tion has been kept alive.
He claimed equal salary for equal work at that of other drivers.
Article 14 permits reasonable classification rounded on rational basis.
Apart from that the Court has expressly observed that the higher pay scale to avoid stagnation or resultant frustration for lack of promotional avenues may also be allowed.
His case was based on the allegations that he was discharging same duties and performing similar functions as Senior Speech Therapist Senior Physiotherapist Senior Occupa tional Therapist Audiologist and Speech Pathologist.
But the Court held that the principle of equal pay for equal work cannot be invoked invariably in every kind of service particularly in the area of professional services.
If the classification has reasonable nexus with the objective sought to be achieved efficiency in the administration the State would be justified in prescribing different pay scales.
In the light of the aforesaid principles we may now consider whether the equality claims of the petitioners could be allowed.
We have carefully perused the material on record and gave our anxious consideration to the question urged.
In the first place even assum ing that the petitioners  jobs are comparable with the counterparts in the government service the petitioners cannot enforce the right to equal pay for equal work.
PSS Petition dismissed.
