Collector.
The Asstt.
Relying on the two decisions referred to hereinbe fore learned Attorney General emphasised that percentages of sales would not in any manner affect determination of the assessable value of the excisable goods.
According to the learned Attorney General the fact that 90 of the goods were supplied in tankers and not in containers had no relevance at all and the 10 represent ed the entire quantity of excisable goods delivered in packed condition.
Section 3 of the Act provides that there shall be levied and collected in such manner as maybe pre scribed duties of excise on all excisable goods other than salt which are produced or manufactured in India Excisable goods under section 2d of the Act means goods specified in the Schedule to the as being subject to duty of excise and includes salt.
The explanation to the said sub section defines the expression packing as the wrapper container bobbin pirn spool reel or warp beam or any other thing in which or on which the excisable goods are wrapped contained or wound.
Reliance may be placed to the observations of this Court at pp.
365 367 of the Report.
This Court reiterated that section 4 of the Act provides the measure by reference to which the charge is to be levied.
Excise duty as has been reiterated and explained is a duty on the act of manufacture.
The revenue s case was that the no tional value of deposit was rental and hence should be included in computing the assessable value.
Similarly Karnataka High Court in Alembic Glass Industries vs Union of India  Ors supra held that the term value defined in section 44di provides for exclusion of cost of packing materi al which was of durable nature and was returnable by the buyer to the assessee.
Hence there was no logic or reason for not excluding the value of packing material supplied by the buyer himself which is of durable nature and is return able by the assessee to the buyer.
The use of the expression cost could not obviously be by way of reference to packing for which the cost is incurred by the buyer.
AN Sen J who agreed with Pathak J observed that on a proper construction of section 44di it was clear that any secondary packing done for the purpose of facilitating transport and smooth transit of the goods to be delivered to the buyer in the wholesale trade could not be included in the value for the purpose of assessment of excise duty.
Chief Justice Bhag wati on the other hand held that corrugated fibreboard containers in which the cigarettes were contained fell within the definition of packing  in the Explanation to section 44di and if these formed part of the packing in which the goods were packed when delivered at the time of removal then under section 44di read with the Expla nation the cost of such corrugated fibreboard containers would be liable to be included in the value of cigarettes.
The manufac ture of the goods was complete before these were placed in drums.
In 10 of the sales the vehicle of removal was drums.
