etition Civil Nos.
Under Article 32 of the Constitution of India RF Nariman PH Parekh NN Keshwani Mrs H Wahi and RN Keshwani for the Petitioners.
408 GA Shah MN Shroff KMM Khan and TU Mehta for the Respondents.
409 In order to understand the case of the petitioners it is necessary to set out some other provisions of law governing the case.
Under section 3A of the Act the word minerals  is defined as including all minerals except mineral oils.
Clause e of the said section defines minor minerals  as building stones gravel ordinary clay ordinary sand other than sand used for prescribed purposes and any other mineral which the Central Government may.
by notification in the Official Gazette declare to be a minor mineral.
Section 14 of the Act provides that sections 5 to 13 inclusive shall not apply to quarry leases mining leases or other mineral concessions in respect of minor minerals.
2 Until rules are made under sub section 1 my rules made by a State Government regulating the grant of quarry leases mining leases or other mineral concessions in re spect of minor minerals which are in force immediately before the commencement of this Act shall continue in force.
vs State of Gujarat and Ors.
Re cently a Constitution Bench of this Court has held in The India Cement Ltd etc.
We do not therefore find any substance in the above conten tion.
We do not find that clause b of Article 304 has any relevance on the point in question.
In the instant case the levy is made under a law made by the Central Gov ernment.
It is not an imposition made by a law made by the State Legislature on which alone the restriction contemplat ed under Article 304b applies.
We do not also find much substance in the contention that the levy in question is unreasonably heavy and has been imposed in an arbitrary manner.
We have taken this view after going through the observations made by this Court in Trivedi s case supra at page 544 where this Court has observed that where a statute confers discretion ary powers upon the executive or an administrative authori ty the validity or constitutionality of such power cannot be judged on the assumption that the executive or such authority will act in an arbitrary manner in the exercise of the discretion conferred upon it.
He con tended that the concession shown in favour of Parwana hold ers was discriminatory and violative of Article 14.
It is equally clear that while levying a tax the authority con cerned is entitled to grant concessions and exemptions wherever necessary having regard to the purpose of the Act the levy of royalty is incidental to the regulation and development of minerals.
Whoever is given an exclusive right to exploit a mine will have to pay some amount by way of return to the Govern ment of India as authorised by entry 50 of List II of the 7th Schedule to the Constitution.
Having regard to the broad policy underlying the Constitution if a concession is shown in favour of the poor and the down trodden it cannot be said that the exemption or concession is invalid.
The compe tent officer may grant such Parwana in the following priorities a Individual families to Khanias belonging to the Scheduled Castes or the Scheduled Tribes who do physical work I of excavating minor mineral in the area applied for 415 b Individual families of Khanias  who do physical work in excavating minor minerals in the area applied for.
c New individual Khanias who do physical work in excavating minor minerals in any other areas.
 Rule 33 C provides that the lease shall be granted for one year ending 31st December on a payment of a fee of Rs50 for an area upto 1000 square meters and Rs 100 for an area above 1000 square meters and upto 2000 square meters.
Under rule 18 of the Rules the period of lease in the case of the minor minerals can be for a much longer period it can be upto 10 years in respect of minor minerals except in the case of ordinary sand Kankar Mur ram Gravel and in the case of Kankar Murram and gravel a lease can be granted upto three years and the area or land covered by a mining lease is governed by rule 15 which says that no quarry lease shall be granted for an area exceeding 10 hectares in case of specified minor mineral and 20 hec tares in the case of other minerals.
The fact that section 15 of the Act does no authorise the State Government to show such concession while promulgating the Rules which are in the nature of subordi nate legislation is also of no consequence.
We do not therefore find any substance in any of the contentions urged before us.
