ivil Appeals Nos 259 and 260 of 1958.
KN Rajagopala Sastri R H Dhebar and D Gupta for the appellant.
The main argument has been confined to the question of applicability of section 321 and the first proviso to that section of the Travancore Income tax Act hereinafter called the Travancore Act.
The Income tax Officer determined its assessable income to be Rs 90947 representing only the profit it made in Travancore State and under section 321 proviso 1 of the Travancore Act he refused a deduction of Rs 79275 shown as loss from branches situate outside the State of Travancore in British India and other Indian States.
In C A 26058 the assessee is a private limited company with its registered office in the former Cochin State.
The assesse made a profit in Travancore State and incurred a loss in the State of Cochin and sought to deduct this loss from the profit of Travancore State thus showing a net profit of Rs 2643.
On an application of the assessee the following question was referred to the High Court of Travancore Cochin  Whether on the facts and in the circumstances of the case the loss of Rs 27709 arising in Cochin State could be set off against the profit of Rs 38998 arising in Travancore State   and was answered in favour of the assessee.
It may be stated that the relevant sections of the Travancore Act which govern the two appeals are identically worded with those of the Indian Incometax Act of 1922 to be called the Indian Act.
Ordinarily the effect of an excepting or a qualifying proviso is to carve something out of the preceding enactment or to qualify something enacted therein which but for the proviso would be in it and such a proviso cannot be construed as enlarging the scope of an enactment when it can be fairly and properly construed without attributing to it that effect.
It was argued on behalf of the Revenue that this 1  37.
2  258.
Under section 215 of the Act total income  was defined to mean the total amount of income profits and gains computed in the manner laid down in that Act.
Section 3 provided for the charge of income tax in respect of the total income of the previous year.
2 1922 1 Ch 517.
This Court in Anglo French Textiles Co Ltd vs Commissioner of Incometax Madras 1 again emphasised that distinction in the following words  Next a set off under section 241 can only be claimed when the loss arises under one head and the profits against which it is sought to be set off arises under a different head.
Lord Macmillan in Madras  Southern Mahratta Railway Co vs Bezwada Municipality 3 laid down the sphere of a proviso as follows   The proper function of a proviso is to except and deal with a case which would otherwise fall within the general language of the main enactment and its effect is confined to that case.
It has to operate in the same field and if the language of the main enactment is clear it cannot be used for the purpose of interpreting the main enactment or to exclude by implication what the enactment clearly says unless the words of the proviso are such that that is its necessary effect.
31901 AC 26.
In the course of argument a number of cases of the various High Courts were cited and criticised.
