this appeal by special leave has been preferred by tata consultancy engineers against an award dated 20th december1978 of the industrial tribunal maharashtra bombay revising the wage scales of certain categories of employees and granting various other benefits.
tata consultant engineers at its inception was a partnership firm but subsequently the partnership was dissolved and in 1974 the undertaking became one of the divisions of tata sons limited.
it functions as a consulting organisation and a service industry and does not manufacture any product or carry on trade.
its work force consists of engineers and supervisors and different categories of workmen.
out of 665 employees at bombay the draftsmen and the administrative staff number 306 these workmen are members of the tata consultant employees union.
they served a charter of demands in july1974on the appellant and as their demands were not accepted and conciliation proceedings proved fruitless the state government made a reference of the dispute under s 101 dindustrial tribunal maharashtra for adjudication.
the reference was numbered i t no 292 of 1975.
the union filed a statement before the tribunal claiming an upward revision of the wage scales and dearness allowance and an increase from fifteen years to twenty years in the span for earning annual increments.
it was urged that the efficiency bar as a feature of the wage scales should be removed.
the dearness allowance it was claimed should be granted on a slab system.
the claim of the union was resisted by the appellant who maintained that the existing wage scales were fair and reasonable on a region cum industry basis and that it would not be possible for the appellant to bear the additional financial burden if the demands of the union were accepted.
reference was made to the political uncertainty in iran which had placed an appreciable part of the appellant s business in jeopardy and to various other factors peculiar to an engineering consultancy business beyond the appellant s control.
there was fierce competition also it was asserted from other similar organisations.
the appellant had introduced various pay scales in 1973 and some time later they were revised.
there was no separate dearness allowance until january1977 when it was introduced for the first time.
house rent allowance was also paid.
dearness allowance became payable at 10 of the basic wage subject to a minimum of rs 50 and house rent allowance at 30 of the basic salary.
nothing those facts the tribunal observed that compared with the increased paying capacity of the appellant an inference drawn from the prosperity enjoyed by the appellant over the years there was definite need for revising the wage scales.
it was pointed out that the dearness allowance and house rent allowance granted by the appellant made little impact in neutralising the cost of living.
the need for revising the wage scales was not disputed by the appellant.
in proceeding to revise the wage structure the tribunal took into account the two principles involved in the process the financial capacity of the industry to bear the burden of an increased wage bill and the prevailing wage structure on an industry cum region basis.
wage scale statements were filed by the parties before the tribunal pertaining to several engineering consultancy organisations but.
holding it impossible in the circumstances to apply the principle of industry cum region basis the tribunal turned to a consideration of the financial capacity of the company to bear an additional burden in this connection it proceeded on the footing that the appellant was a separate and independent division of tata sons limited and had no functional integrality with the other divisions.
but it rejected the demand of the union for dearness allowance on the basis of a slab system because that would have imposed an unacceptable burden on the appellant s financial capacity and there was no reason why the existing scheme of dearness allowance should be disturbed when a substantial increase was being made in the level of the basic wage.
two days after the award was made an application was made by the union stating in the said award your honour has observed at the end of para 22in view of the increase that is being allowed in the basic pay i do not propose to revise the existing scheme of dearness allowance.
further it appears that the tribunal intended to grant the increase of rs 150 to each draughtsman and rs 100 to all other workmen in their basic pay.
sd k n wani industrial tribunal.
the charter of demands was presented by the union in july1974 and when conciliation proceedings failed the state government made the reference to the industrial tribunal in 1975 the tribunal has referred to various considerations which prevailed with it in giving retrospectivity to the revised pay scales.
it must be a mistake or error amenable to clerical correction only.
it would do well to recall that the claim of the union filed before the tribunal also centered on the need to revise the wage scales.
on the basis that a sum of rs 150 per month was added to the pay of each draughtsman and a sum of rs 100 was added to the pay of every other workman who belonged to the union staff the financial load would increase to rs 922032  likewise if a flat increase of rs 100 was given to individual workmen of all categories including draughtsmen the increased financial load would total rs 764256  the statement then goes on to indicate that if a flat increase of rs 75 per month were given to individual workmen of all categories the total increase would be rs 578220  again if the flat increase is rs 65 per month to the individual workmen of all categories the additional load would total rs 497772  finally on the basis that the individual draughtsman would be given an increase of rs 75 per month and the individual workmen of other categories rs 50 per month the additional load was calculated at rs 463092  it will be noted that the statement exhibit c 51was prepared on the basis of the employees strength as in december1971 a similar statement was prepared on the basis of the employees strength as in september1978 these statements can not be regarded as evidence that the appellant was cognizant of the intention of the tribunal to provide a flat increase to the pay of each workman.
it is needless to recapitulate all the basic facts which have been set out in the judgment of pathak j the award of the industrial tribunal was made on december 201978 on december 221978 that is to say two days after the award was made and when everything must have been fresh to the minds of the tribunal the respective parties and their advocates the employees union made an application under rule 31 of the industrial disputes bombay rules1957 seeking a correction of an error which it was claimed had crept into the award.
further it appears that the tribunal intended to grant the increase of rs 150 to each draughtsman and rs 100 to all other workmen in their basic pay.
thereafter the tribunal made an order on the same day in the following terms there can be no doubt that a flat increase of rs 150 to each of the employees in the category of draftsmen and of rs 100 to each employee in the other categories has been granted under my award.
the primary and basic question considered by the industrial tribunal in making the award dated december 201978 was the question of revision of the wage scales.
