this appeal is directed against the final judgment and order dated 03 10 2007 passed by the high court of judicature andhra pradesh at hyderabad in criminal appeal no 436 of 2001 whereby the high court dismissed the appeal filed by the appellant herein and confirmed the judgment dated 19 03 2001 passed by the special judge c b i cases visakhapatnam in c c no 2 of 1998.
brief facts a the appellant accused was working as a head clerk in the traffic cadre section in the office of the senior divisional personnel officer south central railway vijayawada during the period from april1992 to november1997 the nature of duties of the appellant accused included dealing with and processing of the matters like promotions transfers seniority list roster list pay fixation on promotions retirements resignations etc of the personnel.
one k rama rao the complainant who was examined as pw 1was posted as yard points man grade a under station superintendent south central railway tanuku from december1995 to june1997 in june1997due to excess staff at tanuku.
he was instructed to report at head quarters vijayawada and accordingly when he reported there he was asked to go back to tanuku.
thereafter he went back to tanuku from where he was subsequently transferred to rajahmundry.
thereafter pw 1 made a representation to his senior officer requesting him for posting at vijayawada cheerala vetapalam or tenali.
later pw 1 was transferred to vijayawada.
as the appellant accused was dealing with the transfers the complainant pw 1 met him on 05 11 1997 at his office to pursue about the issuance of the said transfer order.
the appellant accused asked him to come on 10 11 1997 when he met him on 10 11 1997the appellant asked him to come on the next day as he was busy in pay fixation work.
on 11 11 1997again he went to the office of the appellant but he could not find him on his seat.
again a day after i e on.
13 11 1997when he met the appellant accused he informed him that his request for transfer has been processed and the order is ready and the same has been placed before the a p o for signature and asked him to come on the next day i e on 14 11 1997and demanded rs 200 for releasing the said office order.
on the same daypw 1 reported the matter in writing to the inspector of police central bureau of investigation in short the cbivijayawada.
on 14 11 1997a trap was laid by the cbi officials along with panchas and when the accused demanded and accepted a sum of rs 200 as illegal gratification he was caught red handed along with the money which was recovered from the right hand side pocket of his pant.
an fir was registered by the inspector cbi visakhapatnam branch in crime No.
rc 20a97 vsp after recording the statements of the witnesses inspector of police cbi visakhapatnam filed charge sheet being no 298 ytr dated 29 04 1998 against the appellant accused for an offence punishable under sections 7131dii read with s 132 of the prevention of corruption act1988 hereinafter referred to as the act in the court of special judge for cbi cases at visakhapatnam.
the special judge cbi by order dated 19 03 2001convicted the appellant and sentenced him to undergo rigorous imprisonment for a period of six months and to pay a fine of rs 500 and in default to suffer simple imprisonment for one month for the offence punishable u s 7 of the act and one year rigorous imprisonment with a fine of rs 500 and in default to suffer simple imprisonment for one month for the offence punishable u ss 131d ii.
read with s 132 of the act.
g against the said order the appellant accused filed criminal appeal no 436 of 2001 before the high court of andhra pradesh.
the high court by impugned judgment dated 03 10 2007 dismissed the appeal filed by the appellant accused and confirmed the conviction passed by the trial court.
hence the appellant accused has preferred this appeal by way of special leave petition before this court.
heard mr atm rangaramanujam learned senior counsel for the appellant and mr harish chandra learned senior counsel for the respondent.
notice only on quantum of sentence hearing on all aspects.
permissibility.
on 28 01 2008this court consisting of three honourable judges issued notice in this matter confining to the quantum of sentence only.
in pursuance of the same we permitted mr rangaramanujam learned senior counsel for the appellant to address his arguments confining to quantum of sentence imposed on the appellant accused.
as stated in the narration of facts the appellant was convicted u s 7 of the act for which he was sentenced to undergo rigorous imprisonment for six months and to pay a fine of rs 500 in default simple imprisonment for one month.
the trial court ordered that both the sentences of imprisonment shall run concurrently.
however mr rangaramanujam learned senior counsel for the appellant by drawing our attention to the recent judgment of this court in yomeshbhai pranshankar bhatt vs state of gujarat2011 6 scc 312 2011 indlaw sc 370submitted that in spite of limited notice this court while exercising jurisdiction u art 142 of the constitution in order to do complete justice while hearing the matter finally can go into the merits of the orders passed by the trial court and the high court.
at the slp stage this court by order dated 27 07 2009issued notice confined only to the question as to whether the petitioner was guilty of commission of an offence under any of the parts of s 304 indian penal code1860 in short ipc and not u s 302 ipc similar request was made before the bench that the appellant was entitled to urge all the questions including his right to urge that he should have been acquitted in the facts and circumstances of the case.
rule 6 of the code of civil procedure1908.
it further shows that the court considered the plea of the appellant therein for acquittal despite the fact that the notice was limited in terms of the order dated 27 07 2009 it is relevant to point out that the bench in para 18clarified the position and reopened the case in its entirety even though notice was issued confining to a particular aspect.
emphasis supplied.
quantum of sentence.
if the said offence charge is proved the court has no other option but to impose sentence of imprisonment which shall be not less than six months but which may extend to five years and also liable to fine.
the said section reads as under public servant taking gratification other than legal remuneration in respect of an official act  whoever being or expecting to be a public servant accepts or obtains or agrees to accept or attempts to obtain from any person for himself or for any other person any gratification whatever other than legal remuneration as a motive or reward for doing or forbearing to do any official act or for showing or forbearing to show in the exercise of his official functions favour or disfavor to any person or for rendering or attempting to render any service or disservice to any person with the central government or any state government or parliament or the legislature of any state or with any local authority corporation or government company referred to in cl c of section 2or with any public servant whether named or otherwise shall be punishable with imprisonment which shall be not less than six months but which may extend to five years and shall also be liable to fine emphasis supplied.
any public servant who commits criminal misconduct shall be punishable with imprisonment for a term which shall be not less than one year but which may extend to seven years and shall also be liable to fine.
it is true that even in the cited decision the appellant accused demanded only rs 250 and it was paid and accepted.
finally the special judge framed charges for offence punishable under sections 712131d read with s 132 of the act.
inasmuch as the conviction on both counts have been confirmed by this court and we are confined to sentence part alone and in view of the minimum sentence prescribed u ss 7 and 13 of the act we are of the view that though long delay may be a ground for reduction of sentence in other cases the same may not be applicable to the case on hand when the statute prescribes minimum sentence.
the parties filed an application under section 13 b1 of the hindu marriage act1955 before the family court delhi seeking divorce by mutual consent.
ganga 2008.
emphasis supplied.
union of india 1998 4 scc 409 1998 indlaw sc 688 and e s p rajaram v union of india 2001 2 scc 186 2001 indlaw sc 20411 held that u art 142 of the constitution this court can not altogether ignore the substantive provisions of a statute and pass orders concerning an issue which can be settled only through a mechanism prescribed in another statute.
it is not to be exercised in a case where there is no basis in law which can form an edifice for building up a superstructure.
indlaw sc 999union of india v shardindu 2007 6 scc 276 2007 indlaw sc 537 and bharat sewa sansthan v u p electronics corpn.
the power u art 142 of the constitution is a constitutional power and hence not restricted by statutory enactments.
indeed this court is not a court of restricted jurisdiction of only dispute settling.
it may therefore be understood that the plenary powers of this court u art 142 of the constitution are inherent in the court and are complementary to those powers which are specifically conferred on the court by various statutes though are not limited by those statutes these.
and may be put on a different and perhaps even wider footing than ordinary inherent powers of a court to prevent injustice.
an order which this court can make in order to do complete justice between the parties must not only be consistent with the fundamental rights guaranteed by the constitution but also it can not even be inconsistent with the substantive provisions of the relevant statute.
in other words acting under article 142this court can not pass an order or grant relief which is totally inconsistent or goes against the substantive or statutory enactments pertaining to the case.
