act liii of 1961 hereinafter referred to as the act which in view of s 21 of the act is the law applicable even to women workers employed in plantations.
as her demand did not evoke a favourable response the respondent applied to the labour court coimbatore under section 33c2 of the industrial disputes act for redress of her grievance.
contending that the claim made by the respondent was untenable as normally a worker works only for six days in a week and the maternity benefit had to be computed only for 72 days.
in support of his contention.
mr pai has referred us to the full bench decision of the kerala high court in malayalam plantations ltd.
i c 848  a i r 1975.
ker 86 1974 indlaw ker 91and to convention no 103 concerning maternity protection convention revised1952 adopted by the general conference of the international labour organisation.
bhatt has on the other hand urged that the scheme of s 5 of the act clearly indicates that a woman worker who expects delivery had to be paid maternity benefit for all the seven days of the week including sundays falling within the ante natal and post natal periods specified in the section.
s 21 of the act makes the act applicable to every establishment being a factory mine or plantation including any such establishment belonging to government and to every establishment wherein persons are employed for the exhibition of equastrain acrobatic and other performance.
2 incentive bonus and 3 the money value of the concessional supply of food grains and other articles but does not include.
s 5 of the act which confers right to payment of maternity benefit on a woman worker provisions.
5 right to payment of maternity.
benefit  1subject to the provisions of this act every woman shall be entitled to and her employer shall be liable for the payment of maternity benefit at the rate of the average daily wage for the period of her actual absence immediately preceding and including the day of her delivery and for the six weeks immediately following that day.
for the purpose of this sub section the average daily wage means the average of the woman s wages payable to her for the days on which she has worked during the period of three calendar months immediately preceding the date from which she absents herself on account of maternity or one rupee a day whichever is higher.
provided that where a woman dies during this period the maternity benefit shall be payable only for the days up to and including the day of her death.
any woman employed in an establishment and entitled to maternity benefit under the provisions of this act may give notice in writing in such form as may be prescribed to her employer stating that her maternity benefit and any other amount to which she may be entitled under this act may be paid to her or to such person as she may nominate in the notice and that she will not work in any establishment during the period for which she receives maternity benefit.
the provisions of s 5 of the act quoted above make it clear that a woman worker who expects a child is entitled to maternity benefit for a maximum period of twelve weeks which is split up into two periods viz prenatal and post natal.
according to the explanation appended to s 51 of the act the average daily wage has to be computed taking into consideration the average of the woman s wager payable to her for the days on which she has worked during the period of three calendar months immediately preceding the date from which she absents herself on account of maternity or one rupee a day whichever is higher.
after thus finding out the average daily wage the liability of the employer in respect of the maternity benefit has to be calculated in terms of s 5 of the act for both ore natal and post natal period indicated above.
the real though difficult question that calls for determination by us is as to what is the connotation of the term week occurring in sub ss 1 and 3 of s 5 of the act and whether the computation of the maternity benefit prescribed by the act for the a foresaid two periods has to be made taking a week as signifying a cycle of seven days including a sunday or a cycle of seven days minus a sunday which is said to be a wageless day as the act does not contain any definition of the word weekit has to be understood in its ordinary dictionary sense.
in the shorter oxford english dictionary third editionthe word week has been described as meaning the cycle of seven days recognized in the calendar of the jews and thence adopted in the calendars of christian mohammedan and various other peoples.
seven days as a term for periodical payments of wagerrent or the likeor as a unit of reckoning for time of work or service.
a week according to halsbury s laws of england.
third edi tion volume 37 at p 84 is strictly the time between midnight on saturday and the same hour on the next succeeding saturday but the term is also applied to any period of seven successive days.
weekwe think that in the context of sub ss 1 and 3 of s 5 of the act the term has to be taken to signify a cycle of seven days including sundays.
the language in which the aforesaid sub s s are couched also shows that the legislature intended that computation of maternity benefit is to be made for the entire period of the woman worker s actual absence i e for all the days including sundays which may be wageless holidays falling within that period and not only for intermittent periods of six days thereby excluding sundays falling within that period for if it were not so the legislature instead of using the words for the period of her actual absence immediately preceding and including the day of her delivery and for the six weeks immediately following that day would have used the words for the working days falling within the period of her actual absence immediately preceding and including the day of her delivery and the six weeks immediately following that day but excluding the wageless days.
again the word period occurring in s 51 of the act is a strong word.
it has also to be borne in mind in this connection that in interpreting provisions of beneficial pieces of legislation like the one in hand which is intended to achieve the object of doing social justice to women workers employed in the plantations and which squarely fall within the purview of art 42 of the constitution the beneficent rule of construction which would enable the woman worker not only to subsist but also to make up her dissipated energy nurse her child preserve her efficiency as a worker and maintain the level of her previous efficiency and output has to be adopted by the court.
although costs have to be paid by appellant to respondent no 2 in terms of the court s order dated october 301975yet in view of the fact that the said respondent has not chosen to appear at the hearing of the case and mr k n bhat has assisted the court as amicus curiae we direct the appellant to pay rs 1000 to mr bhat as his fee.
