these appeals are directed against a judgment and order dated 17 october 2003 passed by the special court constituted under the special courts trial of offences relating to transactions in securities.
act 1992 for short the act in misc.
41 of 1999 4 of 2001 265 266 and 275 of 2003.
background facts.
the appellants herein who are related to one harshad section mehta since deceased purchased nine residential flats in a building called madhuli apartments in worli area of mumbai.
the family of the appellants consists of four brothers their wives children and their widowed mother.
the eldest among them harshad section mehta has since expired.
the said nine flats it is said were merged and redesigned for joint living of the entire family.
the appellants herein and the said.
late harshad mehta were persons notified in terms of the act which was enacted to provide for the establishment of a special court for the trial of offences relating to transactions in securities and for matters connected therewith.
in terms of the provisions of the act along with late harshad mehta the custodian had notified 29 entities in terms of section 3 of the act comprising three of his younger brothers wife of late harshad mehta wives of two of his younger brothers and other corporate entities a partnership firm and three hufs.
however out of the said 29 entitles only late harshad mehta and two of his younger brothers were cited as accused in various criminal cases filed against them.
the properties of late harshad mehta and the appellants herein being notified persons stood attached in terms of the provisions of the act.
proceedings before the special court.
a chartered accountants firm was appointed by the learned special judge by an order dated 17 september 2003 to represent all notified entities in the family of late harshad mehta for the purpose of ascertaining their tax liabilities.
we may at this juncture notice the nature of the applications filed by the parties herein before the learned special court i on 26 april 1999 the custodian filed an application being misc.
application being 4 of 2001 was filed by the custodian praying for the sale of commercial premises.
alternatively it was prayed that since their asset base was greater than genuine liabilities the said residential premises should be released from attachment.
applications nos.
the misc.
applications filed by the appellants herein for release of the residential flats as well as the commercial premises from attachment were dismissed.
it was directed in case all adult members of the family of late shri harshad metha who are presently occupying the abovereferred flats file an undertaking in this court within a period of four weeks from today undertaking to vacate the flat occupied by them and hand over peaceful possession thereof to the custodian within a period of four weeks from the date on which the custodian sends them communication asking them to vacate the flats on sale of the flats being sanctioned by the court.
the custodian shall permit the members of family of late shri harshad mehta to occupy the flats during the time that the process of the sale of the flats goes on.
in case no such undertakings are filed by the adult members as directed above within the aforesaid period the custodian shall stand appointed as receiver of the flats which are described in exh.
8 and exh.
contentions of the parties appellants 9.
mr mahesh jethmalani learned senior counsel appearing on behalf of the appellants in assailing the said judgment of the learned special court inter alia raised the following contentions i some of the entities having their asset base much more than actual liability the impugned judgments are unsustainable.
there was no occasion for the custodian to club all the notified entities in one block so as to be termed as harshad mehta group andor to club their assets and liabilities jointly.
although in relation to a body corporate incorporated and registered under the indian companies act the doctrine of lifting the corporate veil would be applicable but the same can not be applied in case of individuals.
ii having regard to the fact that only three entitles out of eight were involved in the offences the liability of harshad mehta could not have been clubbed for the purpose of directing attachment and consequent sale of the properties which exclusively belong to them.
the liabilities of harshad mehta who was a sui generis could have been recovered from the properties held and possessed by him or from the companies floated by him but not from the individual entities at least two of whom being medical practitioners have their income from other sources.
vi drawing our attention to a representative chart showing the discrepancies in the accounts of mrs deepika a mehta as shown in a affidavit by the custodian b books of accounts maintained by the appellants and c auditor s report it was submitted that the auditor s report could not have been relied upon.
mr ashok h desai learned senior counsel appearing on behalf of the custodian on the other hand would inter alia submit.
iin view of the decision of this court in l s synthetics ltd v fairgrowth financial services ltd and another 2004 11 scc 456 2004 indlaw sc 715 all properties belonging to the notified persons being subject to automatic attachment could be applied for discharge of the joint liabilities of the harshad mehta group in terms of section 11 of the act.
iiithe order of assessment under the income tax act having become final and binding as on the date when the orders of assessment were passed and thus mere filing of appeals were not sufficient for raising a contention that the taxes did not become due.
reliance in this behalf has been placed on b c dalal 2005 indlaw sc 1826 v custodian.
co ltd v the commissioner of income tax.
central calcutta 1972 3 scc 252 1971 indlaw sc 841.
ivthe appellants herein apart from the corporate entity which is a front company of late harshad mehta have received large loans advances and credits from the harshad mehta group and there had been intermingling of the assets to the tune of crores of rupees they can not escape their liabilities under the act.
even in the case of dr pratima mehta wherein some excesses has been shown if the interest is calculated for the last over 13 years of the amount received the liabilities would exceed the assets.
v the assets and liabilities of each of the entities having been audited by the chartered accountants it is evident from the reports that in all cases liabilities exceed the assets.
vithe decretal amount against the harshad mehta group also would exceed rs 4339 crores and thus the assets held by the appellants are wholly insufficient to meet the liabilities.
viifurthermore the appellants are also unable to maintain their residential properties as the custodian had to pay a sum of rs 1 06 crores towards the maintenance of the said residential properties.
the assets of the harshad mehta group are valued at rs 972 crores apart from the income tax dues whereas the aggregate amount of income tax dues exceed rs 13800 crores.
hitesh mehta and dr pratima mehta who are medical practitioners by profession having affirmed affidavits admitting that the share broking and investment businesses which were part of family businesses were undertaken and conducted by late harshad mehta and they had no knowledge thereabout nor were they involved therewith.
they at this stage can not be permitted to turn round and contend that they have nothing to do with the liabilities of late harshad mehta.
even before this court the sale of commercial properties had not been questioned.
a large number of commercial properties having already been sold and third party rights having been created this court should not interfere with the impugned judgment.
the act.
the said irregularities and malpractices led to the diversion of funds from banks and financial institutions to the individual accounts of certain brokers.
2 to deal with the situation and in particular to ensure speedy recovery of the huge amount involved to punish the guilty and restore confidence in and maintain the basic integrity and credibility of the banks and financial institutions the special court trial of offences relating to transactions in securities ordinance 1992 was promulgated on the 6th june 1992.
the ordinance provides for the establishment of a special court with a sitting judge of a high court for speedy trial of offences relating to transactions in securities and disposal of properties attached.
section 3 of the act provides for appointment and functions of the custodian.
section 5 provides for establishment of the special court.
section 7 confers exclusive jurisdiction upon the special court.
section 11 of the act reads as under discharge of liabilities.
the act provides for stringent measures.
the provision contained in the act being stringent in nature the purport and intent thereof must be ascertained having regard to the purpose and object it seeks to achieve.
the right of a person notified to file an application or to raise a defence that he is not liable in terms of the provisions of the act or in any event the properties attached should not be sold in discharge of the liabilities can be taken at the initial stage by filing an application in terms of sub s 2 of section 4 of the act.
in terms of the provisions of the act the special court had been conferred a very wide power.
recedents as regard scope of the act.
constitutionality and or interpretation of the act came up for consideration before this court in harshad shantilal.
indlaw sc 732 v custodian and others 1998 5 scc 1 wherein the following questions were framed what is meant by revenues taxes cesses and rates due.
does the word due refer merely to the liability to pay such taxes etc or does it refer to a liability which has crystallised into a legally ascertained sum immediately payable.
do the taxes in cl.
does the special court have any discretion relating to the extent of payments to be made under section 112a from out of the attached funds property.
such tax liability may be discharged either under the directions of the special court under section 112c or the taxing authority may recover the same from any subsequently acquired property of a notified person vide tejkumar balakrishna ruia v a k menon 1996 indlaw sc 2403 or in any other manner from the notified person in accordance with law.
the priority however which is given under section 112a to such tax liability only covers such liability for the period 1 4 1991 to 6 6 1992.
in respect of the question No 3 it was opined that the date of distribution arrives when the special court completes the examination of claims under section 9 a and if on that date any tax liability for the statutory period is legally assessed and the assessment is final and binding on a notified person that liability would be considered for payment section 111a.
so far as question No 4 is concerned this court despite upholding the contention of the custodian that no question of any reopening of tax assessments before the special court would arise and the liability of the notified person to pay the tax will have to be determined under the machinery provided by the relevant tax law observed but the special court can decide how much of that liability will be discharged out of the funds in the hands of the custodian.
the special court can for this purpose examine whether there is any fraud collusion or miscarriage of justice in assessment proceedings.
but if the assessment is a best judgment assessment the special court may examine whether for example the income which is so assessed to tax bears comparison to the amounts attached by the custodian or whether the taxes so assessed are grossly disproportionate to the properties of the assessee in the hands of the custodian applying the wednesbury principle of proportionality.
the special court may in these cases scale down the tax liability to be paid out of the funds in the hands of the custodian.
the appellants herein are notified persons in terms of the provisions of the act.
therefore all the properties belonging to them stand attached.
the act would also have made provision for a subsistence allowance or the like for the notified person.
the apprehension expressed by the special court does not appear to be well founded if what a notified person obtains by way of purported income or gift or inheritance is really his own money such money would upon establishment of the fact stand attached automatically under the provisions of section 33.
while a purposive interpretation is permissible where two interpretations are possible the purposive interpretation must be such as preserves the constitutionality of the provision.
it has further been held that the property be shares dividends and bonus and rights shares would also be attached property.
iwhether the appellants being not involved in offences in transactions in securities could have been proceeded against in terms of the provisions of the act.
iiwhether individual liabilities of the appellants ought to have been separately considered by the special court as not a part of harshad mehta group.
iiiwhether the tax liabilities could not have been held to be due as the order of assessments did not become final and binding.
vwhether the residential properties should have been released from attachment.
the parties have also filed several charts before us showing individual assets and liabilities.
it has as noticed hereinbefore further been contended that various best judgment assessment passed by the assessing authority against some of the appellants have been set aside in appeal and the matters are pending reassessment before the assessing authority.
we therefore as at present advised refrain ourselves from adverting to the said question.
the question however before us is as to whether any contention which may not have a direct bearing with the question as to whether the special court could entertain their applications for de notifications could be raised by way of defence.
see bombay dyeing manufacturing co ltd v the state of bombay and others air 1958 sc 338 savitra khandu beradi v nagar agricultural sale and purchase co operative society ltd ahmednagar and others.
in l s synthetics ltd 2004 indlaw sc 715 supra this court observed a statute of limitation bars a remedy and not a right.
in construing a special statute providing for limitation consideration of plea of hardship is irrelevant.
the intent and purport of parliament enacting the said act furthermore must be given its full effect.
l s synthetics ltd 2004 indlaw sc 715 supra.
as the said question has not been gone into by the learned judge special court it is necessary that the same be considered and appropriately dealt with.
in para 14 of the sur rejoinder the appellants denied the asset and liability position as arrived at by the custodian.
according to the appellants the custodian has under estimated the assets and exaggerated and overstated their liabilities.
a triable issue had been raised and the custodian s petition should have been converted into a suit.
in fact according to the appellants there are gross errors in the material relied upon by the custodian.
the said contention must be properly adjudged.
several charts have been filed before us by the appellants to show i liabilities have been exaggerated by the custodian.
no credit for rs 1227 crores released to revenue on interest are given by the custodian.
ii liabilities have been shown in relation to unperformed contracts.
subsequent to the filing of the present appeal in a large number of cases the revenue demands have been set aside.
it is interesting to note that the properties belonging to the mother of harshad mehta has since been released from attachment.
the said letter was replied by the custodian by his letter dated 10 october 2003 wherein none of the queries contained in paragraphs 3 to 8 of the said letter was even attempted to be answered.
the amount of priority demand of income tax liabilities comes to rs 18297576248.
thus the total value of the assets as per the affidavit filed on behalf of the custodian of harshad mehta group is rs 9727332166 94.
the custodian in terms of the directions issued by the learned special court had affirmed an affidavit putting on record the assets and liabilities of each of the members of the so called harshad mehta group on an individual basis.
allegedly therein it was shown that the individuals had received large loans advances credits from the harshad mehta group and there had been intermingling of the assets to the tune of crores of rupees.
the said chart however shows that at least mrs deepika mehta held assets more than her liabilities.
mr desai contended that if interest is calculated liabilities would be more than assets.
it is true that horrendous figures as regard the liabilities of harshad mehta have been projected before us but the same had been shown to be of the entire group.
further contention of the custodian is that even dr hitesh mehta and dr pratima mehta have admitted that they had no knowledge about the transactions.
the learned judge proceeded on the basis that the assets and liabilities joint and collective of all those who are related with harshad mehta as also the corporate entities in which he was a director or had some other interest must be considered as a group.
a question may further arise as to whether the learned judge was correct in considering the individual liabilities of the notified parties as the liabilities of the group.
if those individuals who had no connection with harshad mehta could not have been proceeded against for meeting the liabilities of harshad mehta jointly or severally a clear finding was required to be arrived at.
only because there had been large intermingling and flow of funds from harshad mehta and inter se within the group the same by itself may not justify the conclusion that all of their assets were required to be sold irrespective of their individual involvement.
it was thus necessary for the learned special court to arrive at a firm conclusion as regard the involvement of the individuals with harshad mehta if any and the extent of his liability as such.
furthermore the question as regard liability of the parties should have been determined at the stage of section 9 a of the act.
the appellants have contended that the custodian had taken contradictory or inconsistent stand inasmuch as the liabilities of all the entities were treated to be joint liabilities of harshad mehta group.
he furthermore wanted to treat the liabilities of the notified entities also as their separate liabilities.
such claims may also be preferred.
tax liability.
it is furthermore not in dispute that in a large number of cases the appellate authorities have set aside best judgment assessments.
late harshad mehta rs 11829 crores.
iv jyoti mehta rs 1457 crores.
v hitesh mehta rs 73 crores vi.
sudhir mehta rs 339 crores viii.
1998 indlaw sc 732 supra.
this court it is trite can take into consideration the subsequent events.
in view of the aforementioned pronouncement of law we are of the opinion that it is absolutely necessary to request the learned special court to consider the matter afresh.
in fact one of the contentions raised on behalf of the appellants had been that if commercial properties are sold there would be no need to sale the residential properties.
however the finalization shall be subject to the result of these appeals.
in that view of the matter evidently creation of any third party interest is no longer in dispute nor the same is subject to any order of this court.
in any event ordinarily a bona fide purchaser for value in an action sale is treated differently than a decree holder purchasing such properties.
see zain ul abdin khan v muhammad asghar ali khan 15 ia 12 1887 indlaw pc 13.
smt and another 1994 2 scc 368 1994 indlaw sc 1613.
residential property.
conclusion.
in view of our foregoing discussions we are of the opinion that i the contention of the appellants that they being not involved in offences in transactions in securities could not have been proceeded in terms of the provisions of the act can not be accepted in view of the fact that they have been notified in terms thereof.
the custodian may also take assistance and or further assistance from a chartered accountant of his choice.
x we would however request the learned special judge special court to complete the hearings of the matter keeping in view of the fact that auction sale in respect of the residential premises is being consideration as expeditiously as possible and not later than twelve weeks from the date of the receipt of the copy of this order.
save and except for sufficient or cogent reasons the learned judge shall not grant any adjournment to either of the parties.
with the aforementioned observations and directions these appeals are allowed.
appeals allowed.
