the present appeal arises out of the judgment and order dated 01 07 2002 passed by the high court of bombay at goa in criminal appeal No 6 of 2000 convicting the accused appellant section 302 of the indian penal code for short the the ipc and sentencing him to undergo life imprisonment for the offence by setting aside the order of acquittal passed by the trial court.
facts giving rise to the present appeal may be stated first so as to enable us to appreciate the arguments raised by the parties more effectively.
on 19 04 1988 between 8 30 p m and 8 45 p m satish narayan sawant the appellant accused No 1 along with two other accused persons and also with two delinquent children allegedly formed an unlawful assembly and that in furtherance of the said common object stabbed one rauji dulba sawant the deceased and also assaulted baby dulba sawant pw 1 ashok dulba sawant pw 2 kunda rauji sawant pw 8 and laxmi dulba sawant pw 18 who are the sister brother wife and mother respectively of the deceased.
it is also the case of the prosecution that as a result of the aforesaid stab injuries given to the deceased he expired on the same day i e on 19 04 1988.
p s joaquim dias pw 21 who was attached to the ponda police station as p s i received a phone call at about 10 45 p m from p s i k k desai of the panaji police station that a person named rauji dulba sawant had been brought in police jeep by police constable jaisingrao rane and that while he was being taken to the goa medical college he expired.
he was informed that the deceased had died as a result of stab injuries received and therefore he was to take necessary steps.
on receipt of the aforesaid message pw 21 along with asi tabit mamlekar went to the scene of offence.
they reached the scene of offence at about 11 30 p m but found the entire place plunged into darkness and with the help of torch light pw 21 surveyed the scene of offence.
during the survey made at the place of occurrence pw 21 noticed some blood stains in the front courtyard of the house and a pipe of length of about 1 foot or slightly less lying in the courtyard having blood stains.
on enquiring from her pw 21 learnt that her name was yeshoda who was later on arrayed as accused No 3.
two juvenile girls named sarita and sharmila who are the sisters of the appellant were found in the house.
in the meantime pw 1 pw 2 and pw 8 came to the house from whom pw 21 made certain inquiries and brought them along with accused No 3 and her two juvenile girls to the police station.
not finding the appellant and accused no 2 in the house dy.
s p shri raikar and p i shri alan osa were sent in their search.
after reaching the police station a complaint which is marked as exhibit pw 1 a was lodged by pw 1 in which it was alleged that pw 1 pw 8 pw 18 the deceased rauji and his brother narayan were residing in one house in banastari and they used to share a common kitchen between them.
religious ceremony was performed by installing the statue of lord ganesh in the house and.
while the said religious ceremony was being performed accused No 2 started uttering insults while standing in the kitchen.
accused No 3 told the appellant not to do anything in the ceremony and insulted the family members of rauji.
as soon as the deceased switched off the light the appellant came from the room and started abusing rauji.
there was a heated exchange of words between rauji and the appellant switched on the light which was again switched off by rauji the deceased.
thereupon the appellant went and removed the fuse of the said light.
accused No 3 had then lit a kerosene lamp and brought the same in the hall.
there was already an oil lamp burning which was attached to the ceiling by a brass chain.
meanwhile accused No 3 started abusing pw 1 pw 8 pw 18 and the deceased rauji.
thereafter the appellant and the two other alleged accused namely accused nos 2 and 3 and the two juvenile offenders gathered in the hall to assault rauji the deceased pw 1 and pw 8.
according to pw 1 in order to avoid the assault by all of them they went to bulcao balcony.
when they went there the appellant went to his mother s room and brought a knife with which he stabbed rauji.
at that time all the accused persons were in the balcony.
it was also alleged that after the deceased rauji fell down on the ground accused No 3 kicked him.
at that time the appellant who was holding the knife in his hand handed over the same to accused No 3 by which she assaulted pw 8 but pw 8 caught the knife in her hand which caused injury to her right palm.
thereafter according to pw 1 accused No 3 handed back the knife to the appellant and accused No 2 brought the oil lamp which was hung in the room and hit the oil lamp on the head of rauji the deceased.
it was also alleged that when pw 8 tried to intervene the other three accused started assaulting her with fists and slaps.
at that time pw 2 came there and questioned the accused persons as to what they were doing whereupon the appellant and accused No 2 started assaulting pw 2 also.
then accused No 3 told the appellant and accused No 2 to finish off rauji first.
pw 8 pw 18 and pw 1 then lifted rauji and brought him in the courtyard.
in the meanwhile residents of the locality had gathered in the courtyard and told the accused persons not to assault rauji.
it was also alleged that the other juvenile offender sharmila brought a cement block shaped like an elephant trunk which she handed over to accused No 3 with which accused No 3 started assaulting rauji.
pw 1 however intervened and removed the said piece of cement block from the hand of accused No 3 but.
however pw 1 again intervened and removed the said stone from the hand of accused no 3.
pw 18 rushed to the rescue of deceased rauji.
the accused then started assaulting her and pw 8 with slaps.
in the meantime police jeep arrived at the scene and on seeing the police jeep all the accused ran away from the courtyard and went inside.
pw 1 and others asked the police to take rauji to the hospital.
whereupon the police took him to the hospital in the police jeep along with pw 1 pw 2 and pw 8.
the trial court framed charges against all the accused persons for the offence under sections 302 323 143 147 and 149 of the ipc.
after completion of the arguments the trial court reserved the verdict.
he next submitted that there was no evidence on record as to when the fir reached the magistrate and that none of the courts below considered the said aspect.
he submitted that since there was violation of the provisions of section 162 of the crpc the accused appellant is liable to be acquitted.
ms a subhashini learned counsel appearing for the respondent state however strenuously submitted that none of the aforesaid submissions could be accepted by this court as it is a foolproof case of conviction of the appellant section.
302 ipc.
there was indeed some scuffle between the parties during the course of which accused No 1 received simple injuries and the deceased died of the two stab injuries inflicted by the present appellant.
on medical examination his injury was found to be simple.
he submitted that since the investigation in the instant case was started by the police without recording an fir such an fir is necessarily hit by the provisions of section 162 of the cr.
p c he next submitted that no evidence having been led by the prosecution about the time when the fir reached the magistrate therefore there is also violation of the provisions of section 157 of the cr.
the issue with regard to the initiation of the investigation without recording the fir was succinctly addressed by this court in the case of state of u p v bhagwant kishore joshi 1964 3 scr 71 1963 indlaw sc 268 observed as follows 17.
investigation in substance means collection of evidence relating to the commission of the offence.
no doubt section 5 a of the prevention of corruption act was enacted for preventing harassment to a government servant and with this object in view investigation except with the previous permission of a magistrate is not permitted to be made by an officer below the rank of deputy superintendent of police.
if no harassment to the accused results from the action of a police officer how can it be said to defeat the purpose underlying section 5 a looking at the matter this way i hold that what mathur did was something very much short of investigation and therefore the provisions of section 5 a were not violated.
since no irregularity was committed by him there is no occasion to invoke the aid of the curative provisions of the code.
in order to verify the information received pw 21 went to the place of occurrence and found the entire house in total darkness.
after reaching the police station and at the request of pw 1 the fir was recorded at 3 00 a m in the morning.
in animireddy venkata ramana and others v public prosecutor high court of andhra pradesh 2008 5 scc 368 2008 indlaw sc 354 this court while considering a similar case observed as follows 10.
the conductor of the bus sent an information to the depot manager of the state road transport corporation at tuni.
a report to that effect might have been noted in the general diary but the same could not have been treated to be an fir.
an information received in regard to commission of a cognizable offence is not required to be preceded by a first information report.
from the evidence on record it does not appear to us that any suggestion was given to the said witness to the effect that the copy of the fir was not sent or that it was dispatched late which if given would have given an opportunity to the witness to afford some explanation or to show as to when the fir was sent to and received by the magistrate.
the mere fact that the witnesses were related to the deceased can not be a ground to discard their evidence.
but if after careful analysis and scrutiny of their evidence the version given by the witnesses appears to be clear cogent and credible there is no reason to discard the same.
however a perusal of record clearly shows that the doctor who conducted the postmortem pw 7 stated in his evidence that there were in total 16 injuries when external examination was done by him and the knife m o 11 could have caused the injuries No 1 2 3 and 4.
there is therefore one particular injury being injury No 1 caused because of stabbing and the rest being superficial in nature could be caused during scuffle.
there is cogent and reliable evidence on record to prove and establish that the accused has committed the act of stabbing as a result of which the deceased had died.
section 299 and section 300 ipc deals with the definition of culpable homicide and murder respectively.
section 299 defines culpable homicide as the act of causing death i with the intention of causing death or ii with the intention of causing such bodily injury as is likely to cause death or iii with the knowledge that such act is likely to cause death.
both the expression intent and knowledge postulate the existence of a positive mental attitude which is of different degrees.
it has been repeatedly held by this court that culpable homicide is the genus and murder is species and that all murders are culpable homicide but not vice versa.
i and if it is only a case of knowledge and not the intention to cause murder and bodily injury then the same would be a case of section 304 part ii.
the aforesaid distinction between an act amounting to murder and an act not amounting to murder has been brought out in the numerous decisions of this court.
all murder is culpable homicide but not vice versa.
for the purpose of fixing punishment proportionate to the gravity of this generic offence the code practically recognises three degrees of culpable homicide.
3 of section 300 is one of degree of probability of death resulting from the intended bodily injury.
the words bodily injury sufficient in the ordinary course of nature to cause death mean that death will be the most probable result of the injury having regard to the ordinary course of nature.
first it must establish quite objectively that a bodily injury is present secondly the nature of the injury must be proved.
thirdly it must be proved that there was an intention to inflict that particular bodily injury that is to say that it was not accidental or unintentional or that some other kind of injury was intended.
the question so far as the intention is concerned is not whether he intended to kill or to inflict an injury of a particular degree of seriousness but whether he intended to inflict the injury in question and once the existence of the injury is proved the intention to cause it will be presumed unless the evidence or the circumstances warrant an opposite conclusion.
these observations of vivian bose j have become locus classicus.
the test laid down by virsa singh case4 for the applicability of clause thirdly is now ingrained in our legal system and has become part of the rule of law.
under clause thirdly of section 300 ipc culpable homicide is murder if both the following conditions are satisfied i e a that the act which causes death is done with the intention of causing death or is done with the intention of causing a bodily injury and b that the injury intended to be inflicted is sufficient in the ordinary course of nature to cause death.
thus according to the rule laid down in virsa singh case4 even if the intention of the accused was limited to the infliction of a bodily injury sufficient to cause death in the ordinary course of nature and did not extend to the intention of causing death the offence would be murder.
illustration c appended to section 300 clearly brings out this point.
4 of section 300 both require knowledge of the probability of the act causing death.
such knowledge on the part of the offender must be of the highest degree of probability the act having been committed by the offender without any excuse for incurring the risk of causing death or such injury as aforesaid.
the aforesaid principles have been consistently followed by this court in several decisions.
reference in this regard may be made to the decision of this court in ruli ram v state of haryana 2002 7 scc 691 2002 indlaw sc 1927 augustine saldanha v state of karnataka 2003 10 scc 472 2003 indlaw sc 674 state of u p v virendra prasad 2004 9 scc 37 2004 indlaw sc 60 chacko v state of kerala 2004 12 scc 269 2004 indlaw sc 20 section n bhadolkar v state of maharasthra 2005 9 scc 71 2004 indlaw sc 268 and jagriti devi v state of h p jt 2009 8 sc 648.
that being the well settled legal position when we test the factual background of the present case on the principles laid down by this court in the aforesaid decisions we are unable to agree with the views taken by the high court.
initially the accused appellant also did not have any weapon with him but during the course of the incident he went inside and got a knife with the help of which he stabbed the deceased.
in his cross examination has categorically stated that death due to stab injury was in consequence of injury No 1 and all other injuries were superficial in nature.
there is therefore provocation and the incident happened at the spur of the moment.
it is trite law that section 304 part ii comes into play when the death is caused by doing an act with knowledge that it is likely to cause death but there is no intention on the part of the accused either to cause death or to cause such bodily injury as is likely to cause death.
his bail bonds shall stand cancelled and the appellant shall surrender immediately to serve out the remaining period of sentence.
appeal disposed of.
