dThat an enquiry be made and the quantity of coal cut and removed by the defendants from the plaintiffs  coal land as also the quantity of the coal rendered unworkable be ascertained and a decree for the value thereof by way of damages be granted to the plaintiffs against the defendants.
The defendants denied that they had encroached upon the plaintiff   coal land and stated that the suit was barred by limitation.
Learned counsel for the appellant contends that the said boundary should be fixed solely with reference to the boundaries given in the lease of 1894 whereas learned counsel for the respondents contends that no plan has been annexed to the said lease and therefore the boundary could more satisfactorily and definitely be fixed with reference to the plans annexed to the subsequent lease deeds executed in favour of the successors in interest of the appellant and the respondents.
No plan was annexed to this lease deed.
One interesting feature is that a map has been referred to in each of the documents and the said map shows that the line drawn from point A to point B is the boundary between the two leaseholds.
The next question addressed by the courts below is how to ascertain the point A.
The next question is whether the suit was barred by limitation.
The appellant denied the said allegation and stated that the respondents all along knew and had been aware that the portion of coal land in question belonged to and was the property of the appellant.
It reads  Period Time from Description of suit.
of which period limitation begins to run.
sion itis.
 The article says that a suit for recovery of specific movable property acquired by conversion or for compensation for wrongful taking or detaining of the suit property should be filed within three years from the date when the person having the right to the possession of the property first learns in whose possession it is.
That apart section 3 of the Limitation Act makes it obligatory on a court to dismiss a suit barred by limitation although limitation has not been set up as a defence indicating thereby that it is the duty of a plaintiff to establish at any rate prima facie that the suit is within time.
That burden is constant throughout the trial but the burden to prove in the sense of adducing evidence shifts from time to time having regard to the evidence adduced by one party or the other or the presumption of fact or law raised in favour of one or the other.
A division beach of the Patna High Court in Sundarji Shivji vs Secretary of State for India 1 held that when a defendant in an action based on tort seeks to show that the suit is not maintainable by reason of the expiry of the statutory period of limitation it is upon him to prove the necessary facts.
There the suit was for conversion of property and the learned Judges applied article 48 of the Limitation Act to the said suit.
503 onus of proof may shift to the defendant.
848 860.
We cannot therefore hold that the findings of the courts are vitiated by an error of law by the burden of proof having been wrongly thrown on the appellant.
We accept the findings of the High Court that the respondents had knowledge of the appellant s encroachment of their coal mines only in the year 1941 which was within three years of the date of the filing of the suit.
The High Court accepted the finding.
Nor can we hold in favour of the appellant on the basis of such a possibility.
Appeal dismissed.
