SV Gupte Solicitor General R Ganapathy Iyer and RN Sachthey for the appellant.
The quantum of this pension was calculated on the basis of 14th of the revenue of the Jagir.
The pension was paid regularly from year to year by the Government to Babu Har Narain Singh and his heirs.
The source of the pension was a liability undertaken by the Government for extinguishing the proprietary rights of the Jagirdar and when the immediate source of the income was not land or rent collections from land it is difficult to hold that the receipt of the assessee was agricultural income within the meaning of Section 43viii of the Income tax Act.
The allowance was in a sense related to the land revenue assessed on the land ie it was fixed as a percentage of the land revenue but the percentage was merely a measure and indicated the source of the right in lieu of which the allowance was given.
We are unable to agree with his contention.
But the enquiry should stop as soon as the effective source is discovered.
In the genealogical tree of the interest land indeed appears in the second degree but the immediate and effective source is rent which has suffered the accident of nonpayment.
Shah J observed The appellant has no beneficial interest in the lands which are the subject matter of the trust nor is he given under the trust a right to receive and appropriate to himself the income of the properties or a part thereof in lieu of any beneficial interest in that income.
The source of the right in which a fraction of the net income of the trust is to be appropriated by the appellant as his remuneration is not in the right to receive rent or revenue of agricultural lands but rests in the covenant in the deed to receive remuneration for management of the trust.
The income of the trust appropriated by the appellant as remuneration is not received by him as rent or revenue of land the character of the income appropriated as remuneration due is again not the same as the character in which it was received by the appellant as trustee.
Both the source and character of the income are therefore altered when a part of the income of the trust is appropriated by the appellant as his remuneration and that is so notwithstanding that computation of remuneration is made as a percentage of the income a substantial part whereof is derived from lands used for agricultural purposes.
The remuneration not being received as rent or revenue of agricultural lands under a title legal or beneficial in the property from which the income is received it is not income exempt under section 43viii.
Mr Sastri sought to distinguish those cases on the ground that the allowance here varied from year to year.
Mr Sastri contends that it is capital receipt.
 He therefore asked us to disregard the word pension  in the letter dated July 7 1837 and determine the real character of the payment.
Lord Simon observed Secondly a transaction which on its true construction is of a kind that would escape tax is not taxable on the ground that the same result could be brought about by a transaction in another form which would attract tax.
If the other method is adopted tax will not be payable .
Appeal allowed.
