Appeal by special leave from the Award dated September 20 1963 of the Central Government Industrial Tribunal Bombay in Reference CG IT 25 of 1962.
section V Gupte Solicitor General M Rajagopalan and K R Choudhuri for the appellants.
The Judgment of the Court was delivered by Hidayatullah J.
This is an appeal by special leave against an award dated September 20 1963 made by the Presiding Officer of the Central Government Industrial Tribunal Bombay in a reference made by the Government of India under section 102 of the .
The appellants are the workmen of the Bombay Port Trust who are and have been represented in this dispute by the Bombay Port Trust Employees  Union.
The respondents to this appeal are the trustees of the Port of Bombay.
and the matter in dispute was stated to be  Whether the existing system of work of the shore crew of the Prince s and Victoria Docks under which each shift consists of 8 hours  normal duty 2 hours  variable recess and 12 hours  overtime needs any modification The Tribunal by the award impugned here held that the Union was not able to establish that the existing system of work needed any modification.
The Port Trust had under its control several docks.
Reference in this judgment will be made to the Prince s and Victoria Docks the Alexandra Docks Butcher Island and the Flotilla Crew.
These represent different areas of work where different groups of workmen were employed.
From the facts appearing on the record it appears that the Trustees first introduced a two shift system of work in the Alexandra Docks on June 30 1953 and the same system was extended to the Prince s and Victoria Docks on December 15 1953.
Previously the shore crew at all these places worked in a single shift and were liable to be called out at 634 any hour of the day or night.
The hours of rest were kept variable as they depended on the tides.
The General Workers Union was informed that if the demand was pressed a three shift system would be introduced.
The workmen then retraced their steps and accepted a 2 hours  variable recess but requested that it should be as near the middle of the shift as possible.
Under this arrangement the shore crew working at the Prince s and Victoria Docks were informed each day what the period of rest would be on the following day.
It was thus possible to fix rest hours at the Alexandra Docks for half the crew different from the rest hours of the other half so that a part of the crew was always available on hand.
As the lock gates control the depth of water in the Alexandra Docks fixed hours of rest could be maintained from day to day except in the monsoon months when the storm gates had some time to be closed.
During these months recess time at the Alexandra Docks was also variable and was made to coincide with the closure of the storm gates.
This system was however 635 not extended to the prince s and Victoria Docks and Butcher Island.
The Union contended that this division of 12 hours  shift into 8 hours  work 2 hours  rest and 2 hours  overtime violated the provisions of the and that the so called period of rest was illusory since being variable it was some times given right at the commencement of the shift and some times at the end depending on the tides or the exigencies of the work.
This claim was opposed by the Trustees.
According to them there was no breach of the provisions of the .
They contended that regard being had to the number of actual work hours the case of shore crew at the Prince s and Victoria Docks and the Butcher Island could not be compared with that of the crew at the Alexandra Docks or the Flotilla Crew.
On behalf of the Union the learned Solicitor General has argued the case almost entirely from the legal stand point and has attempted to establish that the break up of a 12 hours  shift into 8 hours  duty 2 hours  rest and 2 hours  overtime offends the .
He has in addition submitted that the system of variable recess does not satisfy the requirements of rest which is the basis for fixing statutorily the hours of work in relation to wages.
The was enacted to enable Government to fix minimum rates of wages in certain employments.
Since fixation of minimum wages must take into account the work load also provision must not only be made for prescribing the minimum wage but to correlate it to a specified amount of work.
Any extra work beyond the specified work load must be paid for at a higher or what is known as overtime rate.
Similarly intervals of rest must punctuate suitably the hours of work and they must also be provided for in a scheme of the work day of a workman.
The makes provision for all these matters either by itself or through Rules.
They provide on the one hand for minimum wages lay down the procedure for fixing or revising them and prescribe the rules in accordance with which the wages must be paid.
 14 Overtime.
 Rule 24.
4      4 A No Child shall be employed or permitted to work for more than 4 12 hours on any day.
2 A register showing overtime payment shall be kept in form IV.
3 Nothing in this rule shall be deemed to affect the provisions of the  The controversy in the present case is a narrow one.
Unfortunately the provisions of the and the Minimum Wages 639 Central Rules 1950 are not as clear as the corresponding provisions of the and they have led to long arguments before us.
We shall refer to the provisions of the later because for the present we must consider the provisions of the Act and the Rules without drawing any assistance from the .
Section 13 of the Act does not itself fix the hours of work or rest or overtime.
That is done by the Rules.
Section 13 only authorises Government to fix the number of hours which shall constitute a normal working day inclusive of on .
or more specified intervals.
There may be one interval of rest or there may be more intervals but whatever their number they must be specified.
By interval under section 13 is obviously meant interval of rest and this is clear from Rule 242.
There is no definition of interval either in the Act or the Rules but the provisions of section 13 2 c read with section 13 3 give us an indication of what is meant by an interval of rest.
But it is not a period of more inaction because there is no work for him.
If it is the latter it is counted as actual work period if the former it is counted as a period of rest provided the period is specified beforehand and the workman is neither called upon to work nor expected to work.
Having thus distinguished between period of work and interval of rest we may now turn to Rule 24 which prescribes the number of hours of work which is to constitute a normal working day.
As the heading of the Rule shows these are the hours of work.
The distinction between intervals of rest and hours of work is thus made clear.
From this it follows that on any single day the number of hours of work must not exceed 9 and together with the hours of rest the total period of work and rest should not go beyond 12 hours.
It is wrong to contend that the period of 9 hours must always include intervals of rest.
It may or it may not.
There is no provision in the Act and the Rules corresponding to section 55 of the Factories 640 Act to which reference will be made hereafter.
In a 12 hour shift the nine hours of work on any day can be spread over 12 hours and the extra hours will necessarily be hours of rest.
We do not think this is a correct reading either of section 13 or of Rule 24.
A working day of 12 hours is thus made up of hours of work and hours of rest and the number of hours of work which cannot exceed 9 is part of the normal working day which may also include one or more specified intervals of rest.
That action speaks of overtime.
Average duration of actual work payable at ordinary rate of wages per day thus comes to 8 hours.
Overtime under section 14 is only payable when the workman works in excess of the number of hours constituting a normal working day.
Daily hours.
Intervals for rest.
1 The periods of work of adult workers in a factory each day shall be so fixed that no period shall exceed five hours and that no worker shall work for more than five hours before he has had an interval for rest of at least half an hour.
2    56.
Spread over.
The Trustees cannot be compelled to break up the hours of work by interposing intervals for rest if owing to the nature of the work there is difficulty in giving the intervals for rest in that manner on any particular day.
They point out that in the former there is 3 hours  overtime and in the latter there is 4 hours of overtime in the 12 hour shifts but at the Prince s and Victoria Docks there is 2 hours  overtime only.
They claim equal treatment.
This is not possible.
