Respondent No 4 is the Deputy Commissioner Hindu Religious and Charitable Endowments L9Sup.
Notice of this application was served on the appellants and they pleaded their own title to the properties.
Before this order could be executed and possession delivered to respondents 1 to 3 the appellants instituted the present suit.
As trustees appointed by respondent No 4 they claimed that they were entitled to the possession of the properties.
The learned trial Judge examined the whole evidence and came to the conclusion that the grant of the Inam was a personal Inam and that it was not a grant in favour of the religious endowment within the meaning of the Act.
The alternative plea made by the appellants that they had acquired title to the properties by prescription was also upheld by the trial Judge.
The lower appellate Court made a finding against respondents 1 to 3 on point No 2.
In regard to the third point based on the appellants  claim that they had acquired title by adverse possession the lower appellate Court found that it was evident that from the very beginning Pachai Kandai Udayavar and his family had been claiming beneficial interest in the property and they were not holding the same as managers of the trust.
There was evidence to show that the properties originally granted had been resumed by the Collector but the learned Judge took the view that the said resumption was only of the melwaram or assessment and that since the lands had been granted in Inam to the deity and its matam their title to the lands remained unaffected by the resumption proceedings.
Having thus held that the properties belonged to the Temple the learned Judge proceeded to consider the question of limitation by reference to the several alienations with which the present litigation is concerned.
That left the alienations covered by Exts.
was upheld.
2 LR 27 IA 69.
3 LR 37 IA 147.
Reverting then to the question as to whether a transfer effected by the manager of a temple in regard to properties belonging to the temple falls outside the purview of article 134 B if it is shown to have been made on the basis that the transferor treated the properties as his own it does appear that the two earlier Privy Council decisions in Gnanasambanda s2 and Damodar Das s3 cases lend some support to the contention.
2 LR 27 IA 69.
3 LR 37 IA 147.
127 and transferred the endowed property the sales were null and void in the absence of a custom allowing them and that the possession taken by the purchaser was adverse to the vendors and those claiming under them.
In appreciating the effect of this decision it is necessary to bear in mind that the plea of limitation with which the Privy Council was concerned in that case was based on article 124 of the Limitation Act.
It is open to doubt whether the said decision could lead to the inference that if a part of the property is transferred by the manager of a religious endowment on the basis that it belongs to him and not to the religious endowment the transfer is void ab initio with the result that the possession of the transferee is adverse to the religious endowment from the very beginning and the succeeding manager s right to challenge the said transfer would be lost if his predecessor who made the transfer lives for more than 12 years after effecting the transfer.
129 in violation of his duty of an interest in endowed lands which he has no authority as Shebait to make may possibly under some circumstances be good as against himself by way of estoppel but is not binding upon his successors.
Column 1 of article 134 B provides for suits brought inter alia by the manager of a Hindu religious or charitable endowment to recover possession of immovable property comprised in the endowment which has been transferred by a previous manager for a valuable consideration.
The period prescribed for such suits is 12 years and the time from which the period begins to run is the death resignation or removal of the transferor.
 What was said by the Privy Council about the impropriety of including an execution sale within the meaning of article 134B can with equal justification be said about introducing words of limitation in the said article which alone can exclude transfers made by the previous manager of the Hindu religious endowment on the basis that the property transferred belonged to 1 LR 77 IA 42 at pp.
49 50.
131 him.
Mr Tatachari then contends that even on the application of article 134 B the decision of the High Court is erroneous because on the facts proved in this case the High Court should have drawn the legal inference that the transferor had been removed more than 12 years before the suit was filed.
He contends that the question as to whether on facts proved in the present case an inference can be drawn that the previous manager or trustee had been removed is a mixed question of fact and law and the High Court was in error in reversing the decisions of the courts below by holding that the title of the temple had not been lost by adverse possession before the suit was filed.
A 3 A 6 and A 12 and restore that of the lower appellate Court.
