It appears that for some time past there were differences between the High Court and the government about the posting of some of the judicial officers.
The High Court was anxious that a judicial officer occupying one of the administrative posts enumerated above should not in the interest of judicial work continue in that post for an unduly long time.
district and sessions judge was posted as joint secretary in the law department in the same month.
He worked in that capacity till February 1965.
That was a non cadre post.
The above.
Soon after that decision was rendered and without any further dialogue with government in the  light of that decision the High Court took the precipitate step of transferring the aforementioned officers to other posts and in their place posted officers who were doing judicial work till then.
These orders were duly notified in the Orissa Gazette.
Consequently the sessions divisions of Ganjam Boudh Mayurbhanj Keonjhar and Bolangir Kalahandi were without district and sessions judges for several days.
The only question that fell for decision in that case was whether the government of West Bengal was competent to institute disciplinary proceedings against an addl.
district and sessions judge.
The High Court is better suited to make transfers than a Minister.
He must depend on his department for information.
There is less chance of being influenced by secretaries who may withhold some vital information if they are interested themselves.
There is less chance of success for a person seeking advantage for himself if the Chief Justice and his colleagues with personal information deal with the matter than when a Minister deals with it on notes and information supplied by a secretary.
The policy displayed by the Constitution has been in this direction as has been explained in earlier cases of this Court.
In that cadre no officer holding any post under the government was included.
be found.
163 be quoted for a proposition that may seem to follow logically from it.
 It is not a profitable task to extract a sentence here and there from a judgment and to build upon it.
It is for the executive to say whether a particular officer would meet its requirements or not.
If there is no such agreement it is open to the government to send him back to his parent department at any time it pleases.
Those officers are now functioning in the posts to which they were transferred.
