A section R Chari M K Ramamurthi Vineet Kumar and Shyamala Pappu for the appellants.
O P Rana for respondent No 1.
The Judgment of the Court was delivered by Sikri J.
On December 13 1963 a notice was issued to the five members of the Panchayat to assemble on December 25 1963 and hear the case.
On December 20 1963 Mahabir moved an application under article 227 of the Constitution challenging the order of the SDM dated November 28 1963 and on the same day the High Court admitted the application and stayed further proceedings before the Nyaya Panchayat.
On December 23 1963 Mahabir submitted an application in the Court of Shri R Singh SDM Deoria alleging that writ petition has been admitted and a stay order has been issued.
He produced the telegram received from the Advocate before the SDM.
It happened that the SDM was absent on December 23 1963 and papers were put up before Shri section K Srivas tava Additional Sub Divisional Magistrate who issued the order Put up with records.
The complainant and the accused are present.
The statements of the complainant and his witnesses Bhabhuti and Damri are recorded.
Hence judgment shall be given on 25 12 63.
 This order was signed by three Panchas Phagu Parsad Jagat Dubey and Badri Yadav.
The application of Mahabir referred to in the order reads thus 118 lm15.
 We looked at this so called affidavit and found.
that it has not been sworn to before any person authorised to administer oaths.
On May 21 1964 Mahabir filed an application under sections 4 and 5 of the  against the five appellants and section K Srivastava ASDM.
 Affidavits were filed in the High Court by Baldeo Prasad pairokar of Mahabir Burma Prasad the Sarpanch and Mahabir and statements of Phagu Prasad and Bunna Prasad were recorded on oath.
 the Nyaya Panchayats proceeded with the case.
Phagu Prasad.
We had also told him to get the affidavit verified before some Tehsil authority.
passed by the High Court.
The High Court held  There was no reasonable ground for the Panchas to have doubted the averments made in the application and affidavit of Mahabir that the High Court had stayed further proceedings before the Panchayat nor is there any thing in the order sheet to show that the Panchas did not believe the contents of the application and affidavit of Mahabir.
However if they wanted to ascertain the matter they should have at best stayed the proceedings for a short while and should have asked the applicant to produce a certified copy of the stay order.
The learned counsel for the appellants Mr Chari says that no contempt of court has been established because a Court is entitled not to act on an application which is not accompanied by an affidavit properly sworn to or a certified copy of the order He urges that the Nyaya Panchayats exercised judicial powers and even if the Panchas erred in not staying proceedings before finding them guilty of contempt of court it should be definitely proved that the order was passed deliberately to by pass the order of the High Court.
In order to justify committal for breach of a prohibitive order it is not necessary that the order should have been served upon the party against whom it has been granted if it be proved that he had notice of the order aliunde as by telegram or newspaper report or otherwise and knew that it was intended to be enforced or if he consented to the order or if he was present in Court when the order Was pronounced or hen the motion was made although he left before the order was pronounced.
The question then arises whether the Sarpanch and the Pan chas had knowledge of the existence of the order of the High Court dated December 20 1963.
121 administer oaths.
It is true that in certain cases proceedings can be adjourned to enable the parties to file better proof but a judicial officer is not bound to do so and if he bona fide does not in his discretion adjourn proceedings it cannot be said that he has committed contempt of court.
The learned counsel for the State contends that we should not reappreciate the facts but with respects it seems to us that the High Court while dealing with the evidence has not kept in mind the principles which we have mentioned above.
