MK Ramamurthi Vineet Kumar L Ramamurthy and Shyamala Pappu for the appellant.
AV Rangam for the respondents.
425 The Judgment of the Court was delivered by Ramaswami J.
Section 6 sub section.
9 of Madras Act 19 of 1951 states In this Act unless there is anything repugnant in the subject or context 9 hereditary trustee  means the trustee of a religious institution succession to whose office devolves by hereditary right or is regulated by usage or is specifically provided for by the founder so long as such scheme of succession is in force This Act has been substituted by Madras Act 22 of 1959 but the definition of the trustee is identical in both the Acts.
The contention on behalf of the appellant is that the succession is regulated by usage.
In our opinion there is no warrant for this argument.
The phrase regulated by usage in section 69 of the Act must be construed along with the phrase succession to this office and when so construed that part of the definition would only apply where the ordinary rules of succession under the Hindu law are modified by usage and succession has to be determined in accordance with the modified rules.
It is now well established that the office of a hereditary trustee is in the nature of property.
In Sital Das vs Sant Ram5 the law was taken as wellsettled that succession to mahantship of a mutt or religious institution is regulated by custom or usage of the particular institution except where the rule of succession is laid down by the founder himself who created the endowment.
In that case the custom in 1 2 63 I A 448.
3 70 IA 57.
4  5 5 ALR.
1954 SC 606.
In Sri Mahant Paramanda Das Goswami vs Radhakrishna Das1 the Madras High Court took the view that where succession to the mahantship is by nomination by the holder in office it was not a hereditary succession.
Hereditary succession is succession by the heir to the deceased under the law the office must be transmitted to the successor according to some definite rules of descent which by their own force designate the person to succeed.
There need be no blood relationship between the deceased and his successor but the right of the latter should not depend upon the choice of any individual.
In Black s Law Dictionary the word succession  is defined as follows The revolution of title to property under the law of descent and distribution.
1 428 The right by which one set of men may by succeeding another set acquire a property in all the goods movables and other chattels of a corporation.
For these reasons we hold that this appeal fails and must be dismissed with costs.
VPS Appeal dismissed.
