B D Bal with A G Ratnaparkhi for the appellant.
The Judgment of the Court was delivered by GOSWAMI J.
There was a saint endowed with spiritual powers by the name of Sakharam Maharaj at Amalner.
Although the origin of the Sansthan is dipped somewhat in antiquity and direct testimony was lacking it has never been disputed that Sakharam Maharaj constructed a temple in the year 1817 at Amalner and installed the aforesaid deity according to religious rites.
The application was made on May 29 1952 to the Assistant Charity Commissioner Poona under protest and without prejudice 520 to the claim made therein that the Sansthan was not a public trust.
The applicants thereupon filed an appeal under section 70 of the Act before the Charity Commissioner Bombay who by his order of August 31 1957 affirmed the decision of the Assistant Charity Commissioner.
Hence this appeal by special leave which was obtained on March 29 1968 after condonation of delay in the peculiar circumstances of the case arising out of revocation by the High Court of its earlier certificate in favour of the appellant on account of default of deposit of security.
Mr Bal further contends that the High Court failed to consider all the material documents filed on behalf of the appellant except only exhibit 35 and that the conclusion was highly erroneous being contrary to the one that had been reached by the District Judge on appraisal of the entire documentary evidence.
In the absence of anything to the contrary of a convincing nature a grant by the Government in favour of the temple describing the property to be in charge of a manager leads to an unerring inference that the property is a public religious endowment.
Then came Prahladbuwa.
Then came Vasudeo.
This evidence of Ramkrishna Deshpande stands corroborated by the Sanad which shows in the year 1860 61 the Manager of the Sansthan as Balkrishnabuwa Guru Govindbuwa.
Guru Govindbuwa was the second in the line of succession after Sakharam the founder and Balkrishnabuwa being the third in the line.
This is a document which was relied upon both by the District Judge as well as by the High Court.
It is further pointed out that while nominating Prahlad as Adhikari Balkrishnabuwa stated in the said document as follows You are entitled to the ownership of all the incomes that will come before the Deity Shri Samarth and during the Swari procession as well as the income of Inam Najrana and the income of movable and immovable property.
pertaining to the Sansthan is of yours.
You are free to give and take as per the Shishya sampradaya as has been done previously.
vs Sm.
Your bhauband and others have no right whatsoever over the same.
You are free to give and take as per the Shishya sampradaya as has been done previously.
faithfully as mentioned herein as per the Vaishnava sampradaya as being done from before.
3 There has been no evidence of any hindrance or restriction in the matter of continuous worship by the public extending over a long period.
6 Collection of subscriptions were made from house to house by taking Maharaj and also for Gulal  ceremony.
