270 of 1955.
Under Article 32 of the Constitution of India for a Writ in the nature of Habeas Corpus.
DAS ACTG.
This rule was issued on a petition filed under article 32 of the Constitution by one Purshottam Govindji Halai a citizen of India calling upon the respondents to show cause why a writ in the nature of a writ of habeas corpus should not be issued by this Court directing the Superintendent House of Correction Byculla being the second respondent herein to produce before this Court one Govindji Deoji Halai the father of the petitioner who is also a citizen of India for the purpose of being released forthwith.
The facts which are not in dispute may be shortly stated as follows.
The said Govindji Deoji Halai hereinafter referred to as the assessee is the sole proprietor of a business carried on under the name and style of Indestro Sales and Service Co at No 50 52 Lohar Chawl Street in the City of Bombay.
Two private limited companies namely Indestro India Ltd and Indestro Eastern Ltd also carry on business and have their respective offices in the same premises.
It may here be mentioned that the Indestro Eastern Ltd was also assessed to income tax at and for Rs 192000 and a recovery certificate was also issued by the Income tax Officer to the Additional Collector of Bombay.
No payment 891 having been made the Additional Collector attached the goodwill and tenancy rights in the said premises by a warrant of attachment issued on the 24th March 1954.
The sale proceeds not being sufficient to satisfy the assessed tax the Additional Collector on the 7th June 1955 issued a notice under section 13 of the Bombay City Land Revenue Act 1876 requiring the assessee to appear before him in person on the 16th June 1955 and show cause why he the assessee should not be apprehended and confined to civil jail in satisfaction of the said certified demand.
The assessee did not appear in person on the appointed day but on the next day the 17th June 1955 an Advocate acting on behalf of the assessee wrote a letter to the Additional Collector purporting to show cause why the assessee should not be arrested and sent to the civil jail.
No application was made to the High Court for leave to appeal to this Court from the decision of that High Court but on the 2nd September 1955 the present petition was filed in this Court under article 32 of the Constitution for the relief hereinbefore mentioned.
The rule has now come up before us for hearing.
The principal contentions urged by the learned Advocate appearing for the petitioner are as follows namely a that section 462 of the Indian Income tax Act under which the Income tax Officer issued the recovery certificate to the Additional Collector of Bombay is void under article 131 of the Constitution in that the same offends article 221 and 2 article 21 and article 14 of the Constitution b that section 13 of the Bombay City Land Revenue Act 1876 under which the warrant of arrest was issued by the Additional Collector is void under article 13 1 of the Constitution as the same is repugnant to article 14 of the Constitution.
Article 14 is invoked in two ways.
It is pointed out that the first part of section 462 provides that the Collector on receipt of a certificate from the Income tax Officer shall proceed to recover from the defaulting assessee the amount specified therein as if it were an arrear of land revenue.
All that the sub section directs the Collector to do is to proceed to recover the certified amount as if it were an arrear of land revenue that is to say he is to adopt the procedure prescribed by the appropriate law of his State for the recovery of land revenue and that in thus proceeding he is under the proviso to have all the powers a Civil Court has under the Code.
The sub section does not prescribe two separate procedures.
The argument is that income tax being a subject with respect to which the Union alone may make law and the recovery of it being the Union responsibility the machinery for the recovery of income tax should be framed on a uniform all India basis for to the Union all defaulters who may not pay up the Union demand are similarly situated but the Indian Income tax Act by section 462 authorises the Collectors in different States to adopt machinery which differs from State to State so that defaulters are treated differently in different States.
Their needs as understood by their own Legislature are different from those of the people of other States.
If in the matter of recovery of arrears of land revenue defaulters of one State cannot complain of denial of equal protection of the laws on the ground of the difference in the modes of recovery prevailing in other States can it be said to be unreasonable for the Union to adopt for the recovery of its public demand from defaulters of each State the same mode of recovery 1   157.
114 900 of public demand prevailing in that State Here the defaulters are classified on a territorial or geographical basis and this basis of classification has precisely the same correlation to the object of the Indian Income tax Act as it has to the object of the different Public Demands Recovery Acts.
The objects of the two Acts in this behalf are in pari materia and the same considerations must apply to both.
The law was not dead.
The result therefore.
