R B Datar for the Appellant.
Upon that finding the plaintiff.
Defendant I has filed this appeal against the High Court s judgment by special leave.
Since the view of the High.
LR351.
Explanation 2.
 The Hindu Succession Act came into force on June 17 1956 Khandappa having died after the commencement of that Act to wit in 1960 and since he had at the time of his death an interest in Mitakshara coparcenary property the pre conditions of section 6 are satisfied and that section is squarely attracted.
The son daughter and a widow are mentioned as heirs in class I of the Schedule and therefore by reason of the provisions of section 8a read with the 1st clause of section 9 they take simultaneously and to the exclusion of other heirs.
Thus whatever be the share of the deceased in the coparcenary property since there are six sharers in that property each having an equal share the plaintiff s share therein will be 16th.
The next step equally important though not equally easy to work out is to find out the share which the deceased had in the coparcenary property because after all the plaintiff has a 16th interest in that share.
Explanation 1 which contains the formula for determining the share of the deceased creates a fiction by providing that the interest of a Hindu Mistakshara coparcener shall be deemed to be the share in the property that would have been allotted to him if a partition of the property had taken place immediately before his death.
see Mulla s Hindu Law Fourteenth Edition page 403 para 315.
Khandappa would have therefore got a 14th share in the coparcenary property on the hypothesis of a partition between himself and his sons Two things are thus clears  One that in a partition of the coparcenary property Khandappa would have obtained a 14th share and 767 two that the share of the plaintiff in the 14th share is 16th that is to say 124th.
The learned trial Judge relying upon the decision in Shiramabai which was later overruled by the Bombay High Court accepted the former contention while the High Court accepted the latter.
The question is which of these two views is to be preferred.
We think that in overlooking that 14th share one unwittingly permits one s imagination to boggle under the oppression of the reality that there was in fact no partition between the plaintiff s husband and his sons.
It was held in that case that the fiction that the failure to send an estimate of tax on income under section 18A3 is to be deemed to be a failure to send a return necessarily involves the fiction that a notice had been issued to the assessee under section 22 and that he had failed to comply with it.
These latter assumptions in regard to the issuance of the notice under section 22 and its non compliance bad to be made for the purpose of giving due and full effect to the fiction created by section 18A9 b.
For by doing that alone can one determine the extent of the claimant s share.
That assumption once made is irrevocable.
In other words the assumption having been made once for the purpose of ascertaining the share of the deceased in the coparcenary property one cannot go back on that assumption and ascertain the share of the heirs without reference to it.
To make the assumption at the initial stage for the limited purpose of ascertaining the share of the deceased and then to ignore it for calculating the quantum of the share of the heirs is truly to permit one s imagination to boggle.
The Hindu Law of Inheritance Amendment Act 1929 conferred heirship rights on the son s daughter daughter s daughter and sister in all areas where the Mitakshara law prevailed.
Section 3 of the Hindu Women s Rights to Property Act.
1 AIR 1975 Bombay 257.
