Tata Consultant Engineers at its inception was a partnership firm but subsequently the partnership was dissolved and in 1974 the undertaking became one of the divisions of Tata Sons Limited.
170 The Union filed a statement before the Tribunal claiming an upward revision of the wage scales and dearness allowance and an increase from fifteen years to twenty years in the span for earning annual increments.
The claim of the Union was resisted by the appellant who maintained that the existing wage scales were fair and reasonable on a region cum industry basis and that it would not be possible for the appellant to bear the additional financial burden if the demands of the Union were accepted.
Reference was made to the political uncertainty in Iran which had placed an appreciable part of the appellant s business in jeopardy and to various other factors peculiar to an engineering consultancy business beyond the appellant s control.
171 in this connection it proceeded on the footing that the appellant was a separate and independent division of Tata Sons Limited and had no functional integrality with the other divisions.
II DriverAsstt.
660 EB 25 785.
Caretaker.
Steno 20 625 EB 25 725.
800 EB 30 950.
IV Sr.
Asstt 35 1020 EB 40 1300 1265 EB 45 1490.
Asstt Canteen Asstt.
1230 EB 60 1530.
60 1700.
 Further it appears that the Tribunal intended to grant the increase of Rs 150 to each draughtsman and Rs 100 to all other workmen in their basic pay.
However this is not clearly mentioned anywhere in the award due to accidental slip or omission.
The same has been made clear in paragraph No 23 but it appears that the words to each employee after the figure Rs 150  were omitted.
Similarly the same words to each employee after the figure 100 were omitted.
When the award is sent for publication a necessary corrigendum be made in the award and the aforesaid words after the figures Rs 150 and Rs 100 be added.
It may be mentioned that only from that point of view viz to grant flat increase of Rs 150 and of Rs 100 to the employees in the category of Draftsmen and the other categories respectively that a burden statement was called for from the company and the same was submitted vide exhibit C 51.
The fitment has also to be done only after the flat increase is added to the present basic salary of each employee.
I do not think that any problem would arise for interpretation of the award.
Since the award has been already signed I do not think anything further can be added to this award.
Rule 31 provides 31.
It will be noted that the statement Exhibit C 51 was prepared on the basis of the employees  strength as in December 1971.
The statement afforded an indication merely of what the additional financial load would be if a flat increase was given to the individual workman on the alternative basis set forth therein.
The addition was integrated as a feature of the wage scales it was not regarded as an addition to the pay of each individual workman.
Our attention has been drawn to what purports to be an endorsement by counsel for the appellant on the application dated 22nd December 1978 filed by the Union before the Tribunal to the effect that the appellant would submit to whatever the Tribunal decided and it is urged that the appellant is bound by the order made on the application.
The second contention of the appellant is entitled to succeed.
The only contention of the workmen is that the Tribunal should have fixed the dearness allowance in communion with the cost of living index.
It is wrong in principle it is said to provide a fixed dearness allowance.
There is no order as to costs.
Further it appears that the Tribunal intended to grant the increase of Rs 150 to each draughtsman and Rs 100 to all other workmen in their basic pay.
However this is not clearly mentioned anywhere in the award due to accidental slip or omission.
The same has been made clear in paragraph No 23 but it appears that the words to each employee after the figure Rs 150  were omitted.
Similarly the same words to each employee after the figure 100 were omitted.
When the award is sent for publication a necessary corrigendum be made in the award and the aforesaid words after the figures Rs 150 and Rs 100 be added.
It may be mentioned that only from that point of view viz to grant flat increase of Rs 150 and of Rs 100 to the employees in the category of Draftsmen and the other categories respectively that a burden statement was called for from the company and the same was submitted vide exhibit C 51.
The fitment has also to be done only after the flat increase is added to the present basic salary of each employee.
I do not think that any problem would arise for interpretation of the award.
