Under Article 32 of the Constitution of India.
The Judgment of the Court was delivered by OJHA J.
The reli ef prayed for in the said writ petition was for the issue of a writ of mandamus directing the Union of India through t he Director General of Ordnance Factories to promote the appe l lants to the post of Chargeman II.
It appears th at the criterion of promotion is seniority cum merit.
Accordi ng to the learned Judges such a view would militate again st Rule 12 of the Rules mentioned above.
With regard to the plea based on Artic le 16 of the Constitution.
No formal foundation has been raised in t he pleadings in the writ petition in support of the grou nd based on Article 16 of the Constitution.
We see no justific a tion for any such differential treatment being given to t he appellants.
If a large number of other persons similar ly situated have been promoted as Chargeman Grade II aft er completing two years of service there is no reason why t he appellants should also not be similarly promoted aft er completing the same period of service.
If the appellants are promote d they will naturally have to be promoted with effect from t he date on which they ought to have been promoted.
This order will dispose of the appeal.
There will be no order as to costs.
Now we shall rev rt to the exact prayers made in the three miscellaneous pet i tions aforesaid.
The prayer made in Civil Miscellaneo us Petition No 3325 of 1987 is for the issue of an inter im order restraining the respondents from making any furth er promotions during the pendency and final heating of t he miscellaneous petition and for initiating contempt procee d ings.
The reliefs prayed for in the above two civil miscellaneo us petitions are thus of an interim nature.
 The aforesaid writ petitions came up for hearing befo re a bench of two learned Judges of this Court on 9th Septe m ber 1987.
 It is in view of this order that these matters have been listed before us.
It was urged that in case the sa me relief is not granted to the petitioners they are likely to become juniors to some of the appellants in Civil Appeal N o 441 of 1981 and the petitioners in the writ petitions deci d ed by the Madhya Pradesh High Court on 4th April 1983.
On the other han d promotion depended inter alia on availability of posts a nd the incumbent being found fit by the Departmental Promoti on Committee for being included in the selection list.
It w as further urged that the petitioners of these writ petitio ns were on the basis of the Rules considered for promotion a nd it is not disputed that all of them have in due course be en promoted as Chargeman II and some of them have even be en promoted to higher posts.
It was pointed out that this had be en found necessary not only because it would be in conformi ty with the practice obtaining in other Ministries but al so because on merits this period is necessary to judge t he performance in the lower post and the potentialities f or promotion to a higher post.
the earli er circular dated 6th November 1962 which provides Sub NG Establishment Treatment of Diplo ma Holders and ex apprentices serving as Supr.
or in equivalent grades in the matter of promotion.
62 and 4416ANG dt.
29665.
or equivalent grades.
Having heard learned counsel for the parties we fi nd substance in the submission made by the learned counsel f or the respondents.
vs State of Mysore  Ors 82 and Sant Ram Sharma vs State of Rajasthan  Anr.
vs The State of Mah a rashtra  Ors  that in the absence of legislative Rules it was competent to the State Governme nt to take a 103 decision in the exercise of its executive power under Art i cle 162 of the Constitution.
The matter has been consider ed in a recent decision of this Court in the case of Union of India  Ors.
vs Sh.
Since Rule 8 in t he instant case prescribed a procedure for making promotion t he said procedure could not be abrogated by the executi ve instruction dated 6th November 1962.
This circular had indeed the effect of accelerating t he chance of promotion.
This right was co n ferred by Rule 7 which inter alia provides that subject to the exception contained in Rule 11 vacancies in the pos ts enumerated therein will normally be filled by promotion of employees in the grade immediately below in accordance wi th the provisions of Rule 8.
The requirements of rule 8 in brief have already been indicated above.
The ord er dated 28th December 1965 which provided a minimum period of service of three years in the lower grade for promotion to the next higher grade and the circular dated 20th Janua ry 1966 which provided that promotions in future will be e f fected in accordance with the normal rules and not merely on completion of 2 years  satisfactory continuous service h ad the effect of doing away with the accelerated chance of promotion and relegating Supervisors A  in the matter of promotion to the normal position as it obtained under t he Rules.
The effect of this change obviously was th at now only fifty per cent vacancis in the post of Depu ty Collector being available in place of all the vacancies it was to take almost double the time for many other allocat ed Tehsildars to get promoted as Deputy Collectors.
In oth er words it resulted in delayed chance of promotion.
It wa s inter alia urged on behalf of the petitioners that t he situation brought about by the rules of July 30 1959 co n stituted variation to their prejudice in the conditions of service applicable to them immediately prior to the reorga n isation of the State and the Rules were consequently i n valid.
It is now we ll settled by the decision of this Court in State of Mysore vs GB Purohit that though a right to be considered for prom o tion is a condition of service mere chances of promoti on are not.
A rule which merely affects chances of promoti on cannot be regarded as varying a condition of service.
vs Union of India  Ors.
This circumstance by itself is sufficient to indicate that when Civil Appeal No 441 of 1981 was heard by this Court either the subsequent ord er dated 28th December 1965 as well as the circular dated 20 th January 1966 and the legal consequences flowing therefr om were not brought to the notice of the learned Judges by t he learned counsel for the respondents or the same was n ot properly emphasised the judgment dated 2nd February 19 81 being completely silent on the point and the appeal w as allowed only on the ground that some Supervisors having be en promoted as Chargeman II on expiry of 2 years of the ir service in view of the circular dated 6th November 1962 t he non promotion of the appellants was discriminatory being in violation of Article 16.
As regards the order of the Madh ya Pradesh High Court dated 4th April 1983 it may be point ed out that the said High Court in an earlier writ petiti on being Misc.
At this place it will be usef ul to refer to an affidavit dated 19th November 1983 of D P Gupta who is one of the appellants in Civil Appeal No 4 41 of 1981 filed in CMP Nos.
It cannot be disputed that the Director General of Ordnance Factories who had issued the circular dated 6 th November 1962 had the power to issue the subsequent circ u lar dated 20th January 1966 also.
In view of.
Apparently after t he coming into force of the 107 order dated 28th December 1965 and the circular dated 20 th January 1966 promotions could not be made just on compl e tion of 2 years  satisfactory service under the earli er circular dated 6th November 1962 the same having be en superseded by the later circular.
It is further obvious th at in this view of the matter Supervisors A  who had be en promoted before the coming into force of the order dat ed 28th December 1965 and the circular dated 20th Januar y 1966 stood in a class separate from those whose promotio ns were to be made thereafter.
The fact that some Superviso rs A  had been promoted before the coming into force of t he order dated 28th December 1965 and the circular dated 20 th January 1966 could not therefore constitute the basis f or an argument that those Supervisors A  whose cases came up for consideration for promotion thereafter and who we re promoted in due course in accordance with the rules we re discriminated against.
They apparently did not fall in t he same category.
For aught we know if the effect of the order dated 28 th December 1965 and the circular dated 20th January 1966 h ad been properly emphasised at the time of hearing of Civ il Appeal No 441 of 198 1 its result may have been differen t.
In this connection reference may also be made to the cou n ter affidavit of Sobha Ramanand Deputy Director Ordnan ce Factory Cells G Block Ministry of Defence filed in Wr it Petition Civil Nos.
3812 19 of 1983 with regard to a matter relevant for promotion.
In paragraph 2i it has be en stated that during 1962 63 due to sudden expansion of Or d nance Factories Organisation in the wake of Chinese aggre s sion a large number of posts of Chargeman 11 and other pos ts were created and as a result thereof persons already in service as Supervisors A  were promoted to the posts of Chargeman II on completion of 2 years  service.
It h as further been stated therein that after the newly creat ed posts were thus filled by promotion chances of promotion of those who were appointed subsequently diminished and f or want of sufficient number of 108 vacancies as Chargeman II they could not be promoted to th at post soon after the completion of 2 years  service.
There is a further averment in the said counter affidavit that pet i tioners were duly considered in their turn and their nam es were brought on the approved panel.
They were thereaft er promoted as soon as vacancies became available and th at during the period that they were on the approved panel no person junior to them or of equal seniority superseded the m.
Nothing substantial has been brought to our notice on beha lf of the petitioners on the basis of which the aforesa id statements made in the counter affidavit may be doubted.
The reliefs which they ha ve claimed have already been indicated above.
The grievance of the petitio n ers however is that this promotion tantamounts to impl e mentation of the order of this Court dated 2nd Februar y 1981 only on paper inasmuch as they have not been grant ed the difference of back wages and promotion to higher pos ts on the basis of their back date promotion as Chargeman I I.
Against t he aforesaid judgment of the Madhya Pradesh High Court dat ed 4th April 1983 Special Leave Petitions Civil Nos.
5987 92 of 1986 were filed in this Court by the Union of India a nd were dismissed on 28th July 1986.
As regards back wages the Madhya Pradesh Hi gh Court held It is the settled service rule that there has to be no p ay for no work ie a person will not be entitled to any p ay and allowance during the period for which he did not perfo rm the duties of a higher post although after due considerati on he was given a proper place in the gradation list havi ng deemed to be promoted to the higher post with effect fr om the date his junior was promoted.
So the petitioners are n ot entitled to claim any financial benefit retrospectively.
 In so far as Supervisors A  who claimed promotion as Chargeman 11 the following direction was accordingly giv en by the Madhya Pradesh High Court in its judgment dated 4 th April 1983 aforesaid All these petitioners are also entitled to be treated as Chargeman Grade II on completion of two years satisfacto ry service as Supervisor Grade A Consequently notion al seniority of these persons have to be refixed in Supervis or Grade A Chargeman Grade II Grade I and Assistant Forem an in cases of those who are holding that post  .
T he petitioners are also entitled to get their present sala ry re fixed after giving them notional seniority so that t he same is not lower than those who are immediately bel ow them.
We are further of the opinion that it is not a fit case for initiating any proceedings for contempt again st the respondents.
In the result the writ petitions fail and are di s missed.
In the circu m stances of the case however there shall be no order as to costs.
RSS Petitions dismissed.
