Under Article 32 of the Constitution of India RF Nariman PH Parekh NN Keshwani Mrs H Wahi and RN Keshwani for the Petitioners.
Clause e of the said section defines minor minerals  as building stones gravel ordinary clay ordinary sand other than sand used for prescribed purposes and any other mineral which the Central Government may.
Section 15 as it stood during the relevant time read thus 15.
2 Until rules are made under sub section 1 my rules made by a State Government regulating the grant of quarry leases mining leases or other mineral concessions in re spect of minor minerals which are in force immediately before the commencement of this Act shall continue in force.
 It is seen from section 15 that the State Government is empowered to make rules for regulating the grant of quarry leases mining leases or other mineral concessions in re spect of minor minerals and for purposes connected there with.
It is under this notification the rate of royalty in respect of black trap and Hard Murrum was increased from Rs 4 to Rs7 per metric tonne.
vs State of Gujarat and Ors.
that the impugned notification in question was in contravention of clause b of Article 304 of the Constitution.
Re cently a Constitution Bench of this Court has held in The India Cement Ltd etc.
In support of the second contention the learned counsel Shri Nariman argued that notwithstanding anything contained in Article 301 or Article 303 the Legislature of a State may by law impose such reasonable restrictions on the freedom of trade commerce or intercourse with or within that State as required in the public interest.
It is not an imposition made by a law made by the State Legislature on which alone the restriction contemplat ed under Article 304b applies.
We do not also find much substance in the contention that the levy in question is unreasonably heavy and has been imposed in an arbitrary manner.
If the executive or the administrative authority acts in an arbitrary manner its action would be bad in law and liable to be struck down by the courts but the possibility of abuse of power or arbi trary exercise of power cannot invalidate the statute con ferring the power or the power which has been conferred by it.
It is obvious that the petitioners are lessees who are exploiting the mining areas for purposes of business and that the royalty in question is ultimately passed on to the consumers.
He con tended that the concession shown in favour of Parwana hold ers was discriminatory and violative of Article 14.
Under clause 1 of the proviso to the impugned rule 21 a holder of a Parwana granted under the Rules has to pay royalty at the rate of 50 per cent of the royalty payable by the lessees and no royalty is payable by village potters who manufacture upto one lakh bricks per year and by the village potters whose annual production was not exceeding two lakh bricks and who supply at least one lakh bricks to the Rural Housing Board or Panchayats.
His contention was that section 15 of the Act which authorised the State Government to make rules in respect of minor minerals does not specifically authorise the State Government to make such discrimination.
We find no substance in this contention too.
Whoever is given an exclusive right to exploit a mine will have to pay some amount by way of return to the Govern ment of India as authorised by entry 50 of List II of the 7th Schedule to the Constitution.
The compe tent officer may grant such Parwana in the following priorities a Individual families to Khanias belonging to the Scheduled Castes or the Scheduled Tribes who do physical work I of excavating minor mineral in the area applied for 415 b Individual families of Khanias  who do physical work in excavating minor minerals in the area applied for.
So a comparison of the relevant rules would show that a larger restriction is imposed both on the area in respect of which a Parwana could be issued and the duration of the Parwana right and as also stated that the persons who take quarrying Parwana are persons belonging to the weaker sections of society and if under rule 21 a concession is shown in their favour it cannot be said that there is no reasonable nexus between the classification for purposes of the proviso to rule 21 to show concession in the matter of payment of royalty and the social policy underlying the Constitution the statute and the Rules.
The fact that section 15 of the Act does no authorise the State Government to show such concession while promulgating the Rules which are in the nature of subordi nate legislation is also of no consequence.
But the movement outside the State is not the direct consequence of quarrying.
