TS Krishnamurthy lyer MJ Paul and Kailash Vasudev for the Appellant.
A very interesting question comes up for consideration in this appeal.
1947 relating to Door No 3 Item 2 in Schedule A to the plaint covered an area of 8700 sq.
The defendants GG and his sons filed their objections to the above applications.
The order of the Rent Controller was dated 93.
The present appeal by Special Leave granted on 37.
We therefore answer the first question posed by us in the affirmative.
At any rate it is not open to one of the parties to contend that the decision given by the Court of Small Causes which has become final between the parties is a total nullity which can be completely ignored.
The Division Bench observed   .
 After reference to certain other decisions of the Court it was observed If a lessor brings a suit for eviction he is to prove the existence of a lease the relationship of lessor and lessee between himself and the defendant and the determination of the lease.
He submitted that if the tenants had filed a suit for declaration that the order passed in the earlier proceedings as a nullity that would have been bound to fail.
Thirdiv even assuming the argument of learned counsel to be correct all that can be said is that in the second set of proceedings the tenants could have contended that it was not open to the Court of Small Causes to go into the question of title in view of the decision in the first set of proceedings.
In deciding whether the decision constitutes res judicata or not we are not entitled to go into the correctness of that decision.
It was only this limited aspect eviction on the ground of non bona fide denial of title that was under consideration of the Court under section 102vii of the Act read with the proviso to section 101 and the Court s observa tions on the question of title were one on a collateral issue.
Under Rule 122 he is required to decide applications by recording a brief note of the evidence of parties and 561 witnesses and decide matters after giving the parties an opportunity to state their case more or less in the manner in which a Court of Small Causes decides cases before it.
In a proceedings under the Act whether it be for fixation of fair rent or eviction the tenant may raise several objections.
Per contra he may reach the conclusion on the materials before him that the landlord has no title yet it seems if he finds that the applicant is otherwise a landlord and that the grounds on which the tenant s denial was based were not bona fide he will have to order eviction.
For deciding these issues he may have no doubt also to consider the oral and documentary evidence adduced by the parties.
The trial Judge rejected the application holding that question of the applicability of the Act was res judicata since it had been finally decid ed by the High Court between the same parties in respect of the same land in the earlier proceeding for fixation of standard rent.
These documents were executed on January 7 1953 but the respondent contin ued in the possession of the house property throughout.
vs Smt.
If the civil court in this case had come to the conclusion that there is a relationship of a landlord and a tenant and that the LIC was entitled to recover the rent from the tenants it will have to pass a decree in favour of the LIC on the basis of the fair rent fixed by the Rent Controller.
