Appeal No 101 of 1959.
Appeal by special leave from the judgment and order dated November 8 1957 of the Deputy Custodian General Evacuee Property Now Delhi Revision Petition No 17 R55 of 1955.
Achhru Ram and K L Mehta for the appellants.
BK Khanna and T M Sen for the respondent No 1.
NS Bindra and A G Ratnaparkhi for the respondents Nos.
March 15.
The Judgment of the Court was delivered by MUDHOLKAR J.
The appellants who are admittedly displaced persons from West Pakistan were granted quasi permanent allotment of 24 standard acres and 15 34 units in the village of Raikot in Ludhiana District in 1949.
Their father Sardar Nand Singh who was 42 330 found entitled to quasi permanent allotment of 40 standard acres and 5 14 units of land was given quasipermanent allotment in another village named Humbran in the same district.
The two villages are however 25 miles or so distant from each other.
Nand Singh therefore made an application for consolidation of his lands with those of the appellants in the village Raikot.
During the pendency of this application he died and after his death the application was continued by the appellants.
This application was rejected by the Assistant Custodian on July 23 1951 on the ground that no land was available in the village Raikot.
A revision petition preferred by the appellants against the order of the Assistant Custodian was dismissed by the Additional Custodian on August 20 1952.
On October 7 1952 the appellants preferred a revision application before the Custodian General.
During the pendency of the revision application the Additional Custodian for the State of Punjab cancelled the allotment of fourteen quasi permanent allottees of the village Karodian in the same district on the ground that these persons were entitled to allotment of suburban land a had been wrongly fitted in the village Karodian.
Acting suo motu the Additional Custodian made an order on October 31 1952 cancelling the order of allotment of land in the village Raikot made in favour of the appellants in the year 1949 and instead allotted to them land in Karodian in substitution of the lands at Raikot and of the lands allotted to their father.
The land allotted was out of the land released upon the cancellation of allotment of lands in favour of the aforementioned 14 allottees.
These fourteen allottees preferred an application for review of the order cancelling their allotment on the ground that this cancellation was a result of misapprehension of the actual facts and that they were not entitled to allotment of suburban lands at all.
The appellants also preferred an application for review of the order cancelling their quasi permanent allotment in the village Raikot.
The Additional Custodian for the State of Punjab recommended to the Custodian General the restoration 331 of the land to the 14 allottees which had been taken away from them by reason of cancellation of the allotment in their favour by the order dated October 31 1952.
The Additional Custodian admitted that these persons were not entitled to allotment of suburban land and that consequently their allotment had been wrongly made but referred the matter back to the Additional Custodian for decision.
The application made by the appellants was kept pending till the decision of the application of the 14 allottees of Karodian.
The Additional Custodian however dismissed the application on the ground that r 146 of the Evacuee Property Rules which came into force on July 22 1952 stood in the way of cancellation of the allotment in favour of the appellant.
On December 17 1954 the Deputy Custodian General before whom these allottees had preferred an application for revision revised the order of the Additional Custodian and restored to the 14 allottees of Karodian the land which had been originally allotted to them.
and allotment of which had been cancelled earlier.
As a result of this order the allotment of Karodian land made in favour of the appellants automatically stood cancelled.
On January 6 1955 the appellants moved the Deputy Custodian General for calling up their review application and for revising the order of October 31 1952 passed by the Additional Custodian cancelling the allotment of Raikot lands which had originally been made in their favour in the year 1949.
Consequent upon the cancellation of the appellants  allotment of the Raikot land they were allotted to respondents 2 to 4.
These persons were therefore impleaded as parties to the proceedings before the Deputy Custodian General.
By the order dated November 8 1957 the Deputy Custodian General dismissed the appellants  application.
But the consequence of the publication of the notification by the Central Government under section 121 of the with respect to any property or a class of property would be to divest the Custodian completely of his right in the property flowing from section 8 of the  and vest that property in the Central Government.
Sub section.
Sub section.
Section 19 of the Act provides that notwithstanding anything contained in any contract or any other law for the time being in force but subject to the rules that may be made under the Act the managing officer or managing corporation may cancel any allotment etc under which any evacuee property acquired under the Act is held or 334 occupied by a person whether such allotment or lease was granted before or after the commencement of the Act.
Sub section.
Sub section.
