Appeal No 513 of 1963.
Appeal by special leave from the Award dated December 1961 of the Maharashtra Industrial Tribunal in Reference IT No 48 of 1961.
section V Gupte Additional Solicitor General C L Dudhia K T Sule Atiqur Rahman and K L Hathi for the appel lants.
425 M C Setalvad N V Phadke J B Dadachanji O C Mathur and Ravinder Narain for the respondent No 1.
March 24 1964.
The Judgment of the Court was delivered by DAS GUPTA J.
This appeal arises out of an industrial dispute as regards the age of retirement.
The first respondent Shaw Wallace  Co was incorporated in January 1946 as a Private Limited Company to take over the business of the partnership firm of the Shaw Wallace  Co which had been doing business in India for about 60 years.
In July.
1947 the Private Limited Company was converted into a Public Limited Company.
The Head Office of the Company is at Calcutta.
It has Branches in Bombay Delhi and Via Madras.
The general practice of the Company both at the Head Office and the Branch Offices appears to have been to retire its employees at the age of 55 though in certain cases the Company in its discretion permitted an employee to continue beyond that age.
In September 1959 an agreement was entered into between the Company and its employees at Calcutta under which the age of retirement was extended to 58 years subject to the employees passing a medical examination on reaching the age of 55.
Shortly after this the Company s employees at Bombay raised a dispute regarding their retirement age.
They claimed that no workman should be retired from service before he bad completed 60 years of age.
This dispute was ultimately referred to the Industrial Tribunal Maharashtra.
Before the Tribunal the Company resisted the workmen s claim but submitted that it was agreeable to introduce for its Bombay employees provisions similar to those which had been introduced by agreement for the Calcutta employees retirement at the age of 58 subject to the employee passing a medical examination on reaching the age of 55.
The Tribunal has directed that the age of retirement should be 58 but the Company may in its discretion and with the express or implied consent of the employee concerned continue an employee after he attains that age.
It is against this decision that the present appeal has been filed by the workmen.
As has already been noticed there is no dispute that the age of compulsory retirement should not remain at 55.
The dispute is whether it should be fixed at 58 or at 60.
According to this the pensionable age is 70 in two countries 67 in another two 65 in twenty four 60 in seventeen 55 in two and 50 in one.
In support of their demand for fixing the age of retirement at 60 the workmen tried to show that in recent years at least the tendency in comparable concerns in Bombay region has been to fix the retirement age at 60.
Reliance was placed for this purpose on the Chart exhibit Cl.
There is no indication at all as to how long ago the age of retirement in these concerns was fixed at 55 or at 58.
On a consideration of all the facts and circumstances disclosed by the oral and documentary evidence on this record we have come to the conclusion that the age of retirement of the appellant workmen should be fixed at 60.
Appeal allowed.
