Appeal No 68 of 1964.
Appeal from the judgment and decree dated July 27 1959 of the Allahabad High Court in Income tax Reference No 307 of 1957.
SV Gupte Solicitor General R Ganapathy Iyer and RN Sachthey for the appellant.
AV Viswanatha Sastri and SP Varma for the respondent.
The Judgment of the Court was delivered by Sikri J.
This appeal pursuant to a certificate granted by the Allahabad High Court under section 66A2 of the Income tax Act hereinafter referred to as the Act is directed against the judgment of the High Court in a reference under the Act answering the question referred to it in the negative.
The district of Benaras was formerly a part of Oudh territory.
By a Treaty between the East India Company Nawab Asfuddaula in or about the year 1775 the province of Benaras was ceded to the British Government.
The British Government granted a sanad of Raj to Raja Chet Singh who in turn gave the Jagir of Parganas Seyedpore and Bhittery in perpetuity to Babu Ausan Singh.
The quantum of this pension was calculated on the basis of 14th of the revenue of the Jagir.
Secretary to Lt Government NWP.
The pension was paid regularly from year to year by the Government to Babu Har Narain Singh and his heirs.
During the previous year of the assessment year 1949 50 the assessee received a sum of Rs 36396 on account of the aforesaid pension.
Raja Bahadur Karnakhaya Harain Singh1.
The source of the pension was a liability undertaken by the Government for extinguishing the proprietary rights of the Jagirdar and when the immediate source of the income was not land or rent collections from land it is difficult to hold that the receipt of the assessee was agricultural income within the meaning of Section 43viii of the Income tax Act.
 The learned counsel for the respondent Mr A Viswanatha Sastri urges that on its true interpretation the letter dated July 7 1837 showed an arrangement for sharing collections.
We respectfully adopt the reasoning and conclusion of this Court in the case of State of  704 Uttar Pradesh vs Kunwar Sri Trivikram Narain Singh1 and hold that the respondent under the arrangement had no interest in land or in the land revenue payable in respect thereof.
The source of the right in which a fraction of the net income of the trust is to be appropriated by the appellant as his remuneration is not in the right to receive rent or revenue of agricultural lands but rests in the covenant in the deed to receive remuneration for management of the trust.
 It follows from the decisions of the Privy Council and the judgments of this Court cited above that if it is held in this case that the source of the allowance or pension is the arrangement arrived at in 1837.
He says that if the assessee s predecessor had received  706 compensation for relinquishing his title to the lands in dispute that would have been a capital receipt and not taxable.
 He therefore asked us to disregard the word pension  in the letter dated July 7 1837 and determine the real character of the payment.
If the other method is adopted tax will not be payable .
Mr Sastri relying on Perrin vs Dickson1 contends that an annuity is not always taxable as income.
