January 11.
This is an appeal by the State of West Bengal from a judgment of a Full Bench of the High Court of Judicature at Calcutta quashing the conviction of the respondent by the Special Court established under sec tion 3 of the West Bengal Special Courts Ordinance 1949 Ordinance No 3 of 1949 which was replaced in March 1950 by the West Bengal Special Courts Act 1950 West Bengal Act X of 1950 hereinafter referred to as the Act.
The High Court by a Full Bench consisting of the Chief Justice and four other Judges quashed the conviction and directed the trial of the respondent and the other accused persons according to law.
 Sections 6 to 15 prescribe the special procedure which the court has to follow in the trial of the cases referred to it.
2  293 offences as there can of course be no trial of offences in the abstract and the general expressions used in providing for the power to set that machinery in operation must be restricted to that end in accordance with the intention of the legislature for a literal construction of the general language would impute to the legislature an intention to confer an arbitrary power of reference which would be incon sistent not only with the declared object of the statute but also with the constitutional prohibition against discrimina tion which the legislature must be taken to have been aware of when it deliberately re enacted the provisions of the old Ordinance.
In my opinion the true position is as follows  As a general rule if the Act is fair and good the public authority who has to administer it will be protected.
It is designed to prevent any person or class of persons for being singled out as a special subject for discriminatory and hostile legislation.
The only answer for withholding from such persons the pro tection of article 14 that could reasonably be given to these inquiries would be that Of all other accused persons they are a class by themselves and there is a reasonable 315 difference between them and those other persons who may have committed similar offences.
That is so yet to carry that presumption to the extent of always holding that there must be some undisclosed intention or reason for subjecting certain individuals to a hostile and discriminatory legislation is to make the pro tection clause of article 14 in the words of an American decision a mere rope of sand in no manner restraining State action.
The result is that the appeals fail and are dismissed.
It is against this decision that these two appeals have been taken to this court by the State of West Bengal.
The article lays down that the State shall not deny to any person equality before the law or the equal protection of the laws within the territory of India.
His first line of argument is that quite apart from the question of classification there has been no infringement of article 14 of the Constitution in the present case.
It was held by the Supreme Court that the equal protection clause was not violated by this provision.
That a judicial discretion has to be exercised on the basis of the facts of each case in the matter of granting the application for a struck jury does not really involve discrimination.
It is not stated that it is only when speedier trial is necessary that the discretion should be exercised.
It must appear not only that a classification has been made but also that it is based upon some reasonable ground some difference which bears a just and proper relation to the attempted classification1.
A careful perusal of this decision will make it quite clear that the Court upheld the validity of the statute impugned in that case not on the ground that the inequality was of minor importance but on the ground that the classification of establishments according to the number of workmen employed therein was based on an intelli gible distinction having a rational relation to the subject matter of the legislation in question.
That the Act has prescribed a procedure of trial which is materially different from that laid down in the Code of Criminal Procedure cannot be disputed.
Section 5 1 of the Act runs as follows  A Special Court shall try such offences or classes of offences or cases or classes of cases as the State Government may by general or special order in writing direct.
I have already stated that this part of the sub section contemplates a process of classification of of fences classes of offences and classes of cases.
The provision for the speedier trial of certain offences is therefore the object of the Act.
 In order to be a proper classification so as not to offend against the Constitution it must be based on some intelligible differentia which should have a reason able relation to the object of the Act as recited in the preamble.
Even if this difference in the circum stances of the two alleged offenders can be made the basis of a classification there is no nexus between this differ ence and the object of the Act for in the absence of any special circumstances there is no apparent reason why the offence of theft in a dwelling house by a stranger should require a speedier trial any more than the offence of theft by a servant should do.
The notifications simply direct certain cases to be tried by the Special Court and are obviously issued under that part of section 51 which authorises the State government to direct cases to be tried by the Special Court.
It is urged by the learned AttorneyGeneral that this selection of cases must also be made in the light of the object of the Act as expressed in its preamble that is to say the State government can only select those cases which in their view require speedier trial.
The short question that arises for consideration in these cases is whether the whole or any portion of the West Bengal Special Courts Act X of 1950 is invalid as being opposed to equality before the law and the equal protection of the laws guaran teed under article 14 of the Constitution of India.
Preliminary inquiry before committal to the sessions trial by jury or with the aid of assessors the right of a de novo trial on transfer of a case from one Court to another have been taken away from the accused who are to be tried by a Special Court even graver is section 13 which provides that a person may be convicted of an offence disclosed by the evidence as having been committed by him even though he was not charged with it and it happens to be a more serious offence.
One is that there was no discrimination at all in the exercise of the power.
