Appeal No 1311 of 1967.
Appeal by special leave from the judgment and order dated January 17 1967 of the Patna High Court in CWJC No 952 of 1966.
M C Chagla N D Karkhanis section P Chowdhury Bhuvanesh Kumari for the appellant.
section C Manchanda R N Sachthey and B D Sharma for the respondent.
The Judgment of the Court was delivered by Hegde J.
This is an assessee s appeal by special leave against the judgment of the High Court of Patna dismissing in limini its writ petition under Arts 226 and 227 of the Constitution of India.
The assessee is having construction contracts under the Railways as well as the Government.
It is a partnership firm.
For the assessment year 1960 61 relevant to the accounting year 1959 60 after the assessee submitted its income tax return it was asked by the Income tax Officer during the income tax assessment proceedings to produce before him its books of account and the other relevant papers.
The assessee also produced before him a statement showing various creditors from whom it had borrowed on Hundis during the accounting year in question.
In that statement it gave the lull names and address of the alleged creditors.
After enquiry the assessee s total income was assessed at Rs 69886 .
On June 3 1966 the 1st respondent Income tax Officer Ward A  Muzaffarpur issued to the assessee a notice under section 148 of the Indian Income tax Act 1961.
Income Tax Officer Muzaffarpur Dated the 3 6 1966.
TO Ms Chugamal Rajpal Muzaffarpur.
As we are accepting the contention of the assessee that the impugned notice is invalid inasmuch as it did not comply with the requirements of section 1512 of the Act we have not thought it necessary to examine the other contentions advanced on behalf of the assessee.
When the appeal was taken up for hearing on the 18th January 1971 only the report submitted by the Income tax Officer to the Commissioner and the order of the Commissioner was produced.
Name and address of the assessee MS Chugamal Rajpal Muzaffarpur.
RF 2Status 3.
Whether it is a new case or one in which re assessment or recomputation has to be made Re assessment 5.
Seth Bhagwan Singh Sricharan.
Sd section P Chaliha 30 4 66.
Income tax Officer A Ward Muzaffarpur.
 In his report the Income tax Officer does not set out any reason for coming to the conclusion that this is a fit case to issue notice under section 148.
The material that he had before him for issuing notice under section 148 is not mentioned in the report.
All that he says is that from those communications it appears that these persons alleged creditors are name lenders and the transactions are bogus.
From the report submitted by the Income tax Officer to the Commissioner it is clear that he could not have had reasons to believe that by reason of the assessee s omission to disclose fully and truly all material  facts necessary for his assessment for the accounting year in question income chargeable to tax has escaped assessment for that year nor could it be said that he as a consequence of information in his possession had reasons to believe that the income chargeable to tax has escaped assessment for that year.
b of section 147.
Therefore he could not have issued a notice under section 148.
GC Appeal allowed.
