iminal Appeal No 48 of 1954.
1303 Appeal by Special Leave granted by the Supreme Court by its Order dated the 31st July 1953 from the Judgment and Order dated the 15th May 1953 of the High Court of Judicature for the State of Pepsu at Th Patiala in Criminal Appeal No 140 of 1952 arising out of the Judgment and Order dated the 31st March 1952 of the Court of Magistrate 1st Class Patiala in Challan Case No 160102 of 1951.
Jai Gopal Sethi Naunit Lal with him for the appellant.
N section Bindra Porus A Mehta and P G Gokhale with him for the respondent.
February 28.
The Judgment of the Court was delivered by VENKATARAMA AYYAR J.
The appellant was a Sub Divisional Officer in the Public Works Department Pepsu and was at the material dates in charge of certain works at a place called Karhali.
It was part of his duties to disburse the wages to the workmen employed in the works and the procedure usually followed was that be drew the amount required from the treasury and paid the same to the emplo yees against their signatures or thumb impressions in the monthly acquittance roll.
In the roll for April 1951 one Parma was mentioned as a khalasi menial servant and a sum of Rs 51 shown as paid to him for his wages the payment being vouched by thumbimpression.
The case of the prosecution was that there was in fact no person of the name of Parma that the thumb impression found in the acquittance roll was that of the appellant himself that he had included a fictitious name in the acquittance roll with intent to himself draw the amount and that by this expedient he had received Rs 51 and misappropriated the same.
This appeal by special leave is directed against this judgment.
In support of  the appeal it is argued by Mr Jai Gopal Sethi that the conviction of the appellant is illegal as sanction had not been obtained under section 197 1 of the Code of Criminal Procedure for his prosecution that the evidence on record is insufficient to establish an offence either under section 465 or section 409 of the Indian Penal Code and that there having been an acquittal of the appellant by the trial Magistrate the materials on record did not justify a reversal of that verdict by the appellate Court.
The result of the authorities may thus be summed up It is not every offence committed by a public servant that requires sanction for prosecution under section 1971 of the Code of Criminal Procedure nor even every act done by him while he is actually engaged in the performance of his official duties but if the act complained of is directly concerned with his official duties so that if questioned it could be claimed to have been done by virtue of the office then sanction would be necessary and that would be so irrespective of whether it was in fact a proper discharge of his duties because that would really be a matter of defence on the merits which would have to be in vestigated at the trial and could not arise at the stage of the grant of sanction which mut precede the institution of the prosecution.
