The following Judgements were delivered PATHAK J.
This appeal by special leave has been preferred by Tata Consultancy Engineers against an award dated 20th December 1978 of the Industrial Tribunal Maharashtra Bombay revising the wage scales of certain categories of employees and granting various other benefits.
Tata Consultant Engineers at its inception was a partnership firm but subsequently the partnership was dissolved and in 1974 the undertaking became one of the divisions of Tata Sons Limited.
The Reference was numbered I T No 292 of 1975.
The dearness allowance it was claimed should be granted on a slab system.
The claim of the Union was resisted by the appellant who maintained that the existing wage scales were fair and reasonable on a region cum industry basis and that it would not be possible for the appellant to bear the additional financial burden if the demands of the Union were accepted.
Reference was made to the political uncertainty in Iran which had placed an appreciable part of the appellant s business in jeopardy and to various other factors peculiar to an engineering consultancy business beyond the appellant s control.
There was fierce competition also it was asserted from other similar organisations.
The appellant had introduced various pay scales in 1973 and some time later they were revised.
There was no separate dearness allowance until January 1977 when it was introduced for the first time.
House rent allowance was also paid.
In proceeding to revise the wage structure the Tribunal took into account the two principles involved in the process the financial capacity of the industry to bear the burden of an increased wage bill and the prevailing wage structure on an industry cum region basis.
II DriverAsstt.
OptrRecep tionistAssist.
975 EB 40 1175.
Asstt 35 1020 EB 40 1300 1265 EB 45 1490.
Asstt Canteen Asstt.
70 1690 80 2010.
The Tribunal maintained the existing schemes of dearness allowance and house rent allowance and observed that in view of the revised basic wages there would be a resultant increase in the dearness allowance and house rent allowance.
However this is not clearly mentioned anywhere in the award due to accidental slip or omission.
The same has been made clear in paragraph No 23 but it appears that the words to each employee after the figure Rs 150  were omitted.
Similarly the same words to each employee after the figure 100 were omitted.
The fitment has also to be done only after the flat increase is added to the present basic salary of each employee.
I do not think that any problem would arise for interpretation of the award.
Since the award has been already signed I do not think anything further can be added to this award.
sd K N Wani INDUSTRIAL TRIBUNAL.
The Charter of Demands was presented by the Union in July 1974 and when conciliation proceedings failed the State Government made the reference to the Industrial Tribunal in 1975.
They are considerations which cannot be ignored.
The challenge embodied in the second contention against the amendment of the award is more serious.
 The jurisdiction given to the Tribunal by rule 31 is closely circumscribed.
It is only a clerical mistake or error which can be corrected and the clerical mistake or error must arise from an accidental slip or omission in the award.
That the increase was pertinent to the general pay scales in the revised wage structure is patently clear from a comparison of the existing pay scales and the revised pay scales.
Considering the fitment of the workman in the revised scales it was stated in the award that a workman found drawing a salary less than the beginning of the grade would be stepped up to the beginning of the grade and if his pay fell between two steps in the reclassified pay scales the basic pay was to be fixed at the step higher in the revised scale.
It seems from a perusal of the document Exhibit C 51 that it is a statement giving trial figures of the increased financial load on different bases.
It will be noted that the statement Exhibit C 51 was prepared on the basis of the employees  strength as in December 1971.
The addition was integrated as a feature of the wage scales it was not regarded as an addition to the pay of each individual workman.
The original award was completed and signed by the Tribunal and it cannot be reopened now except for the limited purpose of Rule 31.
Our attention has been drawn to what purports to be an endorsement by counsel for the appellant on the application dated 22nd December 1978 filed by the Union before the Tribunal to the effect that the appellant would submit to whatever the Tribunal decided and it is urged that the appellant is bound by the order made on the application.
What is without jurisdiction will remain so.
The only contention of the workmen is that the Tribunal should have fixed the dearness allowance in communion with the cost of living index.
The profits have increased all along.
