With Civil Appeal No 213 of 1979 6 Appeal by special leave from the judgment and order dated the 15th April 1978 of the Madhya Pradesh High Court in Misc.
of Delhi.
Industrial Corpn.
Ltd section K Gambhir for the applicant intervener State of MP.
Respondent 1 is the Special Area Development Authority Korba District Bilaspur MP respondent 2 is its Chairman and respondent 3 is the State of Madhya Pradesh.
Chapter VIII of the Act consisting of sections 64 to 71 is entitled Special Areas.
Section 55 provides that for every Special Area there shall be a Special Area Development Authority consisting of a Chairman and such other members as the Government may determine from time to time.
Section 69 by clauses c and d confers upon the Development Authority powers for the purpose of municipal administration and for the purpose of taxation.
These two clauses of section 69 and clauses v and vi of section 68 were inserted in their present shape by Ordinance 26 of 1975 which came into force on February 27 1976.
The Ordinance was replaced by the Madhya Pradesh Nagar Tatha Gram Nivesh Sanshodhan Adhiniyam 1976 6 of 1976.
Section 69d of the Act of 1973 reads thus 69.
Such a direction was first issued by Notification dated January 28 1976 published in the Government Gazette dated February 27 1976 by which the Development Authority Korba was directed to exercise the powers and perform the functions of a Class I Municipality constituted under the Madhya Pradesh Municipality Act 1961.
It says that the Corporation shall impose a tax payable by the owners of buildings or lands situated within the city with reference to the gross annual letting value of the building or land called the property tax.
By section 36 of the aforesaid Adhiniyam local authorities were prohibited from recovering the property tax from November 24 1970.
For conferring powers to levy tax on the entry of goods in place of octroi tax the Madhya Pradesh Sthaniya Kshetra Me Mal Ke Pravesh Par Kar Adhyadesh 1976 6 of 1976 was promulgated.
Ordinance No 4 of 1976 inserted certain provisions in the Municipalities Act and the Municipal Corporation Act.
That amount not having been paid as provided in the agreement respondent 1 terminated the agreement by its letter dated February 4 1977.
Petitions Nos.
The Delhi High Court has held in LPA 105 of 1979 that the Delhi Municipal Corporation has the power to levy property tax on the property of the Jammu and Kashmir State Agro Industries Corporation Ltd whose share capital is owned by the State of Jammu and Kashmir and the Union of India in the proportion of 51 and 49 respectively.
We have allowed both the parties to intervene in these appeals.
Therefore amendments made in the earlier law after the date of incorporation cannot by their own force be read into the later law.
In the case last cited the Privy Council qualified its statement of the law by saying that the principle that an amendment of the first law which is not expressly made applicable to the subsequent incorporating Act cannot be deemed to be incorporated into the second Act applies if it is possible for the subsequent Act to function effectually without the addition page 267.
The Act of 1973 did not by section 69d incorporate in its true signification any particular provision of the two earlier Acts.
It provides that for the purpose of taxation the Special Area Development Authority shall have the powers which a Municipal Corporation or a Municipal Council has under the Madhya Pradesh Municipal Corporation Act 1956 or the Madhya Pradesh Municipalities Act 1961.
As observed in Nathella Sampathu Chetty there is a distinction between a mere reference to or a citation of one statute in another and an incorporation which in effect means the bodily lifting of the provisions of one enactment and making them part of another so much so that the repeal of the former leaves the latter wholly untouched.
The Act of 1973 does not provide for any independent power of taxation or any machinery of its own for exercising the power of taxation.
The three Acts are therefore supplemental from which it must follow that amendments made to the earlier Acts after the enactment of section 69d shall have to be read into that section.
Without recourse to such a construction the power of taxation conferred by that section will become ineffectual.
This contention is devoid of substance.
