ivil appeal No 2197 From the Judgment and order dated 16470 of Andhra Pradesh High Court in appeal No 431 of 1965.
Dr YS Chitale V G Shanker KL Hathi Ms Sadhana DK Chhaya MK Arora and Mrs H Wahi for the appellant.
352 T section Krishnamoorthi Iyer KR.
Choudhry and KS.
Choudhary for the respondents.
The Judgment of the Court was delivered by SABYASACHI MUKHARJI J.
This appeal is by a certificate granted on 18th September 1970 by the High Court of Andhra Pradesh under Article 1331 a of the Constitution as it stood at the relevant time against the Judgment and decree of the High Court dated 16th April 1970.
By the said Judgment and decree the High Court of Andhra Pradesh had reversed the Judgment of the learned Subordinate Judge Masulipatam dated 19th November 1964 dismissing the suit of the plaintiffs respondents against the appellant.
Late Shri Raja Vasireddi Chandra Dhara Prashad was the husband of respondent No 1 and father of the respondents No 2 to 5 herein.
The respondents filed a suit in the Subordinate Court of Sub Judge being original suit No 2 of 1964 on 10th January 1964.
The short facts leading to this case are One Late Raja Vasireddi Chandra Dhara Prasad hereinafter referred to as a deceased  died intestate on 12th January 1961.
He had filled a proposal for insurance for Rs 50000 on 27th December 1960.
There was medical examination by the doctor on the life of the deceased on 27th December 1960.
The deceased had issued two cheques for Rs 300 and Rs 220 respectively in favour of the appellant as first premium.
Cheque for Rs 300 was encashed by the appellant on 29th December 1960.
Cheque for Rs 220 was dishonoured three times and finally encashed on 11th January 1961.
As mentioned hereinbefore the deceased died on the day following ie on 12th January 1961.
On 16th January 1961 the widow of the deceased respondent No 1 herein wrote to the appellant intimating the death of the deceased and demanded payment of Rs 50000.
The Divisional Manager Masulipatam Branch denied liability on behalf of the appellant Corporation on 28th January 1961.
Thereafter there was correspondence between the parties between 1st February 1961 to 23rd December 1963 wherein the respondents plaintiffs had claimed the payment and the appellant had denied liability for the same.
353 On the 10th January 1964 the plaintiffs filed the suit in the court of Subordinate Judge Masulipatam.
It was alleged in the plaint after setting out the facts which have been set out hereinbefore that the medical examination report was submitted to the appellant corporation by Dr Sri C Sambasiva Rao Approved Medical practitioner of the appellant in regard to the medical examination of the deceased.
A report described as All the Friend s report was duly sent to the appellant with regard to that proposal and all the preliminaries were completed and it was further alleged that the deceased was assured and told by the local agent and the Field officer of the Corporation that the payment of the first premium would amount to the acceptance of the proposal and advised the deceased to pay the first premium in full.
It was further stated that the said two cheques were encashed and the appellant had duly appropriated the amount and credited in the accounts towards the premium payable by the deceased.
Therefore it was stated that the deceased had fulfilled his part of the insurance contract and the appellant Corporation by its overt acts of encashing the cheques and crediting the amounts in its accounts accepted the proposal of the deceased.
It was further stated in the plaint that the office of the Divisional Manager of Masulipatam was the concerned authority to settle the claim of the plaintiffs respondents and to pay the amount.
Written statement was filed on behalf of the appellant.
He had further stated that the proposal form was sent from the office at Guntur to the Divisional office at Masulipatam and exhibit B 1 to B 4 and B 8 were sent in this connection.
When the acceptance was complete and when there was no requirement necessary and if the full first instalment was 356 in deposit it would be adjusted towards premium amount he stated.
He held that as per the prospectus of Life Insurance Corporation of India the risk under the Corporation policy commenced on the date of receipt of the first premium in full or the date of acceptance whichever was later and the second instalment of the premium falls due on a date calculated from such date of commencement of risk.
The Trial Court therefore held that there was no concluded valid insurance contract between the deceased and the Corporation.
The Trial Court further expressed the view that the other averments in the claim that the deceased was assured and told by the local agent and the field officer of the Corporation that the payment of the first premium would amount to the acceptance of the proposal were not established and even if such a representation was made that did not alter the position as under the rules the payment of the premium could never amount to the acceptance of the proposal if the proposal was not otherwise accepted.
The High Court was of the view that the plea that Divisional Manager was the only authority to accept had not been categorically taken in the written statement filed on behalf of the Corporation.
The High Court in our opinions was also wrong in its view about the powers of the different authorities under Chapter III of the Standing order 1960 dealing with the financial powers.
He had stated that the purpose of review slip was to enable the Divisional Manager to asses the risk and take a decision.
XLV page 986 wherein it has been stated as The mere receipt and retention of premiums until after the death of applicant does not give rise to a contract although the circumstances may be such that approval could be inferred from retention of the premium.
The mere execution of the policy is not an acceptance an acceptance to be complete must be communicated to the offeror either directly or by some definite act such as placing the contract in the mail.
See in this connection statement of law in MacGillivray  Parkington on Insurance Law Seventh Edition page 94 paragraph 215.
Having regard to the clear position in law about acceptance of insurance proposal and the evidence on record in this case we are therefore of the opinion that the High Court was in error in coming to the conclusion that there was a concluded contract of insurance between the deceased and the Life Insurance Corporation and on that basis reversing the judgment and the decision of the learned Subordinate Judge.
In the facts and circumstances of the case there will be no order as to costs in this Court.
SR Appeal allowed.
