Tax Reference Cases Nos 3 to 5 of 1975 Tax Reference under Section 257 of the Income tax Act 1961 made by the Income tax Appellate Tribunal Cuttack Bench Cuttack PA Francis Champat Rai and Miss A Subhashini for the Appellant.
CSS Rao for the Respondent.
The Judgment of the Court was delivered by 308 PATHAK J.
 These references under s271 of the have been made by the Income Tax Appellate tribunal Cuttack Bench at the instance of the Commissioner of Wealth Tax Orissa for the opinion of this Court on the following question of law Whether on the facts and in the circumstances of the case the Wealth Tax Officer was in law justified in including in the net wealth of the assessee interest due on accrual basis though not realised on the outstandings of the money lending business the accounts of the assessee being maintained on cash basis  The respondent assessee was assessed to wealth tax for the assessment years 1965 66 1966 67 and 1967 68 the respective valuation dates being March 31 1965 March 31 1966 and March 31 1967 in the status of a Hindu Undivided Family.
In each of the assessments the Wealth Tax Officer included a sum of Rs 150000 estimated as the accrued interest on the assessee s money lending investments.
The assessee appealed to the Appellate Assistant Commissioner and urged that as it maintained its books of account in accordance with the cash system of accounting the accrued interest on the money lending investments could not be included in the wealth tax assessments.
The Commissioner of Wealth Tax applied under sub section.
The question can be disposed of shortly.
The expression net wealth is defined by cl.
The figure of net wealth of the assessee at the end of the previous year takes into account the financial activities of the assessee during that previous year.
His financial activities during that period determine how his net wealth on a particular valuation date differs from his net wealth on the immediately preceding valuation date.
There is an obvious advantage in adopting as the valuation date the last day of a period which is also the relevant period under the Income Tax Act.
There is clear indication that the assets to be considered are not circumscribed by any consideration of the particular system of accounting adopted by the assessee.
The assets are not confined to cash.
In other words it would be the estimated open market value of the rights in the property which constitute the asset.
There is no order as to costs.
