From the Judgment and Order dated 1031986 of the Karnataka High Court in WP Nos.
In exercise of its powers under section 637 of the  the Central Government specified 50 as the number of All India Tourist Vehicle Permits  which may be granted by the Karnataka State Transport Authority.
We are concerned in these appeals with the vires and interpretation of this proviso.
The State Transport Authority by its proceedings dated April 30 1984 granted 11 out of the 14 permits to the Karnataka State Tourism Development Corporation one permit to the Indian Tourism Development Corporation and two permits to the Karnataka State Road Transport Corporation.
The writ petitions were rejected by the High Court on the ground that the preference contemplated by the proviso to section 637 contemplated exclusion of the non preferred  class if sufficient number of applicants from the preferred classes were available.
It was also urged that the fourth sub clause of the proviso offended article 14 and had to be struck down.
A public service vehicle is defined in section 225 as any motor vehicle used or adapted to be used for the carriage of passengers for hire or reward and includes a motor cab contract carriage and stage carriage.
Sections 46 47 and 48 deal with the grant of stage carriage permits.
Section 471 C enables the State Government to reserve a certain percentage of stage carriage permits to persons belonging to economically weaker sections of the community.
Section 57 deals generally with the procedure to be followed in applying for and granting permits.
Section 68 F1 prescribes that where in pursuance of an approved scheme a State Transport Undertaking applies for a stage carriage permit a contract carriage permit or a public carrier s permit in respect of a notified area or notified route such permit shall be granted to the State Transport Undertaking by the State Transport Authority in a case where the said area or route lies in more than one region and the Regional Transport Authority in any other case.
The proviso to section 471 for example provides that other conditions being equal an application for a stage carriage permit from a cooperative society or a person holding a valid licence for driving transport vehicles shall as far as may be be given preference over applications from individual owners.
While it is true that section 471 H does not expressly refer to other things being equal it appears to be implicit in the provision that other things are equal.
That is how section 471 H was interpreted in Sher Singh s case.
It signifies that other things being equal 1016 one will have preference over the others.
47 the application of the Undertaking for an inter State route shall be examined as application of any other private operator.
There is no question of eliminating private operators merely because the Undertaking applies for a stage carriage permit under Chapter IV.
Since the State Transport Appellate Tribunal and the High Court have failed to consider the merits of the claims of the Karnataka State Road Transport Corporation and the private operators who did not get a certificate of approval from the Central Government because of the rule of preference contained in proviso to section 637 the proper course for us is to set aside the orders of the State Transport Appellate Tribunal and the High Court and to direct the State Transport Appellate Tribunal to re hear the appeals and dispose them of in accordance with law after considering the claims of the eligible applicants in the manner indicated in Sher Singh s case and now.
637 of the .
PSS Appeals allowed.
