On or about 2nd January 1985 the order of detention was passed on an incident relating to the exchange of fire between two rival groups.
As a result of this firing one innocent namely Brahamdeo Mishra was killed.
In this case subject and his associates opened fire on police party who went to apprehend Raghunath Singh absconder under NSA.
Sri Sisir Rajan Das however acceded to their request and started dancing.
The order of detention though dated 2nd January 1986 was served on or about 11th January 1986.
The petitionerappellant states that he desired that he should be heard in person by the Advisory Board.
The petitioner appellant was in detention when the petitionerappellant was served with the order of detention.
There were criminal cases against the petitioner.
In the said case investigation was in progress and the defence of the petitioner in the murder case was that he was falsely implicated and was not at all concerned with the murder.
In the affidavit of the District Magistrate the detaining authority it has been stated that the activities of the petitioner s brother and the petitioner have disturbed the normal tempo of life in Katras and Jogta Police Stations in Dhanbad area.
There is a statement in the order as follows D Subject is already in jail.
He is likely to be enlarged on bail.
All the documents which formed the basis of detention were supplied to the detenu.
His representation was duly considered and rejected.
The grounds stated that there was indiscriminate firing on 24th December 1985 on Katras Coal Dump and the petitioner started indiscriminate firing to kill Birendra Pratap Singh a rival of his calendestine business of coal to establish the criminal superiority in full view of the shopkeepers customers and passers by of the area.
Crl A 35386 with WP crl 2786 dt.
In this case there were grounds for the passing of the detention order but after that the detenu has surrendered for whatever reasons therefore the order of detention though justified when it was passed but at the time of the service of the order there was no proper consideration of the fact that the detenu was in custody of that there was any real danger of his release.
Nor does it appear that before the service there was consideration of this aspect properly.
If there were cogent materials for thinking that the detenu might be released then these should have been made apparent.
