Appeal No 1713NT of 1973.
The asses see Dr RS Gupta had maintained an account in the books of Messrs Tika Ram and Sons Pvt.
On the same day ie on ist January 1957 Om Parkash Gupta wrote to the assessee his father thanking him for the gift of Rs25000 made in his favour and the gift of Rs50000 in favour of his son Pravin.
contractors and brick kiln owners.
It was also stated to be carrying on business of advancing money and taking money on loan when necessary.
But it appears that it was admitted position that Tika Ram  Sons had a cash balance of Rs4000 only on 111957 and it did not have any overdraft facilities with any bank.
But there was no evidence that Tika Ram and Sons were carrying on any banking business.
Section 123 of the said Act deals with how transfers are effected and stipulates inter alia that for the purpose of making a gift of movable property as in this case the transfer must be effected either by a registered instrument signed by the donor and attested or by delivery.
The assessee claimed to have gifted the said amounts by transfer entries in the books of Ms Pearls  Beads on 30th March 1957.
34 and 5 were answered in the negative.
Aggrieved by the said decision the revenue has come up in appeal.
In order to constitute a valid gift there must be an existing property.
In the case of banking companies or other firms and companies who have overdraft facilities even if the sums are not in credit of the donor and are not with such companies or firms gifts might be possible by adjustment of the book entries.
This question has been examined by the various High Courts.
It is possible in certain circumstances for a donor to make a valid gift by instructing a firm or a company or a HUF in which the donor has an account to give effect to the gift by debiting his account and crediting the account in the name of the donee.
But in such cases 127 merely books entries would not suffice.
The assessee must also have sufficient credit balance to enable him to make the gift.
Reference may also be made for this proposition to the decision of the Delhi High Court in New India Colour Co vs Commissioner of IncomeTax New Delhi The effect of the two aforesaid decisions of the learned fudges of the Delhi High Court indicates that in case there was not sufficient cash balance from out of which the amount gifted could be physically given to the donee more entries in the books of account in the form would not constitute delivery of possession over the gifted property to the donee and gift in such case will not be valid.
Such delivery may be in the same way as goods sold may be delivered.
Section 33 of the Sale of goods Act permitted the parties to deliver by any manner or method which the parties agreed would be treated as delivery or which had the effect of putting the goods in the possession of the buyer.
See also the cases of Commissioner of Income Tax Bombay City H vs Popatlal Mulji and also in the case of Addl.
It was held by the Bombay High Court that there was no valid gift.
Separate accounts in their names were opened in the books and in their accounts the credits were entered.
Father had complete control and dominion over that amount.
No acceptance was produced.
