Civil Appeal No 8440 of 1983.
From the Judgment and Order dated 22483 of the High Court of Bombay in Writ Petition No 238882.
MK Ramamurthy and AK Sanghi for the Appellant.
Dr YS Chitale PH Parekh RK Dhillon Ms Sunita Sharma and Dr D Chandrachud for the Respondents.
The Judgment of the Court was delivered by VENKATARAMIAH J.
The question which arises for consideration in this case is whether the law reports namely All India Reporter Criminal Law Journal Labour and Industrial Cases Taxation Law Reports Allahabad Law Journal and UP Law Tribune published by the 1st respondent All India Reporter Limited are newspapers as defined in the Working Journalists and Other Newspaper Employees Conditions of Service and Miscellaneous Provisions Act 1955 Act No 45 of 1955 hereinafter referred to as the Act  and whether the employees of the 1st respondent engaged in the production or publication of the said law reports are entitled to the benefits conferred upon the employees of newspaper establishments by the Act.
The Act was enacted on 20th December 1955 with the object of regulating certain conditions of service of working journalists and other employees employed in the newspaper establishments.
The expression newspaper is defined by section 2b of the Act as follows  Newspaper means any printed periodical work containing public news or comments on public news and includes such other class of printed periodical work as may from time to time be notified in this behalf by the Central Government in the Official Gazette 779 A newspaper employee is defined by section 2c of the Act as any working journalist and includes any other person employed to do any work in or in relation to any newspaper establishment.
Newspaper establishment is defined by section 2d of the Act as an establishment under the control of any person or body of persons whether incorporated or not for the production or publication of one or more newspapers or for conducting any news agency or syndicate.
A non journalist newspaper employee means any person employed to do any work in or in relation to any newspaper establishment but does not include any such person who is a working journalist or is employed mainly in a managerial or administrative capacity or being employed in a supervisory capacity performs either by the nature of the duties attached to his office or by reason of the powers vested in him functions mainly of a managerial nature as stated in section 2dd of the Act.
Chapter II of the Act deals with certain conditions of service of the working journalists.
Those provisions relate to the retrenchment payment of gratuity hours of work leave fixation or revision of wages etc.
Chapter IIA of the Act deals with similar conditions of service of non journalist newspaper employees.
Similarly section 13C of the Act provides for the constitution of a Wage Board for the purpose of making recommendations regarding the fixation or revision of the rates of wages in respect of non journalist news 780 paper employees.
Section 13AA which was inserted by Act 6 of 1979 provides for the constitution of a Tribunal for fixing or revising rates of wages in respect of working journalists where the Central Government is of opinion that the Board constituted under section 9 for the purpose of fixing or revising rates of wages in respect of working journalists under the Act has not been able to function effectively.
That Tribunal has to consist of a Judge of the High Court or of the Supreme Court.
Section 13AA and section 13DD of the Act came into force with effect from January 31 1979.
Justice Palekar made his recommendations on 1281980.
In exercise of its powers under section 12 of the Act the Central Government accepted a part of the recommendations and made an order thereon on 26121980 and accepted the remaining part of the recommendations and made another order thereon on 2071981.
The 1st respondent also did not send a reply to the questionnaire issued by the Tribunal nor it gave any evidence before the Tribunal in respect of the matters referred to therein.
Initially the State of Maharashtra the Commissioner of Labour and the Deputy Labour Commissioner Nagpur had been impleaded as respondents.
It was urged before the High Court on behalf of the Ist respondent All India Reporter Limited that the law reports publised by it were not newspapers as defined in the Act and therefore the order made by the Central Government on the basis of the recommendations of Justice Palekar were not applicable to its establishment.
The Ist respondent All India Reporter Limited publishes in addition to the law reports referred in the first paragraph of this judgment several other books commentaries digests and manuals.
The definition of the expression newspaper has already been set out above.
Any other class of printed periodical work as may from time to time be notified in this behalf by the Central Government in the Official Gazette may also be a newspaper.
It reads thus The newspaper and periodical Press of Great Britain consists of over 4000 publications ranging from newspapers famous throughout the world to the journals of obscure societies.
Even apart from Article 141 of the Constitution the decisions of the Supreme Court which is a court of record constitute a 783 source of law as they are the judicial precedents of the highest court of the land.
They are binding on all the courts throughout India.
Those decisions also carry persuasive value before courts which are not situated within its territory.
At any rate lawyers and others connected with courts and judicial proceedings who constitute a substantial section of the public are interested in knowing the contents and the effect of the decisions.
We are of the view that any decision published in the law reports of the Ist respondent contain information about the recent events which have taken place in the Supreme Court or in the High Courts which are public bodies and these are matters in which the public is interested.
Tax on the sale or purchase of newspapers and on advertisements published therein.
Accordingly the High Court of Orissa held that the sale of Cuttack Law Times which according to it was not a newspaper could be taxed by the State Legislature under Entry 54 of List II of the Seventh Schedule to the Constitution of India.
 It is seen that the editor of the law report containing the above decision has appended an editorial comment on this stating that this decision is wrong and that the Orissa High Court s decision was right.
Justice AN Grover who later became a Judge of the Supreme Court of India and the Chairman of the Press Council as a Judge of the Punjab  Haryana High Court held in LD Jain vs General Manager Government of India Press and Others ILR 1967 Punjab and Haryana 193 that the Gazette of India which was the official publication of all kinds of news and information was a newspaper within the meaning of section 2b of the Working Journalists Conditions of Service and Miscellaneous Provisions Act 1955 and that it was not essential for a newspaper to conform strictly to the usual pattern of a daily or weekly or monthly newspaper or a magazine containing news which members of the public ordinarily read in order to get reports of recent events comments on them etc.
In the Annual Report of the Registrar of Newspapers for India 1957 there is an interesting discussion of certain specific cases in which the question whether the publications involved were newspapers or not.
 It is significant that the expression newspaper  as defined in the Act includes not merely public news  but also comments on public news .
We are of the view that the law reports published by the Ist respondent are newspapers and the employees employed by the Ist respondent in their production or publication of the said law reports should be extended the benefit of the orders passed by the Central Government on the basis of the recommendations made by the Palekar Award.
There will however be no order as to costs.
SL Appeal allowed.
