From the Judgment and Order dated 4785  21684 of the Customs Excise and Gold Control Appellate Tribunal New Delhi in Appeal Nos.
It is also the case of the appellant that the said fusel oilStyrene Monomer manufac tured by it is sold in bulk and delivered to the customers at the appellant s factory.
The appellant had filed its price lists in respect of the same.
According to the appellant the manufacture of fusel oil is complete and it is the fully manufactured fusel oilStyrene Monomer which is stored in the storage tank.
On 2nd July 1983 a notice in respect of a consignment was issued to show cause as to why value of the drums should not be included in the value of the goods.
There the drums had been supplied by the buyer.
The same were allowed by the Collector Appeals.
The Tribunal held that at the time of removal the goods were delivered from the factory in packed condition and the containers were not returnable by the buyer there fore the value had to be included in the assessable value.
Collector.
The appellant was not a manufacturer of drums.
Learned Attorney General emphasised that it is a well settled principle of construction that in taxing statutes one has only to look merely at what is clearly stated.
There is no presump tion as to tax.
Collector in those appeals had included the costs of such drums in the value of styrene monomer.
Learned Attorney General contended that the decision of Indian Oxygen Ltd s case supra cannot be relied on in view of the facts of this case.
Reference was made both by the learned Attorney General and Shri Salve to the observations of this Court in Union of India vs Godfrey Phillips India Ltd 1985 Supp.
It is therefore necessary to bear in mind that a process which is ancillary or incidental to the completion of the manufactured product that is to say to make the manufacture complete would be manufacture.
Explanation.
The explanation to the said sub section defines the expression packing as the wrapper container bobbin pirn spool reel or warp beam or any other thing in which or on which the excisable goods are wrapped contained or wound.
This Court rejected the contention of the assessee in that case that because the levy of excise is a levy on goods manufactured or produced the value of an excisable article must be limited to the manufacturing cost plus manufacturing profit.
This Court reiterated that section 4 of the Act provides the measure by reference to which the charge is to be levied.
According to the learned Attorney General since the Act provides for only one exception to this measure namely non inclusion of the cost of such packing where the packing is durable in nature and is returnable by the buyer to the assessee in all other cases the cost of the packing would have to be included in the assessable value of the excisable goods where such goods are delivered at the time of removal in packed condition.
These were in the storage tanks of the assessee and were as such marketable.
