The first lease Ext.
The second lease deed Ext.
They claimed that under both the lease deeds what had been leased out to them was only a vacant land and that the superstructure had been built by them.
The order of the Rent Controller was dated 93.
There were appeals to the Court of Small Causes.
It came to the conclusion that exhibit P 1 did not in law create a valid lease between the co owners and the tenants.
The tenants filed an appeal being OSA No 62 of 1973.
So far as the first question is concerned we have no doubt that the Division Bench of the High Court has come to the correct conclusion.
We therefore answer the first question posed by us in the affirmative.
When a petition under section 4 is filed the Rent Controller on the language of section 4 has to decide 1 whether the applicant is a tenant in or landlord of the building and 2 what the fair rent of the premises should be in accordance with the provisions of the Act.
The respondents denied that the LIC was the landlord or they the tenants in respect of the property.
The Rent Controller and on appeal the Court of Small Causes were therefore called upon to give their decision on this question which was completely within their statutory jurisdiction and this decision certainly constitutes res judicata between the parties see also Explanation VIII to section 11 of the Code of Civil Procedure.
It was therefore not open to the High Court to entertain a collateral attack on the validity of binding nature or correctness of the order of the Court of Small Causes and to consider and determine afresh the issue as to whether the LIC is the owner of the premises as claimed or not.
The appellant landlord had filed an eviction petition under the Rent Control Act without giving notice under section 111h of the which in those days was considered to be a condition precedent even to the filing of an eviction petition under the Rent Control Act and ob tained an order of eviction.
An appeal by the tenant also failed but here again the above point was not taken.
It would follow from this therefore that if notice to quit was necessary it would be merely one of the issues to be decided by the Rent Controller and would not in any way affect his jurisdiction to entertain the applica tion.
It was sought to be argued on behalf of the petitioners that the respondent had no jurisdiction to determine the question as to whether the premises were at one time let out as a whole and then let out in parts as was sought to be contended by the applicants  .
If there is any dispute which arises between the parties as to whether the particular application falls within the jurisdiction of the tribunal it is the tribunal which is competent to decide that dispute and determine whether the particular matter falls within its jurisdiction.
He submitted that if the tenants had filed a suit for declaration that the order passed in the earlier proceedings as a nullity that would have been bound to fail.
The Corporation had formerly filed a petition HRC 8671963 in respect of these two buildings for fixation of fair rent.
Thirdiv even assuming the argument of learned counsel to be correct all that can be said is that in the second set of proceedings the tenants could have contended that it was not open to the Court of Small Causes to go into the question of title in view of the decision in the first set of proceedings.
as the case may be.
