vil Appeal No 6202 NT of 1983.
From the Judgment and Order dated 32.
The Judgment of the Court was delivered by RANGANATHAN J.
1.
141976 or in the course of export out of the territory of India.
Section 6 Section 6 the charging section read as under 6.
Incidence of taxation 1 Subject to other provisions of this Act every dealer whose gross turnover during the year immediately preceding the commencement of this Act exceeded the taxable quantum Defined in section 7 shall be liable to pay tax under this Act on all sales and purchases effected after the coming into force of this Act.
Provided that this section shall not apply to a dealer who deals exclusively in goods specified in Schedule B Goods on which no tax is leviable section 6 read with section 15.
The second amendment which is crucial for the purposes of this case is the addition at the end of sub clause ii of clause a above the words within the meaning of sub section 1 of section 5 of the .
 These amendments were effective from 141976.
Amendment of section 9 of Haryana Act 20 of 1973 For clauses b and bb of sub section 1 of section 9 of the principal Act the following clause shall be substituted namely b purchases goods other than those specified in Schedule B from any source in the State and uses them in the State in the manufacture of any other goods and either disposes of the manufactured goods in any manner otherwise than by way of sale in the State or dispatches the manufactured goods to a place outside the State in any manner otherwise than by way of sale in the course of inter State trade or commerce or in the course of export outside the territory of India within the meaning of subsection 1 of section 5 of the Central Sales Tax Act 1956or.
V Section 24 section 24 is the next section relevant for our purposes.
However it added a new sub section 3 with retrospective effect from 275.
 d An amendment of 1986 expanded the proviso to section 24Ib by adding utensils and metal handicrafts to scientific goods and guar gum as in section 91 proviso.
The provisoes to section 27aiv in particular make a clear contrast between sales falling under sub section 3 and those failing under sub section 1 of section 5 of the CST Act.
These then are the relevant provisions of the Act.
The court held that the movement of goods outside India was occasioned by the contract between the STC and the foreign buyer and not by that between the appellant and the STC.
He submitted that even if the claim were to be accepted the assessees would be in no better position.
High Court and that the appeals as well as writ petitions before us deserve to be dismissed.
The argument on behalf of the Revenue which has found favour with the High Court is that section 91 exempts only sales made in the course of export within the meaning of section 51 of the CST Act but not those under section 53 of the said Act.
However this amendment which has been made both in section 9 and in section 24 by Act 1 of 1988 has not been given any retrospective effect.
There is no dispute that the assessees have transferred the manufactured goods by way of sale and that these goods have been despatched to various ports of India.
They are either local sales or inter State sales or export sales.
Even in such a case if the transport of goods from the assessee s place of business to the port is in pursuance of the terms of the sale the movement of the goods would be occasioned by the sale made by the assessee and would be an inter State sale.
We are therefore of the opinion that this alternative contention urged by the learned counsel for the assessee has to be accepted and it has to be held that since the sales effected by the assessees fall within one of the three exempted categories set out in section 91b there can be no levy of purchase tax under section 91 of the Act.
The State levied a purchase tax on the raw materials us 91.
This contention was accepted by this Court.
It provided that only purchases of declared goods goods speci fied in 365 Schedule C and goods falling under section 9 would be part of the turnover .
The appeals and petitions are therefore allowed.
