Appeal No 513 of 1963.
March 24 1964.
The Judgment of the Court was delivered by DAS GUPTA J.
This appeal arises out of an industrial dispute as regards the age of retirement.
The first respondent Shaw Wallace  Co was incorporated in January 1946 as a Private Limited Company to take over the business of the partnership firm of the Shaw Wallace  Co which had been doing business in India for about 60 years.
1947 the Private Limited Company was converted into a Public Limited Company.
It has Branches in Bombay Delhi and Via Madras.
In September 1959 an agreement was entered into between the Company and its employees at Calcutta under which the age of retirement was extended to 58 years subject to the employees passing a medical examination on reaching the age of 55.
Shortly after this the Company s employees at Bombay raised a dispute regarding their retirement age.
They claimed that no workman should be retired from service before he bad completed 60 years of age.
This dispute was ultimately referred to the Industrial Tribunal Maharashtra.
As has already been noticed there is no dispute that the age of compulsory retirement should not remain at 55.
The workmen claim that these showed clearly a tendency in the Bombay region to fix the age of retirement in comparable concerns at 60.
In an earlier decision of this Court in Dunzlop Rubber Co Ltd vs Workmen2 it had been urged that the employer was an All India concern and that changing the terms and conditions of service in regard to the age of retirement in one place might unsettle the uniformity and might have serious repercussions in other branches.
The Court then took into account the fact that the Tribunal had found that in all the awards in recent times in various concerns in Bombay region the trend had been to fix the age of retire ment at 60 years.
It is not however seriously disputed that the Chart correctly reproduces the information as regards the age of retirement given by the various concerns named there.
In most of the cases the age of retirement is shown as 55 and in a few at 58.
But on a closer examination it is clear that this document is of little assistance for finding out the recent trend.
Exhibit U 6 also shows that in 25 of these concerns the clerical and subordinate staff were not organised into trade unions.
There is thus good ground for thinking that the reason why these concerns have kept the age of retirement at 55 or 58 are special to them and do not show any recent trend in the matter.
The main diffi culty in accepting the Company s case on this point viz the pronouncements of this Court however remained.
We ought to add in this connection that the approach adopted by the Tribunal in dealing with this aspect of the problem is not very commendable and that its present conclusion that what was said by itself on an earlier occasion and was confirmed by this Court in appeal was in fact inaccurate is on the whole unsound.
If this Court had erred in making those pronouncements we would be the first to admit such mistakes and to correct the error.
Accordingly the norm for retirement age is fixed at 60.
Appeal allowed.
