The letter by which the amount of pension was determined at Rs 363228 is dated 7th of July 1837 and was from H Elliot Esqr the Secretary Sadar Board of Revenue NWP Allahabad to J Thompson Esqr Offg.
Shah J speaking for the Court observed Because the annual allowance is equal to a fourth share of the net revenue of the mahals the right of the respondent does not acquire the character of an interest in land or in land revenue.
As a consideration for relinquishing the right to the land and the revenue thereof the respondent and his ancestors were given an allowance of Rs 30612 13 0.
We are unable to agree with his contention.
If this is the true interpretation of the arrangement arrived at the question arises whether the pension or allowance is agricultural income Agricultural income  is defined in section 2 of the Act as follows 1 agricultural income means a any rent or revenue derived from land which is used for agricultural purposes and is either assessed to land revenue in British India or subject to a local rate assessed and collected by officers of the Crown as such   In Maharajkumar Gopal Saran Narain Singh vs Commissioner of Income tax Bihar and Orissa2 the facts were that the assessee had conveyed the greater portion of his estate.
But the enquiry should stop as soon as the effective source is discovered.
And rent is not land within the meaning of the definition This Court observed in Mrs Bacha F Guzdar Bombay Commissioner of Income tax Bombay4 as follow Agricultural income as defined in the Act is intended to refer to the revenue received by direct association with the land which is used for agricultural purposes and not by indirectly extending it to cases where that revenue or part thereof changes hands either by way of distribution of dividends or otherwise 1  2 3 16 ITR325 4 705 The same test was adopted by this Court in Maharajadhiraja Sir Kameshwar Singh vs Commissioner of Income tax Bihar and Orissa1 and the Court again looked to the source of the right in order to determine whether income was agricultural income or not.
He refers to the following passage from the speech of Viscount Simon in Commissioner of Inland Revenue vs Wesleyan and General Assurance Society1 It may be well to repeat two propositions which are well established in the application of the law relating to Income tax.
Lord Simon observed Secondly a transaction which on its true construction is of a kind that would escape tax is not taxable on the ground that the same result could be brought about by a transaction in another form which would attract tax.
If the other method is adopted tax will not be payable .
That particular doctrine of substance as distinct from form was I hope finally exploded by the decision of the House of Lords in the case of Duke of Westminster vs Commissioner of Inland Revenue2.
