The learned trial Judge examined the whole evidence and came to the conclusion that the grant of the Inam was a personal Inam and that it was not a grant in favour of the religious endowment within the meaning of the Act.
The alternative plea made by the appellants that they had acquired title to the properties by prescription was also upheld by the trial Judge.
The lower appellate Court made a finding against respondents 1 to 3 on point No 2.
It held that the evidence adduced by the respondents did not prove the existence of any temple in favour of which the original grant had been alleged to have been made according to them.
In regard to the third point based on the appellants  claim that they had acquired title by adverse possession the lower appellate Court found that it was evident that from the very beginning Pachai Kandai Udayavar and his family had been claiming beneficial interest in the property and they were not holding the same as managers of the trust.
This decision was challenged by respondents 2  3 before the Madras High Court in Second Appeal No 774 of 1957.
Subrahmanyam J who heard this appeal held that the original grant had been made in favour of the Temple.
There was evidence to show that the properties originally granted had been resumed by the Collector but the learned Judge took the view that the said resumption was only of the melwaram or assessment and that since the lands had been granted in Inam to the deity and its matam their title to the lands remained unaffected by the resumption proceedings.
It was conceded before the lower appellate Court that the new article was not retrospective in operation and that if the title of the alienees in regard to dharmadlayam properties had been acquired by adverse possession prior to 1 1 1929 it would not be affected by the provisions of article 134 B Thus considered the alienations in regard to items 1 2 part of item 3 items 7  8 and a portion of the well in item 5 sold under Ext.
In the result the appellants  claim in regard to the properties covered by these three sale deeds was rejected whereas their claim in regard to the other prop erties.
In consequence the appeal preferred by respondents 2  3 was partly allowed and the decree passed by the lower appellate court in regard to Exts.
Where however the transfer is made by the manager not as manager but as an individual and he deals with the property not on the basis that it belongs to the religious endowment but on the basis that it belongs to himself considerations which would govern the application of limitation are substantially different and in such a case the transfer being void ab initio the possession of the transferee is adverse from the date of the transfer.
1962 p 282.
2 LR 27 IA 69.
3 LR 37 IA 147.
These words used in column 1 of article 134 necessarily raise the question as to whether the head of a math is a trustee within their meaning and Mr Justice Ameer Ali who spoke for the Privy Council answered that question in the negative.
2 LR 27 IA 69.
3 LR 37 IA 147.
It may be permissible to state that this latter observation was made in 1899 long before the Privy Council enunciated the true legal position in regard to the status of the managers of Hindu religious endowments in Vidya Varuthi s case1.
2 LR 37 IA 147.
3 LR 60 IA 124.
2 ILR 3 LR 37 IA 147.
4 5 LR 51 IA 83 at p 97.
The period prescribed for such suits is 12 years and the time from which the period begins to run is the death resignation or removal of the transferor.
Article 134 B applies to all cases where it is shown that the immovable property was comprised in the endowment and that it has been transferred by a previous manager for a valuable consideration.
 What was said by the Privy Council about the impropriety of including an execution sale within the meaning of article 134B can with equal justification be said about introducing words of limitation in the said article which alone can exclude transfers made by the previous manager of the Hindu religious endowment on the basis that the property transferred belonged to 1 LR 77 IA 42 at pp.
Mr Tatachari then contends that even on the application of article 134 B the decision of the High Court is erroneous because on the facts proved in this case the High Court should have drawn the legal inference that the transferor had been removed more than 12 years before the suit was filed.
For deciding this question it is necessary to refer to some material facts.
That is why he confirmed the finding of the trial Judge on the question of adverse possession though on a somewhat different ground.
In the circumstances of this case we direct that parties should bear their own costs.
