 The order was made by the Chairman of the Board Mr R C Dutt on behalf of the Board by virtue of the powers conferred on him by certain rules to which we shall refer later.
On June 4 1965 the Company preferred a writ petition under article 226 of the Constitution in the Punjab High Court for the issue of a writ of mandamus or other appropriate writ direction or order quashing the order of the Board dated May 19 1965.
The order of the Board was challenged on 5 grounds which are briefly as follows 1 that the order was made mala fide 2 that in making the order the Board had acted on material extraneous to the matters mentioned in section 237b of the  3 that the order having in fact been made at the instance of the shareholders is invalid and on a true construction of section 237 this could not be done 4 that the order was invalid because it was made by the Chairman of the Board and not by the Board and 5 that the provisions of section 237b are void as offending articles 14 and 191 g of the Constitution.
Section 235 deals with Investigation of affairs of company on application by members or report by Registrar.
Clause a of this section provides that in the case of a company having a share capital the investigation can be ordered either on the application of not less than 200 members or of members holding not less than one tenth of the total voting power therein.
At any rate the case was argued on this footing.
By section 237b the power is conferred on the Central Government but under the Companies Amendment Act 1963 a Board of Company Law Administration consisting of a Chairman and a member has been set up.
1 of section 637 read with sub section.
5 of section 10E the Central Government made the Company Law Board Procedure Rules 1964 and one such rule dealt with distribution of business to the following effect 3.
The Board.
The learned Attorney General submitted that a distribution of business among the members of the Company Law Board is not a delegation of its authority and the maxim has no application in 341 such a case.
Shelat J.
