B D Bal with A G Ratnaparkhi for the appellant.
From the evidence of Ramkrishna Deshpande one of the constituted attornies we find the origin and the devolution as follows The originator of this Sansthan is Sakharambuwa.
After him the present Buwa Purshottam came to Gadi.
This evidence of Ramkrishna Deshpande stands corroborated by the Sanad which shows in the year 1860 61 the Manager of the Sansthan as Balkrishnabuwa Guru Govindbuwa.
Guru Govindbuwa was the second in the line of succession after Sakharam the founder and Balkrishnabuwa being the third in the line.
It is further pointed out that while nominating Prahlad as Adhikari Balkrishnabuwa stated in the said document as follows You are entitled to the ownership of all the incomes that will come before the Deity Shri Samarth and during the Swari procession as well as the income of Inam Najrana and the income of movable and immovable property.
The last deed of gift is exhibit 38 and the donee is Shri Vasudev Buwa Guru Balkrishna Buwa described as the worshipper carrying on the Vahiwat of Shri Vithal Rekhmai Sansthan.
In accordance with this theory it has been held that when property is dedicated for the worship of a family idol it is a private and not a public endowment as the persons who are entitled to worship at the shrine of the deity can only be the members of the family and that is an ascertained group of individuals.
And in such circumstances proof of user by the public without interference would be cogent evidence that the dedication was in favour of the public.
Even if a few ascetics are fed and given shelter such a purpose is not to be deemed an independent charity in which the public or a section of it has an interest.
     The residents of the place where the Bhajans are performed attend these Bhajans.
He stays there for about 4 months.
When the origin of an endowment is obscure and no direct oral evidence is available the Court will have to resolve the controversy about the character of the trust on documentary evidence if any the object and purpose for which the trust was created the consistent manner in which the property has been dealt with or managed by those in charge the manner in which the property has long been used by the public the contribution of the public to all intents and purposes as a matter of right without the least interference or restriction from the temple authorities to foster maintenance of the worship the accretion to the trust property by way of grants from the state of gifts from outsiders inconsistent with the private nature of the trust the nature of devolution of the property are all important elements in determination of the question whether a property is a private or a public religious endowment.
3 There has been no evidence of any hindrance or restriction in the matter of continuous worship by the public extending over a long period.
