Appeal from the Judgment and order dated 3 2 1978 of the Andhra Pradesh High Court in Crl.
About three months before the occurrence the deceased gave birth to a female child in the house of the accused at Cherlopalle.
The accused used to visit his wife and often used to stay in the house of the deceased s mother.
On 18th December 1972 according to the case of the prosecution the accused once again requested his mother in law to send his wife to his house.
This time he also brought with him PW 8 an elderly gentleman from his village.
That evening the accused again came to the house of his mother in law.
The house consisted of only one room.
Attracted by the cries raised by the PWs 1 to 3 the neighbourers P Ws 4 5 6 and others came there.
P W 14 the Sub Inspector of Police registered the First Information Report at 5 A M on 19th December 1972 and went ahead with the further investigation which was later taken over by the Inspector of Police PW 15.
nearly horizontal.
There was no fracture.
On 18th December 1972.
P Ws 1 and 2 taunted him saying we are maintaining you and your wife yet you come at any time you like .
P W 1 beat him with a stick two or three times.
He felt giddy and was about to lose consciousness.
He regained consciousness next morning.
He commented on the failure of the Police to seize the mat or bedding on which the deceased was sleeping.
He therefore acquitted the accused.
The High Court observed that the learned Sessions Judge had magnified the importance to be attached to minor discrepancies.
In this appeal the learned Counsel for the appellant argued that the accused had no motive to kill his wife and that his version was more probable than the version of the prosecution.
He urged that the knife was not seized by the Police under any seizure Memo nor was the knife sent to any finger print expert.
Merely because the Medical Officer stated that the victim could have received the injury if she was standing it did not follow that the injury could have been received in the circumstances mentioned by the accused.
It is true that the accused did not have any deep motive to kill the deceased.
We do not think that the comment is justified.
After Sanwat Singh vs State of Rajasthan this Court has consistently recognised the right of the Appellate Court to review the entire evidence and to come to its own conclusion bearing in mind the considerations mentioned by the Privy Council in Sheo Swarup s case.
This of course is not a new principle.
It stems out of the fundamental principle of our criminal jurisprudence that the accused is entitled to the benefit of any reasonable doubt.
If two reasonably probable and evenly balanced views of the evidence are possible one must necessarily concede the existence of a reasonable doubt.
To entitle an accused person to the benefit of a doubt arising from the possibility of a duality of views the possible view in favour of the accused must be as nearly reasonably probable as that against him.
If the preponderance of probability is all one way a bare possibility of another view will not entitle the accused to claim the benefit of any doubt.
As observed by Lord Denning in Miller vs Minister of pensions5 Proof beyond a reasonable doubt does not mean proof beyond a shadow of a doubt.
1 61 IA 389.
R 4 Salmon J in his charge to the jury in R V Fantle reported in 5 370 The law would fail to protect the community if it admitted fanciful possibilities to deflect the course of justice.
In Khem Karan  Ors.
Where the Trial Court allows itself to be beset with fanciful doubts rejects creditworthy evidence for slender reasons and takes a view of the evidence which is but barely possible it is the obvious duty of the High Court to interfere in the interest of justice lest the administration of justice be brought to ridicule.
