ON Criminal Appeal No 126 of 1955.
Appeal by special leave from the judgment and order dated the 9th August 1955 of the Bombay High Court in Criminal Application No 726 of 1955.
It appears that he was also interested in journalism and in public affairs.
O R D E R.
385 4The claim of State that no particulars of the grounds could be furnished in public interest is unsustainable and in any case mala fide.
It is therefore enough to state in its broad outlines the background which is alleged as follows 1a There was a sudden search by the police on the 24th August 1954 at the appellant s place for alleged possession of illicit liquorwhich in fact was not found.
bOn the same day a search was carried out by the police also at his residence at Mahim but nothing was found.
To appreciate the points thus raised it is necessary to have an idea of the grounds of detention as furnished.
These activities which are being carried on by you with the object of causing further deterioration in the relations between the Portuguese Government and the Indian Government over the question of Goan National Movement are prejudicial to the security of India and to the relations of India with Portugal.
2If you wish to make a representation against the order under which you are detained you should address it to the Government of Bombay and forward it through the Superintendent Arthur Road Prison Bombay.
3You are also informed that you have a right to claim a personal hearing before the Advisory Board and that you should communicate to Government of Bombay as soon as possible your intention of exercising or not exercising that right.
But having regard to the nature of the alleged activities of the appellant it is not unlikely that no more could be gathered or furnished.
Such a right to call for particulars has been recognised in the case in the State of Bombay vs Atma Ram Sridhar Vaidya1 as flowing from his constitutional right to be afforded a reasonable opportunity to make a representation to the Board.
In the circumstances and having regard to thefact that what is alleged is espionage activity ata time when relations between the two Governments on the affairs of Goa were somewhat delicate we are inclined to think with the High Court that the grounds cannot be considered to be vague.
Now it has been held in Atma Ram Sridhar Vaidya s case1 by the majority of the Court that the constitutional right of a detenue under article 225 comprises two distinct components.
1The right to be furnished grounds of detention as soon as may be and 2The right to be afforded the earliest opportunity of making a representation against his detention 1  184 391 which implies the right to be furnished adequate particulars of the grounds of detention to enable a proper representation being made.
The meaning is clear that at no time it was in public interest to disclose the details referred to in the particular paragraph of the affidavit and there is nothing to suggest that this question was not considered by the detaining authority at the time when the grounds were furnished.
Such a contention as to the mala fide exercise of the power is untenable in the present case having regard to the nature of the 393 grounds on which the detention is based and the nature of activities imputed therein to the appellant.
