352 T section Krishnamoorthi Iyer KR.
Choudhary for the respondents.
The Judgment of the Court was delivered by SABYASACHI MUKHARJI J.
Cheque for Rs 300 was encashed by the appellant on 29th December 1960.
Cheque for Rs 220 was dishonoured three times and finally encashed on 11th January 1961.
It was further stated that the averments in the plaint that the defendant Corporation cashed the above two cheques and appropriated the amounts and credited these in the account towards premium payable for the proposal were false.
It was categorically stated that the cheques were not credited and adjusted towards the premium accounts.
During the trial before the learned Subordinate Judge five different issues were raised.
The respondents plaintiffs examined Shri RV Bhupala Prasad son of the deceased and the Corporation on its behalf examined Shri Jagannadhachari the Superintendent of the Corpo 355 ration branch at Guntur.
He also produced ex.
B 4 the review slip prepared by the Branch office Guntur and sent to the Divisional officer Masulipatam.
In his deposition he had stated that the Divisional Manager was the competent authority for accepting the proposal for Rs 50000.
Normally it took some time for the Divisional Manager to accept.
He further stated that the amount would be transferred into the first premium register after the proposal was accepted and the risk covered.
He had produced the account books namely deposit account book and the first premium account book of the Branch office at Guntur.
Shri Brahmandrao Ramiah Assistant Divisional Manager of the Life Insurance Corporation office at Madras was also examined as the second witness of the defendants.
He had further stated that the proposal form was sent from the office at Guntur to the Divisional office at Masulipatam and exhibit B 1 to B 4 and B 8 were sent in this connection.
He further stated that according to the financial powers Standing order it was the Divisional Manager who was competent to accept a proposal for Rs 50000 exhibit B 13 is the copy of the Standing order.
In this connection we may refer exhibit B 14 which is the Life Insurance Corporation of India s Proposal Review Slip regarding proposal in the case of the deceased.
The endorsement therein of the assistant Divisional Manager read as follows NOTES AND DECISION  may be accepted at OR WITH EDB Shri Brahmandrao Ramiah had further stated that the papers were scrutinised by him in addition to the scrutiny by the concerned clerks.
He stated that the endorsement marked as exhibit B 14 was initialled by him.
He further stated that the letters DM  were also written by him indicating that the papers should go to the Divisional Manager on exhibit B 4.
He reiterated that the order of acceptance would not be communicated to the party if all the formalities were not complied with this policy he stated was not accepted.
When the acceptance was complete and when there was no requirement necessary and if the full first instalment was 356 in deposit it would be adjusted towards premium amount he stated.
In this connection before the learned Trial Judge reliance was placed on the Life Insurance Corporation of India Standing order 1960 Financial Powers.
Chapter III of the Standing order dealt with the powers of the different authorities for inter alia Underwriting and Revivals of Policy .
The Trial Court was of the opinion that the proposal must be accepted by the Divisional Manager and that alone could give rise to a valid contract of insurance which never happened in this case.
In the result the suit filed by the respondents plaintiffs was dismissed with costs.
Being aggrieved by the said decision the plaintiffs respondents field appeal in the High Court.
The appellants before the High Court also filed civil miscellaneous petition praying that in the circumstances stated in the affidavit filed therewith the High Court might be pleased to direct the Life Insurance Corporation to produce certain documents viz proposals review slips and proposal dockets and the connected papers of the present case and statements furnished by the Divisional office to the Zonal office showing the new business in the year 1960 and proposal register work of Divisional office for the year 1960.
The High Court by its judgment dated 14th April 1970 held after considering the standing order exhibit B 13 and the various documents produced for the first time on record that there was acceptance of proposal and like 358 other contracts the contract of insurance was complete by offer and acceptance.
Relying on certain other documents which were called for for the first time by the High Court relating to certain other cases where only the Assistant Divisional Manager made similar endorsement the High Court came to the conclusion that there was a valid contract.
The High Court was of the view that the plea that Divisional Manager was the only authority to accept had not been categorically taken in the written statement filed on behalf of the Corporation.
On the other hand there was a general statement that there was no concussed contract.
The High Court was of the view that having regard to the conduct of the parties there was a concluded contract.
In our opinion the High Court was in error in appreciating the facts and the evidence in this case.
Indeed there was no evidence that the Assistant Divisional Manager had accepted the proposal on the contrary he his deposition as we have indicated before had stated otherwise.
When an insurance policy becomes effective is well settled by the authorities but before we note the said authorities it may be stated that it is clear that the expression underwrite signifies accept liability under .
See in this connection the statement of law in Corpus Juris Secundum Vol.
The mere execution of the policy is not an acceptance an acceptance to be complete must be communicated to the offeror either directly or by some definite act such as placing the contract in the mail.
The test is not intention alone.
When the application so requires the acceptance must be evidenced by the signature of one of the company s executive officers.
The general rule is that the contract of insurance will be concluded only when the party to whom an offer has been made accepts it unconditionally and communicates his acceptance to the person making the offer.
We order accordingly that the respondents will therefore pay back half of the actual amount received both of the principal together with interest within three months from this date.
With the above observations the appeal is allowed.
