Civil Appeals Nos.
 The High Court has struck down the aforesaid provision only on the ground that it suffers from the vice of excessive delegation of legislative power inasmuch as no criteria or guide lines have been 954 provided by reference to which the power conferred on the Administrator to refuse permission or grant permission should be exercised and that the section confers an arbitrary uncanalised power upon the Administrator with the result that the licensed dealer is at his mercy while seeking permission to carry on money lending or banking business on the security of any article ornament or both in the same premises in which he carried on business as such dealer.
 In Harakchand Banthria s case supra this Court has further pointed out that even though import of gold into India had been banned considerable quantities of contraband gold were finding their way into the country through illegal channels affecting the national economy and hampering the country s economic stability and progress that the Customs Department was not in a position to effectively combat the smuggling over the long borders and coast line that therefore anti smuggling measures had to be supplemented by a detailed system of control over internal transactions and that the Gold Control Act 1968 was passed for this purpose.
28 are meant to prevent the circumvention of other provisions of the Act.
In fact sec.
51 of the Act requires that the Administrator should have regard to the policy and purposes of the Act in making his orders.
Moreover against his order under that section a revision lies to Central Government which implies that he will have to make judicious use of his power or discretion and any improper exercise is liable to be corrected by a higher authority.
276 of the Act invalid we would like to point out that while conferring power on the Administrator in the matter of granting or renewing a license to a dealer the unamended sec.
For instance under clause a the Administrator was required to have regard to the number of dealers existing in the region  in which the applicant was intending to carry on business as dealer but the word region  was no where defined in the Act similarly clause b required the Administrator to have regard to the anticipated demand  as estimated by him for the ornaments in that region but the expression anticipated demand  was really vague and incapable of assessment leading to a great deal of uncertainty similarly the expression 1AIR 1971 Patna 240.
214 Guj.
e and public interest  in cl.
276 this Court struck down sec.
