CSS Rao for the Respondent.
The Appellate Tribunal observed that the judgment of the Orissa High Court was binding on it and accordingly by a consolidated order dated April 3 1972 it dismissed the appeals.
The Commissioner of Wealth Tax applied under sub section.
The question can be disposed of shortly.
Under section 3 of the Wealth Tax Act wealth tax is charged for every assessment year in respect of the net wealth of the assessee on the corresponding valuation date.
The expression net wealth is defined by cl.
m of s2 of the Act as the amount by which the aggregate value  .
That is the valuation date.
His financial activities during that period determine how his net wealth on a particular valuation date differs from his net wealth on the immediately preceding valuation date.
There is an obvious advantage in adopting as the valuation date the last day of a period which is also the relevant period under the Income Tax Act.
The reasons for defining the valuation date in terms of the last day of the income tax previous year stop there.
That appears plainly from the definition or net wealth which speaks of the aggregate value of all the assets belonging to the assessee on the valuation date.
The assets are not confined to cash.
Where the asset is an asset other than cash its value is determined pursuant to sub section.
I of s7 as the estimated price which in the opinion of the Wealth Tax Officer the asset would fetch if sold in the open market on the valuation date.
When we speak of the value of a property on a legal plane we refer to the value of the rights in that property.
In this view of the matter we approve of the opinion expressed by the Andhra Pradesh High Court in Vedrevu Venkappa Rao supra 311 and in Commissioner of Wealth Tax AP I vs Pachigolla Narasimha Rao1 and the Calcutta High Court in Dipti Kumar Basu vs Commissioner of Wealth Tax West Bengal2 and hold that the view taken by the Orissa High Court in Commissioner of Wealth tax vs Vysyaraju Badreenarayana Moorthy Raju Orissa supra and by the Karnataka High Court in A T Mirji vs Commissioner of Wealth Tax Karnataka3 cannot be accepted.
There is no order as to costs.
