Under Article 32 of the Constitution of India.
The petitioner of this application under Article 32 of the Constitution is an engineer who was employed in the Central Public Works Department under the Ministry of Works and Housing in Government of India and was compulsorily retired by order dated 381976 with effect from 5111976 made under Rule 56j of the Fundamental Rules.
He has assailed that order for retirement and has claimed payment of remuneration which he would have been entitled to draw upto the normal date of superannuation.
The petitioner was born on 1021922 and secured his first appointment as a Section Officer under the named employer on 22101947.
1954 and came to be confirmed as Section Officer by an order dated 8101955.
On 371961 he was further promoted as officiating Executive Engineer in Class I service but on 491965 he was reverted to the post of Assistant Engineer in officiating position and was con tinuing in that post when he was compulsorily retired.
The vires of Rule 56j of the Fundamental Rules as also the power to compulsorily retire a public servant have been upheld by this Court and do not require to be re examined.
Union of India vs KR Tahiliani and Anr 1980 1 SLR 847.
VAISH ENGINEER IN CHIEF To Shri AL Ahuja Assistant Engineer Civil Under Suspension A1185 Lajpat Nagar New Delhi 110024.
Admittedly he was holding a class II post when the impugned order was served on him.
In the instant case the petitioner was promoted as officiating Assistant Engineer which is a Class II post on 255.
We have already indicated that sub clause ii did not apply to the facts of this case as the petitioner had not attained the age of 55 years by the date of the order.
The observations made in Tahiliani s case indisputably support the petitioner.
Learned counsel for the petitioner does not dispute the position that a person who is in Class I or Class II service or post is in such service or post as covered by sub clause i.
If the officia tion is not brought to an end by reverting the Government servant to his substantive post before the power of compul sory retirement is exercised the Government servant con cerned must be taken to be in Class I or Class II service or post at the relevant time and would come within the ambit of sub clause i.
It has been represented to us by counsel for the petitioner that the similarly placed persons had gone before the Delhi High Court challenging the orders of compulsory retirement and the Delhi High Court relying upon Tahiliani s case give them relief.
When this was put to learned Additional Solicitor General he agreed that the Union of India will have no objection to treat the petitioner alike and would be prepared to give the same relief to the petitioner.
1976 and 292.
WRIT PETITION NOS.
They would however be entitled to salary and other service allowances payable to them from the date of compulsory retirement till the date of their normal superannuation.
