The period of leave and licence was to commence from 1st of September 1965 to 31st of August 1970 and it was further submitted that the licensee and the licensor shall not terminate the said agreement earlier save and except on the ground of breach of any of the terms and conditions written therein.
The agreement recited that the licensee shall not allow any other person to use and occupy the said premises and shall not do any unlawful or illegal business therein.
The learned Judge recorded further that it was practice in the Court of Small Causes Bombay of using the expression 1063 BC.
We could not agree more.
The respondent had filed a revision petition under section 115 of CPC in the High Court.
If he was such a licensee the non obstante clause of section 15A1 give him the status and protection of a tenant in spite of there being anything to the contrary in any other law or in contract.
It was futher held that a person continuing in occupation of such premises after revocation of the licence was still liable to pay compensation or damages for its use and occupation.
It was further held that filing an application under section 41 of the 1065 might in certain circumstances have the effect of putting an end to the licence if it was subsisting on the date of its filing.
It was observed that the finding of the High Court that the respondent was in occupation of the premises under a subsisting licence was wholly wrong and suffered from serious infirmities of law and fact and deserved to be set aside.
The High Court disallowed the special civil application under Article 227 of the Constitution on 17th of November 1980 and that is the judgment impugned in this appeal.
This Court emphasised the if the exclusive possession to which a person was entitled under an agreement with a landlord was coupled with an interest in the property the agreement would be construed not as a mere licence but as a lease.
This decision was approved in appeal by this Court in Sohan Lal Naraindas vs Laxmidas Raghunath Gadit where this Court reiterated that the test of exclusive possession was important point.
To put precisely if an interest in immovable property entitling the transferee to enjoyment was created it was a lease if permission to use land without exclusive possession was alone granted a licence was the legal result.
Restriction in the hours of work negates the case for a lease.
good deal of submission was made before us that if it was a lease and not a licence then this point could be taken in aid of the submission that the Court had to jurisdiction and there was no estoppel.
In determining whether an agreement creates between the parties the relationship of landlord and tenant or merely that of licensor and licensee the decisive consideration is the intention of the parties.
This is a salutary test.
This Court in Venkatlal G Pittie  Anr.
The appeal fails and is dismissed.
