Civil Appeal No 1709 of 1988.
WITH SLP Civil No 6998 of 1988 VC Mahajan Mrs Indu Goswami CV Subba Rao P Parmeshwaran for the Appellant in CA No 1709 of 1988.
The Judgment of the Court was delivered by K JAGANNATHA SHETTY J.
The civil appeal by speci al leave and the connected SLP raise an important issue as to the power of the Central Administration Tribun al Tribunal to examine the adequacy of penalty awarded by the competent authority to a Government servant in discipl i nary proceedings.
Short factual background is this Parmanand Respondent in the appeal was a Time Keeper in Beas Sutlej Link Project Sundernagar.
He was incharge of preparing the pay bills and other bills of the work charg ed employees of the project.
While Suraj Singh by impersonation was receiving the pay of Ashok Kumar he was recognised by the Cashier since he kn ew him personally.
He also prepared a bogus identity card in the name of the abo ve Shri Ashok Kumar and initiated it below the signatures of issuing officer and this identity card Was used by Sh ri Suraj Singh Cleaner Token No 210 K Boggi Tunnelli ng Division at the time of attempting to receive the pay of Shri Ashok Kumar from the Cashier.
 After a detailed enquiry against the respondent and t wo others the Inquiry Officer found all the three guilty of the charge framed against each of them.
access to the records which 24 were fabricated at the relevant time the Inquiry Officer h ad come to the conclusion that the applicant was the mast er mind behind the scheme to defraud the Project.
 It was also observed that there was no denial of a reasonable opportunity for the respondent to set up prop er defence.
In the intere st of 25 justice it is necessary to modify the punishment awarded to the applicant.
The Tribunal however h as held that the respondent was guilty of entering the name of Ashok Kumar in the pay roll of May 4969.
Section 27 provides for execution of orders.
From an analysis of secs.
Mr Mah a jan learned counsel for the Central Government urged th at the Tribunal has no powers to interfere with the punishme nt imposed by the disciplinary authority on the ground that it is disproportionate to the proved misdemeanour.
Mr Ashri learned counsel for t he respondent however justified the discretion exercised by the Tribunal in awarding the lesser punishment.
The law already declared by this Court which we reiterate makes it clear that t he Tribunals have no such discretion or power.
Ordinarily whe re the disciplinary enquiry is shown to have been held in violation of principles of natural justice the enqui ry would be vitiated and the order based on such enquiry wou ld be quashed with liberty to hold fresh enquiry.
Accordingly two incremen ts with future effect of the appellant were ordered to be withheld.
The Tribunal m ay remit the matter to the competent authority for reconsider a tion or by itself substitute one of the penalties provid ed under clause a.
