Collector.
Section 3 of the Act provides that there shall be levied and collected in such manner as maybe pre scribed duties of excise on all excisable goods other than salt which are produced or manufactured in India Excisable goods under section 2d of the Act means goods specified in the Schedule to the as being subject to duty of excise and includes salt.
Explanation.
Reliance may be placed to the observations of this Court at pp.
365 367 of the Report.
This Court reiterated that section 4 of the Act provides the measure by reference to which the charge is to be levied.
Similarly Karnataka High Court in Alembic Glass Industries vs Union of India  Ors supra held that the term value defined in section 44di provides for exclusion of cost of packing materi al which was of durable nature and was returnable by the buyer to the assessee.
The use of the expression cost could not obviously be by way of reference to packing for which the cost is incurred by the buyer.
AN Sen J who agreed with Pathak J observed that on a proper construction of section 44di it was clear that any secondary packing done for the purpose of facilitating transport and smooth transit of the goods to be delivered to the buyer in the wholesale trade could not be included in the value for the purpose of assessment of excise duty.
Chief Justice Bhag wati on the other hand held that corrugated fibreboard containers in which the cigarettes were contained fell within the definition of packing  in the Explanation to section 44di and if these formed part of the packing in which the goods were packed when delivered at the time of removal then under section 44di read with the Expla nation the cost of such corrugated fibreboard containers would be liable to be included in the value of cigarettes.
vs Bombay Tyre International Ltd supra dealing with the aspect of secondary packing where this Court reiterated that the degree of secondary packing which is necessary for putting the excisable article in which it is sold in the wholesale market at the factory was the degree of packing where the cost would be included in the value of the goods for the purpose of excise duty.
In the premises on 992 the facts of this case it is clear that the goods were not sold in drums generally in the course of the wholesale trade.
There was no evidence that there was any necessity of pack ing or putting these in drums prior to their sale.
The manufac ture of the goods was complete before these were placed in drums.
In the case of styrene monomer the finding is that the supply is in tankers to the extent of 90 and only 10 of the sales were made in drums.
In 10 of the sales the vehicle of removal was drums.
