On these facts it is claimed the assessee is not liable to pay the purchase tax on the raw materials imposed under section 91 of the Act.
1980 in CWP 122780 which was also affirmed by a Division Bench later 2.
Section 2e a Originally section 2e defined export  to mean the taking out of goods from the State to any place outside it otherwise than by way of sale in the course of inter State trade or commerce.
 b Act 44 of 1976 added at the end of the above definition the following words wef.
141976 or in the course of export out of the territory of India.
 b Act 13 of 1989 amended the Explanation by inserting in it after the words section 9 the words or section 24.
c Act 1 of 1990 has amended the above Explanation retrospectively to say that the words but the purchase value of the goods liable to tax under section 9 or section 24 shall be included shall be omitted and shall be deemed always to have been omitted with effect from 275.
2 Every dealer to whom sub section 1 does not apply shall subject to other provisions of this Act be liable to pay tax under this Act on the expiry of thirty days after the date on which his gross turnover during any year first exceeds the taxable quantum Provided that this sub section shall not apply to a dealer who deals exclusively in goods specified in Schedule B Provided further that  .
b section 6 was amended by Act I of 1990 to read as follows with retrospective effect from 275.
1971 section 6 Incidence of taxation 1 Every dealer whose gross turnover during the year immediately preceding the coming into force of the provisions of this section exceeded the taxable quantum shall be liable to pay tax on all sales and purchases effected after the coming into force of the provi sions of this section.
 b Act 44 of 1976 made two amendments to this sub section.
It also omitted the proviso to the said clause.
Validation provision Act 1 of 1990 effected no amendments to section 24 or 27.
But section 14 of 356 this Act which is a validation section on the same lines as those contained in the earlier amendment Acts has been referred to in the course of the arguments before us and can be usefully extracted.
As a result of section 53 such penultimate sales become export sales falling beyond the purview and competence of State legislatures.
In view of the circumstances outlined above we are of the opinion that the High Court was right in concluding that the assessee 362 was not entitled to the exemption under section 9because the sales made by him were not sates in the course of export outside the territory of India within the meaning of section 51 of the .
As pointed out by Sri Agarwal even in Mohd Sirajuddin s case supra although the exemption claimed for the sales as export sales was denied the conclusion of the High Court that the sales to STC were inter State sales chargeable under section 51 of the CST Act was upheld.
What was declared unconstitutional by this Court was therefore only the levy of a tax where raw materials are purchased and used inside the State for the manufacture of finished goods which are then simply and without any sale despatched rather consigned outside the State.
Though section 6 as amended purports to make dealers liable to pay tax on their sales as well as purchases the actual charge of tax under section 15 is only imposed on the sales and purchases that form part of his taxable turnover.
This definition includes within the definition of turnover  the purchase value of goods liable to tax under section 9 but the goods presently in question are not laible to tax under section 9 not only as contended for the assessees and held by us above but also on the hypothesis as to the invalidity of section 91b on which the present argument on behalf of the Revenue pro ceeds.
