A V Viswanatha Sastri V Vedantachari and K Sundararajan for the appellant.
August 14.
1 Saving of rights of certain lessees and others.
The Abolition Act was enacted by the Madras Legislature in exercise of the legislative power con ferred on it by the Government of India Act 1935.
It may be conceded 71 558 that normally this is the correct approach to the problem but the argument loses much of its force.
Those provisions proceed on the assumption that certain laws passed under the Government of India Act 1935 did offend section 299 of that Act and expressly save those Acts.
In the circumstances the court must interpret the Abolition Act as it finds it by giving the ordinary and natural meaning to the words used by the Madras legislature and uninfluenced by any pre conceived notion as to validity of the Abolition Act.
2 of section 20 of the Abolition Act.
Under that sub section a person can claim compensation only when his right is terminated by the Government under the foregoing proviso.
In other words the third proviso according to learned counsel 559 for the appellant merely enables the Government to exercise the right conferred on it by the second proviso and therefore the Government if it intends to avail itself of the right under the second proviso must comply with the conditions laid down in the third proviso.
In other words the true meaning of the second proviso is said to be that rights created after July 1 1945 are only voidable at the instance of the Government and that being the position the Government must do some overt act to terminate the transaction.
The machinery for such a termination it is urged is to be found in the third proviso and the conclusion is pressed upon us that such termination can be brought about only on the fulfilment of the conditions laid down in the third proviso.
In other words while under the second proviso the Government can terminate the lease at its option and unconditionally under proviso iii that can be done only if it is in 1 ILR 1195.
There is no warrant for saying that the avoidance must be under the terms of the third proviso.
The reason for conferment of such an unconditional right on the Government is well known for it was on that crucial date that the party which came into power later declared its intention to abolish all zemindaries and intermediary interest in land.
That  rule provides that a mining lease granted by a private person shall be subject to certain conditions therein specified.
