the high court after deciding various issues remanded the cases to the compensation officer under the act after over ruling most of the contentions pressed before it by the appellant.
although he waxed sentimentally on this note he did not convince us on his contentions.
a compensation assessment roll containing the gross asset and net income of each estate together with the compensation payable in respect of such estate has to be prepared by him.
against the background of law just projected we may set out shri purohit s points which if we may say so are substantially the same as have been argued by him in revision before the high court with partial success.
for convenience of reference we may extract the statement by the high court of the contentions urged before it and repeated before us by the appellant.
b v of the act make it clear that the date of vesting is the last date by which the calculation of compensation should have been made.
as admittedly compensation had not been calculated by the date of vesting the compensation officer lost his statutory jurisdiction to do so.
b v of the act but in spite of it the direction was that the divisional forest officer should make the appraisement.
3 assuming that in spite of the directions of the court the compensation offi cer is entitled to follow the procedure laid down in section 262bv the expression subject to the approval of the chief conservator of forests does not refer to the appraisement made by the d f o but refers to his appointment.
4 assuming that section 262 b v would have full force what it contemplates is that the appraisement must be made by the d f o and it is subject to the approval by the chief conservator of forests.
but what has happened here is that the chief conservator himself made the appraisement without referring to the appraisement made by the d f o and as such the appraisement made by the chief conservator is invalid.
where the actual income is to be included in the gross assets in the case of forests the assumed income and not the actual income is to be included.
during the agricultural year immediately preceding the abolition the petitioners had not actually derived any income from the forests and as such they were under no obligation to pay any income tax on such income.
8 compensation money should be so calculated that the purchasing power of the amount of compensation to be paid on the date of actual payment will not be less than its purchasing power on the date of vesting and 9 interest should be calculated at not less than 12 per annum from the date of vesting till payment.
the meat of the matter the primary question agitated in the appeal lopping off the fringe issues of lesser import consists in the statutory methodology and functionaries prescribed by the act for quantifying the compensation and the compliance therewith by the statutory machinery in the case of the appellant.
but before examining this essential issue we may dispose of the minor points pressed so that the deck may be cleared for dealing with what deserves to be dealt with.
here there is good reason to depart from the old rule of full compensation and it perhaps legitimates the reduced rate of recompense.
law is sometimes blind.
the appellant challenges the slab system of compensation provided in the act which awards smaller multiples for estates yielding larger incomes on the score of violation of the fundamental rights under the constitution.
the argument is that for certain reasons the appellant could not derive and actual income from the forests taken over by the state from him and therefore there was no income tax payable on any agricultural income from these forests.
here again the flaw in the submission consists in mis reading section 27 of the act which expressly states that the net income from an estate shall be computed by deducting from the gross assets of such estate any sum which was payable by the intermediary as income tax in respect of any income derived from such estate for the previous agricultural year.
he forgets that in the case of forests it is the assumed income and not the actual income that forms the basis of calculation of compensation.
if a notional income on the assumed basis can be used for fixing compensation a notional income tax can be calculated and deducted.
gross asset when used with reference to an estate means the aggregate of the rents including all cesses which were payable in respect of the estate for the previous agricultural year b by the raiyats or any other persons cultivating the land other than the land settled with the intermediary or intermediaries under sub s 1 of section 7 and includes.
v gross income from forests calculated on the basis of the appraisement made of annual yield of the forests on the date of vesting by a forest officer subject to the approval of the chief conservator of forests such forest officer being not below the rank of a divisional forest officer to be appointed in this behalf by the state government.
those officers ascertain the income from the forest concerned and the figure so fixed is subject to the approval of the c c f chief conservator of forests presumably the top expert in the department.
the section is clear that the gross income from forests must be calculated on the basis of appraisal of the annual yield on the date of vesting firstly by a forest officer and secondly by the chief conservator of forests screening it and approving it.
besides the evidence already on record would be taken into consideration.
the divisional forest officer who would make the appraisement will be examined as a witness for the compensation officer and would be subjected to cross examination.
but in such a case the materials must be brought to the notice of the petitioners who would be entitled to cross examine the witnesses connected therewith and may give rebutting evidence.
the use of the expression divisional forest officers is erroneous although forest officers are appointed from among divisional forest officers.
equally clearly a slight error has crept into the judge s order because he does not make any reference specifically to the statutory requirement of approval of the chief conservator of forests of the appraisement made by the forest officer.
but he pointed out that the forest officer had omitted to include the income from kendu leaves and added that sum to the income from forests.
even so the total figure was less than what the divisional forest officer had recommended.
the compensation officer accepted the report of the chief conservator and made the statutory calculation on that date.
a second appeal was filed by the appellant before the board of revenue without success.
indeed there was a fundamental difference in the basis adopted by the forest officer and the chief conservator in the matter of assessing the income of the forests in question.
having heard the appellant at some length we see no flaw in the high court s order on this aspect of the matter.
and this holds good after the second remand order that the forest officer will do the appraisement of the annual income forward his report to the chief conservator of forests who will take the said report into consideration and if necessary make modifications therein or approve it with such changes as he deems fit.
certainly the chief conservator can not be ignored by the compensation officer nor can the chief conservator ignore the assessment made by the forest officer and go through an independent exercise.
