these appeals are directed against a judgment and order dated 17 october 2003 passed by the special court constituted under the special courts trial of offences relating to transactions in securities.
act 1992 for short the act in misc.
application nos.
late harshad mehta were persons notified in terms of the act which was enacted to provide for the establishment of a special court for the trial of offences relating to transactions in securities and for matters connected therewith.
in terms of the provisions of the act along with late harshad mehta the custodian had notified 29 entities in terms of section 3 of the act comprising three of his younger brothers wife of late harshad mehta wives of two of his younger brothers and other corporate entities a partnership firm and three hufs.
the properties of late harshad mehta and the appellants herein being notified persons stood attached in terms of the provisions of the act.
before the learned special court the parties herein filed several applications which can be sub divided in three categories as would be noticed shortly hereinafter.
it is not in dispute that the learned special court on or about 3 august 1993 issued directions in various proceedings before it appointing auditors to prepare and audit the books of accounts of all notified persons for the period 1 april 1990 and 8 june 1992 i e the date of the notification.
a chartered accountants firm was appointed by the learned special judge by an order dated 17 september 2003 to represent all notified entities in the family of late harshad mehta for the purpose of ascertaining their tax liabilities.
we may at this juncture notice the nature of the applications filed by the parties herein before the learned special court i on 26 april 1999 the custodian filed an application being misc.
application No 41 of 1999 seeking permission of the special court for sale of residential premises commonly known as madhuli of eight notified entities.
application being 4 of 2001 was filed by the custodian praying for the sale of commercial premises.
applications praying for lifting of attachment on their residential premises on the ground that the same had been purchased much prior to 1 april 1991 and the same had no nexus with any illegal transactions in securities.
alternatively it was prayed that since their asset base was greater than genuine liabilities the said residential premises should be released from attachment.
impugned judgment.
by reason of the impugned order dated 17 october 2003 the learned special judge allowed misc.
4 of 2001 and 41 of 1999.
applications filed by the appellants herein for release of the residential flats as well as the commercial premises from attachment were dismissed.
contentions of the parties appellants 9.
ii having regard to the fact that only three entitles out of eight were involved in the offences the liability of harshad mehta could not have been clubbed for the purpose of directing attachment and consequent sale of the properties which exclusively belong to them.
the books of accounts and other documents on the basis whereof the auditor s report had been made having not been allowed to be inspected by the appellants herein on the plea that they had the knowledge thereabout the same could not have been taken into consideration for the purpose of passing of the impugned order or otherwise.
vi drawing our attention to a representative chart showing the discrepancies in the accounts of mrs deepika a mehta as shown in a affidavit by the custodian b books of accounts maintained by the appellants and c auditor s report it was submitted that the auditor s report could not have been relied upon.
a copy of the auditor s report having only been supplied during pendency of these appeals the learned special judge committed a serious error in passing the impugned judgment relying on or on the basis thereof.
mr ashok h desai learned senior counsel appearing on behalf of the custodian on the other hand would inter alia submit.
iin view of the decision of this court in l s synthetics ltd v fairgrowth financial services ltd and another 2004 11 scc 456 2004 indlaw sc 715 all properties belonging to the notified persons being subject to automatic attachment could be applied for discharge of the joint liabilities of the harshad mehta group in terms of section 11 of the act.
iithe applications for de notification filed by the appellants herein having been withdrawn the contention raised by the appellants that they are not liable in terms of the provisions of the act are not open to question particularly in view of the fact that no application for de notification could be filed subsequently as they had become barred by limitation.
iiithe order of assessment under the income tax act having become final and binding as on the date when the orders of assessment were passed and thus mere filing of appeals were not sufficient for raising a contention that the taxes did not become due.
civil appeal No 2795 of 2004 and the kedarnath jute mfg.
co ltd v the commissioner of income tax.
ivthe appellants herein apart from the corporate entity which is a front company of late harshad mehta have received large loans advances and credits from the harshad mehta group and there had been intermingling of the assets to the tune of crores of rupees they can not escape their liabilities under the act.
the affidavit filed by the appellants herein before the special court clearly shows that the liabilities exceed the assets in all cases.
even in the case of dr pratima mehta wherein some excesses has been shown if the interest is calculated for the last over 13 years of the amount received the liabilities would exceed the assets.
hitesh mehta and dr pratima mehta who are medical practitioners by profession having affirmed affidavits admitting that the share broking and investment businesses which were part of family businesses were undertaken and conducted by late harshad mehta and they had no knowledge thereabout nor were they involved therewith.
ixthe sale of commercial property had never been seriously contested by the appellants and in fact the contention of the appellants herein before the special court was that if the commercial properties were sold there would be no need to sell the residential properties.
even before this court the sale of commercial properties had not been questioned.
a large number of commercial properties having already been sold and third party rights having been created this court should not interfere with the impugned judgment.
2 to deal with the situation and in particular to ensure speedy recovery of the huge amount involved to punish the guilty and restore confidence in and maintain the basic integrity and credibility of the banks and financial institutions the special court trial of offences relating to transactions in securities ordinance 1992 was promulgated on the 6th june 1992.
sub s 2 of section 3 postulates that the custodian may on being satisfied on information received that any person has been involved in any offence relating to transactions in securities after the 1st day of april 1991 and on and before 6th june 1992 the statutory period notify the name of such person in the official gazette.
3 of section 3 contains a non obstante clause providing that on and from the date of notification under sub section 2 any property movable or immovable or both belonging to any person notified under that sub section shall stand attached simultaneously with the issue of the notification and such attached properties may be dealt with by the custodian in such manner as the special court may direct.
in the ordinance which preceded the act there was no provision for giving post facto hearing to a notified person for cancellation of notification but such a provision has been made in the act as would appear from section 42 thereof 1 of section 4 of the act reads as under contracts entered into fraudulently may be cancelled if the custodian is satisfied after such inquiry as he may think fit that any contract or agreement entered into at any time after the 1st day of april 1991 and on and before the 6th june 1992 in relation to any property of the person notified under sub s 2 of section 3 has been entered into fraudulently or to defeat the provisions of this act he may cancel such contract or agreement and on such cancellation such property shall stand attached under this act.
any prosecution in respect of any offence referred to in sub s 2 of section 3 pending in any court is required to be transferred to the special court.
notwithstanding anything contained in the code and any other law for the time being in force the special court may make such order as it may deem fit directing the custodian for the disposal of the property under attachment.
the following liabilities shall be paid or discharged in full as far as may be in the order as under a all revenues taxes cesses and rates due from the persons notified by the custodian under sub s 2 of section 3 to the central government or any state government or any local authority b all amounts due from the person so notified by the custodian to any bank or financial institution or mutual fund and c any other liability as may be specified by the special court from time to time.
provisions.
the right of a person notified to file an application or to raise a defence that he is not liable in terms of the provisions of the act or in any event the properties attached should not be sold in discharge of the liabilities can be taken at the initial stage by filing an application in terms of sub s 2 of section 4 of the act.
but at the stage when liabilities are required to be discharged the notified person may inter alia raise a contention inter alia for the purpose of establishing that the properties held and possessed by them are sufficient to meet their liabilities.
at what point of time should the taxes have become due.
does the special court have any discretion relating to the extent of payments to be made under section 112a from out of the attached funds property.
whether the special court has the power to absolve a notified person from payment of penalty or interest for a period subsequent to the date of his notification section in the alternative is a notified person liable to payment of penalty or interest arising from his inability to pay taxes after his notification.
as regard question No 1 it was held in the present case the words taxes due occur in a section dealing with distribution of property.
in regard to question No 2 it was opined every kind of tax liability of the notified person for any other period is not covered by section 112a although the liability may continue to be the liability of the notified person.
such tax liability may be discharged either under the directions of the special court under section 112c or the taxing authority may recover the same from any subsequently acquired property of a notified person vide tejkumar balakrishna ruia v a k menon 1996 indlaw sc 2403 or in any other manner from the notified person in accordance with law.
in respect of the question No 3 it was opined that the date of distribution arrives when the special court completes the examination of claims under section 9 a and if on that date any tax liability for the statutory period is legally assessed and the assessment is final and binding on a notified person that liability would be considered for payment section 111a.
this is because the tax liability of a notified person having priority under section 112a is only tax liability pertaining to the statutory period.
he may not in these circumstances explain transactions before the income tax authorities in case his position is prejudicially affected in defending criminal charges.
where the assessment is based on proper material and pertains to the statutory period the special court may not reduce the tax claimed and pay it out in full.
but if the assessment is a best judgment assessment the special court may examine whether for example the income which is so assessed to tax bears comparison to the amounts attached by the custodian or whether the taxes so assessed are grossly disproportionate to the properties of the assessee in the hands of the custodian applying the wednesbury principle of proportionality.
in regard to question No 5 this court agreed with the finding of the special court that neither penalty nor interest can be considered as tax under section 112a of the act.
so far question No 6 is concerned it was held that the remedy of a notified person who is assessed to penalty or interest after the notified period would be entitled to move the appropriate authority under the taxing statute stating if it is open to him under the relevant taxing statute to contend that he was unable to pay his taxes on account of the attachment of all his properties under the special court act and that there is a valid reason why penalty or interest should not be imposed upon him after the date of notification the authorities concerned under the taxing statute can take notice of these circumstances in accordance with law for the purpose of deciding whether penalty or interest can be imposed on the notified person.
the special court is required to consider this question only from the point of view of distributing any part of the surplus assets in the hands of the custodian after the discharge of liabilities sections 112a and 112b.
1992 3 bom cr 716 1992 indlaw mum 6066 wherein it was held if the person approaches the special court and makes out for example a case that the property which is attached has no nexus of any sort with the illegal dealings in securities belonging to banks and financial institutions during the relevant period andor that there are no claims or liabilities which have to be satisfied by attachment and sale of such property in our view the special court would have the power to direct the custodian to release such property from attachment.
the ratio of the said decision as regard applicability of the limitation act was further considered by a division bench of this court in fairgrowth investments ltd v custodian 2004 11 scc 472 2004 indlaw sc 868 wherein it was held that section 5 of the limitation act will have no application in relation to an application falling under sub s 2 of section 4 of the act stating it is enough for the purpose of this appeal to hold that section 292 of the limitation act 1963 does not apply to proceedings under section 42 of the special court trial of offences relating to transactions in securities act 1992.
by reason thereof the property that belongs to a notified person stands attached simultaneously with the issue of the notification that makes him a notified party.
even to say that such interpretation would reduce a notified person to beggary would not be accurate because the alms that he received being his property would stand attached.
before adverting to the questions raised herein we may notice that both the parties have raised several contentions before us which have not precisely been raised before the learned special judge.
the appellants case is that the individual and corporate appellants other than harshad mehta ashwin mehta and sudhir mehta filed applications within the prescribed period before the special court praying for their de notifications.
air 1968 all 246 1967 indlaw all 16 but as observed hereinbefore.
in l s synthetics ltd 2004 indlaw sc 715 supra this court observed a statute of limitation bars a remedy and not a right.
although a remedy is barred a defence can be raised.
a special statute providing for special or no period of limitation must receive a liberal and broader construction and not a rigid or a narrow one.
we are therefore of the opinion that the provisions of the limitation act have no application so far as directions required to be issued by the special court relating to the disposal of attached property are concerned.
although we do not intend to enter into the correctness or otherwise of the said contention of the appellants at this stage however there can not be any doubt whatsoever that they being notified persons all their properties would be deemed to be automatically attached as a consequent thereto.
the contention of the appellants to the effect that their properties should have been attached only towards the liabilities incurred by the parties in respect of the transactions made during the statutory period can not be accepted as all the appellants being notified the attachment of the assets would be automatic.
a transaction of benami indisputably can be a subject matter of a lies in terms of section 41 of the act as and when such a question is raised the same may have to be dealt with by the special court appropriately.
however nexus between several persons in dealing with the matter may be established by the custodian.
as the said question has not been gone into by the learned judge special court it is necessary that the same be considered and appropriately dealt with.
the appellants however raised the following contentions i that the statement prepared by the custodian and exhibited as c to his affidavit in rejoinder dated 1 october 2003 was based on material at least all of which were not connected to the appellants as were pointed out before the court.
ii liabilities have been shown in relation to unperformed contracts.
even in the rejoinder filed by the custodian e g paragraphs 14 20 21 and 22 before the special court such contentions have been raised.
a sur rejoinder thereto was filed on 15 october 2003 and in paragraphs 1 to 6 thereof the said statements were denied and disputed.
thus the total value of the assets as per the affidavit filed on behalf of the custodian of harshad mehta group is rs 9727332166 94.
in our opinion the learned judge special court should have analysed the respective contentions of the parties in greater details and in particular in regard to assets and liabilities of the separate entities and having regard to the contentions raised by them that they are not part of the harshad mehta group and their individual liabilities can be met from the assets held and possessed by them separately.
allegedly therein it was shown that the individuals had received large loans advances credits from the harshad mehta group and there had been intermingling of the assets to the tune of crores of rupees.
before us mr desai had filed a chart for showing the same.
his death has also forced upon him bankruptcy.
further contention of the custodian is that even dr hitesh mehta and dr pratima mehta have admitted that they had no knowledge about the transactions.
even in this behalf it was necessary for the special judge to assign sufficient and cogent reasons.
a question may further arise as to whether the learned judge was correct in considering the individual liabilities of the notified parties as the liabilities of the group.
furthermore the question as regard liability of the parties should have been determined at the stage of section 9 a of the act.
he has proceeded on the basis that even if the assets and liabilities of all individuals is taken on an individual basis the liabilities would exceed assets in the case of each individual and corporate entity.
but in this case the orders of assessment have been set aside.
deepika mehta rs 120 crores even after deducting the amount set aside by itat.
1998 indlaw sc 732 supra.
however the finalization shall be subject to the result of these appeals.
but for such protection the properties which are sold in court auctions would not fetch a proper price and the decree holder himself would suffer.
conclusion.
as regard the tax liabilities of the appellants herein we would request the learned judge special court to consider the matter afresh in the light of the observations made hereinbefore.
