an fir was registered on 23 3 1996 on the statement of one prakashi devi.
she stated that on the night of 2223 3 1996while.
she and her daughter in law sheela devi were sleeping in her house around 11 30 pm the appellant jumped over the front wall of her house and broke the bulbs and ran away that at that time no male member was present in the house except the children.
that around 00 30 am the appellant again came into her house and touched her daughter in law sheela devi who woke up and raised an alarm and that the appellant immediately ran away.
the police investigated into the said complaint and submitted a report u s 173 of the code of criminal procedure for short the code.
on that basis the following charge was framed by the judicial magistrate first class karnal against the appellant that on 23 3 1996after having made preparation for causing hurt or assault you committed house trespass into the house of smt.
prakashi devi and thereby committed an offence punishable u s 452 ipc within my cognizance.
and i hereby direct that you be tried on the above said charge by this court.
when the said charged was read over and explained to the appellant he pleaded not guilty to the said charge and claimed trial.
she also admitted that the appellant did not touch her nor teased her nor abused her.
it was elicited in her cross examination that the accused did not go towards her mother in law nor say anything to her mother in law that she used to come to the village where her in laws were residing only when her husband came home and that the house of her father in law was surrounded by the houses of his brothers and their sons.
both pw1 and pw2 stated that the house of the accused was at a distance of 15 16 houses from the house of prakashi devi that the accused had never come into their house earlier that their family and the accused were not on visiting terms with each other even during functions marriages or death though they were on visiting terms with others in the village.
the investigating officer was examined as pw 3 the accused examined a witness ex sarpanch of the village as dw 1 and he stated that there was a quarrel between the accused and complainant s son surinder about a water course and subsequently he came to know that the quarrel was converted into a false case against the accused by registering a false allegation that the accused had outraged the modesty of a woman.
the learned magistrate by judgment dated 2 2 2001held the accused guilty of offences u ss 452 and 354 cr.
the appeal filed by the accused was dismissed by the addl.
sessions judge on 20 2 2002 the criminal revision filed by the appellant was disposed of by the high court on 16 3 2010 upholding the conviction but reducing the sentence from six to four months rigorous imprisonment.
that order is challenged by the accused.
one of the contentions urged by the accused before the appellate court and high court was that the charge against him was that he attempted to outrage the modesty of prakashi devi pw 1 whereas the evidence was to show that he attempted to outrage the modesty of her daughter in law sheela devi.
he contended that as the charge levelled against him was not proved and as he was not required to defend himself against a charge that he assaulted and outraged the modesty of sheela devi he ought to have been acquitted.
this was negatived by the appellate court and high court holding that an accused can not take advantage of a technical defect in framing the charge.
it was held that mentioning the name of prakashi devi instead of the name of sheela devi in the charge was an error that did not prejudice the accused.
sub s 1 thereof provides that no finding sentence or order of a court of competent jurisdiction shall be deemed invalid merely on the ground that no charge was framed or on the ground of any error omission or irregularity in the charge including any misjoinder of charge unless in the opinion of the court of appeal confirmation or revision a failure of justice has in fact been occasioned thereby.
in willie william slaney vs state of madhya pradesh.
air 1956 sc 116 1955 indlaw sc 80 this court explained the concepts of prejudice to the accused and failure of justice thus 6 before we proceed to set out our answer and examine the provisions of the code we will pause to observe that the code is a code of procedure and like all procedural laws is designed to further the ends of justice and not to frustrate them by the introduction of endless technicalities.
the object of the code is to ensure that an accused person gets a full and fair trial along certain well established and well understood lines that accord with our notions of natural justice.
now here as in all procedural laws certain things are regarded as vital.
disregard of a provision of that nature is fatal to the trial and at once invalidates the conviction.
others are not vital and whatever the irregularity they can be cured and in that event the conviction must stand unless the court is satisfied that there was prejudice.
the code is emphatic that whatever the irregularity it is not to be regarded as fatal unless there is prejudice.
courts have to administer justice and justice includes the punishment of guilt just as much as the protection of innocence.
broad vision is required a nice balancing of the rights of the state and the protection of society in general against protection from harassment to the individual and the risks of unjust conviction.
every reasonable presumption must be made in favour of an accused person he must be given the benefit of every reasonable doubt.
the same broad principles of justice and fair play must be brought to bear when determining a matter of prejudice as in adjudging guilt.
if all these elements are there and no prejudice is shown the conviction must stand whatever the irregularities whether traceable to the charge or to a want of one.
in gurbachan singh v state of punjab air 1957 sc 623 1957 indlaw sc 181 following willie slaney this court held in judging a question of prejudice as of guilt courts must act with a broad vision and look to the substance and not to technicalities and their main concern should be to see whether the accused had a fair trial whether he knew what he was being tried for whether the main facts sought to be established against him were explained to him fairly and clearly and whether he was given a full and fair chance to defend himself.
in shamnsaheb m multtani vs state of karnataka 2001 2 scc 577.
the above principles are reiterated in several decisions of this court including state of west bengal vs laisal haque air 1989 sc 129 1988 indlaw sc 706state of a p vs.
6 scc 554 1998 indlaw sc 1286dalbir singh v state of up 2004 5 scc 334 2004 indlaw sc 247dumpala chandra reddy vs nimakayala bali reddy 2008.
8 scc 339 2008 indlaw sc 1064 and sanichar sahni vs state of bihar 2009 7 scc 198 2009 indlaw sc 736.
the respondent relied upon the decision of this court in state of himachal pradesh v geeta ram 2000 7 scc 452 2000 indlaw sc 408 in that case.
the respondent was chargesheeted for an offence u s 376 ipc and s 3 of the scheduled castes and scheduled tribes prevention of atrocities.
this court reversed the decision of the high court on the ground that a special court under the act being a sessions court it continued to have jurisdiction to try the case for the offence u s 376.
an accused can not be punished for committing an offence against y when he is charged with having committed the offence against x and the entire defence of the accused was with reference to charge of having committed offence against x.
the accused was thus clearly misled by the error in the charge which caused prejudiced to the accused thereby occasioning failure of justice.
therefore we are of the view that there should be a new trial after charging him with the offence of outraging the modesty of sheela devi.
the appeal is therefore allowed the conviction of the accused is set aside and the matter is remitted to the trial court with a direction for a new trial after framing a charge by substituting the words her daughter in law sheela devi for the words abovenamed prakashi deviin the second part of the charge.
