it was strenuously argued by mr k section krishnaswami iyengar that lakshminarayana iyer was a brahmin gentleman presumably versed in the sastras living in a village in the southernmost part of the madras state that his idea of a restricted estate was more likely to be one analogous to a hindu woman 's estate than a life estate a understood in english law wherein the estate is measured by use and not by duration and that if this will was construed in the light of the notions of lakshminarayana iyer it should be held that the widow got under it a hindu widow 's estate and the daughter got under it a contingent remainder in the nature of spes and on her death there was nothing which could devolve on the plaintiff and he thus had no locus standi to question the alienations made by the widow.
under the will there dealt with the widow s was to enjoy the properties and after her lifetime the properties were to be taken in the ratio of three to five by the son 's daughter and the daughter 's son respectively.
the defendants pleaded that the plaintiff had no title to maintain the suit that the widow was entitled under the will to an absolute estate or at least to an estate analogous to and not less than a widow 's estate that the estate given to ramalakshmi under the will was but a contingent one and she having predeceased the widow no interest in the suit properties devolved on the plaintiff.
my self acquired properties shall on my death be enjoyed by my wife till her death and after her death they shall pass to my daughter.
2 m l j 562 were next cited as the will gave her the right to enjoy the income of the estate during her lifetime it was evidently contemplated that she should as provided by the hindu law in the case of a widow be in possession of the estate.
the words used in favour of the grandsons seem to indicate that the estate conferred on the daughter was not a life estate because there is no direct gift in favour of the grandsons but on the other hand what he says is that through his daughter the estate shall pass to his grandsons.
if that was the intention the testator would clearly have said that the daughter would only take the properties remaining after the death of the widow.
though no restraint in express terms was put on her powers of alienation in case of necessity even that limited power was not given to her in express terms.
these observations are unexceptionable but it may also be pointed out that it is open to a hindu to confer a limited life estate on his widow or even a larger estate than a widow takes as an heir and that in every case he may not confer upon her by will a hindu widow 's estate which she would otherwise get by inheritance.
for the purpose of her maintenance for payment of debts etc and for settling the claim of the daughter in law she does not appear to have felt any necessity to make any alienation of any part of the estate mentioned in the schedule and the testator in all likelihood knew that she could fulfil these obligations without having recourse to alienations and hence he did not give her any power to do so.
reference was also made to the decision of their lordships of the privy council in mst.
this will was couched in different language than the will in the present case.
the high court by its judgment under appeal affirmed the decision of the trial judge and maintained his view on the construction of the will.
in other words that she should take an estate very much like the ordinary estate of a hindu widow.
the court 's primary duty in such cases is to ascertain from the language employed by the testator what were his intentions keeping in view the surrounding circumstances his ordinary notions as a hindu in respect to devolution of his property his family relationships etc.
the subordinate judge held that chunderbutti got an estate for life with the power to appropriate profits and girdhari got a vested remainder on her death.
after your lifetime ramalakshmi ammal our daughter and wife of rama ayyar avergal of melagaram village and her heirs shall enjoy them with absolute rights and powers of alienation such as gift exchange and sale from son to grandson and so on for generations.
if she took the estate only of a hindu widow one consequence no doubt would be that she would be unable to alienate the profits or that at all events whatever she purchased out of them would be an increment to her husband 's estate and the plaintiffs would be entitled to recover possession of all such property real and personal.
the learned counsel for the respondent followed the line adopted by mr krishnaswami iyengar.
before his death he executed a will on 16th november 1924 the construction of which is in controversy in this appeal.
reliance was next placed on maharaja of kolhapur v sundaram iyer 1925 i l r 48 mad.
varadachari j held that since in the will the gift over to the grand children was of the entire properties and not a mere gift by way of defeasance it had to be held that it indicated that the prior gift in favour of the widow was only of a limited interest.
if the two could not agree and live together amicably my wife would pay rs 4000 and separate him.
on the 24th july 1945 the widow describing herself as an absolute owner of the properties of her husband sold one of the items of the property to the 2nd defendant for rs 500.
and these shall thereafter pass to her daughters.
this decision only decides that case and is not very relevant in this enquiry.
one lakshminarayana iyer a hindu brahmin who owned considerable properties in the tirunelveli district died on 13th december 1924 leaving him surviving a widow ranganayaki and a married daughter ramalakshmi.
it can not be said that a hindu widow can only alienate her husband 's estate for payment of debts to meet maintenance charges and for her own maintenance.
the substantial question to decide in the appeal is whether the estate granted by the testator to his widow was a fall woman 's estate under hindu law or merely a limited life estate in the english sense of that expression.
these remarks do not throw much light on the point before us.
the will there ran as follows.
when i die my wife named suraj is owner of that property.
1 m l j 268. 1936 indlaw mad 236.
it seems to us that he meant to give a daughter 's estate rather than a life estate.
chunderbutti his wife was in these terms the remaining milkiut and minhai estates together with the amount of ready money articles slaves and all household furniture i have placed in the possession of mst.
none of her children survived her.
the extent of the grant so far as the properties mentioned in the schedule are concerned to the daughter and the widow is the same.
she was given a present right of future enjoyment in the property.
the provisions contained in this will bear no analogy to those we have to construe.
ramalakshmi died on 25th april 1938 during the lifetime of the widow.
this was a case of a gift inter vivos.
the restraint against alienation was repugnant to both a life estate and a widow estate and was not therefore taken into account.
appeal dismissed.
by this transaction she substituted one property by another.
but there were other indications in that will showing that a widow 's estate had been given.
this suggestion in the surrounding circumstances attending the execution of this will can not be sustained.
they were the real persons whom he earmarked with certainty as the ultimate recipients of his bounty.
in the first instance he placed reliance on a decision of the madras high court in ratna chetty v narayana swami chetty 19i4 26 m l j 616.
they will of course be entitled to enjoy the balance left after payment of rent.
and she thus got an interest in it on the testator 's death.
the plaintiff was allowed to amend his plaint and include therein a prayer for a declaration in respect of the invalidity of these alienations as well.
bhagwati devi v chowdry bholonath thakur 1874 75 2 i a 256.
