on the other band there is the decision of this court in the state of andhra pradesh v kandinmlla subbaiah which is to the effect that where several persons had committed offences in the course of the same transactions they could jointly be tried in respect of all those offences under section 239 of the code of criminal procedure and the limitation placed by section 234 of the code could not come into operation.
therefore when a sues b for a sum of money it is open to him to put his account books in evidence provided they are regularly kept in the course of business and show by reference to them that the amount claimed by him is debited against b the entry though made by a in his own account books and though it is in his own favour is a piece of evidence which the court may take into consideration for the purpose of determining whether the amount referred to therein was in fact paid by a to b the entry by itself is of no help to a in his claim against b but it can be considered by the court along with the evidence of a for drawing the conclusion that the amount was paid by a to b to this limited extent entries in the account books are relevant and can be proved.
the main reasons upon which the conclusion of the high court is based are firstly that there could be no clubbing together of the provisions of the various clauses of section 239 and secondly that the respondents were charged with more than three offences of the same kind and that this was in contravention of section 239 c. in coming to the conclusion that the provisions of various clauses of section 239 can not be applied cumulatively the high court has relied upon the decision in re vankavalapati gopala rao 1956 airandhra 21.
his point is that the proviso to section 3371 confers the power on the district magistrate to grant pardon in a case pending before another magistrate and not on a district magistrate and therefore his power to grant pardon in such cases can not be conferred under sub s 2 of section 10 on an additional district magistrate.
a of section 239.
this section provides that the following persons may be charged and tried together namely 1 persons accused of the same offence committed in the course of the same transaction 2 persons accused of abetment or an attempt to commit such an offence 3 persons accused of different offences committed in the course of the same transaction.
but in the case before us no objection was taken to multiplicity or misjoinder of charges before the learned additional sessions judge and it was only in the high court that the point was raised.
now if the respondent No 1 were alone tried upon the second third and the fourth charges the provisions of section 2351 could have been pressed in aid if the allegations were that the offences were so connected together as to form one and the same transaction and the validity of the trial would not have been open to any attack.
the respondent No 1.
x and y can be charged not only with offences under sections 147 and 325 i p c but also under section 302 read with section 149.
the approver 's evidence was held by the high court to be inadmissible because the pardon granted to him was illegal.
the offence under section 467 read with section 471 is punishable with imprisonment for life or imprisonment of either description for a period of 10 years but it is exclusively triable by a court of session and therefore in so far as such offence is concerned the argument of mr bhimasankaram would not even have been available.
it is the prosecution case that as secretary of vesco and the resident representative of the managing agents the respondent No i was attending to the day to day affairs of vesco which included the receiving of all sums of money due to vesco spending money for the purpose of vesco attending to the appointment supervision and control of the staff of vesco purchasing materials required for the purpose of vesco and supervising over the accounts of vesco.
the same offence committed by all of them is that under section 147 and all of them can be tried jointly in respect of that offence under cl.
the object in saying what has been set out in the first charge was only to give notice to the respondents as to the ambit of the conspiracy to which they will have to answer and nothing more.
it is under these provisions that the account books of the firms must be held to be relevant.
therefore they could not be jointly tried.
nor again do we think that there is any substance in the complaint made that the respondents had no opportunity of referring to the documents to which reference has been made in certain questions.
1 deals with the trial of a person for offences of the same kind not exceeding three committed within the space of 12 months from the first to the last of such offences and section 231 2 what is meant by the expression offences of the same kind.
mr chari then referred to section 133 of the evidence act and pointed out that this section clearly makes an accomplice evidence admissible in a case and that an approver whose pardon is found to be invalid does not cease to be an accomplice and contends that he is therefore as competent a witness as he would have been if he had not been granted pardon at all and not been put on trial.
the additional district magistrates independent would also be under the control of the government through the board of revenue.
the high court allowed the two appeals acquitted the respondents and dismissed the application for revision preferred by the state.
no doubt as already stated where offences for committing which a conspiracy was entered into have actually been committed it may not in the particular circumstances of a case be desirable to charge the offender both with the conspiracy and the offences committed in pursuance of that conspiracy.
similarly there is section 5 of the evidence act which reads thus it is the case of the prosecution that the alleged payments were never made by vesco to the various firms.
but then section 235 1 provides that if in any one series of acts so connected together as to form the same transaction more offences than one are committed by the same person he may be charged with and tried at one trial for every such offence.
then according to the high court offences under.
we shall deal with mr bhimasankaram 's contentions in the order in which we have set them out.
on a plain construction of the provisions of section 239 therefore it is open to the court to avail itself cumulatively of the provisions of the different clauses of section 239 for the purpose of framing charges and charges so framed by it will not be in violation of the law the provisions of sections 233 234 and 235 notwithstanding.
the vesco had no managing director but at each meeting of its board of directors one of the directors used to be elected chairman.
the third charge is that the two respondents along with the approver.
it will be noticed that transportation for life was not the only punishment provided for an offence under section 409 of the indian penal code even before the amendment made to the indian penal code by section 117 of the act 26 of 1955 the other alternative being imprisonment up to 10 years.
those account books are in gujrati and he stated in his evidence that the accounts were regularly kept and that there were no entries in them corresponding to the entries in the vesco accounts.
it was urged before this court that there was misjoinder of charges and persons.
no doubt under entry 9 a in part iii of sch.
that however is not the only provision to be considered.
apart from this the question whether the provisions of sections 233 to 236 have or have no overriding effect on section 239.
for without combining these two clauses their joint trial for the two offences in each of which both have participated would be impermissible.
after the death of r k n g raju it was discovered that the aeco was indebted to many concerns which were under its managing agency the liability being shown either as that of aeco or that of r k n g raju personally.
in such circumstances what the court has to consider is whether prejudice has in fact been caused to the accused by reason of the multiplicity of charges or misjoinder if any of the charges.
the prosecution case in so far as it is material for the decision of this appeal is as follows.
while we are disposed to agree with learned counsel that the questions embrace a number of matters and that it would have been better if those matters had been made the subjects of separate questions the answers given by the respondents clearly show that they understood the questions and wherever possible they have given complete answers to those questions.
on the other hand at the end of cl.
objection was taken very seriously by mr bhimasankaram to the charge of conspiracy framed in this case.
he became only an additional district magistrate.
if pardon is tendered to an accused person and eventually it is found that the pardon is illegal such person is pushed back into the rank of an accused person and being no more than an accomplice would be a competent witness.
section 234.
these are relevant facts.
what is necessary to consider is whether applying all these tests we should act upon the evidence of the approver should be acted upon.
the category of judicial magistrates was constituted of the following 1 district magistrate 2 sub divisional magistrates 3 additional first class magistrates and 4 second class magistrates sub magistrates.
similarly if we take cl.
amounts which were misappropriated used to find their way in this account.
however that is not the point which is relevant while considering the argument of mr bhimasankaram.
for all these reasons the evidence of the approver must be left out of account.
again what was said by this court was that it is undesirable to complicate a trial by introducing a large number of charges spread over a long period but even so this was a question of propriety which should be left to the discretion of the judge or magistrate trying the case.
where however several offences are alleged to have been committed by several accused persons it may be more reasonable to follow the normal rule of separate trials.
finally he said that the court did not perform its duty under section 342 4 of the code as amended as it failed to bring to the notice of the respondents that they may if they chose give evidence in their defence.
of course the view taken by the additional sessions judge is not binding on the high court.
whether they can or can not be read cumulatively must be determined by consideration of the language used in those clauses.
his second contention was that reference was made to a number of documents in some of these questions and those documents were not made available to the respondents for answering those questions.
what we have said about pardon in respect of an offence under section 409 would apply equally to that for one under section 120 b because the punishment for it is the same as that for the offence under section 409.
further scrutiny of the accounts was being carried out by krishna aiyar and in his subsequent report he pointed out that rs 2 38 000 which were shown as having been paid to the andhra power system had actually not been paid.
the approver who was originally an accounts clerk with the aeco was it may be mentioned appointed a cashier in vesco in 1946 at the instance of the respondent No i and was thus beholden to him.
the transaction in which all of them have participated is the same and the abetment by x y and z of the offence committed by a b and c would itself establish the connection of their acts with those of x y and z next let us take cls.
bearing in mind the fact that the provisions in the former part of chapter xix are applicable to charges made with the aid of section 239 only so far as may be it would not be right to construe section 239 as being subject to the provisions of sections 233 to 236.
in this connection he relied upon the words within the meaning of section 224 occurring in cl.
this court has thus clearly read the provisions of the various clauses cumulatively and we see no reason to read them differently.
a case under enquiry or trial before another magistrate does not fall in any of these classes.
226 to 231 deal with the power of the court with regard to framing and altering charges and the procedure to be adopted at the trial where a charge is found to be defective or there is no charge or where a new charge is to be framed.
the aeco as managing agents of vesco had appointed in the year 1939 one d v appala raju a trusted employee as its representative and as the secretary of vesco.
here again the question of clubbing together of the various provisions of cls.
part iv of the government order deals with the allocation of powers between the judicial and executive magistrates.
we do not think that either that or the other objection raised that is that the charge embraces within it all the offences said to have been committed by the respondents can properly.
the high court has also held that his evidence is unreliable and further that the additional sessions judge was in error in allowing him to refresh his memory by referring to various documents in a manner not permitted by section 159 of the evidence act.
it may further be mentioned that the account books of vesco show certain payments made to billimoria co of kharagpur.
but what the amendment did was to make that conspiracy itself punishable.
it seems to us that it would not be correct to read section 337 1 in the way sought by learned counsel.
in our opinion there is no subtance in the contention.
no doubt as has been rightly pointed out in this case separate trial is the normal rule and joint trial is an exception.
it is clear from the charge that some of the amounts were misappropriated between april 1947 and march 1950 some between april 1947 and march 1949 some between april 1947 and march 1951 and quite a large number between september 1947 and march 1950 and a still large number between april 1951 and march 1952.
in other words as the high court puts it persons included in two or more of the groups can not all be tried together and that since there is absolutely nothing to connect one group with any other the persons of one group can not be tried with those of any other.
no reason has been stated in support of this view.
on the strength of these considerations mr chari for the state contends that if the words any offence punishable with imprisonment which may extend to 10 years were interpreted to mean offences which were punishable with imprinsonment of less than 10 years grave offences which are not exclusively triable by a court of sessions will be completely out of section 337 1.
the high court set aside the conviction of the respondents on a number of grounds.
these amounts also used to be noted in the private note book and entered.
to this kind of charges.
he was given time for doing so but he failed to pay it.
criminal conspiracy as defined in section 120 a and consists of an agreement to do an illegal act or an agreement to do an act which is not illegal by illegal means.
it obtained licences from the government under the electricity act for supply of electrical energy to visakhapatnam anakapalli and some other places.
therefore a pardon granted by him in such a case would be illegal.
apparently subba raju was fully satisfied with this and other explanations and therefore he appointed one c section raju who was the manager of andhra cements to supervise over the affairs of vesco apparently because of this a new method of misappropriation was adopted by the respondents by starting in the vesco account books an account called suspense account.
these entries are however not by themselves sufficient to charge any person with liability.
according to the prosecution the report is a forged document.
the same practice was followed at the meeting of the general body of the shareholders.
we are also satisfied that there is no substance in the complaint that the questioning bordered on cross examination.
this legal position does not according to him offend the guarantee against testimonial compulsion and he points out that that is the reason why an accused person is not to be administered an oath when the court examines him under section 342 1 for enabling him to explain the circumstances appearing in evidence against him.
two persons a and b enter a house at night and first together commit the murder of a man sleeping there and then also his wife.
od september 13 1954 ramana offered to make a full confession to the additional district magistrate independent who was empowered to grant pardon under section 337 of i he code of criminal procedure.
but it also provides that this will be subject to the exceptions contained in sections.
it is true that the respondent No i alone was convicted by the additional sessions judge of this offence and the offence under section 467 read with section 471 but the validity of a pardon is to be determined with reference to the offence alleged against the approver alone and not with reference to the offence or offences for which his associates were ultimately convicted.
let us consider these clauses along with another illustration.
in the circumstances we wish to say nothing further on the point.
but that would be a matter ultimately within the discretion of the court before which the trial takes place.
various sentences were passed against them by the additional sessions judge visakhapatnam who presided over the court.
he agreed and was elected managing director of aeco in the middle of 1948.
clearly therefore all the accused persons could be tried together in respect of all the offences now comprised in charge No 1.
the decision in sarwan singh v the state of punjab 1957 b c r 953 on which reliance has been placed by the high court has been explained by this court in the case of maj e g barsay v the state of bombay.
unless we read section 2341 as not enacting a fetter on section 2351 it may not be possible to give full effect to the latter.
4 that the court abused its powers under s 342 cr.
iii of the government order which reads thus.
this amount was however paid by the aeco from the funds of vesco.
this court held that the charge as framed disclosed a single conspiracy although spread over several years that there was one object of the conspiracy and that was to cheat the members of the public that the fact that in the course of years other joined the conspiracy or that several incidents of cheating took place in pursuance of the conspiracy did not have the effect of splitting the conspiracy into several conspiracies.
the expression same transaction occurring in cls.
for even in the absence of those words the earlier provisions could not have been ignored.
234 235 236 and 239.
it says nothing about non existence of entries in account books.
then we come to the other sub head of this chapter.
in that case the impact of section 120 b i p c on sections 233 and 239 of the code of criminal procedure was considered by this court and this court observed.
thus under this provision if the connection between the various offences is established the limitations placed by section 2341 both as regards the number and the period during which the offences are alleged to have been committed will not apply.
he contends that since the offence is punishable with transportation for life section 337 1 could not be availed of for granting pardon to the approver.
the fact that no payments were received by those firms has been deposed to by persons connected with those firms and whose duty it was to receive and acknowledge amounts received by the firms or who were in charge of the accounts of these firms.
this provision lifts partially the ban on the trial of a person for more than one offence at the same trial.
as a result of investigation they found that there was a total misappropriation of rs 3 40 000.
this section does not expressly say that the only punishment provided for the offence should be imprisonment not exceeding 10 years.
papers seized by the police include receipts purporting to have been signed by one j j billimoria on behalf of the firm.
this decision is sufficient to dispose of the point under consideration.
mr chari in support of his contention has cited a large number of cases indian as well as english and certain passages from halsbury 's laws of england.
now if persons a b and c are tried for an offence of murder what intrinsic difficulty would there be in trying x y and z of abetment of the same offence.
lord robertson during the course of the hearing has observed that no inference can be drawn from the absence of any entry relating to any particular matter which observation supports the view taken in queen empress v girish chander banerjee 1884 i l r 10 c l 1024.
no complaint was made by the respondents even in appeal that they were ignorant of their right that had they known about it they would have given evidence on oath in their defence and that because of this they have been prejudiced.
section 160 provides that a witness may also testify to the facts mentioned in any such document as is mentioned in section 159.
each of them has committed two offences and each of them participated in the same offence.
i opened four personal accounts in different banks including the imperial bank of india.
the respondent No 1 on being asked to explain said that he would give his explanation to the managing director.
the actual decision of the case is however directly opposed to the contention now put forward before us.
section g krishna aiyar after his appointment in january 1952 made close enquiry and submitted an interim report.
the provisions of sub s 2 and 3 of section 235 are enabling provisions and quite plainly can have no overriding effect.
there is another thing which we would like to make clear.
this person was auditor for greenlands hotel at visakhapatnam.
similarly k v gopala raju was transferred from the post of stores clerk to the general department and k s n murty the discharged accused was appointed stores clerk in his place.
however the meeting was postponed and eventually held on december 9 1951.
para 4 of the instructions provides.
iii when it refers to the power of a district magistrate under section 337 1 does not exclude the power under the proviso.
let us say that the grievous hurt was caused as a result of lathi blows given by x and y simple hurt was caused by lathi blows given by z here the offences committed were those under sections 147 302 325 and 323 i p c the offences being different and the persons commiting the offences being different they could not be tried jointly only with the help of cl.
r k n g raju took till towards the end of 1947 and died at madras in april 1948.
appeal allowed.
in the first place there the trial had not actually begun.
the irrelevant evidence to which mr bhimasankaram referred was certain account books.
it is difficult to appreciate how this case assists the conclusion arrived at by the high court.
a new cash book was also said to have been prepared by the conspirators with the object of covering up the misappropriations which had been made.
we entirely agree with the high court that joint trial should be founded on some principle.
the question raised is an important one and requires a serious consideration.
he was succeeded by t visweswara rao p w 6 an employee of the aeco.
but the ultimate decision of the case would negative such argument.
section 34 does not go beyond that.
in the indian penal code as originally enacted conspiracy was not an offence.
cal 1024 upon which reliance is placed by the high court in support of its view is also to that effect.
apart from that the respondents were represented by counsel at the trial who knew very well what the law was.
the aeco was appointed managing agent for each of these corporations under separate agreements.
besides that c section raju 's management of andhra cements had landed it into a loss of rs 30 000.
it could not have been the intention of the legislature to create such a situation.
the latter category comprises of the executive officers of the revenue department on whom the responsibility for the maintenance of law and order was to continue to rest.
section 409 and section 471467 are of different kinds and are not capable of joint commission.
in 1944 this person resigned from his appointments and started his own business in radio and electrical goods in the name of d brothers.
a and c can not be combined.
in the circumstances this point must also be rejected as being without substance.
when an objection is taken at an early stage there is time enough to rectify an error.
consequent on the separation.
section 337 1 as it stood before its amendment by act 26 of 1955 read thus.
p c while conducting the examination of the respondents.
there is therefore no warrant for drawing a distinction between the powers of the district magistrate and the powers of a district magistrate.
these words he contended clearly show that cl.
this would lead to unnecessary multiplicity of trials involving avoidable inconvenience to the witnesses and avoidable expenditure of public time and money.
amounts which had been misappropriated used to be posted therein though in fact no orders were placed for any material.
the high court however held that to be a kind of case which fell under section 2351 of the code and that since that was so the provisions of section 236 were excluded.
he was thus all important with respect to the every day affairs of vesco.
some time later other industrial concerns the andhra cements ltd vi jayawada and the east coast ceremics.
then again it would not be sufficient for the high court to deal with the evidence in a general way.
on the face of it this is a valid charge.
in the year 1929 the andhra engineering co which was originally a partnership firm formed by one d l n raju was converted into a private limited company with its headquarters at visakhapatnam.
coming to the next point of mr bhimsankaram regarding the abuse of powers under section 342 his first contention was that long and involved questions were put to the respondents.
but it should remove from its mind the misconception that the additional sessions judge has not believed him.
it was also his duty to have the accounts of vesco audited by the auditors elected by the general body and to produce before the auditors the relevant accounts vouchers bank statements and so on.
if such a combination is permissible all persons accused of offences described in cls.
case remanded.
the reasons given by the allahabad high court therefore do not merit acceptance.
it also permits that charges could be framed against an accused person in the alternative if the court thinks fit.
we may however point out that billimoria himself gave his evidence in english.
a to g can be tried together in one case which certainly involves a bewildering multiplicity of charges and which would obviously set at naught the salutary principle contained in section 233.
but domestic consumers usually paid their bills in cash to the bill collectors who used to hand over their collections to the respondent No 2.
subbaramayya took his work seriously and called for information on a number of points from the respondent No 1.
by cheques.
read with section 149.
thus this is a special provision available in case of doubt and is neither subject to the limitations prescribed by section 233 nor those of the other preceding provisions.
we shall refer to this company throughout as the aeco.
No i which contains as many as 22 sub heads and it is said that it was an extremely unfair and embarrassing question.
the shareholders felt that the report had been received but was being suppressed or deliberately withheld.
mr chari for the state advanced a further argument before us in case his main argument that the pardon was valid failed and said that the approver even if we ignore the pardon was a competent witness.
some of the members of the unlawful assembly carried axes with them while some others carried lathis and attacked the other group.
the procedure adopted in the investiga tion and committal stages was irregular.
similarly in ram prashad singh v lakhpati koer 1902 i l r 30.
it is thus apparent that offences committed within a space of 12 months were tried along with offences committed beyond that period.
a lakh of rupees passed through that account.
in fact in april 1952 the collector attached vesco properties for realising this amount.
