that was a case in which the government had taken possession of the lands and had erected certain building on the land before a decision under section 6 of the land acquisition act was made as to the appellant 's property arid it was contended that the appellant should be allowed the value of the land in the state in which it then was i e with buildings on it.
another reason for disallowing the compensation for trees given by the high court was that the position of a trespasser whether he be a mere trespasser or a trespasser under a bona fide claim of title cannot be better than that of a tenant and that if this is correct then the appeal has to be dismissed on the short ground that there is no principle of law or equity which requires the payment of compensation in respect of trees the ownership of which was all along or at any rate from the dale of the trespasser 's dispossession vested in the state.
the trial court also held that all through these long years there had been a dispute as to the title between the illom and the state and after the suit of the illom was dismissed and the illom 's title was not sustained the allegation that the improvements were effected can not be stated to be bona fide.
no doubt in the evidence of the plaintiff p w 1 states that he was evicted from the lands without giving him an opportunity to remove the improvements and in cross examination he was asked whether he was not given any notice prior to the dispossession and he said that certainly no notice was received.
in that suit the appellant after his application for registration was rejected sought to get himself impleaded but that application also was rejected.
this section provides for two notices to be given one notice is to be given to the person who is in unauthorised occupation of government land to vacate the land within a reasonable time and the other notice is to forfeit any crop or other product raised on the land or to remove any building or other structure erected or anything deposited therein within a reasonable time as may be stated in the notice.
the learned advocate for the appellant has reiterated the submissions made before the trial court and the high court and contends that there is no order forfeiting the improvements as required under section 9 of the act and if section 9 does not apply and there is no right of forfeiture as contemplated under section 9 then the appellant is entitled to compensation under the general law.
it observed that the evidence in the case indicated that the possession of the father of the appellant must have commenced close to the year 1100 m e and consequently the claim of the appellant that lie was in possession from 1030 m e can not be true.
it is however urged before us that the high court was in error in thinking that the appellant did not occupy the lands as a trespasser with a bona fide claim of title because it was his case that he trespassed upon the land with a bona fide intention to improve the land and as such he can still be considered as a bona fide trespasser entitled to improvements under the general law.
appeal dismissed.
on this issue it was held that no notice of forfeiture of trees.
it may here be mentioned that while the suit of the illom i e o s No 126 of 1096 m e was pending in the district court quilon the government of travancore had initiated proceedings in ejectment against the appellant by l c case.
but out of the said land 160 acres were taken out of my possession and given to the 2nd defendant even without giving me the opportunity to remove the movable improvements such as cultivation cattle machines utensils houses stocked crops ripe crops etc belonging to me.
this defendant submits that after due notice an order of forfeiture has been passed in poramboke case 112 of 11 00 and the plaintiff is therefore not entitled to claim any value of improvements or value of any building.
to him was also negatived as the court held that the words any crop or other product raised on the land occurring in section 9 of the act would not include trees.
in his helplessness the plaintiff had even applied to government to give him the land in which he had effected improvements on kuthakapattom.
but this is not relevant as what has to be considered is whether trees can be said to be other product raised on the land.
the appellant 's father and the appellant had occupied these lands made improvement thereon by planting coconut trees arecanut palms peppervines rubber trees jack trees other trees and by constructing bungalow huts wells etc.
the appellant had filed a suit on october 24 1942 for the recovery of rs 2 lakhs and interest thereon from the date of suit and for costs originally against the state of travancore now the state of kerala the respondent and three others who however were not made parties in the appeal before the high court.
which belonged to him.
forfeiture under this section shall be disposed of as the division peishkar may direct.
it is in this connection he says that no legal procedure had been followed by government for taking them into possession which only implies that it is in respect of the items mentioned in paragraph 3.
the question before the court was whether the plaintiffs were entitled to recover against the defendant damages caused to them by cutting down and carrying away the plaintiffs trees.
in this view it held that compensation for trees which are to be dealt with under the general law can not be decreed in favour of a mere trespasser who had no rights therein.
as it has now been contended before us.
the high court accepted the finding of the trial court on issue.
the contention of the appellant that the trees which are the subject matter of the appeal should have been forfeited by an order passed under section 9 of the act and in the absence of such.
appellant be allowed to remove them after his dispossession.
the respondent did not understand the averments in the plaint as alleging that no notice to quit was given to him is evident from the written statement of the respondent in paragraph where it is stated thus.
we have earlier adverted to ext.
from the lands from which he was evicted he would be entitled to claim compensation for the improvements made by him.
january 1918 in the district court at quilon for a declaration of its title to those properties.
the same dictionary gives the meaning of the word product as follows product with reference to property proceeds.
in its view these words take in what is familiarly known in law as emblements which according to black 'section law dictionary mean such products of the soil as are annually planted served and saved by manual labour as cereals vegetables grass maturing for harvest or harvested etc but not grass on lands used for pasturage.
the issues that had been famed by the trial court also do not refer to this aspect.
not applicable in india but that is not to say that a wrongful trespasser can plant trees on someone else 's land and claim a right to those trees after he is evicted.
this practice it seems was also current in respect of lands belonging to the government before the travancore land conservancy act 4 of 1091 24 7 1916 hereinafter called the act.
thereafter the suit filed by the illom was dismissed on 28 6 1109 february 10 1934.
the products of a farm may include the increase of cattle on the premises.
p c 163 1929 indlaw pc 11 which was cited by the learned counsel for the appellant does not assist him for the privy council did not think it necessary to give a decision on what it termed to be a far reaching contention.
the appellant pursuant to this order was dispossessed from the lands and possession of these lands was given to the second defendant nair service society ltd in august 1939.
with those specified in that section to all of which the process of becoming ripe and of being cut gathered made and laid up when ripe was incidental.
in this sense the term includes fructus industrials and having regard to the etymology of the word it has been held to mean only products after they have been severed from the soil.
yield income receipts return.
the case of vallabdas narainji v development officer bandra a i r 1929.
this vicarious and altruistic exhibition of good intention may even cause damage to the land of an owner who may not want improvements of such a kind as tree plantation.
