v gross income from forests calculated on the basis of the appraisement made of annual yield of the forests on the date of vesting by a forest officer subject to the approval of the chief conservator of forests such forest officer being not below the rank of a divisional forest officer to be appointed in this behalf by the state government.
nor is it right to contend as the appellant did that the compensation officer 's jurisdiction was created by the order of remand by the high court.
the meat of the matter the primary question agitated in the appeal lopping off the fringe issues of lesser import consists in the statutory methodology and functionaries prescribed by the act for quantifying the compensation and the compliance therewith by the statutory machinery in the case of the appellant.
b v of the act make it clear that the date of vesting is the last date by which the calculation of compensation should have been made.
the argument is that for certain reasons the appellant could not derive and actual income from the forests taken over by the state from him and therefore there was no income tax payable on any agricultural income from these forests.
we are directly concerned with the issue of compensation which is dealt with as earlier stated in chapter v of the act.
4 assuming that section 262 b v would have full force what it contemplates is that the appraisement must be made by the d f o and it is subject to the approval by the chief conservator of forests.
a second appeal was filed by the appellant before the board of revenue without success.
and this holds good after the second remand order that the forest officer will do the appraisement of the annual income forward his report to the chief conservator of forests who will take the said report into consideration and if necessary make modifications therein or approve it with such changes as he deems fit.
no other evidence would be permissible as the state has not chosen to give any other evidence.
section 262.
where the actual income is to be included in the gross assets in the case of forests the assumed income and not the actual income is to be included.
no income therefore no income tax and therefore no deduction is the syllogism of shri purohit.
the appellant challenges the slab system of compensation provided in the act which awards smaller multiples for estates yielding larger incomes on the score of violation of the fundamental rights under the constitution.
the high court has stated that a large part of the delay has been due to laches committed from time to time by the officers who have been charged with the duty to calculate the compensation.
here again the flaw in the submission consists in mis reading section 27 of the act which expressly states that the net income from an estate shall be computed by deducting from the gross assets of such estate any sum which was payable by the intermediary as income tax in respect of any income derived from such estate for the previous agricultural year.
then followed three revision petitions to the high court which led to the order of remand now attacked before us in the present appeals.
certainly the chief conservator can not be ignored by the compensation officer nor can the chief conservator ignore the assessment made by the forest officer and go through an independent exercise.
the compensation case is to be disposed of by the compensation officer within six months from today 104 1969 with intimation to this court.
even so the total figure was less than what the divisional forest officer had recommended.
against the background of law just projected we may set out shri purohit 's points which if we may say so are substantially the same as have been argued by him in revision before the high court with partial success.
in this context it is perhaps not irrelevant to remember that the appellant a freedom fighter is an 83 year old man and at this stage of his life the state should show commisseration not merely in quickly disposing of the proceedings but also in not being cantankerous in awarding and disbursing the balance compensation.
if a notional income on the assumed basis can be used for fixing compensation a notional income tax can be calculated and deducted.
so the first step is for the government to appoint forest officers from out of d f os in the forest department for the purposes of the act.
point No 8 has only to be stated to be rejected.
although he waxed sentimentally on this note he did not convince us on his contentions.
the short answer is that article 313 read with article 312 bars any challenge to the amount of compensation on acquisition by the state subject to compliance with the prescriptions in the said sub articles on the ground that the amount so fixed or determined is not adequate.
the expression forest officer used here has been explained in section 26.
with these prefatory observations we proceed to formulate the many points urged and give our findings and reasons one after the other.
indeed preliminary to the appraisal operation the intermediary receives a notice in form 'd rule 13 and he is expected to furnish a return of the relevant particulars and supporting information to enable correct appraisement.
under rule 131 c of the orissa estates abolition rules 1952 the compensation officer may rely upon such other materials as may otherwise be ascertained by him.
there was no direction that this report of the d f o should be further subject to the approval of the chief conservator of forests.
we have examined the circular letter and are satisfied that it has no relevance to a situation like the present and it deals with a totally different matter.
law is sometimes blind.
thereafter the appropriate statutory course will follow.
the contention is that on the date of vesting which was well over two decades ago the purchasing power of the rupee was much higher than its present value.
besides the evidence already on record would be taken into consideration.
the appellant has received around rs 300000 but much more according to him is due and this controversy can be settled by examining his specific points.
