thus we are of opinion that computation of maternity benefit has to be made for all the days including sundays and rest days which may be wageless holidays comprised in the actual period of absence of the woman extending upto six weeks preceding and including the day of delivery as also for all the days falling within the six weeks immediately following the day of delivery thereby ensuring that the woman worker gets for the said period not only the amount equalling 100 per cent of the wages which she was previously earning in terms of s 3 n of the act but also the benefit of the wages for all the sundays and rest days falling within the aforesaid two periods which would ultimately be conducive to the interests of both the woman worker and her employer.
according to the explanation appended to s 51 of the act the average daily wage has to be computed taking into consideration the average of the woman 's wager payable to her for the days on which she has worked during the period of three calendar months immediately preceding the date from which she absents herself on account of maternity or one rupee a day whichever is higher.
benefit 1subject to the provisions of this act every woman shall be entitled to and her employer shall be liable for the payment of maternity benefit at the rate of the average daily wage for the period of her actual absence immediately preceding and including the day of her delivery and for the six weeks immediately following that day.
the real though difficult question that calls for determination by us is as to what is the connotation of the term week occurring in sub ss 1 and 3 of s 5 of the act and whether the computation of the maternity benefit prescribed by the act for the a foresaid two periods has to be made taking a week as signifying a cycle of seven days including a sunday or a cycle of seven days minus a sunday which is said to be a wageless day as the act does not contain any definition of the word weekit has to be understood in its ordinary dictionary sense.
any woman employed in an establishment and entitled to maternity benefit under the provisions of this act may give notice in writing in such form as may be prescribed to her employer stating that her maternity benefit and any other amount to which she may be entitled under this act may be paid to her or to such person as she may nominate in the notice and that she will not work in any establishment during the period for which she receives maternity benefit.
no woman shall work in any establishment during the six weeks immediately following the day of her delivery or miscarriage.
the claim preferred by the respondent was resisted by the appellant herein who contended that the respondent was admittedly working and was being paid only for six days in a week and that a pregnant woman worker is entitled to maternity benefit for 72 days which are the normal working days in twelve weeks and not for 84 days as no wage is payable for the seventh day of the week i e sunday which is a nonworking wageless holiday.
s 5 of the act which confers right to payment of maternity benefit on a woman worker provisions.
in view of what we have stated above we can not uphold the view of the law expressed by the full bench of kerala high court in malayalam plantations ltd inspector of plantations mundakayam ors 1974 indlaw ker 91 supra.
appeal dismissed.
the above definition it would be noted does not restrict the meaning of the term wages to contractual wages but gives the term a composite meaning covering all remunerations in the nature of cash allowances incentive bonus and the money value of the concessional supply of foodgrains and other articles.
ker 86 1974 indlaw ker 91and to convention no 103 concerning maternity protection convention revised1952 adopted by the general conference of the international labour organisation.
thereupon the establishment moved the high court at madras u art 226 of the constitution challenging the decision of the labour court.
in the case of a woman who is pregnant such notice shall state the date from which she will be absent from work not being a date earlier than six weeks from the date of her expected delivery.
as against this the respondent pleaded that the computation had to be made not with reference to the actual number of working days but with reference to total number of days covered by twelve weeks i e 84 days.
seven days as a term for periodical payments of wagerrent or the likeor as a unit of reckoning for time of work or service.
although costs have to be paid by appellant to respondent no 2 in terms of the court 's order dated october 301975yet in view of the fact that the said respondent has not chosen to appear at the hearing of the case and mr k n bhat has assisted the court as amicus curiae we direct the appellant to pay rs 1000 to mr bhat as his fee.
in webster 's new world dictionary 1962 editionthe meaning of the word week is given as a period of seven days especially one beginning with sunday and ending with saturday the hours or days of work in a seven day period.
the provisions of s 5 of the act quoted above make it clear that a woman worker who expects a child is entitled to maternity benefit for a maximum period of twelve weeks which is split up into two periods viz prenatal and post natal.
a week according to halsbury 's laws of england.
it seems to emphasize in our judgment the continuous running of time and recurrence of the cycle of seven days.
for fixing the average daily wage it has therefore first to be ascertained whether the wages with were paid or were payable to the woman was for time work or for piece work.
i c 848 a i r 1975.
dissatisfied with this decision the establishment has already stated come up in appeal to this court by special leave.
in support of his contention.
we place on record our deep appreciation of the valuable assistance rendered to us by both of them.
s 21 of the act makes the act applicable to every establishment being a factory mine or plantation including any such establishment belonging to government and to every establishment wherein persons are employed for the exhibition of equastrain acrobatic and other performance.
explanation.
by its order dated february 261969the labour court allowed the claim of the respondent.
cochin v. inspector of plantation mundakayam.
third edi tion volume 37 at p 84 is strictly the time between midnight on saturday and the same hour on the next succeeding saturday but the term is also applied to any period of seven successive days.
as her demand did not evoke a favourable response the respondent applied to the labour court coimbatore under section 33c2 of the industrial disputes act for redress of her grievance.
again the word period occurring in s 51 of the act is a strong word.
after thus finding out the average daily wage the liability of the employer in respect of the maternity benefit has to be calculated in terms of s 5 of the act for both ore natal and post natal period indicated above.
1 while absent from work on maternity leave in accordance with the provisions of art 3the woman shall be entitled to receive cash and medical benefits.
provided that where a woman dies during this period the maternity benefit shall be payable only for the days up to and including the day of her death.
bearing in mind the above mentioned dictionary or popular meaning of the term.
for the purpose of calculating under this sub section the days on which a woman has actually worked in the establishment the days for which she has been laid off during the period of twelve months immediately preceding the date of her expected delivery shall be taken into account.
2 the rates of cash benefit shall be fixed by national laws or regulations so as to ensure benefit sufficient for the full and healthy maintenance of herself and her child in according with a suitable standard of living.
3 any woman who has not given the notice when she was pregnant may give such notice as soon as possible after the delivery.
