i of the act a further inquiry under s 372 of the bombay land revenue code into the question whether a jagirdar had any subsisting rights to mines and mineral products in the jagir villages on the appointed date would be competent unless the grant of a right to mines and mineral products or the actual enjoyment thereof in keeping with the grant happens to be the basis of the determination under s 2 4 1 of the act.
admittedly by his previous order dated november 241959the mamlatdar of talukadar had declared that the respondent had been granted all the rights particularly the right to quarry and remove gravel and stones in isarwada and kapoda villages in the year 1947 by the idar stale and that thereafter in the years 1952 and 1953 the jagirdar had taken the produce of stone and that therefore the government could not stop him from taking out gravel and stones but that the rights to excavating mica had been retained by the state further pursuant to this order the appropriate entry had been made in the relevant village records form no 6 of village kapoda on june 181963recognising the respondents right to take out gravel and stones which entry was verified and confirmed on march 301965it was in this situation that the respondent made the aforesaid two applications one to the collector sabarkantha and the other to the mamladar taluka idar whereby relying upon the previous order of the mamlatdar dated november 241959he requested that appropriate entries pertaining to his right to gravel and stones should be similarly made in respect of village isarwada.
s 2xviii defines proprietary jagir as meaning a jagir in respect of which the jagirdar under the terms of a grant or agreement or by custom or usage is entitled to any rights or interest in the soil.
the high court negatived the contentions urged by the appellants and took the view that in the determination by the competent authority under s 2 4 i of the act that the respondent 's jagir was a proprietary one there was implicit decision that the respondent was a grantee of the soil which included sub soil entitling him to mines and mineral products and as such a further inquiry by the collector under s 372 of the bombay land revenue code was incompetent and without jurisdiction and therefore the collector 's order dated february 231973 was liable to be quashed.
in other words before the collector can initiate an inquiry under that provision either the state or the individual must put forward a claim to a property or any right in or over the property and it is such claim that is to be inquired into by the collector whose decision subject to a civil suit filed within one year is rendered final.
in the first place the preamble and s 3 of the act clearly show that the object of the enactment is to abolish jagirs of all kinds in the merged territories and merged areas in the state of bombay and to convert all jagir villages into unalienated villages liable to the payment of land revenue in accordance with the provisions of the bombay land revenue code.
appeal dismissed.
thirdly the quantum of compensation payable for abolition of jagir and extinguishment of his other rights depends upon what kind of jagir has been abolished whether it is proprietary or non proprietary in other words it is clear that the inquiry into the nature of the jagir under s 2 4 i is for the purpose of determining the quantum of compensation payable to a jagirdar inasmuch as in the case of a non proprietary jagir the jagirdar is entitled to compensation at the rate of three times the amount of land revenue received by or due to him as an incident of jagir during the five years immediately before the appointed date under s 11 1while in the case of a proprietary jagir in respect of land held by a permanent holder the jagirdar is entitled to compensation equivalent to three multiples of the assessment fixed for such land s 113 provides for compensation and computation thereof to a jagirdar having any right or interest in any property referred to in s 8 in such an inquiry ordinarily no determination of any rights of the jagirdar to mines or mineral products in a jagir village will be undertaken for no compensation is payable in respect of any rights to mines and mineral products in a jagir village.
the state government shall decide the question and such decision shall be final.
turning to the other specific question raised by counsel for the respondent before us we are clearly of the view that in the facts and circumstances of the case the inquiry initiated by the collector under s 374 of the bombay land revenue code will have to be regarded as incompetent misconceived and uncalled for.
grant or law for the time being in force or by custom or usage.
according to the learned counsel for the respondent unless a claim to property or rights over property was made either by the state against any person or by any person against the state there could be no occasion for the collector to held an inquiry contemplated by s 372 of the code.
s 24though it forms part of a definition section contains a substantive provision which is material for our purposes and it runs thus 24.
the appellants seek to challenge the said judgment and order of the gujarat high court in this appeal.
in other words our answer to the general question raised above would be that even after the competent authority has declared a particular jagir to be a proprietary one under s 24.
the material on record clearly shows that the respondent could not be said to have done so.
act1953 bombay act.
if any question arises.
aggrieved by this order passed by the collector on february 231973the respondent preferred a writ petition special civil application no 1224 of 1973 under art 227 of the constitution to the gujarat high court and writ of certiorari quashing the order dated february 231973 and a direction restraining the collector from further proceeding with the inquiry under s 372 of the land revenue code were sought.
we may state that counsel for the respondent categorically stated before the court that his client was confining his right to excavating only one type of mineral product namely gravel and stones and that too from only two villages namely kapoda and isarwada comprised in his jagir in regard to which the mamlatdar 's order dated november 241959was quite clear and therefore he urged that the further inquiry under s 372 of the code into that very right was misconceived and uncalled for.
besides while determining the proprietary nature of the grant under s 241 of the act the competent authority had on evidence led before it alluded among others to the respondent 's right to excavate and sell gravel and stones and enjoyment thereof by the respondent.
s 371 of the code contains the well known declaratory provision where under all public roads lanes and paths the bridges ditches dikes beds of the sea harbours and creeks below high water mark and of rivers streams nallas lakes and tanks etc and all lands wherever situated which are not the property of individuals are declared to be with all rights in or over the same or appertaining thereto the property of the crown then follows sub s 2 which is material and it runs thus 372.
the main valid objection to the said inquiry is that the condition precedent the existence of which canlead to the initiation of such inquiry is absent here.
we find considerable force in this contention.
s 2vii defines jagirdar as meaning a holder of a jagir village and includes his co sharer.
there is yet one more aspect emerging from the definition of the expression proprietary jagir which leads to the same inference.
according to learned counsel the mere circumstance that the respondent 's jagir was found under s 24.
the facts giving rise to the said question are these by hajur order no 116 dated october 271933the respondent maharaj shri amar singji himatsingji was granted daljitgarh jagir comprising of 10 villages mentioned in the said order in jivarak for maintenance by the then ruler of idar by another hajur order no 807 dated january 121934the respondent was given a further grant in jivarak of 3 villages mentioned in that order with effect from october 11933 by yet another hajur order no 964 dated november 21194714 villages including kapoda and isarwada were granted in jivarak to the respondent by the ruler of idar in substitution of the villages mentioned in the previous two orders.
i whether a jagir is proprietary or non proprietary iiwhether any land is ghatked or jiwai or iiiwhetherany person is a permanent holder.
ss 5 and 6 make provision as to what persons upon abolition of jagirs and conversion of jagir land into unalienated land would be occupants who shall be primarily liable to the state government for payment of land revenue.
the aforesaid survey of the material provisions of the act will bring out two or three aspects very clearly.
he urged that it would be for the collector acting under s 372 of the bombay land revenue code to decide the latter question in an inquiry initiated under that provision.
the rest of the sections are if formal character and not material for our purposes.
having regard to the rival contentions of the parties summarised above it will appear clear that really two questions one general and the other specific in the light of the facts obtaining in the instant case arise for our determination in this appeal.
it is thus clear that by these two applications the respondent had not put forward any claim as such to excavating gravel and stones for the first time but had merely requested the making of appropriate entry with regard to his said right which had already been recognised by the state government previously.
no xxxix of 1954 declares that a particular jagir is a proprietary one a further inquiry under s 37 2 of the bombay land revenue code bombay act.
ss 13 and 14 provide for methods of awarding compensations to jagirdars by the collector and against the awards of the collector under either of these provisions a appeal has been provided at the instance of the aggrieved party to the revenue tribunal under s 16 s 17 provides the procedure for disposal of appeals by the revenue tribunal while s 18 prescribes a period of limitation for preferring such appeals and s 20 gives finality to the award made by the collector subject to appeal to the revenue tribunal.
moreover having regard to the statement made by counsel for the respondent before us it would be unfair to subject the respondent to the further inquiry under s 372 of the code.
ithe further inquiry initiated by the collector under s 372 was misconceived and uncalled for.
that being the position there was no occasion for the collector to initiate the inquiry under s 372 of the code in fact he had no jurisdiction to do so the condition precedent not being satisfied.
the enactment as its preamble will show has been put on the statute book with a view to abolishing jagirs of various kinds in the merged territories and merged areas in the state of bombay and to provide for matters consequential and incidental thereto.
