in this appeal we are concerned with the question whether the high court was right in upholding the award of the arbitrator so far as it has held in favour of abdul khader and his rights to get 60 of the compensation.
chapter iv of the andhra pradesh act deals with protected tenants and s 34 of the said act provides who is to be considered as a protected tenant and uses the expression that a person shall subject to the provisions of sub ss 2 and 3be deemed to be a protected tenant in respect of the land if he has fulfilled the conditions mentioned in clauses a and b of sub s 1 of s 34 of the said act.
section 37a was enacted on 12th of march1956 the high court was however of the view that it can not be said that it was for the revenue authorities alone to decide the issue because the arbitrator was ordered to decide the issue by the high court on 19th august1974 and by this court on 30th of january1975 the high court also referred to the directions of this court dated 19th august1985 mentioned hereinbefore.
for this reliance was placed on s 102 of the andhra pradesh act which lays down that the act will not apply to lands leased granted alienated or acquired in favour of or by the central government or the state government etc and on s 99 of the act which bars the jurisdiction of civil courts to deal with any question which is under the andhra pradesh act required to be settled to be decided or dealt with by the tahsildar tribunal or collector.
the order was passed by the district revenue officer who held that abdul khader was not a protected tenant.
on behalf of the appellant it was submitted that there was a complete bar for any civil court to go into the question whether abdul khader was a protected tenant and as such the arbitrator and the high court had no jurisdiction to decide this question.
he had claimed rights of a protected tenant.
the high court was of the view that there was surfeit of evidence prior to the commencement of the andhra pradesh act that shaik hussain was a tenant of the land.
we are not concerned with the challenge to this aspect in this appeal.
who are the persons who have interest in the land had to be decided in accordance with the law and the evidence.
shri subba rao learned counsel for the respondents submits that the appellants should not be permitted to withdraw from the authorities concerned more than 40 per cent of the total compensation awarded in respect of the lands in question pending disposal of the appeal before the high court.
this appeal by special leave is from the judgment and order of the high court of andhra pradesh dated 15th april1986.
in determining the amount of compensation payable to abdul khader under the central act his interests in the property had to be determined.
not only that in the writ petition filed by the present petitioner in this court it was held that it is not necessary to go into the question whether the petitioner is a protected tenant or whether he has any prima facie interest in the property because they are the matters entirely within the sole jurisdiction of the arbitrator who has to be appointed under s 8 of the act.
the property in question was taken possession of on or about 12th of september1963.
sub s 2 of s 35 stipulates that a declaration by the tahsildar that the person is deemed to be a protected tenant or in the event of an appeal from the tahsildar 's decision such declaration by the collector on first appeal or by the board of revenue on second appeal shall be conclusive that such person is a protected tenant and his rights as such shall be recorded in the record of right of where there is no record of rights in such village record as may be prescribed.
the high court has so held.
tenancy and agricultural land act1950 we have heard the learned counsel for the respondents on the above question.
s 38 of the said act deals with right of protected tenant to purchase land.
the kowlnama executed in favour of the son mohd.
s 7 authorises the central government where it is of the opinion that it is necessary to do so to acquire requisitioned property.
we are unable to accept this submission.
it was in those circumstances held by him that the entry was a spurious one.
in the aforesaid view of the matter this appeal must fail and is accordingly dismissed with costs.
the learned judge observed inter alia as follows i am told by the counsel for both the parties that the lands in question were already acquired for military purpose under the requisition and acquisition of immovable property act1952 and that sri m s sharma the additional chief judge city civil court hyderabad has already been appointed as arbitrator under the act for determining the compensation and the persons entitled to it.
claim petition was filed by the appellant before the arbitrator claim petition was also filed by abdul khader claiming 60 of compensation as a protected tenant.
hereinafter called the andhra pradesh act.
s 37 deals with persons not entitled under s 34 to be deemed in certain circumstances as protected tenants.
in the judgment under appeal which is directed against the award made by the arbitrator formulated the following four issues 1 what is the value of the land 2 who are entitled to the compensation amount 3 whether abdul khader is a protected tenant of sail gulshan of the area 19 02 guntas excluding the land of buildings wells etc and 4 what share is to be apportioned to successors of sail nawaz jung.
on or about 22nd of april1985.
this court by the two orders referred to hereinbefore had also affirmed this position.
it is relevant at this stage to refer to certain provisions of the central act to consider the controversy involved in this appeal the central act was enacted giving power for requisitioning and acquisition of immovable property for union purposes.
it is as follows 99 bar of jurisdiction 1.
sub s 3 of s 40 of the said act provides that if a protected tenant dies without leaving any heirs all his rights shall be so extinguished.
i suspect that somebody has tampered the register and entered the name of sri mohd abdul khader.
the arbitrator therefore exceeded his jurisdiction and the high court was in error.
abdul khader on december 31950 was filed and was marked as exhibit c 1 the document recited permitted to utilise garden fruits flowers and mango.
s 5 deals with rights over requisitioned property.
no order of the tahsildar tribunal or collector or of the board of revenue or government made under this act shall be questioned in any civil or criminal court.
in 1954there was wakfnama by the said sail nawaz jung.
thereafter there was an order appointing arbitrator on 29th of march1975.
the high court noticed the position that under the said andhra pradesh act it was for the revenue authorities to order whether a tenant is a protected tenant under section 34s 37 and section 37a of the said act.
the high court discussed 18 documents out of which two are challans and other depositions.
reference may be made to the decision in the case of archi appalareddi and another v special tahsildar land acquisition visakhapatnam municipality and mother1979 andhra weekly reporter vol 1 p 101where the court observed in the context of the land acquisition act that a tenant was a person interested as defined in clause b of s 3 of the land acquisition act.
act no xxi of 1950.
nos 4692 to 4694 of 1985 clarified and ob served that there was no need for further clarification.
determination by the revenue authorities and non determination is not conclusive or decisive.
the appeals were disposed of accordingly.
let it be.
the high court on reciting the facts came to the conclusions inter alia.
appointed advocate commissioner to record additional evidence.
sd tahsildar.
hence i suspect the entry and order to cancel the copy of the tenancy issued in favour of sri modh.
in that view of the matter we must uphold that decision however unsatisfactory.
hyderabad west taluk.
he has a right to object to the acquisition andor the quantum of compensation.
the military estate officer secunderabad of.
the tenant was permitted to raise flower trees at his own expenses.
the remaining 60 per cent shall be disbursed in accordance with the directions to be given by the high court after hearing all the parties concerned.
s 3 of the said act gave power to requisition immovable property.
tenancy and agricultural lands act1950 being.
save as provided in this act.
a i r 1985 s c 1576 1985 indlaw sc 246 on the question of solarium and interest on the amount awarded.
it might appear that a fruit pucker gets 60 of the compensation while the owners get only if that is the law.
the high court took into consideration the judgment in suit no 131 of 195 1 52 by the tenant.
in the meantime abdul khader filed an application on or about 21st of october1984 for adducing additional evidence to mark kaulnama dated 2nd of december1950 for the first time and oubuliatnama dated 2nd december1950 as exhibits in deciding the protected tenancy rights.
fruits.
aggrieved by the aforesaid award the appellant claiming as one of the owners of the property filed a statutory appeal to the high court.
u s 81b of the central act.
andhra pradesh requested for the requisition of the property named as sail gulshan with a vast extent of land and palaces with roads and surrounded by a compound wail measuring 19 acres and 10 guntas situated in the heart of hyderabad city near sarojini devi hospital.
s 6 deals with the power of release from the requisitioning.
he held further that khasra pahani which is the basic record of occupancy period after spot inspections does not find the name of abdul khader and further held that all entries except this entry in the protected tenancy register prepared under section 37a of the andhra pradesh act was supported by an enquiry.
