in view of the improvement made by the prosecution witnesses at the trial from their earlier statements and the infirmities already noticed we are of the opinion that it can not be said with any amount of certainty that the participation of a 10 in the assault or even his presence in the unlawful assembly at the time of the assault near jagdamba hotel or the math has been substantiated.
the evidence of pw10pw 11 and pw 12 has received ample corroboration from the testimony of pw 9pw 13pw 14 and pw 15who deposed that while the witnesses were narrating the incident of the video parlour to waman band patte pw 15 and other witnesses present there the accused party arrived in a jeep and two auto rickshaws variously armed and opened an attack on the complainant party with a view to teach them a lesson for the altercation which had taken place earlier at the video parlour.
before we part with the judgment we would also like to deal with a submission made on behalf of the appellants by their learned counsel that since the offence under section 3 of tada is not made out the criminal appeal filed in this court may be transferred to the high court for its disposal in exercise of our jurisdiction under article 142 of the constitution of india for the reason that a first appeal against conviction and sentence recorded for various offences under the indian penal code by the sessions court lies to the high court.
the designated court after considering the evidence of the first incident and the manner of assault on the deceased and pw 9 and pw 14came to the conclusion that the appellants alongwith some others had intended to create terror in a section of the people wadar community and with that intention had assaulted pw 14the deceased and pw9 by lethal weapons and were therefore guilty of committing an offence under section 3 tada.
a bare perusal of the above section shows that an appeal against the judgment sentence or order of the designated court except an interlocutory order shall lie on facts and on law to the supreme court and that no appeal or revision shall lie to any other court.
the prosecution has not been able to establish the case against a 10 beyond a reasonable doubt and is our opinion he is entitled to the benefit of the doubt.
the victims it appears from the record belong to the wadar community.
pw both the prosecution witnesses as well as.
public prosecutor.
one accused died during the pendency of the trial.
pw 14 bajrang was also medically examined and the following injuries were found on him 1.
ipc the conviction and sentence of appellants no 1 a 52 a 83 a 9 and 5 a 11 for the said offences as recorded by the learned designated court are well merited and calls for no interference.
out of the accused a 5a 6a 8a 10 and a 11 were carrying swords while a 7 and a 9 had satturs and the remaining accused were armed with sticks.
during the investigation an identification parade was got conducted through the executive magistrate pw 32 when baban karpe pw 9 and other prosecution witnesses identified the assailants.
thus unless the act complained of falls strictly within the letter and spirit of section 31 of tada and is committed with the intention as envisaged by that section by means of the weapons etc as are enumerated therein with the motive as postulated thereby an accused can not be tried or convicted for an offence under section 31 of tada.
transverse incised wound on right parital region bone deep4 x 2 x 1 cms.
on the pointing out by a 10the said sword was also recovered and taken into possession through a panchnama.
samples of blood of the accused were collected for ascertaining their blood groups and sent for chemical analysis.
appellants a 5a 10 and a 11 thereafter assaulted bajrang band patte pw 14 on his head in front of the hotel.
the trial court for the purposes of consideration of the evidence divided the prosecution case into three parts namely i the incident at vrindavan video parlour ii incident near jagdamba hotel and iii the incident at the math.
bone deep at centre of vertex fracture of skull with laceration of brain.
the defence plea of total denial and false implication has been rightly rejected by the designated court in view of the over whelming cogent and reliable prosecution evidence.
there is only one injury which was received by pw 14 and according to the other prosecution witnesses that injury had been caused to him by a 11 the tendency to exaggerate the incident is not uncommon and that an innocent person may be roped in alongwith the guilty ones is a possibility which cannot in the facts and circumstances of this case be ruled out.
through this appeal under section 19 of tada the appellants have called in question their conviction and sentence.
all the injured persons were admitted to the hospital.
at the identification parade a 5 was identified by pw 9pw10pw 11pw 14 and pw 15 a 10 by pws 10 to 15 a 11 by pw 3 and pws 9 to 15 a 1 by pws 10 to 15 a 8 and a 9 by pw 3 and by pws 10 to 15.
the accused party left the video parlour threatening each other.
prosecution has led no evidence nor brought any circumstances on the record from which any inference may be drawn that the appellants intended to strike terror amongst the wadar community.
however so far as a 10 is concerned we find that there is merit in the submissions of the learned counsel for the appellant that his identify and participation in the assault has not been established beyond a reasonable doubt.
supp scale 1 1994 indlaw sc 525 and hitendra vishnu thakur 's case 1994 indlaw sc 1706 supra no offence under section 3 of tada could be said to have been committed by the appellants.
his testimony receives ample corroboration from the testimony of pw10pw11pw14 and pw15 waman the proprietor of jagdamba hotel besides the medical evidence.
he ran away to conceal himself.
the designated court as already noticed found all of them guilty and convicted them for the offences under section 3 tada302149307149 and 323149 ipc.
there was an altercation between the accused and the complainant party when the leg of kaka dombe a 11 dashed against the leg of anna shety band patte.
at about 4 00 p m the appellants and other accused persons allegedly armed with swords satturs and sticks arrived there in two auto rickshaws and one jeep.
some of the prosecution witnesses including the deceased pw9 and pw14 were already standing near the jagdamba hotel.
according to a 2a 3a 5a 6 and a 7 they had been identified by pw 9during the identification parade at the instance of the police.
a 10 also made a disclosure statement under section 27 of the evidence act to the effect that he had buried a sword behind yamai tukai temple and could get it recovered.
pw 19 was declared hostile by the prosecution and was cross examined by the addl.
2 abraded contusion below right knee and front of right leg5 x 5 cm.
after completion of the investigation two charge sheets arising out of crime no 10190 and crime no 10290 were filed before the designated court.
on the basis of the said report an fir for offences under section 302307149147148 ipc was registered vide cr no 101 of 1990 at about 6 00 p m the inquest on the dead body of popat was conducted and the body was sent for post mortem examination.
while receiving the treatment popat succumbed to his injuries.
prevention act1987 hereinafter referred to as tada by the learned designated judge pune.
the accused were searched for but could not be traced.
they were subsequently arrested on different dates.
police inspector joshi arrived at the hospital and baban karpe pw 9 narrated the occurrence to him which was reduced into writing.
the argument is fallacious and runs in the teeth of the express provisions of section 19 of tada.
there is no basis for such an assumption.
we agree.
that takes us now to consider the nature of the offence committed by a 5a 8a 9 and a 11.
these witnesses knew the accused from before by their names and had also identified them later when called upon to do so.
the substantive sentences of imprisonment were however directed to run concurrently.
transverse lacerated would on occipital region3 x 1 cm.
in fairness to the learned counsel for the state mr madhav reddy sr advocate we must also record that he conceded that in the facts and circumstances of the case and keeping in view the law laid down by the constitution bench in kartar singh 's case 1994.
an auto rickshaw bearing registration no mwq 5624 belonging to manik bhende gavali was found abandoned in a damaged condition with broken glasses.
on receipt of information asstt.
emphasis supplied.
the complainant party went towards jagdamba hotel owned by waman band patte pw at that time baban karpe bajrang band patte sanjay mane ramesh pawar were also present near the hotel.
