the said receiver was not aware of the fact that nalban fishery had in fact requisitioned by the state of west bengal and the state is in possession of the same since november1369 the possession thus taken by the receiver of the vast extent tank fishery is obviously a symbolical possession but in view of the order of this court dated 18 4 1979 as well as 22 4 1979 while passing a decree in terms of compromise arrived at between the parties and on the admitted position that state had already come into possession of the fishery by virtue of the order under the requisition act the said fishery remained out of the purview of the allotment made by the sarkar family in the compromise and therefore the receiver could not have taken possession of the same.
he further contended that nalban fishery having been vested in the state of west bengal under the provisions of west bengal under the provisions of west bengal acquisition act1955the state can not get rid of the direction given by the supreme court to the receiver to handover possession of the various fisheries covered by the final decree to the parties to whom they have been allotted under the decree and the nalban fishery being one such fishery the possession thereof was required to be given to the person in whose favour the said fishery has been allotted and therefore the learned single judge as well as the division bench in appeal have rightly issued the directions.
it would be appropriate at this stage to extract this part of the decree passed by this court in view of the foregoing we again wish to re emphasize that the terms the decree shall not affect the rights of the state of west bengal in any manner whatsoever to the fisheries in question if they have vested in the state under the provisions of the west bengal estates acquisition act1953 act x of 1954.
the nalban fishery had been requisitioned by the state of west bengal in exercise of power under section 31 of the west bengal land requisition and acquisition act is not disputed and can not be disputed and since the validity of the said order of requisition had been challenged by the sarkar family in the calcutta high court and being unsuccessful there they had also filed special leave petition in this court in slp c no 145272 which was ultimately dismissed by this court on 17 11 1972.
the direction of the learned single judge on the other hand is to carry out the directions of the supreme court in respect of the nalban fishery.
ray the learned senior counsel appearing for bansilal farms in addition to the contentions raised by mr salve appearing for the state of west.
a learned single judge of the calcutta high court passed a preliminary decree in the said suit on 11 8 1960 one of the co sharers of the sarkar family preferred an appeal against the preliminary decree before the division bench which was registered as appeal no200 of 1960 during the pendency of the aforesaid appeal the state of west.
the collector 24 parganas took possession of the fisheries including nalban fishery as receiver and submitted a compliance report dated 22 11 1978 to the registrar of this court.
bengal in respect of the nalban fishery as the state was not a party to the proceedings.
the injunction order issued against bansilal farms appellant in appeal arising out of slp c no 13314 of 1992stands vacated.
the next question that arises for consideration is what is the effect of the amendment to the west bengal land reforms act which was amended in the year 1986 but with retrospective effect.
from the order in question which has been annexed as annexure p to the special leave petition c no 13314 of 1992it appears that the order was passed on the application on one of the members of sarkar family mr pulak sarkar.
the said receiver will be fully justified in rectifying any mistake or error committed by him while implementing the direction of the court.
gupta also contended that the order of the high court of honourable mr justice deepak kumar sen dated 23 9 1980 directing the receiver to allow m s ghose and saha surveyors to make proper demarcation in the nalban fishery dividing the same in two lots and thereafter carry out the directions of the supreme court in respect thereof has become final the same not having been challenged by the state of west.
the aforesaid corporation issued an advertisement for auctioning the nalban fishery for a boating complex.
the aforesaid order can not be held to operate as res judicata taking away the rights of the state of west.
bengal.
these three appeals by special leave are directed against one and the same judgment dated 25 09 l992 of the division bench of calcutta high court.
the order was in fact a direction to the collector 24 paraganas who had been appointed as a receiver by the supreme court in the pending appeal before it.
we do not find any force in the contention of mr gupta appearing for the respondents that the succeeding receiver had no jurisdiction to re deliver the possession of nalban fishery is the state of west bengal when his predecessor has already taken possession of the same pursuant to the order of this court.
judged from this view there is no infirmity with the direction issued by the learned single judge as well as division bench of the calcutta high court warranting interference by this court.
in view of our earlier conclusion that the rights and interest of the state of west bengal was not in any way be affected by the so called partition and allotment of the nalban fishery inter se amongst the members of the sarkar family the said order dated 63 10 1980 passed by the learned single judge of the calcutta high court will not stand on the way of the state in claiming and putting forth its interest and right over the nalban fishery.
it is no doubt true that a writ petition has been filed challenging the validity of the aforesaid act and notification issued there under in relation to vary nalban fishery which is still pending and therefore it would not be proper for us to examine the provisions of the emended west bengal land reforms act and to express any opinion thereon.
order accordingly.
the dispute centres around a fishery called nalban fishery.
bengal which is otherwise protected by the supreme court while passing the compromise decree.
in this connection he had further urged that this question had not been raised before the high court.
the nalban fishery was one of the items of property in the suit for partition is not disputed.
by virtue of the extended definition of land in section 2 7 and the amended provisions of section 3a of the land reforms act tank fishery like nalban fishery come within the definition of and it vests in the state by operation of section 31 read with section 14.
this court dismissed the special leave petition.
there will be no order as to costs.
the receiver appointed by a court is an officer of the court.
the respondents are the members of one sarkar family in the city of calcutta.
that the tank fishery vested with the state of west bengal.
pursuant to the aforesaid order appointing collector 24 parganas as receiver.
does not in any way take away rights of the state of west.
bengal ca nt be bound down by the so called allotment of fisheries in favour of some members of the sarkar family under the compromise decree in question.
the suit ultimately no doubt was disposed of on the basis of a compromise arrived at between the parties but the court took sufficient care in disposing of the appeals on the terms of compromise by observing that the state has substantial interest with regard to fisheries rights covered by the litigation and nothing in the decree will not affect the rights of the state of west.
the contention of mr gupta appearing for the respondents therefore cannot be sustained.
the successor receiver in the circumstances therefore was fully justified in bringing it to the notice of this court by giving a second report indicating therein that his predecessor had erroneously taken the possession of nalban fishery which is in contravention of the directions of this court dated 18 4 1979 and for which the receiver offered his unconditional apology.
this order of the learned single judge was challenged in appeal before the division bench and the division bench having dismissed the same the present appeals have been preferred.
under the circumstances the said receiver rightly intimated this court about the mistake committed by him and re delivered possession of nalban fishery to the state of west bengal.
the next question that arises for consideration is whether the order of honourable mr justice deepak kumar sen dated 6 10 1980 would operate as res judicata since the state did not challenge the same.
suffice it to say that under the amended provisions of the west bengal land reforms act tank fishery being included in the land would vest in the state by combined reading of sections 3a and 14 and therefore the state can not be divested of the rights accruing by the amended provisions until the amended provisions are declared invalid by a competent court of law.
