it might be that under the relevant statutes of the university the university was required to obtain the views of the state government but that did not amount to requiring any approval of the state government and indeed if any such statute required the approval of the state government it would be void in view of what was stated by this court in state of tamil nadu.
no doubt the question of affiliation was a different matter and was not covered by the central act but in the tamil nadu case it was held that the university could not impose any conditions inconsistent with the aicte act or its regulation or the conditions imposed by the aicte therefore the procedure for obtaining the affiliation and any conditions which could be imposed by the university could not be inconsistent with the provisions of the central act.
the aicte sent a communication on 30 4 1995 stating that on the basis of the observations made by the expert committee and the recommendations made by the central regional committee state level committee and central task force as per the provisions of the aicte regulation dated 30 1 1994the aicte was granting conditional approval for establishing an engineering and technical college.
the learned single judge of the high court by his judgment dated 14 1 1997 allowed the writ petition quashed the above said order of the government dated 16 8 1996 and directed the mahatama gandhi university to consider the appellant 's application for permanent affiliation without reference to the above letter of the government and pass appropriate order within 8 weeks from the date of the receipt of a copy of the judgment.
we have already pointed out under point 1 that in the tamil nadu case s 10k of the aicte act was referred to and the power of approval for establishing a technical institution was considered in our opinion even if there was a state law in the state of kerala which required the approval of the state government for establishing technical institutions such a law would have been repugnant to the aicte act and void to that extent as held in the tamil nadu case.
regulation 2 states that these regulations will be applicable to proposals relating to a grant of approval of the council for establishment of new technical institutions including universities or university depart ments and deemed universities and for technical institutions function ing on the date of commencement of these regulations at degree and diploma levels b grant of approval of the council for introduction of any course or programme in the technical institutions and technical departments or universities or deemed universities c grant of approval of the council for existing intake capacity of seats and for increase in the annual intake capacity of seats in courses and programmes.
point 2.
the government had clarified in the counter affidavit filed in the high court that the government was not in a position to take a decision to start new engineering colleges without properly assessing the necessity of more engineering graduates from the state and without exploring the possibility of employment opportunities in the country as a whole.
sub cl 4 of regulation 8 reads as follows.
according to the learned senior counsel it was indeed not necessary for the appellant to have applied to the state government for any further sanction to establish the college.
the appellant had sent a reminder on 26 8 95 the state in its letter dated 16 8 96 to the appellant merely stated that government regret their inability to comply with your request.
regulation 5 deals with the forms of the applications and regulation 6 deals with the conditions for grant of approval sub cls 1 of regulation 6 deals with the financial position.
as already stated in view of the judgment of this court in tamil nadu case it is obvious that there is no need to approach the state of kerala for its approval for starting the engineering colleges.
as stated earlier the above provisions of the aicte act came up for consideration in state of tamil nadu v adhiyaman educational research institute1995 4 scc 104 1995 indlaw sc 1631.
the government of tamil nadu granted permission to the trust for the academic year 1987 88 to start an engineering college.
it is not the university act and the university but it is the central act and the council created under it which will have the jurisdiction.
the secretary technical education of the state of kerala was also a member of that committee.
reg 84.
hence on the subjects covered by the statute the state could not make a law under entry 25 of list iii after the forty second amendment.
the appeal is allowed and disposed of as stated above.
granting approval for starting new technical institution.
the letter of approval of the aicte dated 30 4 95 showed that the central task force had given its approval.
sub cl 10 of regulation 8 states that the decision of the council shall be communicated to the state government concerned or the ugc as the case may be the concerned university or the state board the regional office and the applicant before 30th april in case the application was made before the preceding 31st december.
2 whether the orders of rejection passed by the state government were valid on merits and whether the university should have granted further orders to continue the affiliation solely on the basis of the aicte permission.
sub cl 1 permits the council to advice the central government in certain respects sub cl m lay down norms for granting autonomy subcl n to take necessary steps to prevent commercialisation of technical education cl o to provide guidelines for admission of students to technical institutions and universities imparting technical education cl p to inspect or cause inspection to any technical institution cl q to withhold or discontinue grant cl r to strengthen the existing organisa tions etc.
m jagannadha rao j. the petitioner was not a party in the high court of kerala and this special leave petition was filed with leave of this court.
there were also two unaided engineering colleges at mallappuram and thiruvananthapuram.
all that was necessary was that under the regulations the aicte council had to consult them.
the all india council for technical education and the mahatma gandhi university have sought for the remarks of the state government.
they were preconstitutional or a post constitutional laws they would be repugnant to the aicte act passed by parliament under entry 66 of list.
no reasons were assigned in the said letter.
thus the government policy was not to grant fresh approvals.
before we refer to the abovesaid judgment it will be necessary to refer to certain provisions of the aicte act and the relevant regulations.
the only requirement as per the statute 97 was for the university to obtain the views of the state government.
the aicte had granted condition approval and the conditions were specified in annexure.
there is a prelimi nary scrutiny of the applications by the bureau rc of the council.
the learned single judge and the division bench held in favour of the trust and quashed and orders of the government and the university.
the tamil nadu case.
even on merits the reasons given by the state government in its counter are not tenable in law.
there will be no order as to costs.
inspection of technical institution which are matters covered by the central act.
i in the above case this court referred to the various provisions of the aicte act and on the question of repugnancy held as follows.
we have already referred to these details.
if the university statute required approvalit would have been repugnant to the aicte act.
therefore the aicte consti tuted a task force and obtained its opinion and thereafter granted its approval on 13 11 1995 subject to various conditions.
in case there was difference between the state government university or the regional committee the central task force was to make a final recommen dation under regulation.
decision of university in not granting further or fined affiliation wrong on merits.
there was an inspection by a team of professors of the university and it recommended favourably when it stated that the facilities provided by the appellant would be sufficient for establish ing an engineering college.
meanwhile the mahatama gandhi university by their letter dated 31 5 1995 forwarded to the government a list of colleges and courses for affiliation during the academic year 1995 96 the appellant 's college was shown as one of the colleges among the affiliated colleges for the said period.
another v adhiyaman educational research institute.
after considering the report of the commission and the report of the local inquiry if any and after making such further inquiry as it may deem necessary the syndicate shall decide after ascer taining the view of the government also whether the affiliation be granted or refused either in whole or part.
it is therefore not under standable how the director had given a contrary opinion to the state government.
this ground of repugnancy alone would be sufficient to quash the state government 's letter dated 16 8 1996 refusing to give their approval.
in case affiliation is granted the fact shall be reported to the senate at its next meet ing.
obtaining the views of the state government as already stated did not amount to obtaining its approval.
it is against the abovesaid judgment of the division bench that this appeal has been preferred.
sri t l vishwanatha.
at that time in 1984the aicte act was not on the statute book.
iii whether.
state government 's refusal to grant permission is illegal and void on merits.
the aicte had consulted the state of kerala as well as the mahatama gandhi university.
for the purposes of performing its functions under the act the council may a undertake survey in various fields of technical education collect data on all related matters and make forecast of the needed growth and development in technical education b coordinate the development of technical education in the country at all levels c allocate and disburse out of the fund of the council such grants on such terms and conditions as it may think fit to i technical institutions and ii universities imparting technical education in coordination with the commission d promote innovations research and development in established and new technologies generation adoption and adaptation of new technologies to meet developmental requirements and for overall improve ment of educational processes e formulate schemes for promoting technical education for women handicapped and weaker sections of the society f promote an effective link between technical education system and other relevant systems including research and development organisations industry and the community g evolve suitable performance appraisal systems for technical institutions and universities imparting technical education incorpo rating norms and mechanisms for enforcing accountability h formulate schemes for the initial and in service training of teachers and identify institutions or centres and set up new centres for offering staff development programmes including continuing education of teachers i lay down norms and standards for courses curricula physical and instructional facilities staff pattern staff qualifications quality instructions assessment and examinations j fix norms and guidelines for charging tuition and other fees.
if the state government had any other valid objections its only remedy was to place its objections before the aicte council under the aicte act or before the committees e g state level committee etc.
the following points arise for consideration 1.
88 later on these permissions were withdrawn by the state after issuing show cause on 16 7 89 so did the university on 26 7 89 but by that date the aicte act1987 had come into force.
if more approvals were granted it might lead to commercialisation of education.
the government was also directed to reconsider its decision.
the said judgments were affirmed by this court.
we find that the petitioner has already filed a writ petition in the delhi high court namely cwp no 952 of 1998 and the same is pending.
