so also the discov ery of b group blood stain on the underwear can not be treated as an incrimi nating piece of evidence against the accused connecting him with the crime because there is no evidence that the underwear belonged to the accused and further the possiblity of the underwear being stained with the blood of the person to whom it belonged or the accused if he was wearing it has not been ruled out.
p c and nowhere suggested during cross examination of prosecution witnesses that at the time of the incident he was at a place wherefrom he could not have reached the place of the offence on the date and at the time of its commission.
the pieces of circumstantial evidence which have been found proved and held as forging an incriminating chain against the accused are as under i last seen together ii abnormal conduct of the accused iii recovery of underwear and baniyan which was found to be stained with semen and blood group b which is also the blood group of the deceased iv false plea of alibi and v accused absconding since the date of offence.
though the accused is alleged to have been arrested at behror but the memo of arrest was not prepared at behror it was prepared at village kotputli.
the accused has not stated during his statement under section 313 cr.
in the opinion of the other learned judge the prosecution evidence was sufficient to sustain the conviction as recorded by the trial court though the case was not one of those rarest of rare cases as would warrant death sentence being awarded to the appellant.
another circumstantial evidence relied on was that a stain of semen was found on the under pant of the accused.
secondly harish chand sharma himself states that between 19 3 1991 and 25 3 1991 the ac cused was called several times at the police station and on 21 3 1991 itself he was called twice in a day.
the appeals are allowed.
kalu ram pw5 accompanied by a friend santosh pw9 had gone to see a movie in cinema talkies heera moti two days after the date of the incident and there the accused was present on his duty.
what is being treated as the plea of alibi by the trial court and the high court is this.
the forensic science laboratory confirmed presence of group b blood on the clothes of deceased.
i last seen together on the point of last seen together there is solitary testimony of a child witness shalu pw7 aged about 4 years on 23 3 1992 the date of her examination in the court.
conviction of the accused appellant under sections 302 and 3762f of indian penal code is set aside.
he was further asked to name the witness in whose statement shalu 's reference was available but the investigation officer drew a blank and could not tell the name of the witness from whom any clue as to shalu was received by him.
p c the third learned judge has on an independent appreciation of evidence recorded his own findings upholding the conviction of the accused on both the charges framed against him and thus agreeing with one of the two learned judges constituting the division bench in conclusion.
this court held as under in a case based on circumstantial evidence the circumstances from which the conclusion of guilt is to be drawn have not only to be fully established but also that all the circumstances so established should be of a conclusive nature and consistent only with the hypoth esis of the guilt of the accused.
there the accused had enquired from them as to what was the punishment awardable to an offender who was found to have been committed rape on a girl and killed her.
in dhananjoy chatterjee 's case 1994 indlaw sc 1743 supra the decision of this court in sharad birdhichand sarda v state of maharashtra 1984 4 scc 116 1984 indlaw sc 432 was relied on.
we are clearly of the opinion that the accused appellant has not taken a plea of alibi and therefore the question of finding it false and then drawing an inference adverse to him does not arise at all.
according to harish chand sharma the accused was arrested on 3 4 1991 vide exbt.
the clothes on his person did not have any blood or seminal stains.
human semen was detected on underwear.
therein a charge under sections 376 and 302 ipc was sought to be substantiated on circumstanctial evidence.
hence it could not have been held that the accused was absconding.
he and santosh.
the dead body was sent for post mortem examination which was performed at 9 30 a m on the same day by a medical board of three doctors.
there is not investigation directed towards finding out and no evidence worth its name collected and adduced in the court to show that the underwear and baniyan were of the accused.
placed in such situation if a villager unaware of the law happens to ask a person who he feels knows the things better than what he himself does as to what would be the period of incarceration to be suffered by any person for such an offence the impulse for inquiry may be outcome of a feeling of nervousness or mere inquisitiveness such an enquiry is not necessarily suggestive of the working of a criminal mind.
the prosecution examined 21 witnesses in all.
p c is to afford the accused personally an opportunity of explaining any incriminating circumstance so appearing in evidence against him.
on 5 4 1991 at about 12 30 p m he gave an information exbt.
in the result the high court has declined the confirmation of death sentence but upheld the conviction on both the charges found proved and dismissed the appeal laying challenge to the conviction subject to modification in the sentence by substituting sentence of life imprisonment for death sentence under section 302 ipc.
thus how and in what manner the investigating officer came to learn about shalu pw7 so as to record her statement during investigation remains shrounded in mystery.
from village kotputli where the incident had taken place.
the vaginal injuries clotted blood and injuries to post fornix were indica tive of rape having been committed on the victim.
goma to whose shop the three girls had gone to buy balloon has not been examined.
there was no injury on his private parts or on any other part of body.
the accused appellant has filed this appeal by special leave.
thereafter the wit nesses went to see movie in the cinema hall.
on asking a few questions by way of preliminary examination the learned trial judge found that the witness could answer some of the questions.
we have very carefully read the statement of this witness.
he did not remember and was therefore not in a position to tell how many number of times the accused subhash was called for interrogation or making enquiries.
a noose was also found around her neck.
such offences put to test the wits of an investigating officer.
he was a grown up male of 21 years and capable of performing sexual intercourse.
the clothes were removed from the dead body and seized.
in shankarlal gyarasilal dixit 's case 1980 indlaw sc 47 supra this court cautioned human nature is too willing when faced with brutal crimes to spin stories out of strong suspicions.
insofar as baniyan is concerned it has no stains of any type on it and therefore its discovery and seizure is meaningless and irrelevant.
b group is not uncommon group of blood and no effort was made to exclude the possibility that the blood of the accused belonged to the same group.
without going into the question as to whether the statement of kalu ram pw5 is to be believed or not in view of the same having not been supported by santosh pw9 let us assess the intrinsic value of such testimony as a piece of incriminating evidence.
in law this term is used to express that defence in a criminal prosecution where the party accused in order to prove that he could not have committed the crime charged against him offers evidence that he was in a different place at that time.
