the materials which were produced before the high court and on the basis of which it is decided that the decision of the government is in order were not even pleaded in the pleadings and during arguments.
in determining whether there is any unfairness involved the nature of the right alleged to have taken infringed the underlying purpose of the restriction imposed the extent and urgency of the evil sought to be remedied thereby the disproportion of the imposition the prevailing condition at the relevant time enter into judicial verdict the reasonableness of the legitimate expectation has to be determined with respect to the circumstances relating to the trade or business in question.
so far as this court is concerned it invoked the doctrine in indo afghan agencies 's case 1967 indlaw sc 411 supra in which is was inter alia laid down that even though the case would not fall within the terms of section 115 of the indian evidence act 1872 in short the evidence act which enacts the rule of estoppel it would still be open to a party who had acted on a representation made by the government to claim that the government should be bound to carry out the promise made by it even though the promise was not recorded in the form of a formal contract as required by article 299 of the constitution.
conduct of business of the government of a state 1 all executive action of the government of a state shall be expressed to be taken in the name of the governor.
doctrine of promissory estoppel has been envolved by the courts on the principles of equity to avoid injustice.
sc 1496 1977 indlaw sc 282 motilal padampat sugar mills co ltd v state of u p 1979 2 scc 409 1978 indlaw sc 56 union of india v godfrey philips indian ltd 1985 4 scc 369 1985 indlaw sc 275 and dr ashok kumar maheshwari v state of u p another 1998 2 supreme 100 1998 indlaw sc 1376.
though the appellants were not entitled to any opportunity of hearing before alteration of the benefits flowing from the notifications or withdrawal of any benefit yet when the state has not taken any specific stand justifying the withdrawal and the high court referred to the files to put its seal of proof notwithstanding non requirement for granting any opportunity before the withdrawal principles of natural justice certainly were applicable since the high court with reference to the files recorded findings on the basis thereof.
there was no material to show existence of any overriding public interest to rule out application of the aforesaid doctrine there was no scope for retrospective withdrawal.
so far as legitimate expectation aspect is concerned it is too well known that the benefit extended can be withdrawn and with this knowledge if the units are set up the principle of legitimate expectation does not apply.
it is made clear that we have not expressed any opinion on those issues on the facts of the present case.
in hindustan development corporation 's case1993 indlaw sc 1085 supra it was observed that decision taken by the authority must be found to be arbitrary unreasonable and not taken in public interest where the doctrine of legitimate expectation can be applied.
see union of india and others.
as noted above no specific grounds or reasons were indicated to justify the withdrawal in the affidavits filed before the tribunal or the high court as the case may be.
if a denial of legitimate expectation in a given case amounts to denial of right guaranteed or is arbitrary discriminatory unfair or biased gross abuse of power of violation of principles of natural justice the same can be questioned on the well known grounds attracting article 14 but a claim based on mere legitimate expectation without anything more can not ipso facto give a right to invoke these principles.
appeals disposed of.
1999 1 scc 573 1997 indlaw sc 1219 it was further held that the government could change its industrial policy if the situation so warranted and merely because the resolution was announced for a particular period it did not mean that the government could not amend and change the policy under any circumstances.
the respondents have established their units prior to the government orders granting the subsidy and they have no vested right to claim exemption.
sc 3651973 indlaw sc 291 hari chand sarda v mizo district council and another air 1967 sc 829 1966 indlaw sc 125 krishnan kakkanth v government of kerala and others air 1997.
promissory estoppel is defined in black 's law distionary as an estoppel which arises when there is a promise which promissor should reasonable expect to induce action or forbearance of a definite and substantial character on the part of promisee and which does include such action or forbearance and such promise is binding if injustice can be avoided only by enforcement of promise.
the appellants question correctness of the judgment rendered by a division bench of the madras high court which held that the withdrawal of benefits extended to the appellants as subsidy was in order.
whether the same is permissible in law has to be decided by the high court.
it depends very much on the facts and the recognised general principles of administrative law applicable to such facts and the concept of legitimate expectation which is the latest recruit to a long list of concepts fashioned by the courts for the review of administrative action must be restricted to the general legal limitations applicable and binding the manner of the future exercise of administrative power in a particular case.
the principle enunciated in the high trees case supra was also recognized by the house of lords in tool metal manufacturing co ltd v tungsten electric co ltd 1955.
in view of the factual position recorded by the high court that at the point of time the appellants units were set up and the commercial production started there was no assurance or promise.
the grant of subsidy is a concession and the government has got good reasons for modifying the scheme in public interest.
while taking policy decision the government is not required to hear the persons who have been granted the benefit which is sought to be withdrawn.
in a given case whether there are such facts and circumstances giving rise to legitimate expectation would primarily be a question of fact.
the government 's letter dated 28 12 1988 refers to some decision but in the absence of any authentication as required under article 166 of the constitution of india 1950 in short the constitution the same is ineffective.
v shree durga oil mills and anr.
at this juncture we would like to take note to certain factual positions highlighted by the appellants which are practically undisputed by the respondents.
if any concession has been given it can be withdrawn at any time and no time limit should be insisted upon before it was withdrawn.
the present is as we experience it the past is a present memory and future is a present expectation.
of tamil nadu ors on 27 1 1984 and in c a 86052002 i e bannari amman sugars ltd v commercial tax officer.
the high court has not dealt with the issue.
a person may have a legitimate expectation of being treated in a certain way by an administrative authority even though he has no legal right in private law to receive such treatment.
that is and ought to be a difficult onus for an applicant to discharge.
as noted above the ultimate test is whether on the touchstone of reasonableness the policy decision comes out unscathed.
but there has to be a word of caution.
air 1964.
the courts are not very good at formulating or evaluating policy.
where a particular mode is prescribed for doing an act and there is no impediment in adopting the procedure the deviation to act in different manner which does not disclose any discernible principle which is reasonable itself small be labelled as arbitrary.
the expectation may arise either from a representation or promise made by the authority including an implied representation or from consistent past practice.
with reference to the files produced certain factual conclusions were arrived at the correctness of those form the core challenge in these appeals.
such a plea is clearly unsustainable.
contrary to what the high court has stated it appears from record that counter affidavits were filed.
estoppel is a rule of equity which has gained new dismensions in recent years.
it is however not necessary to explore the doctrine in this case it is enough merely to note that a legitimate expectation can provide a sufficient interest to enable one who can not point to the existence of a substantive right to obtain the leave of the court to apply for judicial review.
in other words where a person 's legitimate expectation in not fulfilled by taking a particular decision then decision maker should justify the denial of such expectation by showing some overriding public interest.
the basic requirement of article 14 is fairness in action by the state and non arbitrariness in essence and substance is the heart beat of fair play.
the said provision reads as follows 166.
in any event the retrospective withdrawal of the benefit on the basis of an executive decision is impermissible.
otherwise a resourceful litigant having vested interest in contract licences etc can successfully indulge in getting welfare activities mandated by directing principles thwarted to further his own interest.
the caution particularly in the changing scenario becomes all the more important.
something overwhelming must appear before the court will intervene.
No 1294 dated 24 10 1975 granted exemption from purchase tax on sugarcane in favour of sugar mills established in co operative and public sectors in the form of annual subsidy equivalent to purchase tax on sugarcane.
that purpose is to avoid or prevent a detriment to the party asserting the estoppel by compelling the opposite party to adhere to the assumption upon which the former acted or abstained from acting.
further is no particular formula of words required for compliance with article 1661.
for legal purposes expectation is not same as anticipation.
how significant is the statement that today is tomorrows yesterday.
the rule laid down in high trees case supra again came up for consideration before the king 's bench in combe v bombe 1951 2 k b 215.
similar view was expressed in m s pawan alloys and casting pvt ltd meerut etc.
this principle has been evolved by equity to avoid injustice.
sc 3910 1997 indlaw sc 1364 and in sales tax officers and anr.
while clause 1 is in relation to the mode of expression clause 2 lays down the ways in which the order is to be authenticated.
the appellants only made representation to government subsequently claiming exemption at par with the cooperative and public sector mills.
on 22 1 1986.
in fact the government of tamil nadu vide g o ms.
every state action must be informed by reason and it follows that an act uninformed by reason is per se arbitrary.
