the question as regard delay in issuing the order of detention has been held to be a valid ground for quashing an order of detention by this court in t d abdul rahman v state of kerala and others air 1990 sc 225 1989 indlaw sc 205 stating the conspectus of the above decisions can be summarised thus the question whether the prejudicial activities of a person necessitating to pass an order of detention is proximate to the time when the order is made or the live link between the prejudicial activities and the purpose of detention is snapped depends on the facts and circumstances of each case.
the statements of appellant and prabhjot singh were noticed by the detaining authority.
why the documents pertaining to the proceedings of the civil court had not been placed before the detaining authority has not been explained.
by a letter dated 20 12 2004the authorities of dri stated that transactions after 11 10 2003 were not under scrutiny and by letters dated 28 2 2005 and 7 3 2005the bank accounts of appellant were defreezed.
what is necessary to be supplied is the relevant and the material documents but thus all relevant documents must be supplied so as to enable the detenue to make an effective representation which is his fundamental right u art 225 of the constitution of india.
the order of detention was passed on 5 4 2005.
if original of the said documents were not available xeroxed copies thereof could have been made available to him.
the appeal is allowed.
it would be reasonable to assume that if the district magistrate of burdwan was really and genuinely satisfied after proper application of mind to the materials before him that it was necessary to detain the petitioner with a view to preventing him from acting in a prejudicial manner he would have acted with greater promptitude both in making the order of detention as also in securing the arrest of the petitioner and the petitioner would not have been allowed to remain at large for such a long period of time to carry on his nefarious activities.
in this case the statements of appellant and prabhjot singh in our opinion were material.
we may notice that in sk.
furthermore as noticed hereinbefore the authorities of the dri by a letter dated 28 02 2005 requested the bank to defreeze the bank accounts of appellant.
it is no doubt true that if the delay is sufficiently explained the same would not be a ground for quashing an order of detention under cofeposa but as in this case a major part of delay remains unexplained.
it may be that the detaining authority might have come to the same conclusion as the sponsoring authority but its contents are relevant which could not be withheld by the sponsoring authority.
learned additional solicitor general submitted that due to non supply of documents which were not vital or have merely been referred to as incidental the order of detention may not become vitiated as was been held by this court in kamarunnissa v. union of india and another.
we are therefore of the opinion that the view taken by the bombay high court in this behalf is unassailable.
no hard and fast rule can be precisely formulated that would be applicable under all circumstances and no exhaustive guidelines can be laid down in that behalf.
a report in relation to overseas inquiry was received on 12 5 2004 on 25 6 2004 proposal of detention was sent which was approved on 2 12 2004 on.
the very fact that he had referred to the said statements in ex tenso is itself a pointer to the fact that he had relied upon the said documents.
the question came up for consideration recently in rajinder arora v union of india and others 2006 4 scc 796 2006 indlaw sc 87 wherein it has been held furthermore no explanation whatsoever has been offered by the respondent as to why the order of detention has been issued after such a long time.
the company was to export products of alloy steel.
in the meantime admittedly the period of detention being over appellant had been set at large.
the self inculpatory statements of appellant as also prabhjot singh purported to have been made in terms of s 108 of the customs act were required to be considered before the order of detention could be passed.
even the letter dated 23 4 1999 which reached the secretary concerned at 3 00 p m on 26 4 1999 was much before the formal detention order dated 28 4 1999 the secretary concerned was obliged to place the same before the detaining authority.
v by orders dated 31 8 2004 and 28 10 2004the civil judge directed release of documents to appellant.
this office never intended to stop the export incentives occurring to the parties after the date of action i e 11 10 2003 in the civil your office letter.
the final order of detention was preceded not only on the basis of raids conducted in various premises recording of statements of a large number of witnesses carrying on intensive inquiries both within india and outside india obtaining test reports from three different laboratories but also the fact that despite notices appellant and his associates did not cooperate with the investigating authorities.
respondents contended that on first information report was registered against appellant as also one sepoy narender singh.
delay as is well known at both stages has to be explained.
it is not sufficient to say that the detenus were not supplied the copies of the documents in time on demand but it must further be shown that the non supply has impaired the detenu 's right to make an effective and purposeful representation.
in paragraph 36 of the order of detention the detaining authority stated in view of the facts mentioned above i have no hesitation in arriving at the conclusion that you have through your acts of omission and commission indulged in prejudicial activities as narrated above.
he allegedly misdeclared both the value and description of goods upon procuring fake and false bills through one prabhjot singh.
the same was not done.
so far as the question of non placement of material documents before the detaining authority is concerned we may notice the following dates i by a letter dated 5 7 2002the authorities of dri stated that appellant stood exonerated for earlier years after detailed examination.
various incriminating documents were recovered.
invoices with a higher value were presented before the indian customs authorities with a view to avail depb incentives but in fact invoices with a lower value were presented for clearance.
what else would be relevant if not this.
this appeal however has been pressed as a proceeding under the smugglers and foreign exchange manipulators forfeiture of property act1976 for short safemahas been initiated against appellant.
there could be no two opinions on it.
we have noticed hereinbefore that learned additional solicitor general contended that appellant obstructed the proceedings by initiating various civil litigations.
1991 1 scc 128 1990 indlaw sc 85 the said decision was rendered in a different fact situation.
on their own showing respondents admit that they were relevant documents.
he was released from custody on 17 5 2006.
act1974.
in view of our findings aforementioned it is not necessary to consider the contention raised by mr mukul rohtagi that order of detention suffers from non application of mind.
