for the purposes of this clause an invention relating to a process for which a patent is claimed shall be deemed to have been publicly known or publicly used in india before the priority date of the claim if a product made by that process had already been imported into india before that date except where such importation has been for the purpose of reasonable trial or experiment only e that the invention so far as claimed in any claim of the complete specification is obvious and clearly does not involve any inventive step having regard to the matter published as mentioned in cl b or having regard to what was used in india before the priority date of the applicant 's claim f that the subject of any claim of the complete specification is not an invention within the meaning of this act or is not patentable under this act g that the complete specification does not sufficiently and clearly describe the invention or the method by which it is to be performed h that the applicant has failed to disclose to the controller the information required by s 8 or has furnished the information which in any material particular was false to his knowledge i that in the case of convention application the application was not made within twelve months from the date of the first application for protection for the invention made in a convention country by the applicant or a person from whom he derives title j that the complete specification does not disclose or wrongly mentions the source or geographical origin of biological material used for the invention k that the invention so far as claimed in any claim of the complete specification is anticipated having regard to the knowledge oral or otherwise available within any local or indigenous community in india or elsewhere but on no other ground and the controller shall if requested by such person for being heard hear him and dispose of such representation in such manner and within such period as may be prescribed.
further according to the appellantpre grant opposition was filed by respondent no 3 under s 251 on 21 3 05 according to the appellant though the patents amendment act2005amended s 25 by enacting the amendment on 4 4 05 the said amendment was brought into force w e f 1 1 2005 and therefore it was open to respondent no 3 to challenge the grant of patent by invoking s 252 of the patents act1970 according to the appellant with the change in the structure of the act providing for only one statutory appeal and that too only against the order granting patent under s 254the appeal filed by respondent no 3 against pre grant opposition order was not maintainable on 19 10 06 by which time as stated above s 25 stood restructured providing for a dichotomy between pre grant opposition and post grant opposition.
an appeal shall lie to the appellate board from any decision order or direction of the controller or central government under section 15section.
act1970 for the reason that the amended ss 116 and 117a were not brought into force.
would be sub served if the high court is directed to hear and decide the appeals bearing fao no 29206 and fao no 29306 in accordance with law as it then stood i e. u s 116 under patents.
vide cl 47 of notes on clauses attached to the statement of objects and reasons it has been clarified that s 64 is also amended vide patents amendment act2005 to confer wider jurisdiction on the appellate board in matters of revocation of patent therefore amended section 117 g which is brought into force only from 3 4 2007 dealt with transfer of pending proceedings from the high court to the appellate board.
the legislature intended to have a dichotomy between pre grant opposition and post grant opposition.
at times provision is made for appointment of different dates for coming into force of different parts of the same act.
amendment act2002 and the patents amendment.
as stated above quite often the commencement of an act is postponed to some specific future date or to such date as the appropriate government may by notification in the official gazette appoint.
every appeal under this section shall be in writing and shall be made within three months from the date of the decision order or direction as the case may be of the controller or within such further time as the high court may in accordance with the rules made by it u s 158 allow.
which refers to pre grant opposition and post grant opposition was brought into force on and from 1 1 2005 whereas amended section 117a by which appeal was provided for against post grant opposition order was not brought into force till 2 4 2007 one more aspect needs to be mentioned.
no 29206 and fao.
thus proceedings commenced before the controller of patents in the year 2000 when the appellant herein sought a patent of their device which was opposed by respondent no 3 in the year 2000 by then the patents amendment act1999 had amended the patents act1970 w e f 26 3 99 s 25 of the patents act1970 as amended by patents amendment act1999 dealt with opposition to a patent vides s 25 at that time appeals against decisions made by the controller pertaining to pre grant oppositions under s 25 were maintainable before the high court u s 1162 of the indian patents act1970.
s 116 appeals.
however the legislature intended that there shall be only one statutory appeal against grant of patent.
51section 54section 57section 60section 61section 63section.
taking into account the complexities involved in this case on account of a hiatus created by reason of the law not being brought into force in time we are of the view that the first appeals filed by respondent no 3 in the high court being fao.
according to the appellant this was a structural change in the principal act.
the ground of challenge under s 251 is identical to s 252 of the said 1970 act.
as stated vide patents amendment.
the appellate board after 2 4 07 is entitled to hear appeals only arising from orders passed by the controller under s 254i e. in cases of orders passed in post grant opposition.
the legislature enacted the patents amendment act2005 even here not all provisions were simultaneously brought into force.
on 19 10 06 the old law prevailed under which an appeal lay before the high court.
3 a where any such notice of opposition is duly given under sub section 2the controller shall notify the patentee.
the substituted s 25 reads as under 25 opposition to the patent 1.
no 3 we are informed that there are hardly one or two matters of this nature which are pending.
it is during this interregnum that respondent no 3 filed its fao no 29306 in the high court under section 116as.
1 at any time within four months from the date of advertisement of the acceptance of a complete specification under this act or within such further period not exceeding one month in the aggregate as the controller may allow on application made to him in the prescribed manner before the expiry of the four months aforesaid any person interested may give notice to the controller of opposition to the grant of the patent on any of the following grounds namely a that the applicant for the patent or the person under or through whom he claims wrongfully obtained the invention or any part thereof from him or from a person under or through whom he claims b that the invention so far as claimed in any claim of the complete specification has been published before the priority date of the claim i in any specification filed in pursuance of an application for a patent made in india on or after the 1st day of january1912 or ii in india or elsewhere in any other document provided that the ground specified in sub cl ii shall not be available where such publication does not constitute an anticipation of the invention by virtue of sub s 2 or sub s 3 of section 29 that the invention so far as claimed in any claim of the complete specification is claimed in a claim of a complete specification published on or after the priority date of the applicant 's claim and filed in pursuance of an application for a patent in india being a claim of which the priority date is earlier than that of the applicant 's claim a that the invention so far as claimed in any claim of the complete specification was publicly known or publicly used in india before the priority date of that claim.
sub section 2for the words and figures section 20section 25section 27section 28the words figures and brackets section 20sub s 4 of section 25section 28 shall be substituted.
provided that the technical member of the appellate board for the purposes of this act shall have the qualifications specified in sub s 2.
an act can not be said to commence or to be in force unless it is brought into operation by legislative enactment or by the exercise of authority by a delegate empowered to bring it into operation.
previously the only provision of challenge by an interested party was a pre grant challenge under s 25 1 as it then stood.
accordingly the two civil appeals filed by the appellant herein stand disposed of with no order as to costs.
that provision came to be made only under the patents amendment act2005 which was promulgated on 4 4 2005 w e f 1 1 2005.
this was not done.
section 117a 1.
b has for at least ten years functioned as a registered patent agent and possesses a degree in engineering or technology or a masters degree in science from any university established under law for the time being in force or equivalent or c has for at least ten years been an advocate of a proven specialized experience in practicing law relating to patents and designs.
on 14 6 2000 j mitra company pvt ltd. 3 appellant herein filed its application for grant of patent.
