before adverting thereto we may take notice of the relevant statutory provisions ss 461b481482 and 56 read as under section 46 removal from register and imposition of limitations on ground of non use 1 subject to the provisions of section 47a registered trade mark may be taken off the register in respect of any of the goods in respect of which it is registered on application made in the prescribed manner to a high court or to the registrar by any person aggrieved on the ground either a b that up to a date one month before the date of the application a continuous period of five years or longer had elapsed during which the trade mark was registered and during which there was no bona fide use thereof in relation to those goods by any proprietor thereof for the time being provided that except where the applicant has been permitted under sub s 3 of s 12 to register an identical or nearly resembling trade mark in respect of the goods in question or where the tribunal is of opinion that he might properly be permitted so to register such a trade mark the tribunal may refuse an application u cl a or cl b in relation to any goods if it is shown that there has been before the relevent date or during the relevant period as the case may be bona fide use of the trade mark by any proprietor thereof for the time being in relation to goods of the same description being goods in respect of which the trade mark is registered.
this view of the matter learned counsel for the petitioner has submitted that he may be permitted to withdraw this petition with permission to file a fresh petition on this very cause of action.
both the appellant and the respondent no 1 were the infringers of the right of m s jain industries as it was the registered proprietor of the trade mark in respect of the goods in question namely centrifugal pumps.
the board has taken the view that the period of five years and one month will begin to run from the date on which thukral became the proprietor of the trademark that is30th may1986 and therefore the rectification application could have been filed by the appellant only sometime in 1991 opining that an application for rectification against the appellant within a period of seven and a half months from the date of assignment of the trade mark was not maintainable the application was dismissed.
in the suit only the competing right of the first respondent qua the appellant can be determined and not a right against m s such a right can not be determined in a proceeding under s 461b of the act which is restricted to non user of the registered trade mark.
that is m s jain industries.
a fresh application was filed by the first respondent.
if thukral did then it can not be said that there was no bona fide use thereof by its proprietor.
the non user for a long time would disentitle a registered proprietor from renewal of the registration.
the appeal is allowed with costs.
by an order dated 19 1 1988having regard to the provisions contained in the said act the learned judge opined that appellant having become the registered proprietor of the said trade mark no case for grant of injunction has been made out the interim order of injunction passed on 19 12 1985 was vacated and the defendants were permitted to use their registered trade mark subject to the following conditions a defendants will not use the logo style of the word field marshal of which logo and style the plaintiff is the proprietor under the copyright act.
any person aggrieved by the absence or omission from the register of any entry or by any entry made in the register without sufficient cause or by any entry wrongly remaining on the register or by any error of defect in any entry in the register may apply in the prescribed manner to a high court or to the registrar and the tribunal may make such order for making expunging or varying the entry as it may think fit.
statement of shri hemant singh counsel for m s thakural mechanical works without oath.
the trade mark for which registration is obtained is used intermittently.
it is in the aforementioned situation we are called upon to determine the meaning of the words for the time being occurring in s 461b of the act.
concededly cl a of sub s 1 of s 46 is not attracted in the case.
we may at this stage notice that in law of trade marks by mr k c kailasam while commenting on s 47 of the trade marks act1999 to which our attention has been drawn by mr sudhir chandra it is stated.
trade mark no 228867 in.
if his title is not extinguished by reason of a provision of a statute for non user of the trade mark for a period of five years any assignment made shall be valid subject to such situation which we have noticed in paragraph 25 supra.
the terms also may bring within its umbrage the entire period of five years or more irrespective of the fact as to whether the registered proprietor was one or more than one as has been held by the high court.
it takes away the valuable right of a registered proprietor.
it must however be observed that whether a use is for bona fide purpose would essentially be a question of fact.
we are not concerned herein as to since when it had been doing so.
but then such a case has to be made out.
the power to rectify the register conferred by this section shall include the power to remove a trade mark registered in part a of the register to part b of the register.
the cause of action which permitted the first respondent to file an application for rectification against m s jain industries was non user thereof by it.
renewal applications are required to be filed on the expiry of seven years.
the injunction matter in suit no 2408 of 1985 came up for hearing before a learned single judge of the high court.
the division bench of the high court thereafter while disposing of both the writ petition and the letters patent appeal allowed the writ petition and set aside the order of the board and directed it to adjudicate the dispute on merits.
it was not lost by reason of assignment as was contended by the learned counsel.
indisputably the scope of the provisions for removal from register in terms of s 46 and 56 of the act stand on different footings.
however such an application can be filed only by a person aggrieved.
3 scc 576 1992 indlaw sc 1107 or in the context of cl 22 of art 366 of the constitution as has been held in h h maharajadhiraja.
two interpretations of the said provision s 461b are possible.
c the defendants shall maintain proper accounts of the sale of centrifugal pumps under the trade mark field marshal and shall file them in court as and when directed.
it obtained an or of injunction.
in other words the mistake of the predecessor should not be visited with non use of the present registered owner.
the request is not opposed on behalf of m s thakural mechanical works.
this appears to be the position at least till 30th may1986 in.
it provides for civil or evil consequences.
correctness or otherwise of the said order has not been questioned.
the board could not while exercising its jurisdiction under s 461bof the act proceeded on the basis of such presumption.
in kabushiki kaisha toshiba this court relied upon hardie trading ltd anr.
it does not provide for a sun set law.
so long as the right to assign a registered trade mark remains valid once the same is validly assigned the assignee derives the same right as that of the assignor in terms of the statute.
it was furthermore opined there may be a case where owing to certain special circumstances a continuous use is not possible.
the registration of the aforesaid trade mark has been renewed from time to time and will remain in force for a period of a seven years from 13th.
allegation of trafficking is a serious one.
it therefore can be taken away only when the conditions laid down therefor are satisfied.
mr singh has filed a reply in this petition bringing out that presently he is the registered owner of the trademark which is sought to be cancelled in this petition.
a person who had been using the said trade mark as a proprietor thereof by user is supposed to keep itself abreast with such applications filed by another either for registration of the trade mark or renewal thereof.
