what is investigation is not defined in the code of criminal procedure but in h n rishbud and inder singh v state of delhi 1954 indlaw sc 14 this court has described the procedure for investigation as follows thus under the code investigation consists generally of the following steps 1 proceeding to the spot 2 ascertainment of the facts and circumstances of the case 3 discovery and arrest of the suspected offender 4 collection of evidence relating to the commission of the offence which may consist of a the examination of various persons including the accused and the reduction of their statements into writing if the officer thinks fit b the search of places of seizure of things considered necessary for the investigation and to be produced at the trial and 5 formation of the opinion as to whether on the material collected there is a case to place the accused before a magistrate for trial and if so taking the necessary steps for the same by the filing of a charge sheet section this court however has not said that if a police officer takes merely one or two of the steps indicated by it what he has done must necessarily be regarded as investigation.
it must be proved that there was an intention to inflict that particular bodily injury which in the ordinary course of nature was sufficient to cause death viz that the injury found to be present was the injury that was intended to be inflicted.
besides all the aforesaid eye witnesses were inmates of the house and they would know as to who had given the blows for they specifically stated that initially the appellant did not have the knife in his hand but when the deceased and others went to the balcony then he went inside the house and brought a knife with which he gave stab injuries to the deceased which became fatal and as a result of which the deceased died while he was being taken to the hospital.
c of section 299 and cl.
thereafter the appellant and the two other alleged accused namely accused nos 2 and 3 and the two juvenile offenders gathered in the hall to assault rauji the deceased pw 1 and pw 8.
it was further submitted that the alleged eye witnesses of the occurrence were examined by the police belatedly and that the medical evidence adduced in the case does not in any manner support the ocular evidence and if at all it would not be a case of culpable homicide amounting to murder but a case of culpable homicide not amounting to murder.
he submitted that although the incident in question had taken place at about 8 45 p m the same came to be reported to the police at 3 00 a m he also submitted that the police officer pw 21 who received the information about the incident started investigation without recording either any general diary for short g d entry or the fir and therefore the fir which has been proved in the trial court is hit by the provisions of section 162 of the criminal procedure code for short the crpc.
section 299 defines culpable homicide as the act of causing death i with the intention of causing death or ii with the intention of causing such bodily injury as is likely to cause death or iii with the knowledge that such act is likely to cause death.
culpable homicide of this degree is punishable under the second part of section 304.
it is also established from the evidence on record for it is clearly stated that the street light having tube light was giving sufficient light to the place of occurrence and that it was directed towards the house which was the place of occurrence.
accused No 1 section 302 ipc and accused nos.
the appellant herein being aggrieved by the aforesaid order of conviction and sentence filed the present appeal on which we have heard the learned counsel appearing for the appellant and also the learned counsel appearing for the state.
meanwhile accused No 3 started abusing pw 1 pw 8 pw 18 and the deceased rauji.
in his cross examination has categorically stated that death due to stab injury was in consequence of injury No 1 and all other injuries were superficial in nature.
to put it shortly the prosecution must prove the following facts before it can bring a case under section 300 thirdly first it must establish quite objectively that a bodily injury is present secondly the nature of the injury must be proved these are purely objective investigations.
1 to 3.
once these three elements are proved to be present the enquiry proceeds further and fourthly it must be proved that the injury of the type just described made up of the three elements set out above is sufficient to cause death in the ordinary course of nature.
on receiving the said message he went to the place of occurrence along with psi k k desai and upon reaching the place of occurrence at 11 30 p m he found the entire place plunged in total darkness.
reference in this regard may be made to the decision of this court in ruli ram v state of haryana 2002 7 scc 691 2002 indlaw sc 1927 augustine saldanha v state of karnataka 2003 10 scc 472 2003 indlaw sc 674 state of u p v virendra prasad 2004 9 scc 37 2004 indlaw sc 60 chacko v state of kerala 2004 12 scc 269 2004 indlaw sc 20 section n bhadolkar v state of maharasthra 2005 9 scc 71 2004 indlaw sc 268 and jagriti devi v state of h p jt 2009 8 sc 648.
the information received by him was very cryptic and without any detail about the incident in question and therefore in any case there was no possibility of recording an fir at that stage.
thirdly it must be proved that there was an intention to inflict that particular injury that is to say that it was not accidental or unintentional or that some other kind of injury was intended.
she submitted that the high court rightly interfered with the order of acquittal passed by the trial court after critically examining the evidence on record.
the deceased tried to put off the light of one particular room at which the appellant and other accused persons became annoyed and the appellant switched on the light which was again switched off by the deceased.
section 300 ipc however deals with murder although there is no clear definition of murder provided in section 300 ipc.
pw 21 who was at that time attached to konda police station as psi was informed at about 10 45 p m that the deceased while was being brought in the police jeep by a police constable jaisingrao rane and was being taken to the government medical college but before the deceased could be admitted he died.
the aforesaid eye witnesses although are related witnesses were natural witnesses for they were the inmates of the house where the incident had taken place.
it has been repeatedly held by this court that culpable homicide is the genus and murder is species and that all murders are culpable homicide but not vice versa.
however pw 1 again intervened and removed the said stone from the hand of accused no 3.
p c he next submitted that no evidence having been led by the prosecution about the time when the fir reached the magistrate therefore there is also violation of the provisions of section 157 of the cr.
the appeal stands disposed of in terms of aforesaid order.
conviction can be made on the basis of such evidence.
the accused then started assaulting her and pw 8 with slaps.
records clearly establish that there was indeed a scuffle between the parties with regard to the availability of electricity in a particular room and during the course of scuffle the appellant also received an injury which was simple in nature and that there was heated exchange of words and scuffle between the parties before the actual incident of stabbing took place.
even assuming that pw 21 the investigating officer could have entered the aforesaid information received from psi of panaji police station in the general diary yet they said entry could not have been held or treated to be an fir.
it is also clear and established that thereafter a lamp was brought by accused No 3 to the room besides another lamp which was already burning in the said room itself.
i and if it is only a case of knowledge and not the intention to cause murder and bodily injury then the same would be a case of section 304 part ii.
blood was found by the police on the wall of the verandah and in the courtyard.
illustration c appended to section 300 clearly brings out this point.
he was informed that the deceased had died as a result of stab injuries received and therefore he was to take necessary steps.
the words bodily injury sufficient in the ordinary course of nature to cause death mean that death will be the most probable result of the injury having regard to the ordinary course of nature.
the trial court framed charges against all the accused persons for the offence under sections 302 323 143 147 and 149 of the ipc.
immediately after the incident hearing cries of passengers the driver of the bus stopped the bus.
in that view of the matter it can not be said that the fir was in any manner hit by the provisions of section 162 of crpc.
pw 1 also alleged that on 19 04 1988 the deceased rauji returned from his duty at about 6 30 p m and thereafter went to purchase some articles.
we have pws.
therefore he brought them along with the residents of the house who were found to be there namely accused No 3 and the two juvenile offenders namely sarita and sharmila who were all ladies.
the question so far as the intention is concerned is not whether he intended to kill or to inflict an injury of a particular degree of seriousness but whether he intended to inflict the injury in question and once the existence of the injury is proved the intention to cause it will be presumed unless the evidence or the circumstances warrant an opposite conclusion.
they reached the place of occurrence in another bus at about 1 a m the deceased and the injured were only then shifted to tuni hospital.
it was not necessary for him to take that step only on the basis of a first information report.
this court has observed as follows in the case of dinesh kumar v state of rajasthan 2008 8 scc 270 2008 indlaw sc 2034 11.
there is no doubt that four injuries are indicated in the postmortem report shown to have been received by the deceased but the fact that the deceased was given stab injuries by the appellant with the help of a knife brought by him from inside the house is clearly established from the ocular evidence.
whereupon the police took him to the hospital in the police jeep along with pw 1 pw 2 and pw 8.
b of section 299 does not postulate any such knowledge on the part of the offender.
religious ceremony was performed by installing the statue of lord ganesh in the house and.
but at a later stage they came there.
the test laid down by virsa singh case4 for the applicability of clause thirdly is now ingrained in our legal system and has become part of the rule of law.
then there is culpable homicide of the third degree.
1 2 8 and 18 as eye witnesses to the occurrence.
at that time all the accused persons were in the balcony.
there is cogent and reliable evidence on record to prove and establish that the accused has committed the act of stabbing as a result of which the deceased had died.
if some incident had taken place in a bus the officers of road transport corporation also could not ignore the same.
the ratio of the aforesaid decision is squarely applicable to the facts of the present case.
then accused No 3 told the appellant and accused No 2 to finish off rauji first.
he also stated that he got the complaint registered at the police station which was lodged by pw 1 and that on the next day he again went to the scene of offence and seized the properties involved in the crime which were sealed.
the high court by impugned judgment convicted appellant.
it will be sufficient to say that cl. 4 of section 300 would be applicable where the knowledge of the offender as to the probability of death of a person or persons in general as distinguished from a particular person or persons being caused from his imminently dangerous act approximates to a practical certainty.
in law testimony of an injured witness is given importance.
the word likely in cl.
the aforesaid principles have been consistently followed by this court in several decisions.
his bail bonds shall stand cancelled and the appellant shall surrender immediately to serve out the remaining period of sentence.
he stated that although the house had electricity connection but was not having the electricity supply.
but sometimes the facts are so intertwined and the second and the third stages so telescoped into each that it may not be convenient to give a separate treatment to the matters involved in the second and third stages.
this part of the enquiry is purely objective and inferential and has nothing to do with the intention of the offender.
both the expression intent and knowledge postulate the existence of a positive mental attitude which is of different degrees.
as already noted it is quite clear from the record that there was an altercation preceding the incident.
it is not necessary for the purpose of this case to dilate much on the distinction between these corresponding clauses.
they acceded to his request to take the bus to his house.
there is no evidence to show that at that point of time pw 21 seized any articles or interrogated any witnesses or took any other action in initiating or in furtherance of investigation.
when he reached at the place of occurrence even the complainant party was not available there.
the investigating officer was also informed.
s p shri raikar and p i shri alan osa were sent in their search.
an information received in regard to commission of a cognizable offence is not required to be preceded by a first information report.
thereupon the appellant went and removed the fuse of the said light.
