secondly that soon before her death she had been subjected to cruelty or harassment by the husband or any of the relatives of the husband for or in connection with any demand for dowry then such a death shall be called dowry death and the husband or the relative as the case may be will be deemed to have caused such a death.
lw 7 stated on oath that he was present at the time of giving of dowry to the accused by the family of the deceased.
the object being that everything which is offending at any time i e at before or after the marriage would be covered under this definition but the demand of dowry has to be in connection with the marriage and not so customary that it would not attract on the face of it the provisions of this section.
after bringing the soaps she went to the house of the accused persons and found that the accused was absent and the deceased was hanging on one side of the room.
the explanation to this section requires that the expression dowry shall have the same meaning as in s 2 of the act.
the accused pathan hussain basha his father pathan khadar basha and mother pathan nazeer abi forced her to get the balance amount of dowry.
in this actdowry means any property or valuable security given or agreed to be given either directly or indirectly a by one party to a marriage to the other party to the marriage or b by the parents of either party to a marriage or by any other person to either party to the marriage or to any other person at or before or any time after the marriage in connection with the marriage of the said parties but does not include dower or mahr in the case of persons to whom the muslim personal law shariat applies.
it is the case of the prosecution that for non payment of dowry the accused persons harassed the deceased and subjected her to cruelty.
the expression in connection with the marriage can not be given a restricted or a narrower meaning.
lw 4pathan inayatullah khan the grandson of lw 3went to the house of the parents of the deceased and informed them about the unfortunate incident.
the unmarked property if any shall be destroyed after expiry of appeal time.
at this stage it will be appropriate for us to examine as to what are the ingredients of an offence punishable under section 304b of the ipc.
while we see no reason to differ with the concurrent findings recorded by the trial court and the high court we do see some substance in the argument raised on behalf of the appellants that keeping in view the prosecution evidence the attendant circumstances the age of the accused and the fact that they have already being in jail for a considerable period the court may take lenient view as far as the quantum of sentence is concerned.
he had given only rs 15000 and had agreed to pay rs 10000 after four months.
these are the provisions relating to human behaviour and therefore cannot be given such a narrower meaning which would defeat the very purpose of the provisions of the act of course these are penal provisions and must receive strict construction.
it was expected of the accused to explain as to how and why his wife died as well as his conduct immediately prior and subsequent to the death of the deceased.
in other words there should be a reasonable if not direct nexus between her death and the dowryrelated cruelty or harassment inflicted on her.
the saree was removed she was taken to the hospital where she was reported to have brought dead.
they were married in the year 2002 and she committed suicide by hanging on 15th.
in contradistinction to this aspect the legislature has applied the concept of deeming fiction to the provisions of section 304 b where other ingredients of section 304 b are satisfied in that event the husband or all relatives shall be deemed to have caused her death.
when he again invited his son in law and the mother in law of his daughter even then he had gifted some presents to them.
the statement of this witness i e lw 1 is corroborated by lw 3 and lw 7.
denial can not be treated to be the discharge of onus.
they even refused to send her to her parental house.
similar view was expressed by this court in yashoda v state of m p20043 scc 98 2004 indlaw sc 132 where this court stated that determination of the period would depend on the facts and circumstances of a given case.
the expression in connection with the marriage even in common parlance and on its plain language has to be understood generally.
m madhusudana reddy conducted autopsy over the body of the deceased and prepared post mortem certificate giving the cause of death as asphyxia as a result of hanging.
the accused asked for rs 1000 with a ring for the deceased.
they faced the trial and were convicted by learned sixth additional munsif magistrate guntur for committing an offence under sections 498a and 304b ipc.
first and the foremost we must consider what is the evidence led by the prosecution to bring home the guilt of accused.
this court in ran singh v state of haryana2008 4 scc 700 2008 indlaw sc 120 held that the payments which are customary payments for example given at the time of birth of a child or other ceremonies as are prevalent in the society or families to the marriage would not be covered under the expression dowry.
all the expressions used under this section are of a very wide magnitude.
subsequently the motherin law of the deceased again demanded the balance dowry amount of rs 10000 which he could not pay.
for want of any specific period the concept of reasonable period would be applicable.
there being no rebuttal thereto there is no occasion to interfere in the judgments of the courts under appeal.
his daughter after the ramzan festival had informed him that the accused persons were harassing her and were even beating and abusing her.
the judgment dated 4th october2004 passed by the learned trial court was challenged in appeal before the high court.
applying these principles to the facts of the present case it is clear that the ingredients of section 304b read with section 498a ipc are completely satisfied in the present case.
on 16th february2003at about 5 p m. investigating officer arrested all the three accused persons.
according to this witness also in the beginning they were happy however after some time she used to hear some quarrel between the deceased and the accused persons.
onus has to be discharged by leading proper and cogent evidence.
as already noticed we need not deliberate on this aspect as the accused before us has neither been charged nor punished for that offence.
appeals partly allowed.
it was an arranged marriage.
12 the definition of dowry under s 2 of the act reads as under 2 definition of dowry.
in other words the rule of law requires a person to be innocent till proved guilty.
and further a 1 to a 3 are sentenced to undergo imprisonment for life for the offence u s 304 b ipc both the sentences shall run concurrently.
13 if.
despite such pressure she was not able to get that money from her family.
later on the accused came to fetch deceased.
again in satvir singh v state of punjab20018 scc 633 2001 indlaw sc 224.
this court in madhu sudan malhotra v kishore chand bhandari1988 supp.
he had called his son in law accused no 1to his house as per custom at that point the accused demanded a ceiling fan.
out of this amount a sum of rs 15000 was paid at that time and it was promised that the balance dowry of rs 10000 would be paid in the month of october2002upon which the marriage was performed.
the expressions or any time after marriage and in connection with the marriage of the said parties were introduced by the amending act 63 of 1984 and act 43 of 1986 with effect from 2 101985 and 19 11 1986 respectively.
consequently we award ten years rigorous imprisonment to the appellants.
it is of some significance that these expressions should be given appropriate meaning to avoid undue harassment or advantage to either of the parties.
we have already referred to the provisions of section 304 b of the code and the most significant expression used in the section is soon before her death.
the concept of deeming fiction is hardly applicable to the criminal jurisprudence.
accused pathan hussain basha was married to pathan haseena begum now deceased on 23rd june2002 at guntur.
the appeals are partially accepted to the extent afore indicated.
