further in view of the fact that state government itself appoints the revenue officers including the commissioner under the scheme of the code and all revenue officers are subordinate to the state government as per section 11 of the act and even the chief controlling authority in all matters connected with the land revenue in his division is vested with the commissioner they are subject to the superintendence direction and control of the state government as provided under section 5 of the code.
all these proceedings will show that twice the sub divisional officer has exercised the revisional power under section 257 at the directions of the collector namely the rts revision no 14 of 1984 and rts revision no 12 of 1999 it will further reveal that the appeals as against the rts revision no 14 of 1984 was preferred by the parties in view of the provisions of section 247 and 249 sub section 2 it will equally appear that when the orders were passed in revision application no 12 of 1999 before the sub divisional officer in exercise of the powers under section 257 the parties have preferred two rts appeals in view of the provisions of section 247 and 249 sub section 2 not only that thereafter the rts revision application no 330 of 2001 was also preferred before the commissioner and if the view is taken that the second revision is not tenable then in that circumstances since the first order passed in rts revision no 12 of 1999 is a revisional order this second revision before the commissioner being rts revision no 330 of 2001 would not have been tenable.
the state government and any revenue of survey officer not inferior in rank to an assistant or deputy collector or a superintendent of land records in their respective departments may call for and examine the record of any inquiry or the proceedings of any subordinate revenue or survey officer for the purpose of satisfying itself or himself as the case may be as to the legality or propriety of any decision or order passed and as to the regularity of the proceedings of such officer.
respondent no 2 challenged this order of the additional commissioner by filing the proceeding rts 3402 pra kra 309 l 6 by way of second revision before the revenue minister for state and the said proceeding was decided by the minister for state on 18 10 2002 the revenue minister allowed the said proceeding and set aside the orders passed by the sub divisional officer maval dated 28 1 2000order dated 28 5 2001 of additional collector pune and of additional commissioner dated 22 11 2001and thus restored the position as reflected by the mutation entries nos 1836 and 2377 and 2394 thus all the entries in favour of the respondents were protected and maintained by the order of the state minister for revenue.
1 all revenue officers shall be subordinate to the state government.
in the impugned order division bench made it clear that since the dispute between the parties was in respect of the area as to what has been purchased in auction sale by gulabai desai and what is the area allotted to the appellant by the orders of the deputy collector and deputy custodian of evacuee properties the appellant requested the bench not to enter into the merits on this question in this lpa since the parties may prosecute their remedies in the civil court for such adjudication and therefore that aspect was not considered by the high court.
there was rts appeal no 128 of 1987 which was decided on 13 7 1993 in view of these orders the mutation entry no 1836 was cancelled and mutation entry no 2176 was effected whereby the name of the collector and the deputy collector of the evacuee property was entered into 7 x 12 extracts.
section 257 is the relevant provision which deals with the power of state government and of certain revenue and survey officers to call for and examine the records and proceedings of subordinate officers.
thereafter the appellant filed letters patent appeal which was also dismissed by the division bench holding that when the state minister for revenue entertained the matter he was possessed of jurisdiction under section 257 of the maharashtra land revenue code and therefore the order passed by him under the said authority is within his jurisdiction power and competence.
it is therefore not correct as contended by learned counsel for the appellant that the two authorities i e the state government and the registrar are interchangeable.
there is nothing in the code to suggest that if these revisional powers are exercised by a revenue officer who has jurisdiction it can not be further exercised by a superior revenue officer or by the state government.
collector pune dismissed the said appeals and confirmed the order of the sub divisional officer maval.
the power of the state government has further been widened by section 259 of the code which reads as under 259 rules as to decisions or orders expressly made final whenever in this code it is provided that a decision or order shall be final or conclusive such provision shall mean that no appeal lies from any such decision or order but it shall be lawful to the state government alone to modify annul or reverse any such decision or order under the provision of section 257.
1961 indlaw sc 157hiralal kapur vs prabhu choudhury1988 2 scc 172 1988 indlaw sc 342 and helper girdharbhai vs saiyed mohmad mirasaheb kadri and others1987 3 scc 538 1987 indlaw sc 28281 learned counsel also drew our attention to the decision of this court in dharampal vs ramshri1993 1 scc 435 1993 indlaw sc 1325 where this court held.
this appeal by special leave is directed against order dated 13 7 2005 passed by the division bench of the bombay high court.
ahmadi learned senior counsel further submitted that a request was made to the high court not to enter into the merit of the case and to confine itself to the question whether a second revision was at all maintainable in the light of the ratio in harishankar 's case 1961.
that under section 257 of the maharashtra land revenue code more than one revision is possible.
section 5 makes it clear that the chief controlling authority in all matters connected with the land revenue in his division shall vest with the commissioner subject to superintendence directions and control of the state government.
being aggrieved by the order passed in the said revision respondent no 2 lalwani preferred rts appeal no 81 of 2000 and the respondent no 3 genu kadu preferred rts appeal no 114 of 2000 both.
the same was dismissed.
it was again decided by the sub divisional officer on 29 10 1987 and the said mutation was set aside.
the schedule preferred to in section 227 mentions the authorities before whom appeal would lie.
the said haji habib tar mohammed janu migrated to pakistan and while going to pakistan he sold his property to one smt.
the state government may appoint one or more additional collectors and in each district including the city of bombay and so many assistant collectors and deputy collectors with such designations such as firstsecondsuper numeraryetc.
accordingly father of the appellant was allotted a land admeasuring 2 acres 5 gunthas bearing revenue survey nos 351 and 1182 situated at village lonavala taluka maval district pune.
a bare reading of the aforesaid provision would show that the provision uses the word and for state government but for other revenue officers.
learned counsel referring the revisional jurisdiction of the high court under section 115 of the code of civil procedure tried to impress us that when the power of revision is given to the district judge then the high court can not entertain second revision petition under section 115 of the code.
we record our finding.
the test is whether the two authorities with concurrent revisional jurisdiction are equal in rank.
hence it was argued that second revision was not maintainable.
chapter ii deals with the revenue officers their powers and duties.
in the said sale certificate the c t s no 129130 a130 b and 133 of village lonavala were mentioned.
if one authority exercises revisional power the other authority logically can not have exercised such power.
hence this appeal has no merit which is accordingly dismissed.
section 257 makes it clear that a revisional authority has to consider only the legality and propriety of the decision.
in the present case we noticed the scheme of the code in the matters of hearing and disposal of appeals revision and review.
6 revenue officers in division.
the area of this cts nos were as under.
a tahsildar a naib tahsildar and a district inspector of land records.
dismissing letter patents appeal preferred by the appellant against the order of the learned single judge who dismissed his writ petition and confirmed the orders passed by the state minister for revenue in the proceeding r t s 3402 pra kra 309 l 6 dated 18th october2002.
learned counsel put heavy reliance on the decision of this court in the case of ishwar singh vs state of rajasthan and others2005.
provided further that an assistant of deputy collector shall not himself pass such order in any matter in which a formal inquiry has been held but shall submit the record with his opinion to the collector who shall pall such order thereon as he may deem fit.
we find no infirmity in the impugned order passed by the high court.
sections 56 and 7 reads as under 5 chief controlling authority in revenue matters.
below 11 subordination of officers.
