March 22.
On June 10 1901 Jugal Kishore Lal granted a lease of 96 bighas out of his 400 bighas to one D M Mathews.
The defendants denied that they had encroached upon the plaintiff   coal land and stated that the suit was barred by limitation.
Learned counsel for the appellant contends that the said boundary should be fixed solely with reference to the boundaries given in the lease of 1894 whereas learned counsel for the respondents contends that no plan has been annexed to the said lease and therefore the boundary could more satisfactorily and definitely be fixed with reference to the plans annexed to the subsequent lease deeds executed in favour of the successors in interest of the appellant and the respondents.
No plan was annexed to this lease deed.
As the plan is a part of the lease deed it is clear from the plan that the northern boundary of the leasehold of Samanta is the said line.
The map exhibit 3b annexed to the lease deed executed in favour of the respondents  predecessor in interest clearly demarcates the boundary line between the holdings of the appellant and the respondents and according to that plan the disputed extent falls within the boundary of the respondents  holding.
On appeal the High Court accepted the finding.
Though the High Court held that the burden of proof to establish knowledge on the part of the respondents beyond the prescribed time was on the appellant it has given the finding on the assumption that the initial burden was on the respondents to prove that they had knowledge of the said encroachment only within three years thereof.
 The article says that a suit for recovery of specific movable property acquired by conversion or for compensation for wrongful taking or detaining of the suit property should be filed within three years from the date when the person having the right to the possession of the property first learns in whose possession it is.
The question is on whom the burden to prove the said knowledge lies The answer will be clear if the article is read as follows A person having the right to the possession of a property wrongfully taken from him by another can file a suit to recover the said specific moveable property or for compensation therefore within three years from the date when lie first learns in whose possession it is.
He denied that he had any knowledge of the said two facts.
But to say that no duty is cast upon the plaintiff even to allege the date when they had knowledge of the defendant s possession of the converted property and that the entire burden is on the defendant is contrary to the tenor of the article in the Limitation Act and also to the rules of evidence.
A division bench of the Calcutta High Court in Kalyani Prasad Singh vs Borrea Coal Co Ltd 1 did not accept the view of the Patna High Court but followed that of the Bombay High Court in the Bank of Bombay vs Fazulbhoy Ebrahim 2.
We are of opinion that the onus is upon the plaintiff in these suits to prove that the knowledge of his father wag within three years of the suit.
We accept the findings of the High Court that the respondents had knowledge of the appellant s encroachment of their coal mines only in the year 1941 which was within three years of the date of the filing of the suit.
The learned Subordinate Judge accepted the case of the plaintiffs and held that the coal that was left in the encroached area was entirely lost to them by being rendered unworkable.
Appeal dismissed.
