Appeal by special leave from the judgment and order dated March 25 1957 of the former Bombay High Court in Appeal No 16 of 1957.
926 1960.
September 27.
Against this decision the sellers appealed.
Accordingly they directed the Sales Tax Officer not to enforce the demand for payment of sales tax with regard to the sales of cotton for Rs 68493 2 6 and sale of castor oil of the total value of Rs 647509 1 6.
The sellers  case is that these were sales on FOB contracts.
This in our opinion shows nothing.
That was laid down in Brandt s case 1 and though in a later case in Hardy vs Pound 2 the Court of Appeal in England held that the judgment in Brandt s case 1 does not cover every FOB contract and that in the special facts of the particular case before them it was for the sellers to obtain the licence and this view was approved by the House of Lords  it is in our opinion correct to state that the presumption in FOB contracts is that it is the duty of the buyers to obtain export licence though in the circumstances of a particular case this duty may fall on the sellers.
The third circumstance on which reliance is placed on behalf of the Sales Tax Officer is that the Export Control Order 1954 which was passed in the exercise of powers conferred by Import  Export Control Act 1947 contained a provision in its clause 52 in these words  It shall be deemed to be a condition of that licence   that the goods for the export of which licence is granted shall be the property of the licensee at the time of the export .
We think that the learned judges who heard the appeal in the Bombay High Court were right in their conclusion that the goods remained the sellers  property till the goods had been brought and loaded on board the ship and so the sales were exempted from tax under article 2861b of the Constitution.
b of section 8 has been furnished in respect of such goods and the purchasing dealer does not show to the satisfaction of the Collector that the goods have been despatched by him or by a person to whom he has sold the goods to an address outside the State of Bombay within a period of six months from the date of purchase by the dealer furnishing such certificate .
Appeals dismissed.
