Appeals by special leave from the judgment and order dated January 20 1960 of the Allahabad High Court in Criminal Government Appeals Nos.
The State then preferred an appeal against his acquittal in these three cases to the High Court of Allahabad but restricted the appeal to the acquittal of the appellant in respect of offences under 410 section 52 of the Indian Post Office Act 1898 hereafter referred to as the Act.
These articles were found in an almirah the key of which was produced by the appellant s father.
A number of other articles were also seized at that time but we are not concerned with them as they have no connection with the charges against the appellant.
Further according to him neither the house nor the almirah from which the articles are said to have been 411 seized was in his exclusive possession.
2 That it has not been established that the five registered letters were in the exclusive possession of the appellant.
3 That the search was illegal inasmuch as it was in contravention of the provisions of sections 103 and 165 of the Code of Criminal Procedure.
5 That the High Court has not found that there were compelling reasons for setting aside the appellant s acquittal .
6 The sentences in the three cases having been ordered to run consecutively the total sentence is excessive.
The High Court has chosen to accept the evidence of the prosecution with regard to the fact of seizure and that being a question to be decided only by the Court of fact this Court would not re examine the evidence for satisfying itself as to the correctness or otherwise of the conclusions reached by the High Court.
In so far as the contravention of provisions of section 342 Code of Criminal Procedure are concerned it is sufficient to point out that no grievance was made either before the Court of the Additional Sessions judge or before the High Court that there was such a contravention and the appellant was prejudiced and we cannot allow the point to be raised for the first time here the reason being that whether there was prejudice is a question of fact and cannot be permitted to be agitated for the first time in an appeal under article 136 of the Constitution.
In so far as section 52 of the Act is concerned the argument is that the prosecution having merely shown that the registered letters were recovered from an almirah in the house in which the appellant lives the 413 utmost that could be said is that he was in possession of letters that is assuming that he was in the exclusive possession of the house and the almirah.
Whoever being an officer of the Post Office commits theft in respect of or dishonestly misappropriates or for any purpose whatsoever secretes destroys or throws away any postal article in course of transmission by post or anything contained therein shall be punishable with imprisonment for a term which may extend to seven years and shall also be punishable with fine.
It seems to us that bearing in mind the  fact that an officer of the post office having in the course of his duties access to postal articles kept or lying in the post office the legislature has deliberately enlarged the scope of section 52 so as to encompass secretion destruction or throwing away of postal articles by an officer of the post office even though they may not have been entrusted to him or even though the are riot articles with which he is required or is competent to deal in the course of his duties.
It is probably for this reason that the definition clearly lays down that until an article despatched by post is delivered or can be said to be delivered that it will be deemed to be in course of transmission.
We cannot therefore accept the first part of this contention of Mr Misra.
2 that at least nine of those postal articles were addressed to the respondent himself vide exhibit Ka 9 serial No 66 3 that Dewan Singh who we are informed is a very old man would not foist the said incriminating articles on his son and thus ruin his career for ever and 4 that the respondent alone can be said to have had some motive for secreting and concealing the registered letters and other postal articles in question.
But to say that he must be deemed to be in exclusive possession of these articles and not merely in their joint possession along with his father because he had the opportunity to get at the articles and then infer that he must have utilized the opportunity and was therefore in their exclusive possession would be arguing in a circle.
Moreover since entrustment of the articles has not been established the taking away of the articles by the appellant from the post office if that is how he came by the articles would be theft but it has not been found that he committed any theft.
