The question referred by the Appellate Tribunal is Whether on a true interpretation of clause viii of subsection 3 of section 4 of the indian Income tax Act the sum of Rs 36396 received by the assessee as an allowance during the previous year of the assessment year 1949 50 is revenue income liable to tax under the Indian Income tax Act 1922 The relevant facts stated in the Statement of the case are as follows The assessee is a Hindu undivided family headed by one Sri Trivikram Narain Singh who is a descendant of one Sri Babu Ausan Singh who was the original founder and owner of what is known as Ausanganj State in the district of Benaras.
The pension was paid regularly from year to year by the Government to Babu Har Narain Singh and his heirs.
The source of the pension was a liability undertaken by the Government for extinguishing the proprietary rights of the Jagirdar and when the immediate source of the income was not land or rent collections from land it is difficult to hold that the receipt of the assessee was agricultural income within the meaning of Section 43viii of the Income tax Act.
 The learned counsel for the respondent Mr A Viswanatha Sastri urges that on its true interpretation the letter dated July 7 1837 showed an arrangement for sharing collections.
We respectfully adopt the reasoning and conclusion of this Court in the case of State of  704 Uttar Pradesh vs Kunwar Sri Trivikram Narain Singh1 and hold that the respondent under the arrangement had no interest in land or in the land revenue payable in respect thereof.
If this is the true interpretation of the arrangement arrived at the question arises whether the pension or allowance is agricultural income Agricultural income  is defined in section 2 of the Act as follows 1 agricultural income means a any rent or revenue derived from land which is used for agricultural purposes and is either assessed to land revenue in British India or subject to a local rate assessed and collected by officers of the Crown as such   In Maharajkumar Gopal Saran Narain Singh vs Commissioner of Income tax Bihar and Orissa2 the facts were that the assessee had conveyed the greater portion of his estate.
The source of the right in which a fraction of the net income of the trust is to be appropriated by the appellant as his remuneration is not in the right to receive rent or revenue of agricultural lands but rests in the covenant in the deed to receive remuneration for management of the trust.
Both the source and character of the income are therefore altered when a part of the income of the trust is appropriated by the appellant as his remuneration and that is so notwithstanding that computation of remuneration is made as a percentage of the income a substantial part whereof is derived from lands used for agricultural purposes.
 It follows from the decisions of the Privy Council and the judgments of this Court cited above that if it is held in this case that the source of the allowance or pension is the arrangement arrived at in 1837.
First the name given to a transaction by the parties concerned does not necessarily decide the nature of the transaction.
If the other method is adopted tax will not be payable .
