ivil Appeal No 325 of 1965.
section V Gupte Solicitor General M Rajagopalan and K R Choudhuri for the appellants.
C B Agarwala J B Dadachanji O C Mathur and Ravinder Narain for the respondents.
The Judgment of the Court was delivered by Hidayatullah J.
This is an appeal by special leave against an award dated September 20 1963 made by the Presiding Officer of the Central Government Industrial Tribunal Bombay in a reference made by the Government of India under section 102 of the .
The respondents to this appeal are the trustees of the Port of Bombay.
and the matter in dispute was stated to be  Whether the existing system of work of the shore crew of the Prince s and Victoria Docks under which each shift consists of 8 hours  normal duty 2 hours  variable recess and 12 hours  overtime needs any modification The Tribunal by the award impugned here held that the Union was not able to establish that the existing system of work needed any modification.
In 1956 the workmen who were then represented by the Port Trust General Workers  Union made a demand for a fixed recess of two hours.
The General Workers Union was informed that if the demand was pressed a three shift system would be introduced.
As the lock gates control the depth of water in the Alexandra Docks fixed hours of rest could be maintained from day to day except in the monsoon months when the storm gates had some time to be closed.
Meanwhile studies were being made and it was found that the work hours at the different Docks were not equal they were heavier at the Alexandra Docks than at the other docks.
Thus the 12 hours  shift at the Alexandra Docks was 8 hours  of duty 3 hours  overtime and one hour variable recess.
This system was however 635 not extended to the prince s and Victoria Docks and Butcher Island.
This claim was opposed by the Trustees.
They contended that regard being had to the number of actual work hours the case of shore crew at the Prince s and Victoria Docks and the Butcher Island could not be compared with that of the crew at the Alexandra Docks or the Flotilla Crew.
On behalf of the Union the learned Solicitor General has argued the case almost entirely from the legal stand point and has attempted to establish that the break up of a 12 hours  shift into 8 hours  duty 2 hours  rest and 2 hours  overtime offends the .
The Act and the 636 Rules between them provide not only for fixation of minimum wages but also for the work load in relation to which the minimum wages are to be prescribed.
It is admitted that the present workmen come under the Schedule.
The hours of work and the payment of overtime are therefore governed by the provisions of the and the Minimum Wages Central Rules 1950 and the controversy in this case must be appreciated and resolved in accordance with them.
We shall now turn to these provisions.
Fixing hours for a normal working day etc.
2 The provisions of sub section 1 shall in relation to the following classes of employees apply only to such extent and subject to such conditions as may be prescribed a      637 b      c employees whose employment is essentially intermittent d      e      3 For the purposes of clause c of sub section 2 employment of an employee is essentially intermittent when it is declared to be so by the appropriate Governmen t on the ground that the daily hours of duty of the employee or if there be no daily hours of duty as such for the employee the hours of duty normally include periods of inaction during which the employee may be on duty but is not called upon to display either physical activity or sustained attention.
1 Where an employee whose minimum rate of wages is fixed under this Act by the hour by the day or by such a longer wage period as may be prescribed works on any day in excess of the number of hours constituting a normal working day the employer shall pay him for every hour or for part of an hour so worked in excess at the overtime rate fixed under this Act or under any law of the appropriate Government for the time being in force whichever is higher.
2 The working day of an adult worker shall be so arranged that inclusive of the intervals for rest if any it shall not spread over more than twelve hours on any day.
5 Nothing in this rule shall be deemed to affect the provisions of the .
Explanation The expression ordinary rate of wages means the basic wage plus such allowances including the cash equivalent of the advantages accruing through the concessional sale to the person employed of foodgrains and other articles as the person employed is for the time being entitled to but does not include a bonus.
2 A register showing overtime payment shall be kept in form IV.
It is whether the fixing of a two hours  rest and two hours  overtime involves a breach of the two sections of the Act and the two rules quoted here  The workmen claim that under a scheme of 12hour shifts with 8 hours  work overtime should be at least 3 hours if not 4 and by fixing only two hours  overtime the Trustee are B guilty of the breach of the Act and the Rules.
Section 13 of the Act does not itself fix the hours of work or rest or overtime.
That is done by the Rules.
There may be one interval of rest or there may be more intervals but whatever their number they must be specified.
There is no definition of interval either in the Act or the Rules but the provisions of section 13 2 c read with section 13 3 give us an indication of what is meant by an interval of rest.
It may or it may not.
A working day of 12 hours is thus made up of hours of work and hours of rest and the number of hours of work which cannot exceed 9 is part of the normal working day which may also include one or more specified intervals of rest.
That action speaks of overtime.
From section 13 read with Rule 24 we know that the number of hours constituting a normal working day is 9.
The section so read lays down  Where an employee   works on any day in excess of 9 hours the employer shall pay him for every hour or for part of an hour so worked in excess at the overtime rate    Under Rule 25 1 b this overtime rate is double the ordinary rate of wages.
As there is a prescribed day of rest in a week we get a working week of six days with a maximum of 48 hours  work.
Thus if an employer takes actual work for 8 hours per day on 6 days in a week he complies with all the provisions and need not pay overtime.
He may go up to 9 hours on any day without paying any overtime provided he does not exceed 48 hours in the week.
He can specify the intervals of rest and spread the 8 hours or 9 hours as the case may be together with intervals of rest over 12 hours in a twelvehour shift.
These periods of rest must not be periods during which the workman is on duty and inaction is due to want of work for him but they must be pre determined periods of inaction during which the workman is neither called upon nor expected to display physical activity or sustained attention.
For the hours of rest he is not required to pay overtime but he must specify those hours.
Overtime under section 14 is only payable when the workman works in excess of the number of hours constituting a normal working day.
As in the present case the total number of hours of work in a week is 48 8 hours per day for 6 days overtime is payable for that hour or part of an hour beyond the 8 hours in which the workman is either made to work or the interval is not specified.
It is not compelled to fix only one interval or to make the interval of one hour only.
Sections 54 55 and 56 are the relevant provisions.
Daily hours.
Intervals for rest.
1 The periods of work of adult workers in a factory each day shall be so fixed that no period shall exceed five hours and that no worker shall work for more than five hours before he has had an interval for rest of at least half an hour.
Spread over.
It will be noticed that the arrangement of these sections is almost the same as the cognate provisions of the .
Workers at a tidal dock must work when the tide is in and take their rest when the tide is out.
We do not think that the Trustees are guilty of infraction of the by keeping the recess variable so long as they specify in advance the recess on any particular day.
According to their resolution the recess is fixed as near the middle of the work as possible depending on the tides.
This is not possible.
They are therefore entitled to three hours  overtime if required to work beyond the 9 hours on any day.
We hold therefore that the decision of the Central Government Industrial Tribunal is right in a circumstances of this case.
