Appeals by special leave from the orders dated April 1 1965 of the Central Government Labour Court Jullundur in cases Nos 409 of 1963 respectively.
The workman s basic pay as on 31st January 1960 shall not be reduced in any case.
1 Desai award For workmen who entered service of the bank before 1st January 1959 i The workman s basic pay as on January 1 1959 shall not be reduced in any case.
c Such increments shall not however exceed four in number.
After adjustments are made in accordance with clauses a b and c supra two further increments in the new scale will be added thereto for service for the two years 1951 and 1952.
iii In the matter of adjustment all efficiency bars whether in the previously existing scales or in the scales provided by the Sastry award as modified should be ignored.
ivSubject to rules i to iii a workman s basic pay in the scale provided by the Sastry award as modified shall be fixed in the following manner aA workman shall first be fitted into the scale of pay of Sastry award as modified by placing him at the stage in the Sastry award scale as modified equal to or next above his basic pay as on 1st January 1959 in the scale then in force in the bank concerned hereinafter called the Bank s scale.
c Such increments shall not however exceed four in number.
It will be seen from the above comparison of the provisions in the two awards that the substantial provisions of the Desai award are exactly the same as the provisions of the Sastry award as modified except i for changes necessitated by the fact that the Desai award was being given in 1962 and ii the provision in the Sastry award corresponding to sub cl.
We are unable to accept the contention raised on behalf of the respondent that the words subject to have not the effect of making what would otherwise follow from the application of rules 4a and 4b subject to both the lim its laid down in rule 2.
 The dispute between the bank and the workmen in the present case was this.
ii of the Desai award the adjusted basic pay in the new scale was not to exceed what point to point adjustment would give an employee on January 1 1962.
The bank further claimed that this being the maximum permissible under cl.
It is urged on behalf of the appellant that the Desai award made certain changes and therefore need not be interpreted in the same way as was done in Prakash Chand Mehra s case1.
ii the adjusted basic pay is to be as on January 1 1962.
This means in 1 L8Sup.
Under sub cl.
ii is subject to cl.
b read with sub cl.
iv but this will be subject to cls.
iv and cl.
i together.
b read with sub cl.
i and ii.
d cannot be permitted in view of cl.
But as we have held that in cl.
iv will take effect and give two annual increments for 1960 and 1961 which are beyond the date which we have accepted as the right date for purposes of cl.
ii has to be worked out as on January 1 1959 the two increments provided by sub cl.
a b and c of el.
iv of the Desai award.
Therefore two increments under sub cl.
a b and c of el.
d must always be given.
b read with sub cl.
292 of the Sastry award as modified by the Labour Appellate decision.
His basic pay as on January 11959 was Rs 106.
Point to point adjustment as on January 1 1959 would give him Rs 106 in the Sastry award scale as modified.
iv his salary has to be fixed as on January 1 1959 at Rs 106.
He would not be entitled to any increments under sub cls.
The bank actually fixed him at Rs 176 on its own interpretation of the award.
Under subcl.
He would not be entitled to any increments under sub cls.
b and c of cl.
iv because he was getting more than what would be his adjusted basic pay under cl.
We make no order as to costs in the circumstances.
