The Income tax Officer disallowed their claim holding that  these transactions were mere accommodations which can have no bearing to the regular business carried on by the assessee.
The assessee firm then applied to the Tribunal to refer the following question to the High Court of Madras Whether on the facts and in the circumstances of the case the disallowance of the bad debt of Rs 268385 is right in law  The Tribunal rejected the application but pursuant to an order made by the High Court of Madras under section 662 submitted a statement of the case on the following question Whether on the facts and in the circumstances of the case the Tribunal was right in law in holding that the debt of Rs 268385 was not one incurred in the course of money lending business of the assessee  In the opinion of the High Court the debt of Rs 268385 due to the appellants was not a bad and doubtful debt in its money lending business not a debt representing loss sustained in the other business.
The question referred was therefore answered in the affirmative and against the appellants.
Section 102 xi of the Indian Income tax Act 1922 as in force at the relevant time provided  2 Such profits or gains shall be computed after making the following allowances namely  xi When the assessee s accounts in respect of any part of his business profession or vocation are not kept on the cash basis such sum in respect of bad and doubtful debts due to the assessee in 807SupCI71 418 respect of that part of his business profession or vocation and in the case of an assessee carrying on a banking or money lending business such sum in respect of loans made in the ordinary course of such business as the Income tax Officer may estimate to be irrecoverable but not exceeding the amount actually written off as irrecoverable in the books of the assessee Provided      Clause xi was in two parts.
A bad and doubtful debt due to the taxpayer written off as irrecoverable in the books of account was properly allowable in computing the taxable profits from business profession or vocation where accounts were not kept on the cash basis if the debt was in respect of a loan made in the course of the taxpayer s business as a banker or money lender or when the taxpayer was carrying on any other business the debt was in respect of that other business.
A bad and doubtful debt in respect of a business other than banking or money lending is allowable even if it is not in respect of loan  but a debt due in the course of the business of a money lending is not allowable unless it is in respect of loans made in the ordinary course of his business.
In the interest of justice we direct that the question be reframed as follows  Whether on the facts and in the circumstances of the case the Tribunal erred in disallowing the debt of Rs 268385 written off by the assessee in their books of account as irrecoverable.
Counsel said that 1 Sobhagchand Amarchand partner of the Bombay firm is the father of Seshmal one of the partners of the appellants and of the minors Ramniklal and Lakshmichand who are admitted to the benefits of partnership 2 that large amounts of money were advanced shortly before the Bombay firm closed its business and 3 that there was a consistant practice for paying or receiving interest on the 420 amounts due at the foot of the account but no interest was charged by the appellants in respect of the dues at the foot of the account at the end of Samvat Years 2007 and 2008.
After receipt of the supplementary statement of case from the Tribunal the appeal was heard by J C Shah K section Hegde and A N Grover JJ.
The Tribunal will submit the statement within three months from the date on which the papers reach the Tribunal.
In appeal the Appellate Assistant Commissioner agreed with the Income tax Officer.
He held that the debt did not arise in the course of the assessee s business as Chemists and Druggists nor in the course of their money lending business.
The tribunal rejected that application but pursuant to an order of the High Court under section 662 the tribunal submitted a statement of the case on the following question Whether on the facts and in the circumstances of the case the Tribunal was right in law in holding that the debt of Rs 268385 was not one incurred in the course of money lending business of the assessee The High Court opined that the debt in question was not a bad and doubtful debt in the assessee s money lending business nor a debt representing loss sustained in the other business.
It also found that the statement submitted by the tribunal was in adequate.
The tribunal has accordingly submitted a further statement.
They read   11.
Having considered all the circumstances of the case we are of the opinion that the sums in question were not sent to the Bombay firm as loans made in the ordinary course of the money lending business of the assessee nor in respect of any other business of the assessee.
