ivil Appeal Nos.
630 631 of 1971.
V section Desai Mrs Vimla Markandeyulu and G N Rao for the Appellant.
P Ram Reddy and P P Rao for the Respondents.
The Judgment of the Court was delivered by BEG J.
The short question before us in these appeals by special leave is whether sales of Arc carbons known as Cinema Arc Carbons manufactured by the appellant company were rightly subjected to sales tax for two assessment years 1965 66 and 1966 77 on the ground that they fall under entry No 4 of the 1st Schedule of the Andhra Pradesh General Sales Tax Act 1957 hereinafter referred to as the Act .
Nevertheless it appears that the entry under consideration links the taxable object with its general or ordinary use.
The taxing authorities were therefore compelled to consider the use which is generally made of the arc carbons.
They had concluded that the common or ordinary use of the arc carbons was that they exuded their power foul light cast through the projectors on cinema screens.
Hence the Tribunal dismissed the appeal without taking further evidence.
In the High Court two decisions cited on behalf of the appellants were Deputy Commissioner of Commercial Taxes Madhurai Division Madhurai vs Ravi Auto Stores2 and State of Madras vs Indian oxygen Ltd 3.
It was held in these cases that they were only copper rods which were melted by electrical power in the process of welding.
The High Court rightly observed that these decisions had no bearing whatsoever upon the very different entry in a schedule of an entirely different Act of a different State.
The same question has been argued before us with the help of some more cases to which the same criticism applies.
The additional cases cited before us were Pashabhai Patel  CoP Ltd vs Collector of Sales Tax Maharashtra State4 where it was held a tractor 1 TRC No 26 of 2962 decided on 9th August 1963 2 1968 22 STC 172 Madras 3 1968 22 STC 476 Madras 4 1964 15 STC32.
563 is not agricultural machinery within the meaning of entry 9 in Schedule of the Bombay Sales Tax Act 1953 Agrawal Brothers vs Commissioner of Sales Tax Madhya Pradesh1 where it was also held that a tractor which is nothing but a self propelled vehicle capable of pulling a load or traction does not acquire the character of agricultural machinery or implement merely because when used on agricultural land it is used also to draw certain agricultural implements like a plough The State of Mysore vs Mores India Ltd2 where it was held that a typewriter ribbon is not an essential part of a type writer so as to attract the tax under entry 18 of the second schedule to the Mysore Sales Tax Act 1957 Commissioner Sales Tax U P v Free India Cycle Industries3 where it was held that rexine saddle covers used also for bicycle seats are not covered by entry No 34 introduced by Section 3A of the UP Sales Tax Act 1948 as modified subsequently which read bicycles tricycles cycle rickshaws and perambulators and parts and accessaries thereof other than tyres and tubes The Madhya Pradesh State Co operative Marketing Society Jabalpur vs The Commissioner of Sales Tax MP Indore4 where it was held that oil engines and pumps which are not known in the commercial world as agricultural machinery could not be covered by an entry meant for goods sold for agricultural purposes simply because some of them are also sold to agriculturists for agricultural purposes.
The meaning of this entry can only be satisfactorily determined in the light of the language of the entry itself considered in the context in which it occurs.
For instance in entry No 5 the expression occurs at the end as follows Photographic and other cameras and enlargers films and plates paper and cloth and other parts and accessories required for use therewith.
It is not enough to show that the article can be put to other uses also.
It is its general or predominant user which seems to determine the category in which an article will fall.
The first entry in the schedule relates to motor vehicles and includes component parts of motor vehicles and articles including batteries adapted for use as parts and accessories of motor vehicles but excludes certain other articles by putting in the words not being such articles as are ordinarily also used for other purposes than as 1 1965 16 STC 860.
2 1970 26 STC 87.
4 1971 27 STC 45.
Entry No 2 relating to refrigerators air conditioning plants covers also component parts thereof.
our object in indicating the nature of entries amdist which entry No 4 occurs is to show that some precision has been attempted in making the entries.
When it was intended to confine the entry to particular gadgets and parts thereof the entry said so.
The best guide to their intentions is the language actually employed by them.
We find that the term accessories is used in the schedule to describe goods which may have been manufactured for use as an aid or addition.
Other meanings given there are supplementary or secondary to something of greater or primary importance additional any of several mechanical devices that assist in operating or controlling the tone resources of an organ Accessories are not necessarily confined to particular machines for which they may serve as aids.
The same item may be an accessory of more than one kind of instrument.
We think that the Andhra Pradesh High Court correctly held that the main use of the arc carbons under consideration was duly proved to be that of production of powerful light used in projectors in cinemas.
That is determined by their ordinary or commonly known purpose or user.
This as already observed by us is evident from the fact that they are known as cinema arc carbons in the market.
This finding was enough in our opinion to justify the view taken by the Andhra Pradesh High Court that the goods under consideration are covered by the relevant entry No 4.
Consequently we dismiss these appeals with costs.
VPS Appeals dismissed.
