The High Court by its order of 1920th December 1962 set aside the order of the District Judge and held the Sansthan to be a public trust under the Act and restored the order of the Charity Commissioner.
There are significant recitals in the Sanad to the following effect It is hereby declared that the said land shall be continued for ever by the British Government as the endowment property of Shri Vithal Rukhamai of Kasabe Amalnair Talooka Amalnir on the following conditions that is to say that the managers thereof shall continue faithful subjects of the British Government and  the said land shall be continued for ever as endowment Inam without increase of land tax over the said fixed amount.
This is a document which was relied upon both by the District Judge as well as by the High Court.
That ownership is of your own.
Your Bhauband and others have no right whatsoever over the same.
You are free to give and take as per the Shishya sampradaya as has been done previously.
Again in the gift deed exhibit 39 the donee is described as Shri Rukhmini Pandurang Sansthan Sansthan Amalner Sakharam Maharaj at present Vasudev Buwa Guru Bal 525 krishna Maharaj.
It is clear that the beneficiaries of the deeds are the deity and the Sansthan and the gifts were made with the object of maintenance of the worship of the deity for the benefit of the Hindu public as a whole.
Distinguishing the decision of the Privy Council in Bahu Bhagwan Din vs Gir Har Saroon on the ground that the properties in that case were granted not in favour of an idol or temple but in favour of one Daryao Gir who was maintaining a temple and to his heirs in perpetuity this Court further held in the above decision But in the present case the endowment was in favour of the idol itself and the point for decision is whether it 527 was private or public endowment.
We cannot agree that the High Court was not right in giving due importance to the admission of the constituted attorney Ramkrishna Deshpande that they cannot prevent people from going to the temple as the temple is meant for the Darshan by the public.
You are free to give and take as per the Shishya sampradaya as has been done previously.
This property goes from Guru to his Shishya.
PBR Appeal dismissed.
