Civil Appeal No 1744 of 1968.
The judgment under appeal after certificate of fitness of the case under Article 1331c of the Constitu tion of India is very short as it purports to follow the ratio decidendi of Union of India vs.
We have however gone through his petition and the affidavit filed in its support where in paragraph 16 he states as fol lows The Mysore State Civil Service Integra tion Rules 1960 provide for filing objections only against the preliminary provisional Inter State Seniority List and do not provide any provision for filing objections or appeal ing against the final Inter State Seniority List as per Annexure B .
Thus we have no other legal remedies open to us for the re dressal of our grievances and the abridgement of our fundamental rights guaranteed under the Constitution of India and therefore we are forced to approach this Honble Court to invoke the writ jurisdiction for the redressal.
In the case before us the petitioner admits that the Mysore State Civil Services Integration Rules provided for filing of objections against the preliminary provisional Inter State Seniori ty list.
Presumably he had that opportunity.
We are unable to appreciate.
The judgment of the Mysore High Court was in our opinion based on an apparent misun derstanding of Shankariah s case supra and on a failure to appreciate the facts of the case of the petitioner respondent which is now before us.
PK Roy  Ors.
The application of the doctrine depends upon the nature of the jurisdiction conferred on the administrative authority upon the character of the rights of the per sons affected the scheme and policy of the statute and other relevant circumstances disclosed in the particular case See the decision of this Court in Shri Bhagwan and Anr.
These principles are generally found in the rules or executive directions which are known to or are capable of being found out by the persons affect ed.
If he was to have that opportunity the list would not really be final but only provisional or preliminary.
It was an opportunity to be given before the final list was to be declared and published as a final list.
We find no such grounds in the ease before us.
It has also to give a full and fair opportuni ty to the parties affected to make their representations and the Central Government has also to give a proper consideration to those representations.
So long as the Central Government has acted properly according to the provisions of the Act we are of the view that a Court cannot go into the merits or otherwise of equation of posts which is a matter within the province of the Central Government.
It was also held there at p 2106 It is no doubt true that the Central Government must have due regard to the princi ples enunciated by it in consultation with the States for the purpose of equation Of posts.
In this case no mala fides are alleged.
VPS Appeal allowed.
