41 Deft 5 Deft 2 Khandappa died on June 27 1960 leaving him surviving his wife Hirabai who is the plaintiff two sons Gurupad and Shivapad who are defendants 1 and 2 respectively and three daughters defendants 3 to 5.
Adding 14th and 124th the plaintiff claims a 724th share in the joint family properties.
That in short is the case of defendant 1.
By a judgment dated March 19 1975 a Division Bench of the High Court dismissed defendant 1 s appeal and allowed the plaintiff s cross objections by holding that the suit properties belonged to the joint family that there was no prior partition and that the plaintiff is entitled to a 724th share.
Defendant I has filed this appeal against the High Court s judgment by special leave.
LR351.
2 765 shall devolve by survivorship upon the surviving members of the coparcenary and not in accordance with this Act  Provided that if the deceased had left him surviving a female relative specified in class I of the Schedule or a male relative specified in that class who claims through such a female relative the interest of the deceased in the Mitakshara coparcenary property shall devolve by testamentary or intestate succession as the case may be under this Act and not by survivorship.
Explanation 2.
By the application of the normal rule prescribed by that section Khandappa s interest in the coparcenary property would devolve by survivorship upon the surviving members of the coparcenary and not in accordance with the provisions of the Act.
In the instant case the plaintiff s suit based as it is on the provisions of section 6 is essentially a claim to obtain a share in the interest which her husband had at the time of his death in the coparcenary property.
The deceased Khandappa died leaving behind him two sons three daughters and a widow.
Explanation 1 which contains the formula for determining the share of the deceased creates a fiction by providing that the interest of a Hindu Mistakshara coparcener shall be deemed to be the share in the property that would have been allotted to him if a partition of the property had taken place immediately before his death.
Khandappa would have therefore got a 14th share in the coparcenary property on the hypothesis of a partition between himself and his sons Two things are thus clears  One that in a partition of the coparcenary property Khandappa would have obtained a 14th share and 767 two that the share of the plaintiff in the 14th share is 16th that is to say 124th.
It was held in that case that the fiction that the failure to send an estimate of tax on income under section 18A3 is to be deemed to be a failure to send a return necessarily involves the fiction that a notice had been issued to the assessee under section 22 and that he had failed to comply with it.
In our case it is not necessary for the purposes of working out the fiction to assume and supply a missing link which is really what was meant by Lord Asquith in his famous passage in East End Dwellings Co Ltd vs Finsbury Borough Council1 He said if you are bidden to treat an imaginary state of affairs as real you must also imagine as real the consequences and 1 1959 Stipp.
In other words the assumption having been made once for the purpose of ascertaining the share of the deceased in the coparcenary property one cannot go back on that assumption and ascertain the share of the heirs without reference to it.
We are happy to find that the view which we have taken above has also been taken by the Bombay High Court in Rangubai Lalji vs Laxman Lalji supra in which Patel J very fairly pronounced his own earlier judgment to the contrary in Shiramabai Bhimgonda vs Kalgonda supra as incorrect.
1 AIR 1975 Bombay 257.
