Civil Appeals No 2611 and 2611 A of 1981.
J Sorabjee K K Venugopal and R P Bhatt for respondent in 2611 A81.
The Judgment of the Court was delivered by BALAKRISHNA ERADI J.
Thereupon Todar Mal preferred an appeal against the said order passed by the District Magistrate.
Krishan Kumar was a party respondent in the Special Leave Petition also.
On April 19 1979.
These contentions were repelled by the District Magistrate who held that the renewal of the licence could not be made in the name of any party other than the original licensee namely Shri Ved Gupta who had been declared to be the sole licensee in respect of the Apsara Theatre by the proceedings of his predecessor dated December 29 1977 which was confirmed in appeal by the State Government and which had acquired finality between the parties by reason of the dismissal of the writ petition and the Special Leave Petition by the High Court and Supreme Court respectively.
On April 27 1979 a suit was instituted against Ved Gupta and seven others by seven of the partners including Krishan Kumar for a declaration that the Cinema licence dated July 22 1969 issued by the District Magistrate Jammu 8th defendant for exhibition of cinematographs in the building known as Apsara Theatre Gandhi Nagar Jammu is the property of the firm Apsara Theatre and for a prohibitory injunction restraining defendants 1 to 7 namely Shri Ved Gupta and six of the partners who were residing with him from interfering with the running of the Cinema by the plaintiffs and also for a prohibitory injunction against the District Magistrate defendant 8 restraining him from interfering in any manner with the exhibition by the plaintiffs of cinematographs in the premises of Apsara Theatre.
In being served with the order of injunction Ved Gupta wrote to the District Magistrate on September 24 1980 that it had become impossible for him to operate the Cinema licence in view of the temporary injunction issued by the District Court and since it is only the licensee who is held responsible under the Act and the Rules for due compliance with all the terms and conditions of the licence and answerable to the licensing authority for all commissions and omissions in the Cinema premises he may be saved from any prosecution or other action under law in the capacity of licensee of the Apsara Theatre in respect of any illegal acts or offences committed by others in the said premises.
16980 has intimated that there was exhibition of films on 25th September 1980 in Apsara Theatre by persons other than the licensee And whereas under the provisions of the Cinematograph Act read with rules none other than licensee is permitted to exhibit films during the currency of the licence without permission of the licensing authority Now therefore I A Sahasranaman District Magistrate Jammu hereby order that exhibition of films in Apsara Theatre will remain suspended till further orders.
Rule 23 is in the following terms 23 1 In the event of a difference of opinion among the judges composing any bench of the court the decision shall be in accordance with the opinion of the majority of the Judges.
This has resulted in the highly anomalous situation that as against the view concurrently taken by the two Judges of the High Court viz Anand J and Mir J the opinion of the Acting Chief Justice which was really the minority view has been allowed to prevail on the basis of the reasoning that the case was governed by sub rule 3 of Rule 23.
Civil Appeal No 2611 of 1981 is directed against the judgment of the learned Acting Chief Justice which has been treated as the final judgment in the Letters Patent Appeal and Civil Appeal No 2611 A of 1981 has been preferred against the order passed by the Division Bench CMP No 454 of 1981.
Although we entertain very serious doubts about the correctness of the view taken by the Division Bench of the High Court regarding the applicability of Rule 23 3 to the instant case we do not feel called upon to examine the said question in depth or to pronounce upon it in this case in view of the conclusion arrived at by us on the merits of the case that the conclusions recorded by the Acting Chief Justice on the points that arose for decision in the Letters Patent Appeal cannot be legally sustained and that there was no justification for interference by the Division Bench with the judgment of the learned Single Judge dismissing the writ petition.
The legality of the aforesaid orders was challenged before the High Court of Jammu and Kashmir in Writ Petition No 74 of 1978 filed by Todar Mal.
That writ petition was dismissed by the High Court on May 9 1978 SLP Civil No 3490 of 1978 filed by Todar Mal against the High Court s order dismissing his writ petition was rejected by this Court on November 13 1978.
It is sufficient to state that these reasons do not appeal to us as correct or tenable.
We are also unable to accept as correct the view expressed by the learned Acting Chief Justice that under the Act the licence is granted for premises permanently equipped for cinematograph exhibition in the name of the owner Manager of the Cinematographs used in the premises and hence it necessarily follows that where the licensed premises including the cinematograph used therein belongs to a partnership and one of the partners obtains a licence in his separate name the other partners automatically acquire interests in the licence and that the privilege granted by the licensing authority must necessarily follow the title in such building and the cinematograph.
That Section is in the following terms 6 F Power to revoke licence Where the holder of a licence or a person in charge of a cinematography or management thereof or an owner or partner thereof or an employee thereof has been convicted of an offence under Section 6 or Section 6 E of this Act or under Section 15 of the Jammu and Kashmir Entertainments Duty Act 1959 the licence may be revoked by the licensing authority.
The next ground stated in the impugned judgment for quashing the order passed by the District Magistrate is that the said order was violative of the principles of natural justice in as much as no notice or hearing had been given to the partnership firm before the order was passed.
There was thus a clear 591 prohibition against the licensee from transferring assigning subletting or otherwise transferring the licence without the permission of the licensing authority and also against his allowing any other person to exhibit films in the licensed place without obtaining such permission.
There was no suspension of the licence issued to Ved Gupta in respect of the Theatre.
So long as they did not have a licence we have already found that the licence had been granted to Ved Gupta only in his individual and personal capacity and not as a representative of the firm the firm and the partners had no legal right whatever to operate the cinema.
Proceeding on that premise the learned Acting Chief Justice has said that under the provisions of the Act the power to suspend a licence is conferred only by Section 6 F of the Act as one implicit in the larger power of revocation and unless the conditions precedent mentioned in the said Section are present the licensing authority had no jurisdiction to suspend the licence.
HLC Appeal allowed.
