ivil appeal No 2197 From the Judgment and order dated 16470 of Andhra Pradesh High Court in appeal No 431 of 1965.
352 T section Krishnamoorthi Iyer KR.
Choudhry and KS.
By the said Judgment and decree the High Court of Andhra Pradesh had reversed the Judgment of the learned Subordinate Judge Masulipatam dated 19th November 1964 dismissing the suit of the plaintiffs respondents against the appellant.
Late Shri Raja Vasireddi Chandra Dhara Prashad was the husband of respondent No 1 and father of the respondents No 2 to 5 herein.
There was medical examination by the doctor on the life of the deceased on 27th December 1960.
The deceased had issued two cheques for Rs 300 and Rs 220 respectively in favour of the appellant as first premium.
Cheque for Rs 300 was encashed by the appellant on 29th December 1960.
The Divisional Manager Masulipatam Branch denied liability on behalf of the appellant Corporation on 28th January 1961.
353 On the 10th January 1964 the plaintiffs filed the suit in the court of Subordinate Judge Masulipatam.
It was further stated that the said two cheques were encashed and the appellant had duly appropriated the amount and credited in the accounts towards the premium payable by the deceased.
The case of the plaintiffs further was that in this case the first premium was not only received by the Corporation completely on 11th January 1961 but it was also appropriated by it in its accounts and the said premium amount 354 was received by the Corporation without any demur or qualification and that in any event the Corporation must be deemed to have waived by its conduct the formality if any of sending communication of its acceptance of the proposal.
It was further stated that the two cheques were not encashed and credited towards the premium account of the proposal but these were kept only in deposit in suspense account without any liability of the appellant.
During the trial before the learned Subordinate Judge five different issues were raised.
He also produced ex.
In his deposition he had stated that the Divisional Manager was the competent authority for accepting the proposal for Rs 50000.
He had further stated that the proposal form was sent from the office at Guntur to the Divisional office at Masulipatam and exhibit B 1 to B 4 and B 8 were sent in this connection.
He further stated that according to the financial powers Standing order it was the Divisional Manager who was competent to accept a proposal for Rs 50000 exhibit B 13 is the copy of the Standing order.
The endorsement therein of the assistant Divisional Manager read as follows NOTES AND DECISION  may be accepted at OR WITH EDB Shri Brahmandrao Ramiah had further stated that the papers were scrutinised by him in addition to the scrutiny by the concerned clerks.
When the acceptance was complete and when there was no requirement necessary and if the full first instalment was 356 in deposit it would be adjusted towards premium amount he stated.
Underwriting and Revivals a Standard Section Head 2000 Sum Proposed lives and Supdt or JO 5000  do  revival on ASO 10000  do  original ADM 25000  do  terms DM 100000  do  Note Proposals on standard lives for more than Rs 100000 should be referred to the Central Underwriting Section Learned Subordinate Judge by his judgment dated 19th November 1964 held that there was no concluded contract.
He held that as per the prospectus of Life Insurance Corporation of India the risk under the Corporation policy commenced on the date of receipt of the first premium in full or the date of acceptance whichever was later and the second instalment of the premium falls due on a date calculated from such date of commencement of risk.
The Trial Court therefore held that there was no concluded valid insurance contract between the deceased and the Corporation.
The Trial Court further expressed the view that the other averments in the claim that the deceased was assured and told by the local agent and the field officer of the Corporation that the payment of the first premium would amount to the acceptance of the proposal were not established and even if such a representation was made that did not alter the position as under the rules the payment of the premium could never amount to the acceptance of the proposal if the proposal was not otherwise accepted.
Relying on certain other documents which were called for for the first time by the High Court relating to certain other cases where only the Assistant Divisional Manager made similar endorsement the High Court came to the conclusion that there was a valid contract.
The High Court was of the view that the plea that Divisional Manager was the only authority to accept had not been categorically taken in the written statement filed on behalf of the Corporation.
On the other hand there was a general statement that there was no concussed contract.
The High Court in our opinions was also wrong in its view about the powers of the different authorities under Chapter III of the Standing order 1960 dealing with the financial powers.
He had stated that the purpose of review slip was to enable the Divisional Manager to asses the risk and take a decision.
When an insurance policy becomes effective is well settled by the authorities but before we note the said authorities it may be stated that it is clear that the expression underwrite signifies accept liability under .
See in this connection the statement of law in Corpus Juris Secundum Vol.
XLV page 986 wherein it has been stated as The mere receipt and retention of premiums until after the death of applicant does not give rise to a contract although the circumstances may be such that approval could be inferred from retention of the premium.
The mere execution of the policy is not an acceptance an acceptance to be complete must be communicated to the offeror either directly or by some definite act such as placing the contract in the mail.
See in this connection statement of law in MacGillivray  Parkington on Insurance Law Seventh Edition page 94 paragraph 215.
Having regard to the clear position in law about acceptance of insurance proposal and the evidence on record in this case we are therefore of the opinion that the High Court was in error in coming to the conclusion that there was a concluded contract of insurance between the deceased and the Life Insurance Corporation and on that basis reversing the judgment and the decision of the learned Subordinate Judge.
We order accordingly that the respondents will therefore pay back half of the actual amount received both of the principal together with interest within three months from this date.
In the facts and circumstances of the case there will be no order as to costs in this Court.
SR Appeal allowed.
