Under Article 32 of the Constitution of India AND Writ Petition Nos 42184571 and 5266 5280 of 1983 Under article 32 of the Constitution of India AND Transfer Case Nos 44 339 of 1983 KK Venugopal SS Ray PP Rao VM Tarkuade and R K Garg V Jogayya Sharma MP Rao Sudarsh Menon T VS N Churi G Narasimhulu A Subba Rao MKD Namboodiry HS Guru Raj Rao section Markandeya ATM Sampath DK Garg Nikhil Chandra and A K Panda for the Petitioners.
GN Rao for the State.
It assumed office on January 9 1983.
The relevant Fundamental Rules were amended by the first notification while the corresponding rules of the Hyderabad Civil Services Rules were amended by the second notification.
By these notifications every Government servant whether ministerial or non ministerial but not belonging to the last Grade Service who had already attained the age of 55 years was to retire from service with effect from February 28 1983.
Over 18000 Government employees and 10000 public sector employees were superannuated as a result of the order.
The case of the petitioners as laid in the writ petitions is that there was no basis at all for reducing the age of retirement from 58 to 55 that the age of retirement was increased from 55 to 58 by the Government of Andhra Pradesh by a notification dated October 29 1979 and nothing had happened since then to justify reduction of the age of retirement again to 5 i that providing employment opportunities to the youths h Is no relevance on the question of fixing the age of retirement that the Government had exercised its power arbitrarily without having regard to factors which are relevant on the fixation of the age of retirement that the Government had acted unreasonably in not giving any previous notice to the employees which would have enabled them to arrange their affairs on the eve of retirement that the Government was estopped from reducing the age of retirement to 55 since the employees had acted on the representation made to them in 1979 by increasing the age of retirement from 55 to 58 that as a result of the increase in the age of retirement from 55 to 58 years in 1976 a vested right had accrued to the employees which could be taken away if at all only from future entrants to the Government service that retirement of experienced and mature persons from Government service will result in grave detriment to public services of the State and that the decision of the Government is bad for a total non application of mind to the relevant facts and circumstances bearing on the question of the age of retirement like increased longevity.
Another affidavit was filed on behalf of the Government of Andhra Pradesh after the rule nisi was issued in the writ petitions.
It is stated in that affidavit that the question of the age of superannuation was not referred to the one Man Pay Commission of Shri A Krishnaswamy which was appointed by the Andhra Pradesh Government on November 3 1 977 that the recommendation made by the Pay Commission was casual and was not based on relevant criteria that as many as 1204008 educated youths were left without employment on September 30 1979 as a result of the unwarranted increase in the age of superannuation from 55 to 58 that the number of unemployed youths had grown to 1784699 by December 31 1982 and that the age of retirement was reduced because it is the duty of the State within the limits of its economic capacity and development to make effective provision to solve the unemployment problem.
On the very next day that is on April l0th Governor of Andhra Pradesh promulgated Ordinance No 5 of 1983 called the Andhra Pradesh Public Employment Regulation of Conditions of Service Ordinance  The Ordinance was passed to regulate the recruitment and conditions of service of persons appointed to Public Services and posts in connection with the affairs of the State of Andhra Pradesh and the officers and servants of the High Court of Andhra Pradesh.
We are not concerned in these writ petitions with clauses 3 to 9 of the Ordinance which mostly regulate conditions of service.
Clause 101 of the Ordinance prescribes that every Government employee not being a workman and not belonging to Last Grade Service shall retire from service on the afternoon of the last day of the month in which he attains the are of 55 years.
Clause 16 of the Ordinance provides that no amendment to the Fundamental Rules shall be deemed to be invalid merely by reason of the fact that the proviso to rule 2 of the Fundamental Rules laid down that the said rules shall not be modified or replaced to the disadvantage of any person already in service.
It provides further that all amendments made to the Fundamental Rules and particularly the amendments made by the notification dated February 8 1983 shall be and shall be deemed always to have been made validly and shall have effect notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in the proviso to rule 2 of the Fundamental Rules as if the Ordinance was in force on February 8 1983.
Shri Venugopal challenged the Ordinance on the ground that it is unreasonable.
The challenge of Shri Siddhartha Shankar Ray is based on the ground of a total non application of mind.
Shri RK Garg who appears in a group of three Transferred Cases contends that the Ordinance is bad because it supersedes all industrial adjudications and overrules even settlements arrived at between the management and the employees.
We will presently set out the specific contentions advanced before us but before doing so.
Indeed the proposition that there ought to be an age of retirement in public services is widely accepted as reasonable and rational.
Inevitably the public administrator has to counter balance conflicting claims while determining the age of superannua 591 tion.
State of Tamil Nadu  2 Edited by Philips B Kurland Oxford and IBH Publisning Co Page 13.
That result is indeed produced by the impugned action of the State Government In 1979 when the age of retirement was increased from 55 to 58 years promotional opportunities were denied to the employees because those who would have retired at the age of 55 got a fresh lease of life for another years.
Now when their turn for promotion has come at about the age of 55 they have been superannuated d The theory that reduction in the age of retirement provides employment opportunities to educated youths is fallacious.
The various Pay Commissions have expressed the view that persons who are required to retire at 593 an early age are compelled by necessity to seek other employments.
In this connection the first ground of challenge to the reduction of the age of retirement is that the One man Pay Revision Commission appointed by the Government of Andhra Pradesh had recommended that the age of retirement should be increased from 55 to 58 that the said recommendation was accepted by the State Government and consequently the age of retirement was raised to 58 with effect from October 29 l 979.
The terms of reference of the Commission were enlarged by the Government by an order dated January 28 1978 SO as to require the Commission to review the existing retirement benefits available to all categories of employees referred to above and to examine the question of extension of retirement benefits to the work charged establishments.
The question as to whether the age of retirement should be raised.
Clause 101 of the Ordinance prescribes that every Government employee not being a workman and not belonging to Last Grade Service shall retire from service on the afternoon of the last day of the month in which he attains the are of 55 years.
We regret to say that the Finance Minister was not properly briefed when he made that statement.
We do not blame the Commission for this hurried and inadequate treatment of an important question.
That question was not within its purview.
Were this so every decision taken by a new Government soon after assumption of office shall have to be regarded as arbitrary.
The reasonableness of a decision in any jurisdiction does not depend upon the time which it takes.
It is untenable to contend that a law is bad because it is passed immediately on the assumption of office by a new Government.
Therefore the speed with which the decision was taken cannot without more invalidate it on the ground of arbitrariness.
The argument could still be made that improvement in the expectation of life requires that the age of retirement should be fixed at 60 or 62 or even at 65.
Both can fall within the constraints of the Constitution and neither the one nor the other can be considered to be arbitrary or unreasonable.
That is the area which permits free play in the joints.
The following table will show the variation in the retirement age which exists at present in the various States in India TB 30 State Retirement Age Haryana 58 years Jammu  Kashmir 55 years Karnataka 1979 58 years 1981 55 years Kerala 1967 55 years 1968 58 years 597 1969 55 years 1984 58 years Madhya Pradesh 58 years Reduced to 55 years 1967 enhanced to S years in 1970.
Rajasthan 55 years Reduced from 58 years to 55 years about 12 years back Uttar Pradesh 58 years Reduced to 55 years in 1962 enhanced to 58 years Tamil Nadu 58 years For District Judges lowered from 58 to 55 years West Bengal 58 years since 1961 tb 9 It is clear from this table that the area between the ages of 55 and 58 is regarded in our country as a permissible field of operation for fixing the age of retirement.
The earlier decision to maintain the age of retirement at 55 was re affirmed but in view of the widespread shortage of trained personnel it was decided that extension of service beyond that age might be given liberally on the ground of public interest more specially in the case of scientific and technical personnel.
thus notwithstanding the recommendation of the Varadachariar Commission the age of superannuation laid down for the non ministerial staff more than 40 years earlier and for ministerial staff more than 20 years earlier continued to be in force when the Second Central Pay Commission took up that question for examination.
The Commission found that there was an overall improvement in public health as shown by the decline in death rate and the increase in expectancy of life at birth.
On this data the Commission concluded in paragraph 11 of its Report Thus however valid may have been the view taken in 1971 and re affirmed in 1937 38 that the age of 55 was normally the dividing line between health and efficiency on the one side and marked physical deterioration and decline in efficiency On the other there is sufficient reason to think that is no longer so and that the deviding line can be safely moved a few years upwards.
In paragraph 15 of the Report the Commission considered the effect of increasing the age of retirement on the employment situation and concluded that the likely repercussion of increasing the age of retirement on educated unemployment would not be substantial.
The Commission recommended that the age of superannuation should be 58 for all classes of public servants including those for whom the retirement age then was 60.
The Third Central Pay Commission 1973 dealt with the question of age of superannuation in Chapter 60 of its Report.
In support of this view it quoted the International Labour Organisation The World Employment Programme The three pillars of a strategy for fuller employment are rural development labour intensive public works programmes and the reduction of capital intensity of industrialisation Observing that the dimensions of unemployment problem should not deter the Government from improving the service conditions of its employees.
Our attention was also drawn to the views expressed on Employment Policy in the Sixth Five Year Plan 1980 85.
It is estimated that on an average there would be approximately 6500 retirements each year from Government departments Panchayat Raj Institutions and also Aided Institutions where pensionary liability is borne by Government.
Government were thus able to create promotional avenues to serving employees at various levels and create opportunities for appointment against about 18000 posts in Government Panchayat Raj and aided educational institutions alone not to speak of the opportunities that were created in the various Corporations etc owned or controlled by Government.
 604 The White Paper explains that in order to ensure that the employees who had retired by the end of February 1983 should get their pensionary benefits without delay the Government had constituted a special Pension cell in the Finance Department by a notification dated February 16 1983.
There are precedents within our country itself for fixing the retirements age at 55 or for reducing it from 58 to 55.
Either the one or the other of these two stages is regarded generally as acceptable depending upon the employment policy of the Government of the day.
If the policy adopted for the time being by the Government or the Legislature is shown to violate recognised norms of employment planning it would be possible to say that the policy is irrational since in that event it would not bear reasonable nexus with the object which it seeks to achieve.
But such is not the case here.
Since the impugned policy is actuated and influenced predominatly by that consideration it cannot be struck down as arbitrary or irrational.
The fixation of age of retirement has minute and multifarious dimensions which shape the lives of citizens.
Care must also be taken to ensure that the statistics are not perverted to serve a malevolent purpose 605 Shri VM Tarkunde who appears for some of the petitioners A limited his argument to the contention that arbitrary fixation of retirement age amounts to removal from service and is therefore violative of Article 311 2 of the Constitution This argument has to be rejected because of our conclusion that the reduction of the age of retirement from 58 to 55 in the instant case is not hit by Article 14 or Article 16 since it is not arbitrary or unreasonable in the circumstances of the case.
See Satish Chandra vs Union of India1 Shyam Lal vs State of U P1 State of Bombay vs Saubhagchand M Doshi3 Purshottam Lal Dhingra vs Union of India4 and P Balakotiah vs Union of India5.
Besides the point made by Shri Tarkunde is concluded by a Constitution Bench decision of this Court in Bishun Narain Misra vs State of Uttar Pradesh 6 In that case the Government of Uttar Pradesh and raised the age of superannuation from 55 to 58 years by a Notification dated November 27 1957 but reduced it again to 55 years by a Notification dated May 25 1961.
It was held by this Court that the termination of service of an employee on account of his reaching the age of superannuation does not amount to his removal from service within the meaning of Article 311 2.
Learned counsel contends that this decision is of doubtful authority since the Court based its opinion on the majority judgment in Moti Ram Deka vs yGeneral Manager North Frontier Railway7 in which the Court was not called upon to consider and did not consider the validity of a rule of superannuation.
It is true that in Moti Ram Deka the Court was concerned to G 1  2 1955 1 SCR26.
6 1965 I SCR 693.
See page 696 of the Report.
The instances of non application of mind cited by the learned counsel are these The inclusion o f the employees of the High Court within the sweep of the Ordinance in violation of the provisions of Chapters V and VI of the Constitution the inclusion of the employees of the Legislature Secretariat within the Ordinance the extension of the Ordinance even to the daily rate workers and finally the fact that nothing worthwhile is likely to be achieved by the passing of the Ordinance since at the highest it would create employment at this point of time only for about 19500 employees After that point of time passes the same state of affairs will continue since the age of retirement will be merely substituted by 58 in place of 55 years.
The 607 power to issue an ordinance is not an executive power but is the power of the executive to legislate.
This power is plenary within its field like the power of the State Legislature to pass laws and there are no limitations upon that power except those to which the legislative power of the State Legislature is subject Therefore though an ordinance call be invalidated for contravention of the constitutional limitations which exist upon the power of the State Legislature to pass laws it cannot be declared invalid for the reason of non application of mind any more than any other law can be.
Not the act of a Legislature.
2 119821 SCR 947 at 964 967.
Rules of retirement do not take away the right of a person to his livelihood they limit his right to hold office to a stated number of years.
These Transferred Cases will be delinked from the other Writ Petitions and will be listed for hearing later so that they can be dealt with upon their own facts.
The argument of mala fides advanced by Shri AT Sampat and adopted in passing by some of the other counsel is without any basis.
Its reasons for passing a law are those that are stated in the Objects and Reasons and if no reasons are so stated as appear from the provisions enacted by it.
Even assuming that the executive in a given case has an ulterior motive in moving a legislation that motive cannot render the passing of the law mala fide.
The Fundamental Rules and the amendments thereto are issued by the State Government under the powers delegated to it by the Civil Services Governors  Provinces Delegation Rules 1926 the Civil Services Classification Control and Appeal Rules 1930 and under the Proviso to Article 309 of the Constitution.
The Fundamental Rules which came in to force with effect from January 1 1972 were amended earlier by GO Ms No 128 dated April 29 1969.
By that amendment a proviso was added to rule 2 which reads thus Provided that the rules shall not be modified or E replaced to the disadvantage of any person already in service By GO Ms No 48 dated February 17 1983 this proviso was deleted with retrospective effect from February 23 1979.
The contention of the petitioners is that the proviso which conferred a benefit upon Government servants by protecting their conditions of service cannot be amended so as to empower the Government to alter those conditions to their prejudice and in any event they cannot be amended retrospectively so as to take away rights which had already accrued to them The simple answer to this argument is that the amendment of February 17 1983 to the Fundamental Rules was made by the Government of Andhra Pradesh in exercise of the powers conferred by the proviso to Article 309 read with Article 313 of the Constitution.
See BS Vaderu vs Union of India1 Raj Kumar vs Union of India2.
These then are the main points in controversy on which counsel made their contentions.
SR Petitions dismissed.
