The appeal under section 291 of the hereinafter called the Act is directed against the judgment and order of the High Court of Allahabad dated 6th of January 1971.
1957 3 Whether on the facts and in the circumstances of the case the Tribunal tight ly held that the sum of Rs 150000 was properly included in the assessee s net wealth 4 Whether on the facts and in the circumstances of the case the Tribunal right ly held that the assessee did not make valid gifts aggregating Rs67560 5 Whether on the facts and in the circumstances of the case the Tribunal right ly held that the sum of Rs6756012 was rightly included in the net wealth of the assessee The case relates to the assessment year 1957 58 and the relevant date of valuation was 31st March 1957.
Rs25000 Om Prakash Gupta .
Rs50000 Pravin Kumar Gupta .
Rs 50000 By that letter the assessee had directed the Company to debit his account to the extent of Rs 150000 and credit the respective amounts in the names of the aforesaid per sons.
On the same day ie on ist January 1957 Om Parkash Gupta wrote to the assessee his father thanking him for the gift of Rs25000 made in his favour and the gift of Rs50000 in favour of his son Pravin.
The assessee contended that a total sum of Rs 150000 was validly gifted by him to his sons and grand sons and hence the amounts had been wrongly included in his net wealth by the Income Tax Officer and the Appellate Assistant Commissioner.
But there was no evidence that Tika Ram and Sons were carrying on any banking business.
The assessee claimed to have gifted the said amounts by transfer entries in the books of Ms Pearls  Beads on 30th March 1957.
In the case of banking companies or other firms and companies who have overdraft facilities even if the sums are not in credit of the donor and are not with such companies or firms gifts might be possible by adjustment of the book entries.
It is possible in certain circumstances for a donor to make a valid gift by instructing a firm or a company or a HUF in which the donor has an account to give effect to the gift by debiting his account and crediting the account in the name of the donee.
Reference may also be made for this proposition to the decision of the Delhi High Court in New India Colour Co vs Commissioner of IncomeTax New Delhi The effect of the two aforesaid decisions of the learned fudges of the Delhi High Court indicates that in case there was not sufficient cash balance from out of which the amount gifted could be physically given to the donee more entries in the books of account in the form would not constitute delivery of possession over the gifted property to the donee and gift in such case will not be valid.
Such delivery may be in the same way as goods sold may be delivered.
It was held by the Bombay High Court that there was no valid gift.
The Allahabad High Court in the case of Commissioner of Income Tax UPv Smt.
Balance of the firm was only Rs 15.
Memo of gift recorded on stamp paper.
It was held that the gift was not valid.
There the assessee was the karta of a Hindu undivided family.
But in that case the question in the present form in which it arises before us in the instant case did not arise.
