Dr YS Chitale PH Parekh RK Dhillon Ms Sunita Sharma and Dr D Chandrachud for the Respondents.
The expression newspaper is defined by section 2b of the Act as follows  Newspaper means any printed periodical work containing public news or comments on public news and includes such other class of printed periodical work as may from time to time be notified in this behalf by the Central Government in the Official Gazette 779 A newspaper employee is defined by section 2c of the Act as any working journalist and includes any other person employed to do any work in or in relation to any newspaper establishment.
The expression working journalist is defined by section 2f of the Act as a person whose principal avocation is that of a journalist and who is employed as such either whole time or part time in or in relation to one or more newspaper establishments and includes an editor a leader writer news editor sub editor feature writer copy tester reporter correspondent cartoonist news photographer and proof reader but does not include any such person who is employed mainly in a managerial or administrative capacity or being employed in a supervisory capacity performs either by the nature of the duties attached to his office or by reason of the powers vested in him functions mainly of a managerial nature.
A non journalist newspaper employee means any person employed to do any work in or in relation to any newspaper establishment but does not include any such person who is a working journalist or is employed mainly in a managerial or administrative capacity or being employed in a supervisory capacity performs either by the nature of the duties attached to his office or by reason of the powers vested in him functions mainly of a managerial nature as stated in section 2dd of the Act.
Chapter II of the Act deals with certain conditions of service of the working journalists.
Section 13AA which was inserted by Act 6 of 1979 provides for the constitution of a Tribunal for fixing or revising rates of wages in respect of working journalists where the Central Government is of opinion that the Board constituted under section 9 for the purpose of fixing or revising rates of wages in respect of working journalists under the Act has not been able to function effectively.
In exercise of its powers under section 12 of the Act the Central Government accepted a part of the recommendations and made an order thereon on 26121980 and accepted the remaining part of the recommendations and made another order thereon on 2071981.
Immediately after the service of the said notice the Ist respon 781 dent filed a writ petition on the file of the High Court of Judicature at Bombay Nagpur Bench in Writ Petition No 2388 of 1982 questioning the validity of the notice served on it by the Deputy Labour Commissioner Nagpur calling upon it to implement the orders of the Central Government on the basis of the award of the Palekar Tribunal.
Initially the State of Maharashtra the Commissioner of Labour and the Deputy Labour Commissioner Nagpur had been impleaded as respondents.
It was urged before the High Court on behalf of the Ist respondent All India Reporter Limited that the law reports publised by it were not newspapers as defined in the Act and therefore the order made by the Central Government on the basis of the recommendations of Justice Palekar were not applicable to its establishment.
The Ist respondent All India Reporter Limited publishes in addition to the law reports referred in the first paragraph of this judgment several other books commentaries digests and manuals.
The definition of the expression newspaper has already been set out above.
In order to be a newspaper a work must be a i printed work ii a periodical and iii should contain public news or comments on public news.
The term newspaper  is usually applied except so far as concerns the important class of trade newspapers to publications devoted mainly to recording current events and periodicals  to magazines reviews and journals which in so far as they are concerned with current events at all are concerned to comment rather than to report but newspapers merge into advertising sheets periodicals into books and pamphlets and both into one another   The expression news is not defined in the Act.
Even apart from Article 141 of the Constitution the decisions of the Supreme Court which is a court of record constitute a 783 source of law as they are the judicial precedents of the highest court of the land.
They are binding on all the courts throughout India.
Those decisions also carry persuasive value before courts which are not situated within its territory.
We are of the view that any decision published in the law reports of the Ist respondent contain information about the recent events which have taken place in the Supreme Court or in the High Courts which are public bodies and these are matters in which the public is interested.
It may be that the decisions contained in these law reports may cease to be items of news after some time but when they are received by the subscribers they do possess the character of works containing news.
784 Strong reliance was placed on behalf of the Ist respondent on the decision of the High Court of Orissa in PSV Iyer vs Commissioner of Sales Tax Orissa AIR 1960 Orissa 221 in which the question that arose for consideration was whether a law journal Cuttack Law Times which was a non official monthly journal containing the decisions of the Orissa High Court the Orissa Board of Revenue and also of the Supreme Court was a newspaper and if it was a newspaper whether it was competent for the Legislature of the State of Orissa to levy sales tax on the sale of the said journal.
Taxes on the sale or purchase of goods other than newspapers subject to Entry 92 A of List I The language of Entry 92 of List I of the Seventh Schedule to the Constitution which conferred on Parliament alone the power to tax sale or purchase of newspapers was in the following terms 92.
Tax on the sale or purchase of newspapers and on advertisements published therein.
Accordingly the High Court of Orissa held that the sale of Cuttack Law Times which according to it was not a newspaper could be taxed by the State Legislature under Entry 54 of List II of the Seventh Schedule to the Constitution of India.
 It is seen that the editor of the law report containing the above decision has appended an editorial comment on this stating that this decision is wrong and that the Orissa High Court s decision was right.
Justice AN Grover who later became a Judge of the Supreme Court of India and the Chairman of the Press Council as a Judge of the Punjab  Haryana High Court held in LD Jain vs General Manager Government of India Press and Others ILR 1967 Punjab and Haryana 193 that the Gazette of India which was the official publication of all kinds of news and information was a newspaper within the meaning of section 2b of the Working Journalists Conditions of Service and Miscellaneous Provisions Act 1955 and that it was not essential for a newspaper to conform strictly to the usual pattern of a daily or weekly or monthly newspaper or a magazine containing news which members of the public ordinarily read in order to get reports of recent events comments on them etc.
 It is significant that the expression newspaper  as defined in the Act includes not merely public news  but also comments on public news .
We are of the view that the law reports published by the Ist respondent are newspapers and the employees employed by the Ist respondent in their production or publication of the said law reports should be extended the benefit of the orders passed by the Central Government on the basis of the recommendations made by the Palekar Award.
There will however be no order as to costs.
SL Appeal allowed.
