etition Civil Nos.
It empowers the Central Government to enhance or reduce the rate of royalty prescribed by the Second Schedule in respect of any mineral subject to the condition that the Central Government shall not enhance the rate of royalty in respect of any mineral more than once during any period of three years.
3 The holder of a mining lease or any other mineral concession granted under any rule made under sub section 1 410 shall pay royalty or dead rent whichever is more in respect of minor minerals removed or consumed by him or by his agent manager employee contractor or sub lessee at the rate prescribed for the time being in the rules framed by the State Government in respect of minor minerals Provided that the State Government shall not enhance the rate of royalty in respect of any minor mineral for more than once during any period of three years.
 It is seen from section 15 that the State Government is empowered to make rules for regulating the grant of quarry leases mining leases or other mineral concessions in re spect of minor minerals and for purposes connected there with.
In exercise of the said power under section 15 the Government of Gujarat promulgated the Gujarat Minor Minerals Rules 1966 which are referred to as the Rules as stated above.
The original rule 21 was substituted by new rule 21 by the issue of impugned notification on 26 6 1985 which provides that a holder of a quarry lease or any other mineral conces sion granted under the Rules shall pay royalty in respect of minor minerals provided in column 2 of the Schedule removed or consumed by him or by his agent manager employee contractor or sub lessee from the leased area at the rates specified in column 3 of the said Schedule.
It is under this notification the rate of royalty in respect of black trap and Hard Murrum was increased from Rs 4 to Rs7 per metric tonne.
The rule also provides that the holder of a Parwana granted under the Rules shall pay royalty at the rate of 50 per cent of the rate of royalty specified in the said Sched ule and that no royalty shall be charged from Nimbhadas of village Potters who manufacture upto one lakh bricks per year.
Since many of the contentions raised by the parties in respect of the constitutionality of section 15 of the Act and the validity of Rules made thereunder had been considered and the contentions urged by the petitioners against the said rule in those petitions had been rejected in the present case the petitioners have confined their case only to the following points which according to them had not been considered in the said decision.
We do not also find much substance in the contention that the levy in question is unreasonably heavy and has been imposed in an arbitrary manner.
We do not therefore find any substance in the contention urged by Shri Nariman.
Under clause 1 of the proviso to the impugned rule 21 a holder of a Parwana granted under the Rules has to pay royalty at the rate of 50 per cent of the royalty payable by the lessees and no royalty is payable by village potters who manufacture upto one lakh bricks per year and by the village potters whose annual production was not exceeding two lakh bricks and who supply at least one lakh bricks to the Rural Housing Board or Panchayats.
c New individual Khanias who do physical work in excavating minor minerals in any other areas.
Under rule 18 of the Rules the period of lease in the case of the minor minerals can be for a much longer period it can be upto 10 years in respect of minor minerals except in the case of ordinary sand Kankar Mur ram Gravel and in the case of Kankar Murram and gravel a lease can be granted upto three years and the area or land covered by a mining lease is governed by rule 15 which says that no quarry lease shall be granted for an area exceeding 10 hectares in case of specified minor mineral and 20 hec tares in the case of other minerals.
So a comparison of the relevant rules would show that a larger restriction is imposed both on the area in respect of which a Parwana could be issued and the duration of the Parwana right and as also stated that the persons who take quarrying Parwana are persons belonging to the weaker sections of society and if under rule 21 a concession is shown in their favour it cannot be said that there is no reasonable nexus between the classification for purposes of the proviso to rule 21 to show concession in the matter of payment of royalty and the social policy underlying the Constitution the statute and the Rules.
