This appeal is directed against the judgment dated 27101979 of the High Court of Madras con firming the conviction of the appellant under section 161 I PC and under section 336 52 read with section 51d of the Prevention of Corrup tion Act.
The appellant produced the currency notes.
At the trial the prosecution witnesses supported the case.
PW 1 affirmed the fact that the appellant made the demand and had also received the amount on 2210.
Before the High Court the contentions of the appellant were that there was no independent evidence regarding the demand the messenger who had contacted PW 1 at the 337 behest of the appellant had not been examined the solitary evidence of PW 1 is insufficient the explanation offered by the appellant was probable and there is no conclusive evi dence to hold that the appellant.
was guilty.
The recovery of the currency notes from the appellant proves the guilty conduct of the appel lant in view of the presumption arising under section 41 of the Prevention of Corruption Act which has not been rebutted.
It cannot therefore be said that there had been consistent explanation for the appellant.
This conduct of the appellant is clearly incon sistent with the transaction of loan or return of money by PW 1 338 This Court observed in Dhanvantrai Balwantrai Desai vs State of Maharashtra AIR 1964 SC 575 as under Where any gratification other than legal gratification or any valuable thing is proved to have been received by an accused person the court is required to draw a presumption that the person received that thing as a motive of reward such as is mentioned in section 161 IPC Therefore the Court has no choice in the matter once it is established that the accused person has received a sum of money which was not due to him as a legal remuneration.
Of course it is open to that person to show that though that money was not due to him as legal remuneration it was legally due to him in some other manner or that he had received it under a transaction or an arrangement which was lawful.
The burden resting on the accused person in such a case would not be as light as it is where a presumption is raised under section 114 of Evidence Act and cannot be held to be discharged merely by reason of the fact that the explanation offered by the accused is reasonable and probable.
NVK Appeal dismissed.
