The fair rent claimed was computed at Rs239903 per month in respect of item No 1 as against the rent of Rs 150 pm fixed under the lease deed.
When a petition under section 4 is filed the Rent Controller on the language of section 4 has to decide 1 whether the applicant is a tenant in or landlord of the building and 2 what the fair rent of the premises should be in accordance with the provisions of the Act.
It was therefore not open to the High Court to entertain a collateral attack on the validity of binding nature or correctness of the order of the Court of Small Causes and to consider and determine afresh the issue as to whether the LIC is the owner of the premises as claimed or not.
Thirdiv even assuming the argument of learned counsel to be correct all that can be said is that in the second set of proceedings the tenants could have contended that it was not open to the Court of Small Causes to go into the question of title in view of the decision in the first set of proceedings.
A tenant shall not be evicted whether in execution of a decree or otherwise except in 560 accordance with the provisions of this section or sections 14 to 16 Provided that nothing contained in the said sec tions shall apply to a tenant whose landlord is the Govern ment Provided further that where the tenant denies the title of the landlord or claims right of permanent tenancy the Controller shall decide whether the denial or claim is bona fide and if he records a finding to that effect the landlord shall be entitled to sue for eviction of the tenant in a Civil Court and the Court may pass a decree for evic tion on any of the grounds mentioned in the said sections notwithstanding that the Court finds that such denial does not involve forfeiture of the lease or that the claim is unfounded.
section 19 Decisions which have become final not to be reo pened Any application under section 3 A or section 12 and any application under sub section 2 or subsection 3 or sub section 3 A of section 10 or under sections 14 15 or 16 shall be summarily rejected by the authorized officer or the Controller.
In that case the respondent being in need of money entered into an agreement with the appellant for a loan of Rs2000 and it was simultaneously decided that she should execute a nominal document of sale and rent note of her house.
It also took a technical plea that the decision of the Additional Settlement Officer that the suit land was poramboke and not ryoti  land was final and the Civil Court s jurisdiction to decide that question was barred under section 64 C of the Tamil Nadu Estates Abolition and Conversion into Ryotwari Act 1948 which ran as follows 64 C Finality of orders passed under this Act 1 Any order passed by the Government or other authority under this Act in respect of matters to be determined for the purposes of this Act shall subject only to any appeal or revision provided by or under this Act be final.
We are concerned with the jurisdiction of a civil court.
If the civil court in this case had come to the conclusion that there is a relationship of a landlord and a tenant and that the LIC was entitled to recover the rent from the tenants it will have to pass a decree in favour of the LIC on the basis of the fair rent fixed by the Rent Controller.
The appeal is therefore dismissed.
