February 23.
The Commissioner has come up in appeal pursuant to special leave against both these judgments.
Indian Act.
Application of the Act 4 4 Head of income charge able to income tax 9 6 Business 13 10 Exemptions of a gene ral nature 18 14 Set off of loss in com puting aggregate in come 32 24 261 It is only necessary to set out section 321 of the Travancore Act and the proviso which correspond to section 241 and proviso i of the Indian Act and which are necessary for the decision of the appeals before us S321  Where any assessee sustains a loss of profits or gains in any year under any of the heads mentioned in Section 9 Section 6 he shall be entitled to have the amount of loss set off against this income profits or gains under any other head in that year Provided that where the loss sustained is a loss of profits or gains which would but for the loss have accrued or arisen within British India or in an Indian State and would under the provisions of clause e of sub section 2 of Section 18 Section 142c  have been exempted from tax such loss shall not be set off except against profits or gains accruing or arising within British India or in an Indian State and exempt from tax under the said provisions .
Sir George Rankin said at p 241  In their Lordships  opinion whether a firm is registered or unregistered partnership does not obstruct or defeat the right of a partner to an adjustment on account of his share of loss in the firm whether the set off be against other profits under the same 1 1936 LR 63 IA 233 265 head of income within the meaning of section 6 of the Act or under a different head in which case only need recourse be had to section 24 sub section 1 .
But it was contended on behalf of the Revenue that the first proviso to section 241 of the Indian Act not only affected the generality of the main enactment but also introduced an addendum that where the profits of the business arose in what was British India in the case of the Indian Act or what was Travancore State in the case of the Travancore Act and the losses under the head business were sustained in an Indian State or in the latter case in any other Indian State or British India these losses could not by virtue of the proviso be deducted from profits made in British India or Travancore State as the case may be.
Vide also Corporation of The City of Toronto vs Attorney General for Canada 1.
It is significant that in sections 213 and 5 of the Indian Act of 1918 corresponding to sections 215 and 6 of the Indian Act of 1922 the word used was income  which in the latter Act was expanded into  income profits and gains .
41950 5 269 argument does not take note of the definition of total income total world income  and chargeability of total income under section 3 or the provisions of section 4 where in the case of a resident total income  includes income profits and gains accruing within or without I British India.
In our view the question referred to the High Court which is common to the two appeals was rightly answered in favour of the assessee.
Appeals dismissed.
