Subhash Mallick and SK Jain for the Appellant.
This is an appeal against the judgment of the Rajasthan High Court dated 19th July 1979 passed in DB Civil Writ Petition No 681 of 1978 Raghubir Singh vs The Board of Revenue for Rajasthan and others and DB Civil Writ Petition No 769 of 1979 Surendrapal Singh vs The Board of Revenue for Rajasthan and others.
The first writ petition was filed by the father Raghubir Singh whereas the second writ petition was filed by his minor son Surendrapal Singh through his next friend Shri Jagjit Singh maternal grand father of the minor.
The matter was taken to the Board of Revenue for Rajasthan by a revision application and the Board by its order dated 14th April 1975 directed that the ceiling area for Raghubir Singh may be determined according to the old law ie Act of 1955 and not according to the new law ie Rajasthan Imposition of Ceiling on Agricultural Holding Act 1973 hereinafter referred to as the Act of 1973.
It was thus held that Raghubir Singh and his son Surendrapal Singh are entitled to retain 124 Bighas and 16 Biswas only and the surplus land measuring 4 Bighas and 6 Biswas may be resumed.
The application for adducing additional evidence was disallowed.
In the ultimate analysis the Member of the Board found that there was a gross and patent illegality in the order of the Sub Divisional Officer and consequently set aside the order of the Sub Divisional Officer dated 5th May 1976 as well as the order of the Appellate Authority dated 6th September 1976 and remanded the case to the Sub Divisional Officer Hanumangarh for fresh determination of the calling area for Raghubir Singh.
The general superintendence and control over all revenue courts shall be vested in an all such Courts shall be subordinate to the Board and subject to such superintendence control and subordination a x x x omitted b all Additional Collectors Sub.
Section 9 whereof provides as under 9 Subject to the other provisions of this Act the general superintendence and control over all revenue courts and over all revenue officers shall be vested in and all such Courts and Officers shall be subordinate to the Board.
The contention on behalf of the appellant to that effect was negatived but on merits the High Court held that it was not appropriate for the Board to exercise the powers conferred by Section 9 of the land Revenue Act in view of the fact that the Board had appellate jurisdiction and it could not therefore make use of its powers of superintendence and control and the order of the Board could not be held proper with reference to Section 9 of the Land Revenue Act.
It is clear from the language of Section 221 of the Act of 1955 that the Board of Revenue has general powers of superintendence and control over all revenue courts.
Under Section 107 of the Government of India Act 1955 there was provision of superintendence by High Court in these terms  728 Each of the High Courts has superintendence over all the courts for the time being subject to its appellate jurisdiction.
Reference may in this connection be made to Parmessar Singh vs Kailaspati AIR 1916 Pat 292 FB.
In the Government of India Act of 1935 there was provision under Section 224 for superintendence by the High Courts  but subsection2 made it clear that this superintendence would not be construed as giving to the High Court any jurisdiction to question any judgment of any inferior court which was not otherwise subject to appeal or revision.
Section 221 of the Act of 1955 is similar to Section 107 of the Government of India Act 1915 and there is no section like sub section 2 of Section 224 of the Government of India Act of 1935 in the Act of 1955.
The Board noticed that there was no provision for separate unit in Chapter III B of tile Act of 1955 and the applicant Raghubir Singh and his son Surendrapal Singh constituted one unit and not two units and the case was remanded to Sub Divisional Officer Hanumangarh for de novo determination of the ceiling area for the appellant in law.
U R Appeal dismissed.
