this appeal with special leave is directed against the judgment and order of the labour appellate tribunal of india in a dispute regarding the workers claim for bonus.
it paid 24 3 per cent.
dividend on ordinary shares being the maximum that could be paid under the public companies limitation of dividend ordinance of 1948 and also paid to the workers their full share of bonus at annas 4 in a rupee of their basic earnings.
below those obtained in 1948.
there was moreover indiscipline amongst the workers and production suffered.
further the management were unable to secure cotton which resulted in the curtailment of the working hours.
as a result of all these circumstances the appellant suffered a trading loss of rs 502563 1 10.
an aggregate sum of rs 1251871 13 5 was thus brought into the balance sheet by these two transfers.
the balance which had been brought forward from the previous year was added thereto and a dividend of 2434 per cent.
the primary meaning of the word bonus according to the definition given in the new english dictionary is a boon or gift over and above what is nominally due as remuneration to the receiver and which is therefore something wholly to the good.
the word bonus has however acquired a secondary meaning in the sphere of industrial relations.
the pocket part of the corpus juris secundum volume xi under the heading as compensation for services quotes the following passage from attorney general v city of woburn 317 mass 465 the word bonus is commonly used to denote an increase in salary or wages in contracts of employment.
the offer of a bonus is the means frequently adopted to secure continuous service from an employee to enhance his efficiency and to augment his loyalty to his employer and the employee s acceptance of the offer by performing the things called for by the offer binds employer to pay the bonus so called.
it also gives another meaning of the word bonus viz increased compensation for services already rendered gratuitously or for a prescribed compensation where there is neither express or implied understanding that additional compensation may be granted.
t l r 294 297 where the earl of birkenhead observed the term bonus may of course be properly used to describe payments made of grace and not as of right.
but it nevertheless may also include as here payments made because legally due but which the parties contemplate will not continue indefinitely and in national association of local government officers v bolton corporation 1943.
a c 166 i87 this payment if made can not properly in my opinion be regarded as a mere gratuity.
i do not see why this does not fall within the definition of trade dispute just as much as a dispute as to the rate of wages or salary.
to a similar effect are the observations in kenicott v supervisors of wayne county 1873 83 u s 452 21 l ed.
but second the meaning of the word bonus is not given to it by the objection.
a premium given for a loan or a charter or other privilege granted to a company as the bank paid a bonus for its charter a sum paid in addition to a stated compensation.
and also in great western garment co ltd v minister of national revenue 1948.
d l r 25 233.
a bonus may be a mere gift or gratuity as a gesture of goodwill and not enforceable or it may be something which an employee is entitled to on the happening of a condition precedent and is enforceable when the condition is fulfilled.
2 l l j 247as.
both labour and capital contribute to the earnings of the industrial concern it is fair that labour should derive some benefit if there is a surplus after meeting prior or necessary charges and the following were prescribed as the first charges on gross profits viz 1 provision for depreciation 2 reserves for rehabilitation 3 a return at 6 per cent.
a return on the working capital at a lesser rate than the return on paid up capital.
bonus is not a deferred wage.
because if it were so it would necessarily rank for precedence before dividends the dividends can only be paid out of profits and unless and until profits are made no occasion or question can also arise for distribution of any sum as bonus amongst the employees.
i l l j 386 textile mills madhya pradesh v their workmen 1952 2 l l j 625and famous cine laboratory v their workmen 1953.
as at present advised a claim for bonus which had been rested on profits earned should ordinarily be determined on the basis of the profits earned in the year under claim and that the scale of bonus should be determined on the quantum of profits earned in the year.
so it would follow that if there is trading loss in the year under claim bonus should not ordinarily be awarded.
it however observed but in our opinion that should not be the universal rule.
even on a winding up of a company the property of the company would be applied in satisfaction of its liabilities pari passu and unless the articles of association of the company otherwise provided in distribution amongst the members according to their rights and interest in the company.
a transfer of moneys from these reserves or the undistributed profits would therefore not enure for the benefit of the workers.
on the accounts of each year being made up and the profits of the industrial concern being ascertained the workers during the particular year have their demand for bonus fully satisfied out of the surplus profits and the balance of profits is allocated and carried over in the accounts.
the ratio which applies in the case of the shareholders who acquire the right title and interest of their predecessorsin interest does not apply to the labour force and the fact that the shareholders get a dividend by transfer of funds from the reserves and undistributed profits of the previous years would not entitle the workers to demand bonus out of those funds if the working of the industrial concern during the particular year has resulted in a trading loss.
social justice is a very vague and indeterminate expression and no clear cut definition can be laid down which will cover all the situations.
attempted to give a definition in the following terms social justice connotes the balance of adjustments of the various interests concerned in the social and economic structure of the state in order to promote harmony upon an ethical and economic basis and he stated that there were three parties concerned here viz the employers the labour and the state itself and the conception of social justice had to be worked out in this context.
indeed the full bench of the labour appellate tribunal evolved the abovequoted formula with a view to dispensing social justice between the various parties concerned.
that full bench decision stands and this tribunal and all other tribunals are bound by it.
ordinance of 1948 the whole of the profits of 1948 could have been distributed after paying the workers bonus in that year of four annas in the rupee.
the result therefore is that the decision of the labour appellate tribunal appealed against must be reversed and that of the industrial court textiles and hosiery kanpur restored.
the appeal will accordingly be allowed with costs.
appeal allowed.
