shri achutananda purohit appellant was the intermediary in respect of vast forests and other lands comprised in the estate of jujumura in the district of sambalpur.
shri purohit appellant is an advocate by profession and is 83 years old.
although he waxed sentimentally on this note he did not convince us on his contentions.
we are directly concerned with the issue of compensation which is dealt with as earlier stated in chapter v of the act.
the compensation officer is charged with fixing the quantum in the prescribed manner.
a compensation assessment roll containing the gross asset and net income of each estate together with the compensation payable in respect of such estate has to be prepared by him.
of course when there is joint ownership section 24 stipulates that the compensation shall be determined for the estate as a whole and not separately for each of the shares therein.
the act also provides for appeal second appeal and revision the last being to the high court and the earlier ones being to the collector and a board constituted under section 22.
against the background of law just projected we may set out shri purohit s points which if we may say so are substantially the same as have been argued by him in revision before the high court with partial success.
b v of the act make it clear that the date of vesting is the last date by which the calculation of compensation should have been made.
as admittedly compensation had not been calculated by the date of vesting the compensation officer lost his statutory jurisdiction to do so.
there was no direction that this report of the d f o should be further subject to the approval of the chief conservator of forests.
but as the court directed that no further evidence on behalf of the state should be received ext.
a1 is inadmissible in evidence.
3 assuming that in spite of the directions of the court the compensation offi cer is entitled to follow the procedure laid down in section 262bv the expression subject to the approval of the chief conservator of forests does not refer to the appraisement made by the d f o but refers to his appointment.
4 assuming that section 262 b v would have full force what it contemplates is that the appraisement must be made by the d f o and it is subject to the approval by the chief conservator of forests.
but what has happened here is that the chief conservator himself made the appraisement without referring to the appraisement made by the d f o and as such the appraisement made by the chief conservator is invalid.
6 unlike in case of fisheries etc.
but before examining this essential issue we may dispose of the minor points pressed so that the deck may be cleared for dealing with what deserves to be dealt with.
point No 9 in the catalogue already given relates to the claim for 12 interest on the amount of compensation as against the statutory rate of 2 12.
the policy of the law of agrarian reform postulates the extinguishment of ancient privileges and cornering of land resources and the socioeconomic yardstick is different from what applies to ordinary purchases of real estate and this is manifest in the special provisions contained in article 31a and article 31b of the constitution.
a similar principle applies to the award of interest which may sometimes be notional when feudal interests are puffed out.
we can not import the notion of prevailing bank rates in such situations.
here there is good reason to depart from the old rule of full compensation and it perhaps legitimates the reduced rate of recompense.
moreover the high court has rightly pointed out that the validity of section 373 of the act which fixes a small rate of interest on the compensation amount has been upheld by the supreme court in gajapati narayan s case.
the contention is that on the date of vesting which was well over two decades ago the purchasing power of the rupee was much higher than its present value.
law is sometimes blind.
the appellant challenges the slab system of compensation provided in the act which awards smaller multiples for estates yielding larger incomes on the score of violation of the fundamental rights under the constitution.
the argument is that for certain reasons the appellant could not derive and actual income from the forests taken over by the state from him and therefore there was no income tax payable on any agricultural income from these forests.
v gross income from forests calculated on the basis of the appraisement made of annual yield of the forests on the date of vesting by a forest officer subject to the approval of the chief conservator of forests such forest officer being not below the rank of a divisional forest officer to be appointed in this behalf by the state government.
the expression forest officer used here has been explained in section 26.
the power to approve implies the power to disapprove or modify but not to report or arrive at an income de hors the forest officer s report altogether.
indeed preliminary to the appraisal operation the intermediary receives a notice in form d rule 13 and he is expected to furnish a return of the relevant particulars and supporting information to enable correct appraisement.
in the present case the appellant did submit the d return to the compensation officer and adduced some evidence to substantiate it.
it is open to the petitioners to give evidence that after the date of vesting many of the trees and forest produce have been removed.
besides the evidence already on record would be taken into consideration.
but in such a case the materials must be brought to the notice of the petitioners who would be entitled to cross examine the witnesses connected therewith and may give rebutting evidence.
the compensation case is to be disposed of by the compensation officer within six months from today 104 1969 with intimation to this court.
even so the total figure was less than what the divisional forest officer had recommended.
a second appeal was filed by the appellant before the board of revenue without success.
from this narrative what follows is that the chief conservator had substituted his appraisement which was accepted by the statutory tribunal.
it is astonishing that anyone should urge as the appellant did that the date of vesting is the last date by which the calculation of compensation should have been made and since that had not been done the compensation officer had become functus officio in awarding compensation.
if the officer had no jurisdiction the land would be gone because of the vesting provision and no compensation would be forthcoming for want of jurisdiction a consequence the appellant never wants.
we may make it clear that now that a forest officer has made an appraisement the chief conservator of forests will apply his mind to it and approve it as a whole or with such modifications as he thinks necessary and forward it to the compensation officer.
substantially this is what has been done by the learned judge when allowing the revisions and remitting the case back to the compensation officer.
the force of these observations constrains us to direct that the proceedings before the compensation officer shall be completed within six months from today.
in this context it is perhaps not irrelevant to remember that the appellant a freedom fighter is an 83 year old man and at this stage of his life the state should show commisseration not merely in quickly disposing of the proceedings but also in not being cantankerous in awarding and disbursing the balance compensation.
