they served a charter of demands in july1974on the appellant and as their demands were not accepted and conciliation proceedings proved fruitless the state government made a reference of the dispute under s 101 dindustrial tribunal maharashtra for adjudication.
the dearness allowance it was claimed should be granted on a slab system.
reference was made to the political uncertainty in iran which had placed an appreciable part of the appellant s business in jeopardy and to various other factors peculiar to an engineering consultancy business beyond the appellant s control.
house rent allowance was also paid.
dearness allowance became payable at 10 of the basic wage subject to a minimum of rs 50 and house rent allowance at 30 of the basic salary.
holding it impossible in the circumstances to apply the principle of industry cum region basis the tribunal turned to a consideration of the financial capacity of the company to bear an additional burden in this connection it proceeded on the footing that the appellant was a separate and independent division of tata sons limited and had no functional integrality with the other divisions.
having regard to the net profits earned by the appellant from 1968 to 1977 it found that the acceptance of the demands of the union would result in an increased burden of rs 7 crores a burden which would dry up the appellant s resources and would be impossible for it to bear.
for the purpose of determining the financial capacity of the appellant the tribunal followed unichem laboratories v their workmen 1972 indlaw sc 181 where it was held that the gross profits should be computed without making deductions on account of taxation development rebate and depreciation.
it decided also that there was no ground for deducting the notional value of gratuity.
but it rejected the demand of the union for dearness allowance on the basis of a slab system because that would have imposed an unacceptable burden on the appellant s financial capacity and there was no reason why the existing scheme of dearness allowance should be disturbed when a substantial increase was being made in the level of the basic wage.
the tribunal also noted that after the salaries of the employees had been fixed in the respective scales senior employees would have to be given some more increments in the new scales according to their completed years of service.
taking all these factors into consideration it made an award dated 20th december1978 prescribing the following revision in the existing scales of wages.
the revised wage scales the tribunal directed should take effect retrospectively from 1st january1976 it also laid down the principle enabling the actual fitment of the workmen in their respective wage scales as on that date and also provided for the number of increments to which they would be entitled having regard to the period of completed service.
further it appears that the tribunal intended to grant the increase of rs 150 to each draughtsman and rs 100 to all other workmen in their basic pay.
however this is not clearly mentioned anywhere in the award due to accidental slip or omission.
no 23but it appears that the words to each employee after the figure rs 150 were omitted.
i do not think that any problem would arise for interpretation of the award.
sd k n wani industrial tribunal.
one is the retrospectivity attached to the revised wage scales and the other is the flat increase given to each employee of rs 150 in the category of draughtsmen and rs 100 in other categories resulting from the order dated 22nd december1978.
the workmen have filed an appeal by special leave civil appeal no 2300 of 1979in which they have challenged the rejection by the tribunal of their claim in respect of dearness allowance which they contend should be pegged to the cost of living index and should not be a fixed amount.
considering the appeal of tata consulting engineers first the contention of learned counsel for the appellant is that having regard to the financial capacity of the appellant the tribunal erred in making the wage scales retrospective and in any event in ranging the retrospectivity back to 1st january1976.
during all these years the appellant had continued to enjoy increasing profits nonetheless the emoluments received by the workmen did not receive the impress of the appellant s growing prosperity.
accordingly the contention raised on behalf of the appellant against retrospectivity of the wage scales must be rejected.
december1978the union invoked the jurisdiction of the.
it is only a clerical mistake or error which can be corrected and the clerical mistake or error must arise from an accidental slip or omission in the award.
an accidental slip or omission implies that something was intended and contrary to that intention what should not have been included has been included or what should have been included has been omitted.
the terms of reference in the state government s order required the tribunal to revise the scales of pay and dearness allowance and there was no mention of giving any ad hoc increase in the basic pay of individual workman.
the sufficiency of the existing pay scales was considered in detail and regard was had to their original structure and the accretions made subsequently by way of dearness allowance and house rent allowance.
a clear statement of its intention is found in paragraph 22 of the award where the tribunal stated i only propose to modify the existing structures of the scales with flat increases in each category.
and that is confirmed by what was stated in paragraph 23 of the award considering this outgoing the flat increase of rs 150 in the category of draughtsman and rs 100 in the case of the other categories would be fair.
no second flat increase was envisaged at all.
if as the tribunal has stated in the amendment order the increase in paragraph 23 was intended to apply to each individual workmen there is nothing in the body of the award to form the foundation on which the actual figures in the restructured pay scales can be made to rest.
considering the fitment of the workman in the revised scales it was stated in the award that a workman found drawing a salary less than the beginning of the grade would be stepped up to the beginning of the grade and if his pay fell between two steps in the reclassified pay scales the basic pay was to be fixed at the step higher in the revised scale.
conspicuous by its absence is any reference to a flat increase in the pay of an individual workmen.
even when considering the range of permissible retrospectivity the tribunal stated in the award in view of the revision of the wage scales there would be consequent increase in the dearness allowance and the house rent allowance.
and the clinching circumstances of all is that the award was made on the basis that the overall financial load according to paragraph 33 of the award would be to the tune of about rs 5 lakhs.
december1978the tribunal has referred to the statement exhibit c 51 filed by the appellant when called upon to indicate the increased financial burden apprehended by it.
the statement afforded an indication merely of what the additional financial load would be if a flat increase was given to the individual workman on the alternative basis set forth therein.
none of the alternatives was actually adopted by the tribunal because when the award was made the tribunal proceeded instead to restructure the wage scales by the addition of rs 150 in the case of the category of draughtsmen and rs 100 in the case of other categories to the initial pay in the wage scales pertaining to those categories.
our attention has been drawn to what purports to be an endorsement by counsel for the appellant on the application dated 22nd december1978 filed by the union before the tribunal to the effect that the appellant would submit to whatever the tribunal decided and it is urged that the appellant is bound by the order made on the application.
in the circumstances the order of 22nd december1978 is invalid so far as it amends paragraph 23 of the original award.
i shall now consider civil appeal no 2300 of 1979 filed by the workmen.
the only contention of the workmen is that the tribunal should have fixed the dearness allowance in communion with the cost of living index.
reliance was placed on the hindustan times ltd new delhi v their workmen 1964 1 scr 234 1962 indlaw sc 436247 where it was observed by this court that dearness allowance should not remain fixed at any figure but should be on a sliding scale in order to neutralise a portion of the increase in the cost of living.
2 scr 113 1968 indlaw sc 183 now it is not a universal rule that the dearness allowance should in all cases be correlated with the cost of living index.
having regard to the not inconsiderable improvement in the level of the basic wage it observed that there would be a consequent increase in the dearness allowance and house rent allowance.
it declared that the cumulative effect of an improved wage structure together with dearness allowance operating on a slab system would throw an impossible burden of about rs 1 crore on the financial capacity of the appellant.
if the dearness allowance is linked with the cost of living index the whole award will have to be reopened and the entire basis on which it has been made will have to be reconsidered.
civil appeal no 2300 of 1979 is dismissed.
there is no order as to costs.
chinnappa reddy j we have had the advantage of perusing the judgment prepared by our learned brother pathak j we agree with him that civil appeal no 2300 of 1979 should be dismissed.
we do not propose to give our reasons to the extent we are in agreement with pathak j and we propose to state our reasons for the disagreement only.
further it appears that the tribunal intended to grant the increase of rs 150 to each draughtsman and rs 100 to all other workmen in their basic pay.
on this application the advocate for the employer company made the following endorsement submitted to whatever this honourable tribunal desires to do.
even so we propose to examine whether the correction sought by the employees union was within the bounds of the authority of the tribunal or whether it was in effect a fresh award.
this in our opinion is elementary and fundamental to the jurisdiction of the industrial tribunal in revising wage scales.
in the present case the industrial tribunal on a consideration of the material placed before it came to the conclusion that the company was in an undoubted position to bear the additional financial burden.
at the end of paragraph 15 of the award the tribunal stated but there can be no doubt that the company can very well bear the additional burden.
the question is what should be the extent of such burden.
at the end of paragraph 18 of the award the tribunal said a mere reading of exhibit u 15 will immediately dispel the misgivings about the future of the present company.
c 27 indicates the important projects the company was handling in india and abroad and the amount of foreign exchange earned and repatriated.
finally at the end of paragraph 21.
after expressing himself in categoric terms about the capacity of the company to bear the additional financial burden the tribunal went on to say i only propose to modify the existing structure of the scales with flat increases in each category.
all other employees with more than one year s service shall be given one increment.
now if without any flat or ad hoc increase of salary the workmen were to be fitted into the revised scales of pay it would obviously result in serious anomalous situations.
as it has now turned out what the employees apparently suspected the employer might contend is precisely what the employer is not contending though the employer did not choose to so contend before the industrial tribunal itself when the employees filed the application for rectification.
the application before the tribunal was filed under rule 31 of the bombay industrial disputes rules 1957which is as follows.
a board court labour court tribunal or arbitrator may at any time suo moto or on an application made by any of the parties concerned may correct any clerical mistake or error arising from an accidental slip or omission in any proceedings report award or as the case may be decision.
we are not impressed with the submission of the learned counsel for the company that the corrigendum was in effect a fresh award.
