a learned single judge of the high court quashed the order of termination on the findings that the order of discharge was issued m violation of the basic principles of natural justice as no opportunity was afforded to the respondent before discharging him from services under regulation no 113.
a division bench of the high court dismissed the appeal preferred by the appellants but it allowed the respondent s appeal.
aggrieved the appellant has preferred the instant appeal after obtaining special leave of this court.
after hearing learned counsel for the parties we were satisfied that the learned single judge as well as the division bench both had committed error in allowing the writ petition and granting relief to the respondent.
we expressed our view in the court and suggested to mr vimal dave counsel for the respondent that if he agreed the original writ petition of the respondent could be dismissed without directing him to refund the amount which he had already been paid by the appellants in pursuance to the orders of the high court and of this court as during the pendency of the appeal.
however in the interest of justice we permitted the respondent to file written submissions if any in support of his case.
since this was unusual uncalled for and unjustified request we ignored the same and reserved the order.
transfer of a government servant appointed to a particular cadre of transferable posts from one place to the other is an incident of service.
transfer from one place to other is generally a condition of service and the employee has no choice in the matter.
if the order of transfer is not stayed modified or cancelled the concerned public servant must carry out the order of transfer.
in the absence of any stay of the transfer order a public servant has no justification to avoid or evade the transfer order merely on the ground of having made a representation or on the ground of his difficulty in moving from one place to the other.
the respondent lost his service as he refused to comply with the order of his transfer from one place to the other.
in fact during the tenure of his service in the board the respondent had been transferred from one place to another place several times.
he was relieved from his duties at surat on 30th march1974.
the above rule provides that if an employee of the gujarat electricity board continues to remain absent from duty or overstays the period of sanctioned leave and in spite of warning he fails to return to duty he renders himself liable to be discharged summarily from service without complying with the procedure prescribed for taking disciplinary action under the gujarat electricity board conduct discipline and appeal procedure.
it is noteworthy that the validity of regulation 113 was not challenged before the high court and the parties proceeded on the assumption that regulation 113 was valid and applicable to the respondent s service.
march 301974 to may 271974.
in determining the question whether any warning was given to the respondent it is necessary to refer to the sequence of events and the correspondence which ensued between the appellants and the respondent.
instead he made a representation to the additional chief engineer on 8 4 1974 after the transfer order.
to shri a s pohani junior engineer ukai 37gurunagar society near jakat naka surat 3.
sub transfer from surat to ukai.
i ve engineer o m surat copy f w c s to.
by that letter respondent stated that he was waiting for the decision of his representation made for reconsideration of his transfer from surat to ukai and therefore the question of his remaining on unauthorised leave was misconceived.
the establishment officer p of the board also informed the respondent by his letter dated may 61974 that his representation against the order of transfer was not accepted and he was directed to obey the order of transfer.
a copy of the letter filed by the petitioner himself as annexure k to the writ petition in the high court.
but even thereafter the respondent did not join his duties.
the sequence of events and the correspondence which ensued between the officers of the board and the respondent clearly show that the respondent disobeyed the order of transfer and he remained absent from duty in an unauthorised manner without obtaining sanction of leave.
in fact the superintending engineer had by his letter dated 18th april1974 clearly reminded the respondent that his unauthorised absence was in breach of service regulation no 113 and called upon to show cause why action should not be taken against him but in spite of these letters the respondent failed to join his duties.
the division bench of the high court has held that since no warning was issued to the respondent action taken under service regulation no 113 was not in accordance with law.
a warning need not be in any particular form.
before the high court a controversy was raised as to whether the registered letter dated 24 4 1974 addressed by the superintending engineer to the respondent was received by him or not.
the division bench further held that since the letter dated 24 4 1974 was not served on the respondent there was no material to show that any warning had been issued to the respondent before he was discharged from service.
firstly even if the letter dated 24 4 1974 was not served on the respondent there is no dispute that the superintending engineer s letter dated 18th april1974 had been served on him.
by that letter warning as contemplated by regulation no 113 had been issued to the respondent.
therefore even if the letter dated 24 4 1974 was not served on the respondent the order of discharge as contemplated by regulation no 113 is sustainable in law.
no doubt the presumption is rebuttable and it is open to the party concerned to place evidence before the court to rebut the presumption by showing that the address mentioned on the cover was incorrect or that the postal authorities never tendered the registered letter to him or that there was no occasion for him to refuse the same.
mere denial made by the respondent in the circumstances of the case was not sufficient to rebut the presumption relating to service of the registered cover.
the respondent has been paid a sum of rs 104170 towards salary under the interim orders of this court.
now since the order of discharge is held to be valid the amount paid to the respondent is liable to be recovered from him but having regard to the facts and circumstances of the case and the hardship which could be caused to the respondent we direct the appellant not to recover the amount already paid to the respondent.
appeal allowed.
