in support of the appeals the primary stands raised by the appellants are.
the materials which were produced before the high court and on the basis of which it is decided that the decision of the government is in order were not even pleaded in the pleadings and during arguments.
the contents of the files which were produced before the high court and on which reliance was placed to hold against the appellants are not known to the appellants.
the government s letter dated 28 12 1988 refers to some decision but in the absence of any authentication as required under article 166 of the constitution of india 1950 in short the constitution the same is ineffective.
No 1294 dated 24 10 1975 granted exemption from purchase tax on sugarcane in favour of sugar mills established in co operative and public sectors in the form of annual subsidy equivalent to purchase tax on sugarcane.
of tamil nadu ors on 27 1 1984 and in c a 86052002 i e bannari amman sugars ltd v commercial tax officer.
on 22 1 1986.
the appellants only made representation to government subsequently claiming exemption at par with the cooperative and public sector mills.
as there was no inducement or assurance the question of any promissory estoppel did not arise.
the high court recorded the following findings on the factual aspects.
the government has exercised their right to modify the scheme in the interest of public revenue.
the stand taken by the present appellants before the tribunal and the high court was rejected.
a new class of estoppel has come to be recognized by the courts in this country as well as in england.
the rule laid down in high trees case supra again came up for consideration before the king s bench in combe v bombe 1951 2 k b 215.
but that principle does not create any cause of action which did not exist before so that where a promise is made which is not supported by any consideration the promise can not bring an action on the basis of that promise.
all e r 657 1955 1 w l r 761.
doctrine of promissory estoppel has been envolved by the courts on the principles of equity to avoid injustice.
promissory estoppel is defined in black s law distionary as an estoppel which arises when there is a promise which promissor should reasonable expect to induce action or forbearance of a definite and substantial character on the part of promisee and which does include such action or forbearance and such promise is binding if injustice can be avoided only by enforcement of promise.
in the backdrop let us travel a little distance into the past to understand the evolution of the doctrine of promissory estoppel.
although substantially such a statement is correct and leads to no misunderstanding it does not bring out clearly the basal purpose of the doctrine.
this means that the real detriment or harm from which the law seeks to give protection is that which would flow from the change of position if the assumptions were deserted that led to it.
1995 1 scc 274 1994 indlaw sc 2183.
a person may have a legitimate expectation of being treated in a certain way by an administrative authority even though he has no legal right in private law to receive such treatment.
the doctrine of legitimate expectation has an important place in the developing law of judicial review.
see union of india and others.
sc 9981993 indlaw sc 1085.
the wide sweep of article 14 and the requirement of every state action qualifying for its validity on this touchstone irrespective of the field of activity of the state is an accepted tenet.
actions are amenable in the panorama of judicial review only to the extent that the state must act validity for discernible reasons not whimsically for any ulterior purpose.
a question whether the impugned action is arbitrary or not is to be ultimately answered on the facts and circumstances of a given case.
this court s observations in g b mahajan v jalgaon municipal council air 1991 sc 1153 1990 indlaw sc 438 are kept out of lush field of administrative policy except where policy is inconsistent with the express or implied provision of a statute which creates the power to which the policy relates or where a decision made in purported exercise of power is such that a repository of the power acting reasonably and in good faith could not have made it.
but there has to be a word of caution.
as professor wade points out in administrative law by h w r wade 6th edition there is ample room within the legal boundaries for radical differences of opinion in which neither side is unreasonable.
if it is a question of policy even by ways of change of old policy the courts can not intervene with the decision.
in a given case whether there are such facts and circumstances giving rise to legitimate expectation would primarily be a question of fact.
as was observed in punjab communications ltd v union of india of others air 1999 sc 1801 1999 indlaw sc 1548 the change in policy can defeat a substantive legitimate expectation if it can be justified on wednesbury reasonableness.
the decision maker has the choice in the balancing of the pros and cons relevant to the change in policy.
a claim based on merely legitimate expectation without anything more can not ipso facto give a right.
as observed in attorney general for new south wale v quinn 1990 64 australian ljr 327 to strike the exercise of administrative power solely on the ground of avoiding the disappointment of the legitimate expectations of an individual would be to set the courts adrift on a featureless sea of pragmatism.
it follows that the concept of legitimate expectation is not the key which unlocks the treasure of natural justice and it ought not to unlock the gates which shuts the court out of review on the merits particularly when the elements of speculation and uncertainty are inherent in that very concept.
as cautioned in attorney general for new south wale s case the courts should restrain themselves and respect such claims duly to the legal limitations.
as noted above the ultimate test is whether on the touchstone of reasonableness the policy decision comes out unscathed.
canalisation of a particular business in favour of even a specified individual is reasonable where the interests of the country are concerned or where the business affects the economy of the country.
sc 9011960 indlaw sc 472 shree meenakshi mills ltd v union of india air 1974.
article 166 of the constitution deals with the conduct of government business.
the said provision reads as follows 166.
conduct of business of the government of a state 1 all executive action of the government of a state shall be expressed to be taken in the name of the governor.
2 orders and other instruments made and executed in the name of the governor shall be authenticated in such manner as may be specified in rules to be made by the governor and the validity of an order or instrument which is so authenticated shall not be called in question on the ground that it is not an order or instrument made or executed by the governor.
the governor shall make rules for the more convenient transaction of the business of the government of the state and for the allocating among ministers of the said business in so far as it is not business with respect to which the governor is by or under this constitution required to act in his discretion.
clause 1 requires that all executive action of the state government shall have to be taken in the name of the governor.
a constitution bench in r chitralekha etc.
air 1964.
sc 1823 1964 indlaw sc 103 held that the provisions of the article were only directory and not mandatory in character and if they were not complied with it could still be established as a question of fact that the impugned order was issued in fact by the state government or the governor.
v u p state electricity board and others air 1997.
1999 1 scc 573 1997 indlaw sc 1219 it was further held that the government could change its industrial policy if the situation so warranted and merely because the resolution was announced for a particular period it did not mean that the government could not amend and change the policy under any circumstances.
while taking policy decision the government is not required to hear the persons who have been granted the benefit which is sought to be withdrawn.
at this juncture we would like to take note to certain factual positions highlighted by the appellants which are practically undisputed by the respondents.
contrary to what the high court has stated it appears from record that counter affidavits were filed.
the reasons which have weighed with the high court to uphold the action of the state were not pleaded before the high court specifically and the high court cull out those from the files which were produced before it.
as noted above no specific grounds or reasons were indicated to justify the withdrawal in the affidavits filed before the tribunal or the high court as the case may be.
as the correctness of factual basis justifying withdrawal is in issue fair play certainly warranted grant of opportunity to the appellants to present its side of the picture.
the high court has not dealt with the issue.
the same also needs to be examined.
we make it clear that we have not expressed any opinion on the factual aspects except indicating the principles underlying legitimate expectation.
another point which was specifically raised before the high court but has not been dealt by it is the legality of the action in directing retrospective withdrawal of the benefit by a letter of the government.
whether the same is permissible in law has to be decided by the high court.
the appeals are disposed of accordingly without any order as to costs.
appeals disposed of.
