these appeals arising out of a judgment and order dated 26 4 2000 passed in writ petition no 1188 of 1997 by the high court of madhya pradesh indore bench involving similar questions of law and fact were taken up for hearing together and are being disposed of by this common judgment.
background facts.
3 and 4 are diploma holders in civil engineering.
the respondent authority appointed the appellants and posted them to an overseas project known as indore habitat project which was implemented through the agency of overseas development authority hereinafter referred to as the oda on daily wages.
rs 63 per day for the degree holders and rs 52 50 per day for the diploma holders.
allegedly from their salary provident fund was being deducted.
they were also being granted the benefit of leave.
a dispute arose as to whether all the appellants were employed for the purpose of the said project or the appellants in civil appeal no 337 of 2002 were appointed in the year 1991 by the authority for its own job.
an industrial dispute was raised by the appellants herein as their services were not being regularized by the respondent.
the said dispute was referred for adjudication of the labour court indore by the state of madhya pradesh on the following questions.
1whether non regularisation of the sub engineers as per the listed enclosed is valid and proper.
2whether it is valid and proper for not giving equal salary to these sub engineers like other sub engineers in accordance with the equal work.
all the employees have been working in the establishment of the respondents for last 5 6 years.
work has been taken by the respondent from all the appellants except four.
aggrieved by and dissatisfied with the said award the respondent authority herein filed a writ petition before the madhya pradesh high court indore bench which was marked as writ petition no 1188 of 1997.
high court judgment.
the oda project is said to have been completed and only the maintenance thereof was to be looked after by the indore municipal corporation.
as regard the application of the madhya pradesh industrial employment standing orders act 1961 for short the 1961 act and the rules framed there under known as m p industrial employment standing order rules 1963 for short the 1963 rules it was observed that although there was no specific pleadings raised in this behalf by the respondents therein nor any question having been referred to the labour court by the state government touching the said issue it committed an error in granting relief to them on the basis thereof on its own motion.
before the high court various documents were produced by the appellants herein to show the nature of their employment but the same had not been taken on records by the high court.
placing reliance on several documents which have come into existence at a subsequent stage dr dhawan would contend that vacancies in fact had arisen after passing of the judgment of the high court and thus the services of the appellants should be regularized there against.
the learned counsel would argue that the job was required to be performed for six months for which somebody else could have been appointed so as to attract the provisions of the 1961 act and the 1963 rules.
dr dhawan would furthermore contend that the findings of fact had been arrived at by the labour court that the appellants of civil appeal no 337 of 2002 were appointed by the authority and not only their work was being taken in the project but also in other works and thus mere posting of the appellants to the said project would not disentitle them from the benefit of the said act.
the learned counsel would urge that a seniority list was also drawn up and an employment code was assigned to each one of the appellants from which fact the nature of their employment should be judged.
as regard the claim of equal pay for equal work the learned counsel would urge that the high court has failed to consider the same in its true perspective.
the learned counsel would submit that in fact no appointment letter was issued to the appellants.
whereupon the chief executive officer on the body of the said application itself made the following endorsement he may be tried in daily wages and should be entrusted with the work of progress collection of oda work put with illegible.
drawing our attention also to the pleadings as also the reliefs claimed for by the appellants before the labour court the learned counsel would contend that no contention was raised therein by the appellants as regard their entitlement of permanency in terms of the provisions of the 1961 act and the 1963 rules.
2 of the standard standing order reads as under 2.
12 of the constitution of india.
the proviso appended to section 47 of the adhiniyam further mandates that no post shall be created in any authority without the prior sanction of the state government.
section 76b provides for constitution of development authorities service.
concededly the respondent authority before making any appointment neither intimated the employment exchange about the existing vacancies if any nor issued any advertisement in relation thereto.
the answer thereto must be rendered in negative.
an illegal appointment can not be legalized by taking recourse to regularization.
what can be regularized is an irregularity and not an illegality.
a state before offering public service to a person must comply with the constitutional requirements of articles 14 and 16 of the constitution.
all actions of the state must conform to the constitutional requirements.
a daily wager in absence of a statutory provision in this behalf would not be entitled to regularization.
ajay kumar 1997 4 scc 88 1997 indlaw sc 833 jawaharlal nehru krishi viswa vidyalaya jabalpur m p vs.
bal kishan soni and others 1997 5 scc 86 1997 indlaw sc 928.
in this case except the nodal centre functions and supervision of the cooperative society the state has no administrative control over its day to day affairs.
the appointees have no right for regularization in the service because of the erroneous procedure adopted by the concerned authority in appointing such persons.
in dr a k jain and others etc.
1987 indlaw sc 28778 this court did not lay down any law.
however having regard to the facts and circumstances of the said case some directions were issued presumably in terms of article 142 of the constitution.
in hindustan shipyard ltd 1996 indlaw sc 3441 supra this court also distinguished the said decision.
1 continue in force as if they were made under this act.
the statute rules and regulations formed by the state govern the terms and conditions of service of the employees of the respondent.
the terms of conditions of service contained in the 1973 act and the 1987 rules are not in derogation of the provisions contained in schedule appended to the 1961 act.
even the appointments to the local cadre must be made by the authority.
the said provisions were not complied with.
who made the appointments of the appellants to the project or other works carried on by the authority is not known.
the said order is not an offer of appointment by any sense of term.
they might have been subjected to the provisions of the employees provident fund and might have been granted the benefit of leave or given some employment code and their names might have found place in the seniority list amongst others but thereby they can not be said to have been given a permanent ticket.
the 1961 act itself shows that the employees are to be classified in six categories namely permanent permanent seasonal probationers badlies apprentices and temporary.
permanent employee has been divided in two categories i who had been appointed against a clear vacancy in one or more posts as probationers and otherwise and ii whose name had been registered at muster roll and who has been given a ticket of permanent employee.
a ticket of permanent employee was thus required to be issued in terms of order 3 of the standard standing orders.
for the purpose of this matter we would proceed on the basis that the 1961 act is a special statute.
if by reason of the latter the appointment is invalid the same can not be validated by taking recourse to regularization.
we have noticed the provisions of the act and the rules.
presumably the appellants were aware of the statutory limitations in this behalf.
furthermore the labour court having derived its jurisdiction from the reference made by the state government it was bound to act within the four corners thereof.
it could not enlarge the scope of the reference nor could deviate therefrom.
the questions which have been raised before us by dr dhawan had not been raised before the labour court.
dr dhawan is not correct in his submission that a separate ticket need not be issued and what was necessary was merely to show that the appellants had been recognized by the state as its employees having been provided with employment code.
project work.
this case involves 31 employees.
a distinction is sought to be made by dr dhawan that out of them 27 had been appointed to a project and not in a project.
the maintenance job upon completion thereof had been taken over by indore municipal corporation.
such a relief would have been beyond the scope and purport of the reference made to the labour court by the state government.
in a umarani 2004 indlaw sc 606 supra this court held that once the employees are employed for the purpose of the scheme they do not acquire any vested right to continue after the project is over.
adverse inference.
before the high court as also before us the appellants have produced a large number of documents which were not filed before the labour court.
such a plea was not even raised before the high court.
2004 indlaw sc 829 this court observed in such a factual background in our opinion the industrial court or the high court could not have drawn an adverse inference for the non production of the muster rolls for the year 1990 to 1992 in the absence of specific pleading by the respondents applicants that at least during that period they had worked for 240 days continuously in a given year.
we can not but bear in mind the fact that the initial burden of establishing the factum of their continuous work for 240 days in a year rests with the applicants respondents.
at this stage it may be useful to refer to a judgment of this court in the case of muncipal corporation faridabad vs siri niwas jt 2004 7 sc 248 2004 indlaw sc 719 wherein this court disagreed with the high court s view of drawing an adverse inference in regard to the non production of certain relevant documents.
this is what this court had to say in that regard.
a court of law even in a case where provisions of the indian evidence act apply may presume or may not presume that if a party despite possession of the best evidence had not produced the same it would have gone against his contentions.
equal pay for equal work.
furthermore when their services had not been regularized and they had continued on a consolidated pay on ad hoc basis having not undergone the process of regular appointments no direction to give regular pay scale could have been issued by the labour court.
to claim a relief on the basis of equality it is for the claimants to substantiate a clear cut basis of equivalence and a resultant hostile discrimination before becoming eligible to claim rights on a par with the other group vis  vis an alleged discrimination.
conclusion.
for the reasons aforementioned we do not find any merit in these appeals which are dismissed accordingly.
appeals dismissed.
