aggrieved by the decision of customs excise and gold control appellate tribunal cegat dated 11 4 2000the appellants assessee have come by way of civil appeals under section 35l of the central excise act1944.
appellants were engaged in the manufacture of biscuits classifiable under sub heading 1905 11 of the central excise tariff.
under the said agreement m s kay aar biscuits p ltd was.
party no 1 under the agreement.
under the agreement.
rich food products p.
ltd had put up a unit for manufacture of wafers in noida which it sought to manufacture under the brand name meghraj.
at this stage it may be noted that the appellants herein claim to have started manufacture of biscuits in 1991 the biscuits were sold in wrapper mentioning the name of the appellantsm s.
the assistant commissioner ghaziabad examined the printed wrappers.
aggrieved by the decision of the adjudicating authority the assessee preferred appeals to the commissioner a the said appeals were rejected on the ground that the appellants were using the brand name meghraj of another manufacturer m s kay aar biscuits p ltd on their products biscuits and therefore they were not entitled to the benefit of exemption under notification no 193 ce as amended.
and therefore they were entitled to exemption.
this argument was rejected by the commissioner a saying that the appellants were using the brand name meghraj on their products.
according to the commissioner athe appellants used the trade name meghraj in the form of a logo which was printed on the wrapper.
before the commissioner ait was argued in the alternative that the logo belonged to m s.
this contention was rejected by the commissioner a on the ground that under the notification no 193 ce as amended exemption was not available to the specified goods bearing brand name or trade name registered or not of another person.
accordingly the commissioner a dismissed the appeals.
hence these civil appeals.
meghraj.
it was further pointed out that in fact the appellants had applied for ownership of the brand name meghraj vide application dated 30 9 91 to the registrar trade marks under the trade marks act and that the said application for registration was pending before the competent authority and since the above arguments were not recorded in the impugned order of the cegat dated 11 4 2000 the same warranted rectification.
by order dated 8 12 2000cegat rejected the above rectification application made by the appellants.
notification no 193 ce dated 28 2 93 was issued to help the ssi units to survive in the market dominated by brand name trade name.
the name of that director is madan verma.
he is the director of the appellants company also.
this aspect is important since one of the arguments advanced by the appellants herein before the commissioner a was that the trade mark belonged to m s ltd which was registered ssi unit lying closed since 1 3 1993.
commissioner of central excise delhi 2005 189.
elt 257 2005 indlaw sc 799sc.
applying the ratio of the above judgment to the present case it is clear that grant of registration certificate under the trade marks act will not automatically provide benefit of exemption to the ssi unit.
elt 225 2004 indlaw sc 996scthis court held that the assessee will not be entitled to the benefit of exemption if it uses on goods in question same similar brand name with intention of indicating a connection with the goods of the assessee and such other person or uses the name in such manner that it would indicate such connection.
applying the above test to the facts of the present case madan verma is a common director in the two companies.
before us it has been urged that m s ltd is non functional since 1 3 93 and therefore in any event appellants were entitled to use the trade mark meghraj.
discontinuation of business in respect of a product does not necessarily amount to abandonment.
abandonment of the trade mark has to be proved by the appellants in the present case.
the trade marks act1999 has been enacted to amend and consolidate the law relating to trade marks to provide for registration and better protection of trade marks and for prevention of the use of fraudulent marks.
the question before us is what is the effect of issuance of registration certificate with retrospective effect.
the mark can be originated by a person or it can be subsequently acquired by him from somebody else.
our trade marks law is based on the english trade marks law and the english acts.
then came the english trade marks act of 1875which was substituted later by later acts.
law in india under our present act is similar.
a person may become a proprietor of a trade mark in diverse ways.
the particular mode of acquisition of proprietorship relied upon by the applicant in this case is of his user for the first time in india in connection with watches and allied goods mentioned by him of the mark caltexwhich at the material time was a foreign mark belonging to degoumois co of switzerland and used by them in respect of watches in switzerland.
before the deputy registrar and before mr justice shah proprietorship was claimed on the basis that the applicant was entitled to it as an importer s mark.
in many of those cases the dispute was between a foreign trader using a foreign mark in a foreign country on goods which were subsequently imported by indian importers and sold by them in this country under that very mark.
we have already reached a conclusion that so far as this country is concerned degoumois co have totally disclaimed any interest in the proprietorship of that mark for watches etc.
in india the mark caltex was a totally new mark for watches and allied goods.
he in fact used it in respect of watches.
emphasis supplied.
this deeming fiction can not be extended to the excise law.
in the case of consolidated foods corporation v brandon and co.
air 1965 bombay 35 1961 indlaw mum 91it has been held vide paras 27 and 30 that the trade marks act merely facilitates the mode of proof.
apparently in such a case there is no question of infringement of any right of property in a trade mark for which any relief is sought nor is there any question of passing off so that it might be necessary to enter into questions of nicety as regards whether there could or could not be any property in a trade mark.
as already stated by me while referring to the observations of sir john romily it is not really necessary for me to decide in this case as to whether there could or could not be any property in a trade mark for the purpose of deciding this case.
all that was necessary for the plaintiff to prove was that he had used that mark in respect of his particular type of goods.
as a matter of fact the statute enabled a person to have registered a mark not only which he had been using but also a mark which he proposed to use.
the latter type of mark would evidently refer to a distinctive mark a mark which does not directly describe the nature or quality of the goods to which it is attached.
even so far as this country is concerned the trade marks act of 1940 does not seem to have made any change in the legal rights of the owner of a trade mark as established by the courts of chancery in england.
air 1947 bom 445chagla j as he then was observed in this connection as follows the question is whether in india the trade marks act of 1940 has made any change in the legal rights of the owner of a trade mark.
251937and an application for registration had been made and refused.
as regards the question whether there could be any property in a trade mark the learned judge further observed on the same page as follows again turning to s 54 of the specific relief act which deals with cases when a perpetual injunction may be granted the explanation to that section lays down that for the purpose of that section a trade mark is property.
for instance under s 23 of the trade marks act registration is to be prima facie evidence of the validity of the trade mark.
as between two competitors who are each desirous of adopting such a markit is to use familiar language entirely a question of who gets there first.
fb registration under the statute does not confer any new right to the mark claimed or any greater right than what already existed at common law and at equity without registration.
registration itself does not create a trade mark.
the trade mark exists independently of the registration which merely affords further protection under the statute.
common law rights are left wholly unaffected.
now once again turning to the provisions of s 18 sub section iit is clear that only a person claiming to be the proprietor of a trade mark used by him or proposed to be used by him could make an application to the registrar for the registration thereof.
according to this provision not only a person should claim to be the proprietor of a trade mark but he should prove that he had used it as such proprietor on his goods.
but that is not the case.
the respondent company is described as the sole distributors on the label.
obviously therefore on the label as it stood it could not be said that the respondent company was the proprietor of the mark monarch nor could it be said that the mark was used by the respondent company as proprietor thereof.
applying the principle of deemed equivalence we may clarify that if the ssi unit wrongly affixes a trade mark of another person be it registered or not or if it uses the trade mark of an ineligible person then such default would not be eliminated by the above principle of deemed equivalence embodied in s 28 of the trade marks act1999 as that principle is based on a deeming fiction which fiction is confined only to the provisions of the trade marks act.
before concluding we may refer to the judgment of this court in the case of commissioner of central excise mumbai v bigen industries ltd 2006 197.
305 2006 indlaw sc 546 in that matter a show cause notice was issued calling upon the assessee to show cause why the exemption be not denied to the assessee.
in the circumstances the judgment of this court in the case of bigen industries 2006 indlaw sc 546 supra has no application.
before concluding we may point out that we do not wish to express any opinion on the subsequent events which have taken place in this case.
accordingly the civil appeals stand dismissed with no order as to costs.
appeals dismissed.
