appasaheb son of sheshrao palaskar about two and half years prior to the date of incident which took place on 15 september 1991.
according to the case of prosecution a sum of rs 5000 and some gold ornaments had been given at the time of marriage of bhimabai.
her father pw 1 tukaram along with some of his relatives went to the house of the accused and tried to persuade them not to ill treat bhimabai.
a few days before nag panchami festival bhimabai came to her parental home and complained that the accused were not giving her proper food clothing and even footwear.
on the basis of the said accidental death report pw 6 sandeepan kamble police sub inspector visited the house of the accused held inquest on the dead body of bhimabai and thereafter sent the same for post mortem examination.
after completion of investigation charge sheet was submitted against the appellants and in due course the case was committed to the court of sessions.
the learned sessions judge framed charges under sections 498 a 304 b read with section 34 ipc and section 306 read with section 34 ipc against both the appellants.
the prosecution in order to establish its case examined six wintesses and filed some documentary evidence.
1 tukaram father of the deceased has given details of the prosecution version of the incident in his statement in court.
bhimabai had complained to him that she was not being given proper food clothings and even footwear and occasionally the appellant No 1 used to beat her.
the witness has further deposed that on the date of incident a man came from village palshi on motorcycle and informed that he should immediately go there as bhimabai was not well.
he then went to village palshi along with other persons of his family where he reached after sun set.
he saw that bhimabai was lying dead and froth was coming out of her mouth which was smelling of thimet insecticide.
in his cross examination he has admitted that his statement that he had given rs 20000 in dowry at the time of marriage was incorrect and in fact he had given rs 5000 as dowry and the total expenses incurred in the marriage was about rs 20000.
he has also deposed that it was after about 1 12 years of marriage that bhimabai first complained to him about the harassment being caused to her.
there used to be some bickering in the marital life of bhimabai and her husband on trifling matters.
he has deposed that on an earlier occasion he had gone along with pw 1 and some others to the house of appellant no 1 to persuade him not to harass bhimabai and to treat her well.
in his cross examination he has admitted that when he had gone to village palshi to talk with the appellants regarding the ill treatment being meted out to bhimabai there was no talk regarding monetary giving and taking.
he also admitted that he had not gone to attend that funeral of bhimabai.
she has stated in her examination in chief that bhimabai was being ill treated by the appellants and the reason for ill treatment was that they were demanding money to be brought from her parental home.
she has specifically stated that for a period of six months after the marriage bhimabai was treated well and thereafter she had started complaining about the harassment being caused to her.
when confronted with her aforesaid statement under section 161 cr.
the learned trial judge then sought clarification from the witnesses by putting the following question.
and that was the cause.
3 sandu police patil of village palshi has deposed that at about 4 20 p m on 15 september 1991 narayan who is uncle of appellant no 1 appasaheb informed him that the wife of appasaheb had expired.
he has further deposed that bhimabai had come to his house about six months earlier and had said all was not well between her and her husband but she had not given any specific details.
accepting the statements of father and mother on their face value that utmost which can be held is that the appellant no 1 had asked his wife bhimabai to bring money for meeting domestic expenses and for purchasing manure.
the explanation appended to sub section 1 of section 304 b ipc says that dowry shall have the same meaning as in section 2 of dowry prohibition act 1961.
definition of dowry in this act dowry means any property or valuable security given or agreed to be given either directly or indirectly a by one party to a marriage to the other party to the marriage or b by the parent of either party to a marriage or by any other person to either party to the marriage or to any other person at or before or any time after the marriage in connection with the marriage of the said parties but does not include dowry or mahr in the case of persons to whom the muslim personal law shariat applies.
dowry is a fairly well known social custom or practice in india.
a demand for money on account of some financial stringency or for meeting some urgent domestic expenses of for purchasing manure can not be termed as a demand for dowry as the said word is normally understood.
since an essential ingredient of section 304 b ipc viz demand for dowry is not established the conviction of the appellants can not be sustained.
it has thus been submitted that no offence under section 306 ipc is made out against the appellants.
as already stated the appellants were also charged under sections 498 a and 306 read with section 34 ipc but were acquitted of the said charges by the learned sessions judge which order has attained finality for the reason that the state did not prefer appeal against the same.
in view of the discussion made above the appeal is allowed.
he shall be released forthwith unless wanted in some other case.
the appellant No 2 is on bail.
appeal allowed.
