the commissioner of revenue department was conferred with a power of being the cadre controlling authority for non ministerial post of the revenue department.
he was also to be the chairman of the departmental promotion committee for non ministerial post of the revenue department.
the said appointments were made on temporary basis.
appointments were made on 11 09 199722 11 1997 and 5 12 1997 a sample copy of the offer of appointment reads as under no 11497 com rev on the recommendation of d p c and under the directives issued by the honourable gauhati high court the following persons are hereby appointed as mandols on temporary basis in the scale of pay of rs 950 20 1150 eb 25 1400 per month with usual allowances against thereto existing clear vacancies of mandals under revenue department from the date of their joining on duties.
2 further they are posted at the places indicate against their names 3 the expenditure is debitable under appropriate heads of accounts of the departments offices concerned.
no record in regard to the said recruitments was maintained.
1998 sub submission of report.
dated 6th january1998 regarding the alleged appointment of ad hoc regular appointment to the post of lambus mandols.
etc of.
a r khan secretary revenue has made many appointments of mandols process servers zilladars in the recent months against which i have been complaining that the secretary revenue has no power or authority to make any appointments of field staff as per rules provided under m l r act1960 in this regard i have apprised the matter to the honourable minister revenue already and also informed the chief secretary manipur explaining that the secretary revenue can not make such appointments of field staffs even if he wanted to do so all the relevant files should have been routed through the undersigned so that the same may be brought to the notice of the honourable minister revenue his action has created lots of misunderstanding and confusion.
submitted for information and consideration.
commissioner revenue.
temp i please read as august97 in place of october97 occurring in the 4th line of this government order no 21593 comrev.
the respondents herein filed writ petitions before the high court on 4 06 1998 questioning the said order of cancellation of their appointments.
after my retirement from service i have no access to such files.
dated 11 9 97 annexure a2 to the writ petition appointing 4 persons to the post of mandol are perused by me minutely.
i submit that these appointment orders annexures a1 and a2 bear my signature initial and appear to have been issued under my signature.
so far as the matter relating to civil appeal arising out of slp c no 19375 19376 of 2005 is concerned it was directed that as the appointment of the respondents were made for a period of six months the employees were only entitled to the salary for the said period.
the writ appeals preferred there against by the appellants herein were dismissed.
air 1958 sc 36 1957 indlaw sc 103murugayya udayar and another.
1991 supp 1 scc 331 1991 indlaw sc 904 and kumari shrilekha vidyarthi and others v state of u p and others 1991 1 scc 212 1990 indlaw sc 463.
the posts of field staffs of the revenue department of the state of manipur were thus required to be filled up having regard to the said constitutional scheme.
we would proceed on the assumption that the state had not framed any recruitment rules in terms of the proviso appended to art 309 of the constitution of india but the same by itself would not clothe the commissioner of revenue to make recruitments in violation of the provisions contained in arts 14 and 16 of the constitution of india.
no records there for were available with the state.
as noticed hereinbefore an inquiry had been made wherein the said shri tayeng the then commissioner of revenue stated that no such appointment had been made to his knowledge.
the purported appointment letters were fake ones.
if the offers of appointments issued in favour of the respondents herein were forged documents the state could not have been compelled to pay salaries to them from the state exchequer.
in any event having regard to the fact that the said authority himself had denied to have issued a letter there was no reason for the state not to act pursuant thereto or in furtherance thereof.
he was merely put a chairman of the dpc for non ministerial post of the revenue department.
the commissioner as noticed hereinbefore was the chairman of the dpc how the matter was referred to the dpc has not been disclosed.
even the affidavit affirmed by shri tayeng before the high court in this behalf is silent.
the appointing authority in absence of any delegation of power having been made in that behalf was the state government.
it is true that where appointments had been made by a competent authority or at least some steps have been taken in that behalf the principles of natural justice are required to be complied with in view of the decision of this court in murugayya udayar 1991 indlaw sc 904 supra.
we as noticed hereinbefore do not know as to under what circumstances the orders of appointments were issued.
the said decision is not an authority for the proposition that the principles of natural justice are required to be complied with in all situations.
the question which arose herein was not raised.
it was held 34 in our opinion the wide sweep of art 14 undoubtedly takes within its fold the impugned circular issued by the state of u p in exercise of its executive power irrespective of the precise nature of appointment of the government counsel in the districts and the other rights contractual or statutory which the appointees may have.
35 it is now too well settled that every state action in order to survive must not be susceptible to the vice of arbitrariness which is the crux of art 14 of the constitution and basic to the rule of law the system which governs us.
we in the facts and circumstances of this case do not see any arbitrariness on the part of the state in its action directing cancellation of appointments.
his work is also subject to strict supervision.
suprathis court held that whoever holds civil posts would be entitled to protection of their services in terms of cl 2 of art 309 of the constitution of india in the event any disciplinary action is taken against them stating the underlying idea obviously is that a provision like this will ensure to them a certain amount of security of tenure.
1991 pl64.
a detailed and emphatic criticism of the useless formality theory has been made much earlier in natural justice substance or shadow by prof d h clark of canada 1975 pl27 63 contending that malloch and glynn were wrongly decided.
in kendriya vidyalaya sangathan 2002 indlaw sc 287 suprait was held it is clear that if after the termination of services of the said dr k c rakesh the orders of appointment are issued such orders are not valid.
in bar council of india v high court of kerala 2004 6 scc 311 2004 indlaw sc 340it was stated principles of natural justice however cannot be stretched too far.
in r s garg v state of u p and others 2006 6 scc 430 2006 indlaw sc 801it was stated a discretionary power as is well known can not be exercised in an arbitrary manner.
for the reasons aforementioned the impugned judgments can not be sustained.
