leave granted.
the state of uttar pradesh vide its office memorandum dated 25 10 2004 constituted a committee under the chairmanship of the honourable minister of revenue to suggest its recommendations for transfer of prisons situated in the congested areas of various districts.
as per the schedule this shifting was to be done in two phases 1 st phase 1 district jail shahjahanpur 2 district jail azamgarh 3 district jail jaunpur and 4 district jail moradabad 2 nd phase 1 district jail badaun 2 district jail varanasi 3 district jail barielly and 4 district jail muzaffarnagar.
the government case is that the district jail is located in a densely populated area of the city and is overcrowded housing as many as 1869 prisoners while having a capacity of only 511.
however the provisions of section 5a inquiry were dispensed with.
being aggrieved by the aforesaid notifications the appellants moved a writ petition before the high court u art 226 of the constitution of india.
the high court also approved the invoking of emergency provisions u s 17 of the act as per the guidelines given in essco fabs private limited and another vs state of haryana and another.
2 scc 377 2008 indlaw sc 2494 having thus stated the high court dismissed the writ petition.
2 whether or not the state government was justified in dispensing with the inquiry which is mandated to be conducted under section 5a of the act especially when one year elapsed between the notifications u s 4 and the one u s 6 they further stated that the high court had erred insofar as it upheld the factum of urgency in the absence of a categorical finding an enquiry under section 5a would have been detrimental to public interest.
committee was formed matter was discussed at a leisurely pace at various levels and there is no material fact to justify the abridgement of the appellants right of raising an objection to acquisition and of a hearing under section 5a of the act.
admittedly the land acquisition act a pre constitutional legislation of colonial vintage is a drastic law being expropriatory in nature as it confers on the state a power which affects person s property right.
it must be accepted that in construing public purpose a broad and overall view has to be taken and the focus must be on ensuring maximum benefit to the largest number of people.
any attempt by the state to acquire land by promoting a public purpose to benefit a particular group of people or to serve any particular interest at the cost of the interest of a large section of people especially of the common people defeats the very concept of public purpose.
even though the concept of public purpose was introduced by pre constitutional legislation its application must be consistent with the constitutional ethos and especially the chapter under fundamental rights and also the directive principles.
in construing the concept of public purpose the mandate of art 13 of the constitution that any pre constitutional law can not in any way take away or abridge rights conferred under part iii must be kept in mind.
therefore the concept of public purpose on this broad horizon must also be read into the provisions of emergency power u s 17 with the consequential dispensation of right of hearing under section 5a of the said act.
ayyar and others reported in 1979 3 scc 466 1979 indlaw sc 224wherein this court held it is true that judges are constitutional invigilators and statutory interpreters but they are also responsive and responsible to part iv of the constitution being one of the trinity of the nation s appointed instrumentalities in the transformation of the socio economic order.
in other words public purpose must be viewed through the prism of constitutional values as stated above.
the judicial pronouncements on this aspect are numerous only a few of them may be noted here.
in dlf qutab enclave complex educational charitable trust vs state of haryana and ors 2003 5 scc 622 2003 indlaw sc 124this court construed the statute on town planning law and held expropriatory statute as is well known must be strictly construed.
8 scc 705 2007 indlaw sc 554wherein this court construed the status of a person s right to property after deletion of art 191f from part iii by referring to various international covenants namely the declaration of human and civil rights this court held that even though right to property has ceased to be a fundamental right but it would however be given an express recognition as a legal right and also as a human right.
gazette of india pt.
the said amendment was assented to by the governor general on 5th august1923 and came into force on 1st january1924.
in that case the court was considering the importance of rights under section 5a vis vis s 171 and s 171.
a of the act.
the same view has been reiterated by another three judge bench decision of this court in munshi singh and ors.
acceptance of such contention or upholding of this argument will make sub s 4 of s 17 totally otiose redundant and nugatory.
this court also held that in view of the ratio in union of india vs mukesh hans2004 8 scc 14 2004 indlaw sc 1413sub s 4 of s 17 can not be pressed into service by officers who are negligent and lethargic in initiating acquisition proceedings.
from the various facts disclosed in the said affidavit it appears that the matter was initiated by the government s letter dated 4th of june2008 for issuance of s 41 and s 17 notifications.
a meeting for selection of the suitable site for construction was held on 27th june2008and the proposal for such acquisition and construction was sent to the director land acquisition on 2nd of july2008 this was in turn forwarded to the state government by the director on 22nd of july2008 after due consideration of the forwarded proposal and documents the state government issued the s 4 notification along with s 17 notification on 21st of august2008 these notifications were published in local newspapers on 24th of september2008.
but such acquisition can be made only by strictly following the mandate of the said act.
for the reasons aforesaid we hold that the state government was not justified in the facts of this case to invoke the emergency provision of s 174 of the act.
appeals allowed.
