interpretation and or application of the provisions of the gujarat town planning and urban development act1976 for short the act and the rules framed thereunder known as the gujarat town planning and urban development rules1979.
for short the rules is in question in this appeal which arises out of a judgment and order dated 27 12 2006 passed by a division bench of the high court of gujarat at ahmedabad in letters patent appeal no 1611 of 2006 arising out of a judgment and order dated 23 11 2006 passed by a learned single judge of the said court in sca no 7092 of 2001.
before embarking upon the issue involved in this appeal we may notice the admitted fact of the matter.
the government of gujarat in exercise of its power conferred upon it u s 65 of the act made a scheme in respect of the town of umra surat on 1 06 1999.
plot nos 177 and 178 were owned by respondent no 4 herein.
he used to run a business of marble and stone therein.
a road widening project was proposed in terms of the said scheme.
notices therefor were issued both to the appellant as also the respondent No appellant objected thereto.
he however did not pursue his case in regard to the proposal for widening of the road.
with a view to give effect to the provisions of the act and the rules framed thereunder proceedings were initiated for allotment of the said land in terms of the act 20 of the land was taken over without payment of any compensation.
in respect of the proceedings initiated for the purpose of re allotment of the land despite a public notice the appellant did not file any objection.
respondent no 4 was allotted a final plot bearing no 157 and the said 200 sq m of land of plot no 178 has merged in final plot no 165 owned by the respondent no 3.
the scheme was notified in the year 1999 respondent no 1 herein which is the statutory agency in terms of the act for the purpose of implementation of the scheme issued a notice u s 67 of the act upon the respondent no 4 on or about 15 01 2000 as he did not respond thereto a notice u s 68 of the act was served on him on 31 03 2000 stating as per the said approved preliminary scheme the plot no 157 is allotted to you.
and its pole demarcations were done by the town planning officer at site.
the said final plot original plot is allotted in lieu of your no 177178 paiki land.
and the said land is now vested in the municipal corporation from 1 7 1999and is of the ownership of the municipal corporation.
thereafter the notice below s 67 for the change in occupation was issued on 15 1 2000 to you.
in spite of this you have not handed over the possession.
therefore as per the gujarat town planning and urban development rules1979 rule 33 the undersigned in exercise of powers conferred below s 681 and 82 of the bombay provincial municipalities act and below the s 68 notice under the gujarat town planning and urban development act this is to inform you that as shown in the sketch on the reverse the premises marked should be vacated within 7 days from receipt of the notice and had over the possession to the surat municipal corporation.
the validity and or legality of the said notice was questioned by the appellant by filing a writ petition in the high court of gujarat inter alia contending that the purported final allotment of plot no 165 in favour of the respondent no 3 and allotment of final plot no 157 in favour of the respondent no 4 were made without issuing any notice as envisaged u ss 52 and 53 of the act.
a learned single judge of the high court dismissed the said writ petition inter alia opining that the interest of landlord and tenant being common and in absence of any inter se dispute between them even if any portion of the land which remained in possession of the tenant was included in the scheme the proper remedy would be to claim compensation to that extent holding it appears that in the said decision the apex court while considering the scheme on the touch stone of the mandatory procedure to be followed by the authority under the bombay town planning rules has given directions to provide alternative accommodation based on the earlier decision in case of jaswantsingh mathurasingh and upheld the scheme.
but if the area of original plot no 178 is included in the final scheme and in exchange of the original plot held by keshav gramini of 178 and 177the final plot is already allotted and as observed earlier it was even otherwise in the ownership of the original holder and it is only on account of inter se dispute the other persons are lawfully occupying the land the tenant can not insist that his landlord must be allotted the land of final plot no 157 simultaneously when he is to be evicted or deprived of the portion of the land of original plot no 178 therefore in my view considering the peculiar facts and circumstances of the present case the decision of the apex court in case of mansukhlal1991 indlaw sc 975 supra can not be made applicable to the present case.
a division bench of the high court dismissed an intra court appeal preferred thereagainst.
a tenant having regard to the provisions of the transfer of property act or otherwise having an interest in the property can not be deprived therefrom without following the procedure established by law and without initiation of any proceedings for acquisition of land.
the tenant s interest being distinct and separate could not have been held to be merged with the interest of the landlord either for the purpose of allotment of a final plot or otherwise in favour of the landlord.
appellant having a right over the remaining 200 sq m of the land of original plot no 178 should be allowed to continue thereupon and final allotment made in favour of the respondent no 3 to that extent should be cancelled.
lalit in support of his contention strongly relied upon a decision of this court in mansukhlal jadavji darji and others v ahmedabad municipal corporation and others 1992 1 scc 384 1991 indlaw sc 975 and jaswantsingh mathurasingh and another v ahmedabad municipal corporation and others 1992 supp 1 scc 5 1991 indlaw sc 972.
prashant g desai learned counsel appearing on behalf of the respondent no 1on the other hand would submit.
i public notices having been issued in terms of the rule 26 of the rules an objection which would nullify the scheme can not be entertained at this stage.
the scheme in terms of sub s 3 of s 65 of the act having become a part of the act validity thereof can not be questioned at this stage as modification of the scheme if any will have to undergo the entire process once over again which is not contemplated under the act.
chapter v of the act provides for town planning schemes.
s 52 contemplates issuance of a notice in a prescribed manner and in the prescribed form.
s 52 of the act provides for the contents of preliminary and final scheme.
67 effect of preliminary scheme.
a all lands required by the appropriate authority.
shall unless it is otherwise determined in such scheme vest absolutely in the appropriate authority free from all encumbrances b all rights in the original plots which have been re constituted into final plots shall determine and the final plots shall become subject to the rights settled by the town planning officer.
33 procedure for eviction u s 68 1.
c if the person to be evicted resists or obstructs the officer or servant deputed u cl b or.
rule 21 of the bombay rules provides for the procedure to be followed by the town planning officer.
it furthermore provides that any person entitled to claim damages in terms of s 82 of the act should communicate the details of his claim to the town planning officer.
s 81 of the act enables the state to transfer of right from original to final plot or extinction of such right.
a town planning scheme therefore envisages calling for objection from the persons concerned for three purposes i in regard to draft scheme ii lodging of any claim for payment of compensation iii participation in the matter of allotment of final plots.
darji1991 indlaw sc 975 supra wherein this court opined that sub rule 3 of rule 21 of the bombay rules was mandatory in nature subject of course to the condition that on the crucial date viz when the town planning scheme is notified in the official gazette he whether an owner or tenant or sub tenant must be in possession of the property.
in jaswantsingh mathurasingh1991 indlaw sc 972 suprait was reiterated that a tenant or a sub tenant is a person interested and is entitled to notice.
in that context it was held the question is whether the tenant or a sub tenant is a person interested and is entitled to notice.
therefore a tenant or a sub tenant in possession of a tenement in the town planning scheme is a person interested within the meaning of rules 213 and 4 of the rules.
the bangalore development authority act1976 provides that every person whose name appears in the assessment list or land revenue records shall be served with notice see sureshchandra c mehta v state of karnataka and others 1994 supp 2 scc 511 1993 indlaw sc 538.
in west bengal housing board etc v.
brijendra prasad gupta and others etc air 1997 sc 2745it was opined that the authority is not required to make a roaming enquiry as to who is the person entitled to notice.
we are however not unmindful of the fact that a statute of town planning ex facie is not a statute for acquisition of a property.
existence of a public purpose and increase in the valuation of the property was admitted.
in the former case the vesting of the land may be held to be an act of acquisition whereas in the latter it would be distribution of certain benefits having regard to the purpose sought to be achieved by a statute involving town planning.
it was on that legal principle this court in state of gujarat v shantilal mangaldas ors 1969 3 scr 341 1969 indlaw sc.
what would be the quantum of payment of compensation therefor is also provided in s 82 of the act.
it is in the aforementioned situation a claim is to be made before the authority whenever a notice in form h is published.
the location of the land the area of the land the nature of right etc.
m g makwana ors 1967 3 scr 65 1967 indlaw sc 138.
see also bhikhubhai vithlabhai patel ors v.
state of gujarat anr 2008 4 scale 278 2008 indlaw sc 527.
b he did not file objections for re allotment and did not participate in the proceedings following acquisition instituted by the authorities under the act.
in halsbury s laws of england volume 1624th edition para 907it is stated the expression waiver may in law bear different meanings.
as early as 1957the concept of waiver was articulated in a case involving the late assertion of a claim regarding improper constitution of a tribunal in manak lal v dr prem chand air 1957 sc 425 1957 indlaw sc 159 in the following terms.
as sir johan romilly m r has observed in vyvyan v vyvyan.
in the director of inspection of income tax investigationnew delhi and another v pooran mal sons and another 1975 4 scc 568 1974 indlaw sc 354 the issue was regarding waiver of benefits under a statute of limitation.
it was stated we may in this connection refer to the decision in wilson v mcintosh.
they referred with approval to the decision in phillips v martin where the chief justice said here there is abundant evidence of waiver and it is quite clear that a man may by his conduct waive a provision of an act of parliament intended for his benefit.
significantly a similar conclusion was reached in the case of krishna bahadur v purna theatre 2004 8 scc 229 2004.
emphasis supplied see also bank of india v o p swarnakar 2003 2 scc 721 2002 indlaw sc 1562.
such conduct precludes and operates as estoppel against him with respect to asserting a right over a portion of the acquired land in a situation where the scheme in question has attained finality following as a result of the appellant s inaction.
he may however take recourse to such remedy which is available with him in law including one by filing a suit or making a representation before the state.
for the reasons aforementioned the appeal is dismissed.
