this appeal with special leave is directed against the judgment and order of the labour appellate tribunal of india in a dispute regarding the workers claim for bonus.
during the year 1948 the appellant made a profit of rs 1197648 11 9.
it paid 24 3 per cent.
dividend on ordinary shares being the maximum that could be paid under the public companies limitation of dividend ordinance of 1948 and also paid to the workers their full share of bonus at annas 4 in a rupee of their basic earnings.
during the year 1949 the selling rates for cloth and yarn were controlled by the government and were approximately 4 per cent.
below those obtained in 1948.
the basic wages were increased from the 1st december 1948 by order of the government of uttar pradesh and the total wages paid were therefore higher than those in the previous year.
there was moreover indiscipline amongst the workers and production suffered.
there was a strike in the month of october and the mills were closed for nearly a month.
further the management were unable to secure cotton which resulted in the curtailment of the working hours.
as a result of all these circumstances the appellant suffered a trading loss of rs 502563 1 10.
a sum of rs 250000 being the excess reserve for taxation was written back and a sum of rs 1001871 13 5 being the amount of reserve transferred from the investment account was also brought in.
an aggregate sum of rs 1251871 13 5 was thus brought into the balance sheet by these two transfers.
the trading loss was deducted from this amount leaving a credit balance of rs 749308 11 7 and that amount was shown as the profit for the year 1949 in the balance sheet for that year.
the balance which had been brought forward from the previous year was added thereto and a dividend of 2434 per cent.
was paid to the ordinary shareholders.
the appellant also paid ex gratia to the workmen bonus at the rate of annas 2 per rupee of their basic earnings making it clear by their notification dated the 7th april 1950 that the directors had sanctioned the payment at that rate in spite of the appellant having suffered a trading loss for the year that it was being paid entirely at the discretion of the appellant and was not related to or connected with any contract of employment of any worker.
on the 4th may 1950 the secretary of the respondent union petitioned to the provincial conciliation officer textile that there was more production in 1949 than in 1948 that there was no reason to hold that the profit in 1949 was less than in the previous year and that the rate of bonus was wrongly reduced and asked that bonus for 1949 should also be paid at the rate of annas 4 per rupee.
the industrial dispute which thus arose was referred for enquiry and recording of an award to the regional conciliation board textile kanpur.
the conciliation board by a majority decision repelled the contention of the appellant and awarded the payment of bonus at annas 4 per rupee.
on an appeal taken by the appellant to the industrial court textiles and hosiery kanpur the industrial court accepted the contention of the appellant allowed the appeal and set aside the award.
the respondent thereupon appealed to the labour appellate tribunal which substantially agreed with the industrial court on questions of fact as well as the general position in law but imported considerations of social justice and treating this as a special case where social justice would demand that labour should have bonus for the year where for that very year capital had not only a reasonable return but much in excess of that allowed the appeal and directed the appellant to pay to the workmen bonus at the rate of annas 4 per rupee within six weeks of their decision.
the appellant filed this appeal against that decision after obtaining special leave from this court.
both the industrial court as well as the labour appellate tribunal found as a fact that there was a trading loss of rs 502563 1 10 during the year 1949 and also.
that the dividend of 2434 per cent.
to the ordinary shareholders was distributed after transferring the aggregate sum of rs 1251871 13 5 from the reserves.
the question which therefore arises for our consideration is mainly whether the workers are entitled to the payment of a bonus in spite of the employer having worked at a loss during the year and incidentally whether the workers have any right title or interest in the reserves and the undistributed profits of the previous years.
the primary meaning of the word bonus according to the definition given in the new english dictionary is a boon or gift over and above what is nominally due as remuneration to the receiver and which is therefore something wholly to the good.
this definition was adopted by stirling j in in re eddystone marine insurance co l r i894 w n 30 webster s international dictionary defines bonus as something given in addition to what is ordinarily received by or strictly due to the recipient.
the oxford concise dictionary defines it as something to the good into the bargain and as an example gratuity to workmen beyond their wages.
corpus juris secundum volume xi at page 515 ascribes the following meanings to the word bonus an allowance in addition to what is usual current or stipulated a sum given or paid beyond what is legally required to be paid to the recipient something given in addition to what is ordinarily received by or strictly due to the recipient and adds it has been said to carry the idea of something uncertain and indefinite something which may or may not be paid depending on varying circumstances and under particular conditions has been said to imply a benefit accruing to him who offers it and an inducement to the offeree.
this imports the conception of a boon a gift or a gratuity otherwise described as an ex gratia payment.
the word bonus has however acquired a secondary meaning in the sphere of industrial relations.
it is classified amongst the methods of wage payment.
it has been used especially in the united states of america to designate an award in addition to the contractual wage.
it is usually intended as a stimulus to extra effort but sometimes represents the desire of the employer to share with his workers the fruits of their common enterprise.
vide encyclopaedia britannica volume iii page 856.
the pocket part of the corpus juris secundum volume xi under the heading as compensation for services quotes the following passage from attorney general v city of woburn 317 mass 465 the word bonus is commonly used to denote an increase in salary or wages in contracts of employment.
the offer of a bonus is the means frequently adopted to secure continuous service from an employee to enhance his efficiency and to augment his loyalty to his employer and the employee s acceptance of the offer by performing the things called for by the offer binds employer to pay the bonus so called.
it also gives another meaning of the word bonus viz increased compensation for services already rendered gratuitously or for a prescribed compensation where there is neither express or implied understanding that additional compensation may be granted.
this imports the conception that even though the payment be not strictly due to the recipient nor legally enforceable by him a claim to the same may be laid by the employee under certain conditions and if such claim is entertained either by an agreement with the employer or by adjudication before a properly constituted tribunal as on an industrial dispute arising.
the same would ripen into a legally enforceable claim.
t l r 294 297 where the earl of birkenhead observed the term bonus may of course be properly used to describe payments made of grace and not as of right.
but it nevertheless may also include as here payments made because legally due but which the parties contemplate will not continue indefinitely and in national association of local government officers v bolton corporation 1943.
a c 166 i87 this payment if made can not properly in my opinion be regarded as a mere gratuity.
i do not see why this does not fall within the definition of trade dispute just as much as a dispute as to the rate of wages or salary.
but second the meaning of the word bonus is not given to it by the objection.
it is thus defined by webster.
a premium given for a loan or a charter or other privilege granted to a company as the bank paid a bonus for its charter a sum paid in addition to a stated compensation.
it is not a gift or gratuity but a sum paid for services or upon a consideration in addition to or in excess of that which would ordinarily be given 12.
and also in great western garment co ltd v minister of national revenue 1948.
there are however two conditions which have to be satisfied before a demand for bonus can be justified and they are 1 when wages fall short of the living standard and 2 the industry makes huge profits part of which are due to the contribution which the workmen make in increasing production.
the demand for bonus becomes an industrial claim when either or both these conditions are satisfied.
on the paid up capital.
a return on the working capital at a lesser rate than the return on paid up capital.
the surplus that remained after meeting the aforesaid deductions would be available for distribution as bonus.
it is therefore clear that the claim for bonus can be made by the employees only if as a result of the joint contribution of capital and labour the industrial concern has earned profits.
if in any particular year the working of the industrial concern has resulted in loss there is no basis nor justification for a demand for bonus.
bonus is not a deferred wage.
so it would follow that if there is trading loss in the year under claim bonus should not ordinarily be awarded.
mr isaacs the learned counsel for the respondent.
