challenge in this appeal is to the order of a division bench of madras high court allowing the appeal filed by the respondent hereinafter referred to as the accused the accused was convicted for offence punishable under section 302 of the indian penal code1860 in short the ipc and sentenced to undergo imprisonment for life and to pay a fine of rs 10000 with default stipulation by principal district judge madurai.
he was also convicted for offences punishable under section 392 read with section 397 ipc and sentence to undergo rigorous imprisonment for 10 years and to pay a fine.
the deceased is one mayurani a sri lankan student who was residing in the first floor of the house belonging to one solsimalai p w 1 the accused is also a sri lankan student studying in a different college but staying in the second floor of the same premises.
the occurrence allegedly took place in the afternoon of 22 4 2003.
on opening the window he noticed that mayurani was lying in a pool of blood with her face covered with a bag.
on the basis of the aforesaid f i r investigation was taken up initially by p w 40.
subsequently on the basis of the order of the high court such investigation was completed by p w 42 the accused is stated to have been arrested on suspicion on 26 4 2003 on the basis of the statement of the accused prosecution discovered many materials including a knife and a log allegedly used for killing.
initially p w 40 suspected the role of p w 1his wife p w 2p w 3from whose house certain incriminating material were recovered allegedly on the basis of statement of the accused as well as p w 4who was working as a cleaner in the vehicle of p w 1 subsequently however p w 42who took over investigation from p w 40 filed charge sheet only against the present appellant on the footing that p ws 1 to 4 had no role to play in the crime.
the prosecution relied upon only circumstantial evidence namely confessional statements of the accused leading to recovery of various incriminating materials.
p 10 is the statement relating to jewelleries ultimately leading to recovery of gold ingots m o 18 series from the house of p w 19 on the basis of other connecting statements of p w 17 and p w 18 these three statements exs p 6p 8 and p 10 dated 26 4 2003were made before p w 40 in the presence of p w 22 and c w 1 the other confessional statement ex.
p 12 dated 22 9 2003 made before p w 42 and subbiah and p w 24led to recovery of m dollar m 0 38 and key chain with key chain in m 0 39 from the toilet in the room of the accused.
the trial court found the respondent guilty and recorded conviction and imposed sentence as aforestated.
the trial court found that the prosecution version rested on circumstantial evidence.
c at the time of occurrence only the accused deceased and pw 9 were available in the premises and there was no other person.
d statement of the accused leading to recovery of incriminating materials such as knife rope clothes wooden log and other valuable articles such as computer gold ornamentsm dollar and the key chain with key belonging to the deceased.
learned counsel for the appellant submitted that the high court failed to notice that the circumstances highlighted clearly establish the chain of circumstances which established the prosecution version and the high court was not justified in directing acquittal.
the conviction based on circumstantial evidence has been highlighted by this court in various orders of this court.
in bhagat ram v state of punjab air 1954 sc 621 1954 indlaw sc 188it was laid down that where the case depends upon the conclusion drawn from circumstances the cumulative effect of the circumstances must be such as to negative the innocence of the accused and bring the offences home beyond any reasonable doubt.
193 1996 indlaw sc 3059wherein.
in a case based on circumstantial evidence the settled law is that the circumstances from which the conclusion of guilt is drawn should be fully proved and such circumstances must be conclusive in nature.
further the proved circumstances must be consistent only with the hypothesis of the guilt of the accused and totally inconsistent with his innocence.
sc 79 1989 indlaw sc 31it was laid down that when a case rests upon circumstantial evidence such evidence must satisfy the following tests 1 the circumstances from which an inference of guilt is sought to be drawn must be cogently and firmly established 2 those circumstances should be of a definite tendency unerringly pointing towards guilt of the accused 3 the circumstances taken cumulatively should form a chain so complete that there is no escape from the conclusion that within all human probability the crime was committed by the accused and none else and 4 the circumstantial evidence in order to sustain conviction must be complete and incapable of explanation of any other hypothesis than that of the guilt of the accused and such evidence should not only be consistent with the guilt of the accused but should be inconsistent with his innocence.
sir alfred wills in his admirable book wills circumstantial evidence chapter vi lays down the following rules specially to be observed in the case of circumstantial evidence 1 the facts alleged as the basis of any legal inference must be clearly proved and beyond reasonable doubt connected with the factum probandum 2 the burden of proof is always on the party who asserts the existence of any fact which infers legal accountability 3 in all cases whether of direct or circumstantial evidence the best evidence must be adduced which the nature of the case admits 4 in order to justify the inference of guilt the inculpatory facts must be incompatible with the innocence of the accused and incapable of explanation upon any other reasonable hypothesis than that of his guilt 5 if there be any reasonable doubt of the guilt of the accused he is entitled as of right to be acquitted.
pradeshair 1952 sc 343 1952 indlaw sc 89wherein it was observed thus it is well to remember that in cases where the evidence is of a circumstantial nature the circumstances from which the conclusion of guilt is to be drawn should be in the first instance be fully established and all the facts so established should be consistent only with the hypothesis of the guilt of the accused.
in other words there must be a chain of evidence so far complete as not to leave any reasonable ground for a conclusion consistent with the innocence of the accused and it must be such as to show that within all human probability the act must have been done by the accused.
the conditions precedent in the words of this court before conviction could be based on circumstantial evidence must be fully established.
the main circumstances relied upon by the prosecution relates to the statements of the accused leading to discovery of materials facts admissible under section 27 of the indian evidence act1872 in short the evidence act.
the discovery of a fact in consequence of information received from an accused in custody must be deposed to.
similar statement is made by p w 4 that apart c w 1 has stated that no statement has been made in his presence.
the next recovery relates to the ingots.
