the present appeal arises out of the judgment and order dated 01 07 2002 passed by the high court of bombay at goa in criminal appeal No 6 of 2000 convicting the accused appellant section 302 of the indian penal code for short the the ipc and sentencing him to undergo life imprisonment for the offence by setting aside the order of acquittal passed by the trial court.
on 19 04 1988 between 8 30 p m and 8 45 p m satish narayan sawant the appellant accused No 1 along with two other accused persons and also with two delinquent children allegedly formed an unlawful assembly and that in furtherance of the said common object stabbed one rauji dulba sawant the deceased and also assaulted baby dulba sawant pw 1 ashok dulba sawant pw 2 kunda rauji sawant pw 8 and laxmi dulba sawant pw 18 who are the sister brother wife and mother respectively of the deceased.
p s joaquim dias pw 21 who was attached to the ponda police station as p s i received a phone call at about 10 45 p m from p s i k k desai of the panaji police station that a person named rauji dulba sawant had been brought in police jeep by police constable jaisingrao rane and that while he was being taken to the goa medical college he expired.
he was informed that the deceased had died as a result of stab injuries received and therefore he was to take necessary steps.
in the meantime pw 1 pw 2 and pw 8 came to the house from whom pw 21 made certain inquiries and brought them along with accused No 3 and her two juvenile girls to the police station.
after reaching the police station a complaint which is marked as exhibit pw 1 a was lodged by pw 1 in which it was alleged that pw 1 pw 8 pw 18 the deceased rauji and his brother narayan were residing in one house in banastari and they used to share a common kitchen between them.
accused No 3 told the appellant not to do anything in the ceremony and insulted the family members of rauji.
pw 1 also alleged that on 19 04 1988 the deceased rauji returned from his duty at about 6 30 p m and thereafter went to purchase some articles.
meanwhile accused No 3 started abusing pw 1 pw 8 pw 18 and the deceased rauji.
thereafter the appellant and the two other alleged accused namely accused nos 2 and 3 and the two juvenile offenders gathered in the hall to assault rauji the deceased pw 1 and pw 8.
thereafter according to pw 1 accused No 3 handed back the knife to the appellant and accused No 2 brought the oil lamp which was hung in the room and hit the oil lamp on the head of rauji the deceased.
at that time pw 2 came there and questioned the accused persons as to what they were doing whereupon the appellant and accused No 2 started assaulting pw 2 also.
then accused No 3 told the appellant and accused No 2 to finish off rauji first.
pw 8 pw 18 and pw 1 then lifted rauji and brought him in the courtyard.
however pw 1 again intervened and removed the said stone from the hand of accused no 3.
whereupon the police took him to the hospital in the police jeep along with pw 1 pw 2 and pw 8.
the trial court framed charges against all the accused persons for the offence under sections 302 323 143 147 and 149 of the ipc.
the trial court passed an order on 04 08 1998 acquitting all the accused persons from the offences under sections 302 323 143 147 and 149 of ipc.
1 to 3.
accused No 1 section 302 ipc and accused nos.
he submitted that although the incident in question had taken place at about 8 45 p m the same came to be reported to the police at 3 00 a m he also submitted that the police officer pw 21 who received the information about the incident started investigation without recording either any general diary for short g d entry or the fir and therefore the fir which has been proved in the trial court is hit by the provisions of section 162 of the criminal procedure code for short the crpc.
it was further submitted that the alleged eye witnesses of the occurrence were examined by the police belatedly and that the medical evidence adduced in the case does not in any manner support the ocular evidence and if at all it would not be a case of culpable homicide amounting to murder but a case of culpable homicide not amounting to murder.
ms a subhashini learned counsel appearing for the respondent state however strenuously submitted that none of the aforesaid submissions could be accepted by this court as it is a foolproof case of conviction of the appellant section.
section.
there was indeed some scuffle between the parties during the course of which accused No 1 received simple injuries and the deceased died of the two stab injuries inflicted by the present appellant.
the issue with regard to the initiation of the investigation without recording the fir was succinctly addressed by this court in the case of state of u p v bhagwant kishore joshi 1964 3 scr 71 1963 indlaw sc 268 observed as follows 17.
what is investigation is not defined in the code of criminal procedure but in h n rishbud and inder singh v state of delhi 1954 indlaw sc 14 this court has described the procedure for investigation as follows thus under the code investigation consists generally of the following steps 1 proceeding to the spot 2 ascertainment of the facts and circumstances of the case 3 discovery and arrest of the suspected offender 4 collection of evidence relating to the commission of the offence which may consist of a the examination of various persons including the accused and the reduction of their statements into writing if the officer thinks fit b the search of places of seizure of things considered necessary for the investigation and to be produced at the trial and 5 formation of the opinion as to whether on the material collected there is a case to place the accused before a magistrate for trial and if so taking the necessary steps for the same by the filing of a charge sheet section this court however has not said that if a police officer takes merely one or two of the steps indicated by it what he has done must necessarily be regarded as investigation.
in the instant case it is quite clear from the evidence on record that pw 1 received the information about the death of the deceased from psi of panaji police station without any detail as to how the incident had happened and who had caused the incident.
it was a very cryptic information received by him regarding the death of a person residing within the jurisdiction of his police station pursuant to an incident taking place on 10 04 1988 between 8 30 p m to 8 45 p m and therefore it appears that there was not enough information available to him either to get a g d entry recorded or to get an fir lodged.
in order to verify the information received pw 21 went to the place of occurrence and found the entire house in total darkness.
after reaching the police station and at the request of pw 1 the fir was recorded at 3 00 a m in the morning.
in animireddy venkata ramana and others v public prosecutor high court of andhra pradesh 2008 5 scc 368 2008 indlaw sc 354 this court while considering a similar case observed as follows 10.
there is cogent and reliable evidence on record to prove and establish that the accused has committed the act of stabbing as a result of which the deceased had died.
section 299 defines culpable homicide as the act of causing death i with the intention of causing death or ii with the intention of causing such bodily injury as is likely to cause death or iii with the knowledge that such act is likely to cause death.
