leave granted.
these appeals have been preferred from the judgment and order of the high court dated 25 11 2009 in writ petitions civil no 464572009.
the appellants challenge the acquisition of their agricultural lands by the state of uttar pradesh for the construction of the district jail of shahjahanpur.
the appellants themselves are bhumidar with transferable rights and are residents of village murchha tehsil puwayan in the district of shahjahanpur uttar pradesh.
the state of uttar pradesh vide its office memorandum dated 25 10 2004 constituted a committee under the chairmanship of the honourable minister of revenue to suggest its recommendations for transfer of prisons situated in the congested areas of various districts.
after conducting its second and final meeting on 10th.
january2005the said committee recommended to the state government the shifting of the district jails from congested areas to outside the city limits within the district.
as per the schedule this shifting was to be done in two phases 1 st phase 1 district jail shahjahanpur 2 district jail azamgarh 3 district jail jaunpur and 4 district jail moradabad 2 nd phase 1 district jail badaun 2 district jail varanasi 3 district jail barielly and 4 district jail muzaffarnagar.
the existing district jail of shahjahanpur constructed in 1870was one of the oldest and required shifting to new premises.
these recommendations were accepted by the state government vide the approval of the cabinet dated 7 12 2007 following this decision the director general of prisons administration and reformsuttar pradesh vide letter dated 04 06 2008requested the district magistrate shahjahanpur to send all the relevant records to the state government for publication of notification u ss 41 and 17 of the land acquisition act1894 hereinafter the act the land suggested for such acquisition by the divisional land utility committee was.
one admeasuring 25 89 hectares 63 93 acres in village morchha tehsil puwayan in the district of shahjahanpur.
thereafter the district magistrate shahjahanpur forwarded the proposal to the commissioner and director directorate of land acquisition revenue board uttar pradeshfor the issuance of notifications u ss 41 and 17 of the act which in turn approved of it and further forwarded the recommendation to the state government vide letter dated 2 07 2008.
thus the state government issued notifications u ss 41 and 17 on 21 08 2008.
however the provisions of section 5a inquiry were dispensed with.
being aggrieved by the aforesaid notifications the appellants moved a writ petition before the high court u art 226 of the constitution of india.
the high court also approved the invoking of emergency provisions u s 17 of the act as per the guidelines given in essco fabs private limited and another vs state of haryana and another.
2 scc 377 2008 indlaw sc 2494 having thus stated the high court dismissed the writ petition.
before this court the appellants broadly raised the following arguments 1 whether or not the state government was justified in acquiring the said pieces of fertile agricultural land when there were alternative sites of unfertile banjar land available.
2 whether or not the state government was justified in dispensing with the inquiry which is mandated to be conducted under section 5a of the act especially when one year elapsed between the notifications u s 4 and the one u s 6 they further stated that the high court had erred insofar as it upheld the factum of urgency in the absence of a categorical finding an enquiry under section 5a would have been detrimental to public interest.
committee was formed matter was discussed at a leisurely pace at various levels and there is no material fact to justify the abridgement of the appellants right of raising an objection to acquisition and of a hearing under section 5a of the act.
in connection with land acquisition proceeding whenever the provision of s 17 and its various sub sections including s 174 is used in the name of taking urgent or emergent action and the right of hearing of the land holder under section 5a is dispensed with the court is called upon to consider a few fundamentals in the exercise of such powers.
admittedly the land acquisition act a pre constitutional legislation of colonial vintage is a drastic law being expropriatory in nature as it confers on the state a power which affects person s property right.
this court is of the opinion that the concept of public purpose in land acquisition has to be viewed from an angle which is consistent with the concept of a welfare state.
the concept even though sought to be defined u s 3f of the act is not capable of any precise definition.
it must be accepted that in construing public purpose a broad and overall view has to be taken and the focus must be on ensuring maximum benefit to the largest number of people.
any attempt by the state to acquire land by promoting a public purpose to benefit a particular group of people or to serve any particular interest at the cost of the interest of a large section of people especially of the common people defeats the very concept of public purpose.
even though the concept of public purpose was introduced by pre constitutional legislation its application must be consistent with the constitutional ethos and especially the chapter under fundamental rights and also the directive principles.
in construing the concept of public purpose the mandate of art 13 of the constitution that any pre constitutional law can not in any way take away or abridge rights conferred under part iii must be kept in mind.
by judicial interpretation the contents of these part iii rights are constantly expanded.
the meaning of public purpose in acquisition of land must be judged on the touchstone of this expanded view of part iii rights.
the open ended nature of our constitution needs a harmonious reconciliation between various competing principles and the overhanging shadows of socio economic reality in this country.
therefore the concept of public purpose on this broad horizon must also be read into the provisions of emergency power u s 17 with the consequential dispensation of right of hearing under section 5a of the said act.
if public purpose can be satisfied by not rendering common man homeless and by exploring other avenues of acquisition the courts before sanctioning an acquisition must in exercise of its power of judicial review focus its attention on the concept of social and economic justice.
while examining these questions of public importance the courts especially the higher courts cannot afford to act as mere umpires.
ayyar and others reported in 1979 3 scc 466 1979 indlaw sc 224wherein this court held it is true that judges are constitutional invigilators and statutory interpreters but they are also responsive and responsible to part iv of the constitution being one of the trinity of the nation s appointed instrumentalities in the transformation of the socio economic order.
the aforesaid principles in our jurisprudence compel this court to construe any expropriartory legislation like the land acquisition act very strictly.
in dlf qutab enclave complex educational charitable trust vs state of haryana and ors 2003 5 scc 622 2003 indlaw sc 124this court construed the statute on town planning law and held expropriatory statute as is well known must be strictly construed.
the same principle has been reiterated subsequently by a three judge bench of this court in state of maharashtra and anr vs b e billimoria and ors 2003 7 scc 336 2003 indlaw sc 618 in the context of ceiling law.
these principles again found support in the decision of this court in chairman indore vikas pradhikaran vs pure industrial coke and chemicals.
ltd and ors 2007.
8 scc 705 2007 indlaw sc 554wherein this court construed the status of a person s right to property after deletion of art 191f from part iii by referring to various international covenants namely the declaration of human and civil rights this court held that even though right to property has ceased to be a fundamental right but it would however be given an express recognition as a legal right and also as a human right.
while discussing the ambit and extent of property right this court reiterated that expropriatory legislation must be given strict construction.
in the background of the aforesaid discussion this court proceeds to examine the scope of a person s right under section 5a of the act.
initially section 5a was not there in the land acquisition act1894 but the same was inserted long ago by the land acquisition amendment act1923 vide s 3 of act 38 of 1923.
the history behind insertion of section 5a in the act of 1894 seems to be a decision of the division bench of calcutta high court in j e d ezra vs the secretary of state for india and ors reported in 7 c w n 249 in that case the properties of ezra were sought to be acquired under the pre amended provision of the act for expansion of the offices of the bank of bengal.
however the judges found that there was no such provision in the act.
in order to remedy this shortcoming in the act of 1894an amendment by way of incorporation of section 5a was introduced on 11th july1923 the statement of objects and reasons for the said amendment is as follows the land acquisition act i of 1894 does not provide that persons having an interest in land which it is proposed to acquire shall have the right of objecting to such acquisition nor is government bound to enquire into and consider any objections that may reach them.
the object of this bill is to provide that a local government shall not declare u s 6 of the act that any land is needed for a public purpose unless time has been allowed after the notification u s 4 for persons interested in the land to put in objections and for such objections to be considered by the local government.
gazette of india pt.
v dated 14th july1923.
the importance and scheme of section 5a was construed by this court in several cases.
as early as in 1964this court in nandeshwar prasad and ors vs u p government and ors.
the right to file objections under section 5a is a substantial right when a person s property is being threatened with acquisition and we can not accept that that right can be taken away as if by a side wind.
in that case the court was considering the importance of rights under section 5a vis vis s 171 and s 171.
a of the act.
in a recent judgment of this court in essco fabs 2008 indlaw sc 2494 supra2009 2 scc 377this court after considering previous judgments as also the provisions of s 17 of the act held whereas sub s 1 of s 17 deals with cases of urgencysub s 2 of the said section covers cases of sudden change in the channel of any navigable river or other unforeseen emergency.
in our opinion therefore the contention of learned counsel for the respondent authorities is not well founded and can not be upheld that once a case is covered by sub ss 1 or 2 of s 17 of the act sub s 4 of s 17 would necessarily apply and there is no question of holding inquiry or hearing objections under section 5 a of the act.
but such acquisition can be made only by strictly following the mandate of the said act.
in the facts of this case such acquisition can not be made by invoking emergency provisions of s 17 if so advised government can initiate acquisition proceeding by following the provision of section 5a of the act and in accordance with law.
no order as to costs.
