facts giving rise to the present appeal may be stated first so as to enable us to appreciate the arguments raised by the parties more effectively.
on 19 04 1988 between 8 30 p m and 8 45 p m satish narayan sawant the appellant accused No 1 along with two other accused persons and also with two delinquent children allegedly formed an unlawful assembly and that in furtherance of the said common object stabbed one rauji dulba sawant the deceased and also assaulted baby dulba sawant pw 1 ashok dulba sawant pw 2 kunda rauji sawant pw 8 and laxmi dulba sawant pw 18 who are the sister brother wife and mother respectively of the deceased.
he was informed that the deceased had died as a result of stab injuries received and therefore he was to take necessary steps.
during the survey made at the place of occurrence pw 21 noticed some blood stains in the front courtyard of the house and a pipe of length of about 1 foot or slightly less lying in the courtyard having blood stains.
after reaching the police station a complaint which is marked as exhibit pw 1 a was lodged by pw 1 in which it was alleged that pw 1 pw 8 pw 18 the deceased rauji and his brother narayan were residing in one house in banastari and they used to share a common kitchen between them.
accused No 3 told the appellant not to do anything in the ceremony and insulted the family members of rauji.
as soon as the deceased switched off the light the appellant came from the room and started abusing rauji.
accused No 3 had then lit a kerosene lamp and brought the same in the hall.
according to pw 1 in order to avoid the assault by all of them they went to bulcao balcony.
at that time all the accused persons were in the balcony.
at that time the appellant who was holding the knife in his hand handed over the same to accused No 3 by which she assaulted pw 8 but pw 8 caught the knife in her hand which caused injury to her right palm.
at that time pw 2 came there and questioned the accused persons as to what they were doing whereupon the appellant and accused No 2 started assaulting pw 2 also.
accused No 3 then picked up one stone and tried to throw it on rauji by saying that she was going to kill him with that stone.
however pw 1 again intervened and removed the said stone from the hand of accused no 3.
after completion of the arguments the trial court reserved the verdict.
being aggrieved by the aforesaid judgment and order of acquittal the state filed an appeal in the high court against accused nos.
1 to 3.
accused No 1 section 302 ipc and accused nos.
2 and 3 were held guilty of an offence punishable section 323 read with section 34 of the ipc.
he submitted that although the incident in question had taken place at about 8 45 p m the same came to be reported to the police at 3 00 a m he also submitted that the police officer pw 21 who received the information about the incident started investigation without recording either any general diary for short g d entry or the fir and therefore the fir which has been proved in the trial court is hit by the provisions of section 162 of the criminal procedure code for short the crpc.
he also submitted that the high court has not given any reason for setting aside the appeal against acquittal which was passed after appreciating the entire evidence on record.
he further submitted that there was not only shifting of time of the alleged occurrence but also shifting of the place of occurrence from the hall to the outside verandah and courtyard to suit the convenience of the prosecution case.
he has drawn our attention towards the entire evidence on record including the cross examination part and with the help of the same he submitted that the entire alleged incident in question had taken place when there was complete darkness at the scene of occurrence.
a scuffle started between the nephew and the uncle in which the accused persons also received injuries and therefore the right of private defence of the appellant was available and in that view of the matter the order of conviction and sentence is liable to be set aside.
he also submitted that if two views are possible and if there are lacunae in the case of the prosecution the benefit must go to the accused.
he next submitted that there was no evidence on record as to when the fir reached the magistrate and that none of the courts below considered the said aspect.
he submitted that since there was violation of the provisions of section 162 of the crpc the accused appellant is liable to be acquitted.
302 ipc.
1 2 8 and 18 is convincing and reliable but so far as the evidence of pw 4 is concerned the high court has made an observation that he is not a reliable witness.
counsel for the respondent has therefore taken us through the evidence of pws.
1 2 8 and 18 and on the basis thereof submitted that their evidence clearly prove and establish the role of the appellant herein in stabbing the deceased with the knife which he had brought from the other room with the intention of killing the deceased and therefore it is a clear case of conviction.
section.
at this the deceased became annoyed and the appellant removed the fuse of the electricity which act of his plunged the entire house into darkness.
but in any case there was an electricity light post in the front of the house which was giving enough light to the house.
2 8 18 and the complainant herself pw 1.
he in his deposition specifically stated that he found that the back door as well as the front door of the house were latched from inside and in front of the house there was a road where there was an electricity pole and there was a street tube light by which the house could be visible and even the lights of the vehicles were flashed at the house.
he stated that although the house had electricity connection but was not having the electricity supply.
he gave instructions to his subordinate and also to the people around that nobody should touch any article lying at the scene of occurrence.
he stated that he made preliminary enquiry and brought yashoda and her two daughters to the police station and sent two other officers in search of accused nos 1 and 2 who were not found in the house.
he also stated that he got the complaint registered at the police station which was lodged by pw 1 and that on the next day he again went to the scene of offence and seized the properties involved in the crime which were sealed.
he also recovered the knife at the instance of accused sharmila which he seized.
and he was medically examined.
he submitted that since the investigation in the instant case was started by the police without recording an fir such an fir is necessarily hit by the provisions of section 162 of the cr.
the issue with regard to the initiation of the investigation without recording the fir was succinctly addressed by this court in the case of state of u p v bhagwant kishore joshi 1964 3 scr 71 1963 indlaw sc 268 observed as follows 17.
he is also entitled to search the place of the offence and to search other places with the object of seizing articles connected with the offence.
but the main object of investigation being to bring home the offence to the offender the essential part of the duties of an investigating officer in this connection is apart from arresting the offender to collect all material necessary for establishing the accusation against the offender.
if no harassment to the accused results from the action of a police officer how can it be said to defeat the purpose underlying section 5 a looking at the matter this way i hold that what mathur did was something very much short of investigation and therefore the provisions of section 5 a were not violated.
emphasis underlined.
he went around the house and saw blood marks on the walls of the verandah and also in the courtyard and came to learn about the incident by using torch light.
but at a later stage they came there.
after reaching the police station and at the request of pw 1 the fir was recorded at 3 00 a m in the morning.
he received the information about the incident on telephone at about 10 45 p m and reached the place of occurrence at about 11 30 p m and he must have been there for quite some time and thereafter returned to the police station which must have taken another about 1 30 to 2 hours.
besides the fact of his going to the place of occurrence would not amount to making an investigation.
certain basic facts are not denied or disputed.
from the records it appears that the distance between the place where the accident took place and the village in question was not much.
a report to that effect might have been noted in the general diary but the same could not have been treated to be an fir.
an information received in regard to commission of a cognizable offence is not required to be preceded by a first information report.
duty of the state to protect the life of an injured as also an endeavour on the part of the responsible police officer to reach the place of occurrence in a situation of this nature is his implicit duty and responsibility.
if some incident had taken place in a bus the officers of road transport corporation also could not ignore the same.
even assuming that pw 21 the investigating officer could have entered the aforesaid information received from psi of panaji police station in the general diary yet they said entry could not have been held or treated to be an fir.
from the evidence on record it does not appear to us that any suggestion was given to the said witness to the effect that the copy of the fir was not sent or that it was dispatched late which if given would have given an opportunity to the witness to afford some explanation or to show as to when the fir was sent to and received by the magistrate.
1 2 8 and 18 as eye witnesses to the occurrence.
blood was found by the police on the wall of the verandah and in the courtyard.
besides all the aforesaid eye witnesses were inmates of the house and they would know as to who had given the blows for they specifically stated that initially the appellant did not have the knife in his hand but when the deceased and others went to the balcony then he went inside the house and brought a knife with which he gave stab injuries to the deceased which became fatal and as a result of which the deceased died while he was being taken to the hospital.
but if after careful analysis and scrutiny of their evidence the version given by the witnesses appears to be clear cogent and credible there is no reason to discard the same.
conviction can be made on the basis of such evidence.
however a perusal of record clearly shows that the doctor who conducted the postmortem pw 7 stated in his evidence that there were in total 16 injuries when external examination was done by him and the knife m o 11 could have caused the injuries No 1 2 3 and 4.
he further stated that the death was caused due to hemorrhage and shock as a result of stab injury.
he further stated that injury No 1 was sufficient to cause death in the ordinary course of nature.
all the contentions raised by learned counsel appearing for the appellant were considered by us in the light of evidence on record.
and we find that none of the aforesaid submissions has any basis.
before dwelling further into the factual matrix of the case on the basis of which the high court convicted the appellant section 302 ipc it would be useful to briefly recapitulate the law on the point.
both the expression intent and knowledge postulate the existence of a positive mental attitude which is of different degrees.
if that is caused in any of the aforesaid three circumstances the offence of culpable homicide is said to have been committed.
i and if it is only a case of knowledge and not the intention to cause murder and bodily injury then the same would be a case of section 304 part ii.
all murder is culpable homicide but not vice versa.
for the purpose of fixing punishment proportionate to the gravity of this generic offence the code practically recognises three degrees of culpable homicide.
culpable homicide of this degree is punishable under the second part of section 304.
b of section 299 corresponds with cls 2 and 3 of section 300.
b of section 299 does not postulate any such knowledge on the part of the offender.
b of section 299 the words sufficient in the ordinary course of nature have been used.
b of section 299 and cl.
3 of section 300 is one of degree of probability of death resulting from the intended bodily injury.
b of section 299 conveys the sense of probable as distinguished from a mere possibility.
for cases to fall within clause 3 it is not necessary that the offender intended to cause death so long as the death ensues from the intentional bodily injury or injuries sufficient to cause death in the ordinary course of nature.
1958 indlaw sc 82 vivian bose j speaking for the court explained the meaning and scope of cl.
first it must establish quite objectively that a bodily injury is present secondly the nature of the injury must be proved.
if he can show that he did not or if the totality of the circumstances justify such an inference then of course the intent that the section requires is not proved.
but if there is nothing beyond the injury and the fact that the appellant inflicted it the only possible inference is that he intended to inflict it.
c of section 299 and cl.
4 of section 300 both require knowledge of the probability of the act causing death.
4 of section 300 would be applicable where the knowledge of the offender as to the probability of death of a person or persons in general as distinguished from a particular person or persons being caused from his imminently dangerous act approximates to a practical certainty.
but sometimes the facts are so intertwined and the second and the third stages so telescoped into each that it may not be convenient to give a separate treatment to the matters involved in the second and third stages.
2009 indlaw sc 859.
as already noted it is quite clear from the record that there was an altercation preceding the incident.
factually therefore there was only one main injury caused due to stabbing and that also was given on the back side of the deceased and therefore it can not be said that there was any intention to kill or to inflict an injury of a particular degree of seriousness.
accordingly we convict the appellant under section 304 part ii of ipc and sentence him to undergo imprisonment for a period of 7 years.
his bail bonds shall stand cancelled and the appellant shall surrender immediately to serve out the remaining period of sentence.
if however the appellant does not surrender by himself the state shall take necessary steps to rearrest him to undergo the remaining part of sentence.
appeal disposed of.
