hereinafter called the rent act is the question involved in this appeal by special leave from the judgment and order of the high court of gujarat dated 21st of august1979.
in order to decide this question it is necessary to decide the scope and ambit of section 292 of the rent act.
weaving works.
bharat neon signs hereinafter referred to as respondent no 2.
at the time of the institution of the suit the defendants nos 2 to 5 were admittedly the partners.
however the document is silent as to where the business was started.
another partnership deed being exhibit 69 came to be executed among the six persons and the father of the appellant girdharlal.
but thereafter when the partnership deed exhibit 69 was executed the appellant and his father joined the firm with an agreement to share profits only and their share was fixed at 0 03 paise in a rupee.
in 1965 some partners retired and the remaining four partners executed a fresh partnership deed exhibit 117 on 1st.
april1965 this last partnership deed was executed by the appellant and original defendants.
for this proposition see the decision of the gujarat high court in the case of mehta jagjivan vanechand v doshi vanechand harakhchand and others.
a i r 1972 gujarat 6 1970 indlaw guj 68 thakkar j of the gujarat high court as the learned judge then was held that the mere fact that a tenant entered into a partnership and allowed the premises being used for the benefit of partnership does not constitute assignment or subletting in favour of the partnership firm entitling a landlord to recover possession.
indlaw sc 748.
it accordingly decreed the suit for possession instituted by the landlord.
in the premises the appeal was allowed.
for the purpose of the suit no 553 of 1969 with which the appeal is concerned it is relevant to state that the appellant had raised the contention that ahmedabad fine weaving works was not the tenant of the suit premies but the suit premises was tenanted by the father of the appellant girdharlal chimalal in 1938 and he was the original tenant of the premises and appellant subsequently joined the business of his father as a partner and the name of the partnership firm was ahmedabad fine weaving works.
he has stated further that the suit premises were to be used for business and he could use it for any business and he joined in partnership with defendants nos 2 to 5 somewhere in 1961 to prepare neon signs and the defendants nos 2 to 5 were his partners and doing business in the suit premises.
he contended further that the suit premises was with him and the defendants nos 2 to 5 had not acquired any tenancy rights in the suit premises.
as mentioned hereinbefore the learned trial judge consolidated both the suits and in the instant suit being no 553 of 1969 with which this appeal is concerned it was held by the learned trial judge that there was unlawful subletting.
but there is nothing illegal about it.
all these tests were borne in mind by the court of small causes bombay in the appeal from the decision of the learned trial judge.
it is evident from the sales tax registration and other registration certificates and licences under the shops and establishments act that the partnership was registered in the name of the appellant and the appellant was also indicated as a partner.
but the question is from the three deeds itself which were examined in detail by the court of small causes and which were re examined by the high court could it be said unequivocally that there was no partnership.
all these factors were present before the court of small causes.
in the eye of law such a clause is really non sequitur or neutral proving neither the existence nor non existence of a genuine firm.
in this the appellant was not a partner.
exhibit 69 at page 136 of volume ii of the paper book is a partnership deed wherein girdharlal the father of the appellant no 1 and the appellant no 1 joined as partners.
all the work had been done by some of the partners of which appellants were not parties and that they had to do the said work as per instructions of the other partners.
clauses 6 and 7 of the said partnership deed recited inter alia as follows 6 the year of accounts of our partnership shall be aso vadi 30th day i e diwali and the first account year is decided to be the aso vadi 30th day of samvat year 2017 while settling accounts at the close of the year33 amount from the sum which may remain as net profit after deducting all expenditures viz interest discount rent of the shop rent of the godown insurance brokerage travelling telegrams postage salaries of employees etc shall be carried to reserve fund and thereafter in the sum that remains as net profit the shares of us the partners have been fixed as under 7 while settling accounts at the close of the year if the sum less than rs 1500 falls to the 0 03 shares of the partners of the seventh and eighth parts the amount falling short has to be debited towards the head of expenditure and rs 1500 fifteen hundred only have to be paid in full to each of them two and in those circumstances or if there be loss the parties of the seventh or eighth parts have not been held liable therefore and in the year or losses it has been decided to pay rs 1500 fifteen hundred only to each of them after debiting the same towards the head of expenditure and in the year of losses nothing has to be carried to the reserve fund and the loss has to be borne by us to parties first to sixth parts in the following proportion 8 clause 8 empowered the operating of the bank accounts by partners other than the appellant and his father.
it is embodied in the deeds the functioning of the partnership.
however on account of the death of khristi girdharbhai chimanlal on 1 2 61 and other reasons the said partnership was dissolved from 8 9 61 thereafter we the parties from the first to seventh part have after purchasing at its cost price all the debts and dues goods stock etc together with goodwill of the dissolved partnership started manufacturing and selling of neon signs tubes in partnership from 9 9 61 we the parties of all the seven parts execute the deed of the said partnership to day.
i e 22 9 61 the terms and conditions.
1 the entire work of our partnership has to be carried out in the name of bharat neon signs.
2 the work to be carried out by our partnership is of manufacturing and selling neon signs tubes and of obtaining orders therefore.
3 whatever moneys that may be required to be invested in our partnership are to be invested by the parties of the first second third fourth and seventh parts out of us and the interest at the rate of 712 per cent per annum has to be paid for the moneys that may be invested in this partnership.
in any event all these factors were considered by the court of small causes bearing in mind the correct legal principles.
a right to appeal carries with it right of re heating on law as well as fact.
if that was done in a particular case then the fact that the revisional authority or the high court might have arrived to a different conclusion is irrelevant.
in that case the question whether the appellant was legally married no finding was necessary in the eviction suit.
in phiroze bamanji desai v chandrakant m patel ors 1974 3 scr 267 1974 indlaw sc 282 the question involved was whether there was reasonable and bona fide requirement of premises for personal use and occupation as also the question of greater hardship under the bombay rent act and the ambit and scope of the power of section 293 of the said act with which we are concerned came up for consideration.
1961 indlaw sc 157 supra bhagwati j observed that the ambit of section 351 of the delhi ajmer rent control act which fell for consideration in hari shanker s case 1961 indlaw sc 157 supra was the same as section 293 of the bombay rent act and therefore he expressed the opinion that the high court could interfere only if there was miscarriage of justice due to mistake of law.
it extended to corrections of all errors which would make the decision contrary to law.
he dealt with the human problem under section 132 of bombay rent act considering the relative hardships of the landlord and the tenant and to arrive at a just solution he was of the opinion that the court should have such wide field.
in this view in our opinion the ambit of the power was expressed in rather wide amplitude.
as we read the power the high court must ensure that the principles of law have been correctly borne in mind.
it must be such a decision which no reasonable man could have arrived at.
if a possible view has been taken the high court would be exceeding its jurisdiction to substitute its own view with that the courts below because it considers it to be a better view.
in the case of punamchandra revashankar joshi v ramjibhai maganlal gujarat law reporter.
1966the gujarat high court after dealing with the gujarat amendment act xviii of 1965 observed that the legislature has not intended to equate the ambit of the power with the one exercised in an appeal.
in the instant case the basic question is whether keeping in background the partnership deeds referred to hereinbefore and the facts that came to light was there partnership or not.
he also referred to section 4 of the partnership act about the principles of partnership namely1 there must be agreement entered into by all the persons concerned 2 the agreement must be to share the profits of a business and 3 the business must be carried on by all or any of the persons concerned acting for all.
in the instant case judged by the aforesaid principles it is possible to hold that there was a partnership of which the appellant was a partner.
if that was so there was nothing that could be clone about such a view within the ambit and scope of the power of section 292 of the rent act.
in the light of the aforesaid principles and the facts that have emerged we are of the opinion that the high court exceeded its jurisdiction under section 292 of the rent act.
and it was a possible view to take.
in the result the appeal is allowed and the judgment and order of the gujarat high court dated 21st of august1979 are set aside.
appeal allowed.
appeal allowed.
