SV Gupte Solicitor General R Ganapathy Iyer and RN Sachthey for the appellant.
AV Viswanatha Sastri and SP Varma for the respondent.
This appeal pursuant to a certificate granted by the Allahabad High Court under section 66A2 of the Income tax Act hereinafter referred to as the Act is directed against the judgment of the High Court in a reference under the Act answering the question referred to it in the negative.
The British Government granted a sanad of Raj to Raja Chet Singh who in turn gave the Jagir of Parganas Seyedpore and Bhittery in perpetuity to Babu Ausan Singh.
The quantum of this pension was calculated on the basis of 14th of the revenue of the Jagir.
The source of the pension was a liability undertaken by the Government for extinguishing the proprietary rights of the Jagirdar and when the immediate source of the income was not land or rent collections from land it is difficult to hold that the receipt of the assessee was agricultural income within the meaning of Section 43viii of the Income tax Act.
 The High Court held that from the language of the letter of July 7 1837 it was manifest that the right which was conferred 703 was a right to a share of one fourth in the net land revenue collections after deducting costs of Tahsil establishment.
It relied on the fact that the amount which had been received by the successors of Babu Harnarain Singh varied from year to year.
The learned Additional Solicitor General on behalf of the appellant contends that according to the true interpretation of the letter dated July 7 1837 no right in the land revenue was granted to the assessee.
This Court interpreted the same letter dated July 7 1837 and came to the conclusion that the respondent did not acquire any interest in land or any land revenue.
Under the arrangement the entire land revenue was to be collected by the Government and in the collection Harnarain Singh and his descendants had no interest or obligation.
The allowance was in a sense related to the land revenue assessed on the land ie it was fixed as a percentage of the land revenue but the percentage was merely a measure and indicated the source of the right in lieu of which the allowance was given.
 The learned counsel for the respondent Mr A Viswanatha Sastri urges that on its true interpretation the letter dated July 7 1837 showed an arrangement for sharing collections.
We respectfully adopt the reasoning and conclusion of this Court in the case of State of  704 Uttar Pradesh vs Kunwar Sri Trivikram Narain Singh1 and hold that the respondent under the arrangement had no interest in land or in the land revenue payable in respect thereof.
In the genealogical tree of the interest land indeed appears in the second degree but the immediate and effective source is rent which has suffered the accident of nonpayment.
Shah J observed The appellant has no beneficial interest in the lands which are the subject matter of the trust nor is he given under the trust a right to receive and appropriate to himself the income of the properties or a part thereof in lieu of any beneficial interest in that income.
Mr Sastri sought to distinguish those cases on the ground that the allowance here varied from year to year.
