M K Ramamurthi for the respondents.
The Judgment of the Court was delivered by Wanchoo J.
It is unnecessary to set out the facts of the two appeals at this stage.
It is sufficient to say that the respondents made applications under section 33 C2 of the Industrial Disputes Act No 14 of 1947 praying for determination and computation of the benefit to which they were entitled under the Desai award as they were not satisfied with the fixation of their pay by the appellant bank under para 5356.
The Desai award dealt with the method of adjustment in the scales of pay fixed by it from para 5329 onwards.
It divided the employees of the banks with which it was concerned in two groups.
Examples of how this would be done were given in para.
5348 of the Desai award.
5348.
In the present appeals we are concerned with workmen who entered service before January 1 1959 and the fitment of these workmen was dealt with in para.
5356 of the Desai award and it is this paragraph which calls for interpretation in the present appeals.
We may at this stage mention that a similar question of fit ment was considered by the Sastry award in para.
c Such increments shall not however exceed four in number.
NOTE  Omitted by the Labour Appellate Tribunal in view of change in cl.
b 4 A.
Thereafter each succeeding year s annual increment shall take effect as and from 1st April of that year.
iii In the matter of adjustment all efficiency bars whether in the previously existing scales or in the scales provided by the Sastry award as modified should be ignored.
ivSubject to rules i to iii a workman s basic pay in the scale provided by the Sastry award as modified shall be fixed in the following manner aA workman shall first be fitted into the scale of pay of Sastry award as modified by placing him at the stage in the Sastry award scale as modified equal to or next above his basic pay as on 1st January 1959 in the scale then in force in the bank concerned hereinafter called the Bank s scale.
c Such increments shall not however exceed four in number.
It will be seen from the above comparison of the provisions in the two awards that the substantial provisions of the Desai award are exactly the same as the provisions of the Sastry award as modified except i for changes necessitated by the fact that the Desai award was being given in 1962 and ii the provision in the Sastry award corresponding to sub cl.
d of cl.
4 and made clause 4 A.
 The dispute between the bank and the workmen in the present case was this.
The bank claimed that under cl.
ii of the Desai award the adjusted basic pay in the new scale was not to exceed what point to point adjustment would give an employee on January 1 1962.
The bank further claimed that this being the maximum permissible under cl.
ii and cl.
iv could not give to an employee more than the maximum arrived at under cl.
Thus the bank s case was that once the maximum arrived at by point to point adjustment as on January 1 1962 was reached under cl.
iv could be allowed.
a b and c of cl.
d and that it did not matter whether what was thus arrived at exceeded the maximum provided under cl.
In this connection it is brought to our notice that in para.
5356 of the Desai award it was stated that the award was giving directions similar to those provided under the Sastry award as modified subject to certain changes which were considered necessary having regard to the lapse of time after coming into force of the provisions of the Sastry award as modified.
It is urged on behalf of the appellant that the Desai award made certain changes and therefore need not be interpreted in the same way as was done in Prakash Chand Mehra s case1.
It is true that the Desai award said that certain changes were being made but these changes were considered necessary having regard to the lapse of time.
ii the adjusted basic pay is to be as on January 1 1962.
