M C Setalvad R K Garg and section C Agarwala for the appellants.
section Mohan Kumaramangalam C Ramakrishna and A V V Nair for respondent No 2.
The dissenting Opinion Of SARKAR CJ and MUDHOLKAR.
 J was delivered by MUDHOLKAR J HIDAYATULLAH.
BACHAWAT and SHELAT JJ.
Mudholkar J.
 The order was made by the Chairman of the Board Mr R C Dutt on behalf of the Board by virtue of the powers conferred on him by certain rules to which we shall refer later.
On June 4 1965 the Company preferred a writ petition under article 226 of the Constitution in the Punjab High Court for the issue of a writ of mandamus or other appropriate writ direction or order quashing the order of the Board dated May 19 1965.
The Managing Director Mr Balasubramanian joined in the petition as petitioner No 2.
The writ petition is directed against 7 respondents the first of which is the 318 Company Law Board.
The second respondent is Mr T T Krishnamachari who was at that time Minister for Finance in the Government of India.
The Inspectors appointed are respondents 3 to 6 and Mr Dang is the 7th respondent.
Apart from the relief of quashing the order of May 19 1965 the appellants sought the  issue of a writ restraining the Company Law Board and the Inspectors from giving effect to the order dated May 19 1965 and also sought some other incidental reliefs.
The allegations of mala fides were denied on behalf of the respondents.
They disputed the validity of all the other grounds raised by the petitioners.
Appellant No 2 was appointed Managing Director of the Company from December 5 1961 and his appointment and remuneration were approved by the Central Government on July 30 1962.
The erection of the plant was undertaken by Ms L A Mitchell Ltd of Manchester in pursuance of a collaboration agreement between it and the company entered in October 1961 and approved by the Central Government in November of that year.
Thereafter a permit for importing the requisite machinery was granted to the Company.
In exercise of.
i to iii.
i to iii.
Its object is to find out the facts.
b of the section may have been committed.
The investigation according to Mr Setalvad.
b and c.
Clause a of sub section.
For sub section.
3 One of the members shall be appointed by the Central Government to be the chairman of the Company Law Board.
a of sub section.
1 of section 637 read with sub section.
