Appeal No 696 of 1966.
P Ram Reddy and A V Rangam for the appellant.
R Ganapathy Iyer for the respondent.
The Judgment of the Court was delivered by Ramaswami J.
The respondent purchased by a registered instrument dated October 5 1956 the business carried on by one Purushottam Raju under the name All India Trading Company.
The respondent thereafter moved the Madras High Court under article 226 of the Constitution for the issue of a writ in the nature of certiorari to quash the orders of the Commercial Tax Officer and the Board of Revenue.
 Section 19  1  and 1 9 2 c are to the following effect 19.
Section 2b of the Act defines a dealer as a person who carries on the business of buying selling .
goods.
The word turnover is defined in section 2i of the Act to mean the aggregate amount for which goods are either bought or sold by a dealer whether for cash or for deferred payment or other valuable consideration .
The turnover in respect of such sales remains therefore the turnover of the transferor and not of the transferee.
By the amending Act of 1959 Act 1 of 1959 an express provision was inserted by which the transferee of the business was made liable for the arrears of sales tax due from the transferor.
On behalf of the appellants Mr Ram Reddy suggested that the State Government has power under section 191 and 192 c of the Act to frame the impugned rule.
We are unable to accept this argument as correct.
We also consider that the State Government has no authority under section 192c of the Act to enact the rule.
Section 192c deals with the assessment to tax of businesses which are discontinued or the ownership of which has changed.
It is true that the word assessment in the scheme of sales tax and income tax legislation is a term of varying import.
As the Judicial Committee however said in Badridas Daga vs CIT 1 the words assess  and assessment  refer primarily to the computation of the amount.
of income.
2  665 Whitney vs Commissioners of Inland Revenue that the liability to tax does not depend upon assessment.
The liability is definitely created by sections 3 and 4 of the Income tax Act which are the charging sections and the assessment order under section 23 only quantifies the liability which has already been definitely and finally created by the charging sections and the provision in regard to assessment relates only to the machinery of taxation.
In our opinion the principle of these decisions applies to the interpretation of the Act in the present case.
We consider that in the context and background of other sections of the Act the word assessment  used in section 192c does not include the power of recovering tax assessed from a person other than the assessee.
It follows therefore that Rule 21 A is beyond the rule making power of the State Government either under section 191 or section 192c of the Act.
It was then submitted by Mr Ram Reddy that Rule 21 A may be supported by the language of section 101 of the Act which states 10.
Payment and recovery of tax 1 The tax assessed under this Act shall be paid in such manner and in such instalments if any and within such time as may be specified in the notice of assessment not being less than fifteen days from the date of service of the notice.
If default is made in paying according to the notice of assessment the whole of the amount outstanding on the date of default shall become immediately due and shall be a charge on the properties of the person or persons liable to pay the tax under this Act.
 It was contended that under this section the whole of the amount outstanding on the date of default is charged on the property of the person liable to pay the tax.
In the present case the business which was transferred to the respondent was hence charged with the payment of sales tax and it was open to sales tax authorities to proceed against the assets of the business for realising the amount of sales tax due.
In our opinion there is no justification for this argument.
Section 10 of the Act as it stood before the Madras General Sales tax 3rd amendment Act 1956 Act No XV of 1956 read as follows The tax assessed under this Act shall be paid in such manner and in such instalments if any and within such time as may be specified in the notice of assessment not being less than fifteen days from the date of service of the notice.
In default of such payment the whole of the amount then remaining due may be recovered as if it were an arrear of land revenue.
For section 10 of the principal Act the following section shall be substituted namely 10.
Payment and recovery of tax 1 The tax assessed under this Act shall be paid in such manner and in such instalments if any and within such time as may be specified in the notice of assessment not being less than fifteen days from the date of service of the notice.
If default is made in paying according to the notice of assessment the whole of the amount outstanding on the date of default shall become immediately due and shall be a charge on the properties of the person or persons liable to pay the tax under this Act  .
In the present case the registered instrument by which the business was transferred to the respondent is dated October 5 1956 and the amending Act has therefore no application.
It was next argued on behalf of the appellants that upon a true construction of the registered instrument dated October 5 1956 the respondent undertook to pay not only Sch.
But even on the assumption that the respondent undertook to pay the arrears of sales tax due by the transferor it does not follow 66 7 that there is a liability created inter se between the State Government on the one hand and the transferee on the other hand.
