Appeals by special leave from the judgment and order dated  March 6 1967 of the Orissa High Court in OJC Nos.
495 and 496 of 1966 and 3 4 27 and 28 of 1967 respectively.
CK Daphtary Attorney General NS Bindra G Rath and RN Sachthey for the appellant in all the appeals.
5 to 7 in CAs.
625 and 629 of 1967 and respondents Nos 20 to 22 in CA No 627 of 1967.
156 The Judgment of the Court was delivered by Hegde J.
These cases are the outcome of an unfortunate conflict between the High Court and the government of Orissa.
Neither the High Court as such nor the Governor has any hand in his appointment.
The power to appoint the secretaries to the government is that of the Governor.
Under the Government of India Act 1935 the power to transfer a district judge from one post to another was that of the Governor though that power was always exercised in consultation with the High Court and by and large on the recommendation of the High Court.
Obviously when the Governor promulgated the Orissa Superior Judicial Service Rules 1963 he proceeded on the basis that the power to transfer the district judges and addl.
It appears that for some time past there were differences between the High Court and the government about the posting of some of the judicial officers.
The High Court was anxious that a judicial officer occupying one of the administrative posts enumerated above should not in the interest of judicial work continue in that post for an unduly long time.
But those requests were not respected.
On that account there appears to have been some friction between the High Court and the gov ernment for some years past.
He worked in that capacity till February 1965.
Thereafter he was posted as superintendent and legal remembrancer.
That was a non cadre post.
The above.
On September 21 1966 this Court rendered its decision in Ranga Mahammad s1 case.
But the government refused to accept them.
the State government or the High Court.
In that case the State government ordered the transfer of certain district judges without even consulting the High Court.
There is less chance of being influenced by secretaries who may withhold some vital information if they are interested themselves.
 It is not a profitable task to extract a sentence here and there from a judgment and to build upon it.
