The Judgment of the Court was delivered by Bhargava J.
The second matter in the appeal related to bonus covered by item No 2 of that Schedule.
The first and the main point argued with regard to wages was that the Tribunal after holding that there was no identical industry in this region comparable with the Company came to.
the view that there were other industries in the region in which minimum wages were higher than the minimum wages paid by the Company but failed to fix the minimum wages in the award in accordance with the minimum wages being paid in those industries.
Instead what the Tribunal did was to work out the minimum wages which should be paid on an entirely different basis.
In applying that principle industrial courts have to compare wage scales prevailing in sinular concerns in the region with which it is dealing and generally speaking similar concerns would be those in the same line of business as the concern with respect to which the dispute is under consideration.
The Tribunal found that there are only two other paper mills in the region.
These two Paper Mills were therefore both of very recent origin compared with the Company.
That situation was envisaged as occurring whenever the particular concern in question happens to be already paying the highest wages in its particular line of business.
 In the light of these views which were brought to the notice of the Tribunal the Tribunal proceeded to consider the minimum wages paid by three Collieries Orient Colliery Ibe Colliery and Himgiri Rampur Colliery the Rourkela Steel Plant the Cement Factory at Rajgangpur and the Indian Aluminum Company Hirakud which the Tribunal found were situated not very far away from the place where the Company had its factory.
Learned counsel had to admit that no specific plea was taken by the Company in this behalf and at least no evidence at all was led to show that these concerns are not comparable with the Company.
In fact the Tribunal also accepted them as being comparable and that is why in its conclusion the Tribunal held that in its opinion it would be appropriate under the circumstances of the case to fix the minimum wage in the Company on the basis of the minimum wage prevailing in other industries in that region.
payable as production bonus.
necessary that the minimum wage.
parts of the country.
should also be kept in view.
We do.
not think that such a consideration should be taken.
into account.
between.
different industries.
in the same region.
These elements are basic wage dearness allowance and production bonus.
cannot be held to be incorrect and must be upheld.
refer it.
