PP Rao and R N Sachthey for the appellants.
1  2.
Whether the Federation of Indian Chambers of Commerce and Industry New Delhi Respondent 1 is a commercial establishment within the meaning of s25 of the Delhi Shops and Establishments Act 1954 for short the Act is the sale question that falls for determination in this appeal by certificate directed against the judgment dated February 8 1967 of the High Court of Delhi.
d To collect and disseminate statistical and other information and to make effort for the spread of commercial and economic knowledge.
fTo provide for arbitration in respect of disputes arising in the course of trade industry or transport or other business matters and to secure the services 350 of expert technical and other men to that end if necessary or desirable.
k To attain those advantages by united action which each member may not be able to accomplish in its separate capacity.
n O p q r s t u v x y To sell or dispose of the undertaking of the Federation or any part thereof for such consideration as the Federation may think fit and in particular for shares debentures or securities of any other association or company having objects altogether or in similar to those of the Federation.
z To take or otherwise acquire and hold shares in any other association or company having objects altogether or in part similar to those of the Federation.
z4 4 The income and property of the Federation whencesoever derived shall be applied solely towards the promotion of the objects of the Federation as set forth in the Memorandum of Association and no portion thereof shall be paid or transferred directly or indirectly by way of dividend bonus or otherwise by way of profit to the members of the Federation.
Before the High Court the contention of the Federation was that the premises in which the registered office of the Federation is located is not a commercial establishment within the meaning of section 25 of the Act which in consequence had no application.
It is done in the interest of trade and business of the country.
It deals with the trade or busi ness in general to secure the interest of the country.
it is predominantly a charitable organization and not a professional one.
It shall apply in the first instance.
The definitions of commercial establishment establishment and shop given in sub sections 5 9 and 27 of section 2 are material for our purpose.
Further the definition of commercial establishment is wider than that of shop.
