39 40 of 1976.
D Mookherjee and Harbans Singh and VM Jain for the appellants.
Deven Chetan Das Advocate General Haryana and RN Sachthey for the respondent.
with copies to the Chief Justice of Punjab and Haryana High Court the Chief Minister of Haryana the Chief Justice of India and the Prime Minister.
Thereafter they stated as follows While talking with the members of the Bar he pointed out that the library of this Bar seems to be very poor.
Then Shri Virender Kumar Single a member of the Bar requested the honourable Judge to help the Bar either by supplying books or by allocating the grant by the High Court so that the needy Bar may be able to purchase necessary books for the library.
Then the Honourable Judge turned down the request and replied that it is never possible in the present system of Government of India.
Chandrawati.
The appellants took a copy of their letter to the Chief Justice of Punjab and Haryana.
The appellants could not see the Chief Justice and left the letter with the Registrar in a closed cover.
The High Court did not take any action against two persons on the letter written by five members of the Bar Association of Charkhi Dadri.
Each of the appellants affirmed an affidavit in this pattern.
The deponent submits that the contents of the letter.
Therefore the deponent tender his apology to this Hon ble Court for the same and prays for its acceptance.
It is necessary to state here that if any Judge address es on political problems or controversies the Judge exposes himself to discussion by public.
The reason is obvious.
All we need say is that it will not be correct and proper for any Judge to accept the invitation and hospitality of any busi ness or commercial organisation or of any political party or of any club or organisation run on sectarian communal or parochial lines.
Invitations by the Bar Associ ation or social invitations naturally Stand on a different footing and no one will find an exception to any Judge attending a social function.
Judges are by reason of their office and nature of work expected not to get involved in controversial matters or to concern themselves with political issues or policies under taken by political parties as a part of their political programme.
The High.
MR Appeals allowed.
