Civil Appeal Nos.
Appeals by Special Leave from the Judgment and order dated 20 1 1979 of the Madhya Pradesh High Court in Misc.
5 6 in CA 161779.
For the purpose of holding election to the .
It was also notified that claims or objections which had not been preferred as required under the Rules within the prescribed period would be rejected.
Thereafter the calendar of events was published on November 25 1978 notifying that the poll if necessary would take place on December 31 1978 in all the 44 constituencies Six petitioners including the appellants herein presented a petition under Article 226 of the Constitution before the High Court of Madhya Pradesh at Jabalpur on December 28 1978 requesting the Court to make an order quashing the electoral roll and the calendar of events issued for the purpose of the said election and directing the respondents to refrain from conducting the poll on December 31 1978.
On special leave being granted the above petitions were registered as appeals.
One of the grounds on which the appellants challenged the validity of the electoral roll the calendar of events and the declaration of results of election was that the entire election process had become vitiated on account of the defect in the notice issued under Rule 1 of the Rules notifying that claims and objections should be preferred within a period of 20 days from the date of the publication of that notice when sub rule 3 of Rule 4 of the Rules prescribed that such claims and objections could be preferred within 30 days from the date of publication of that notice.
It was also alleged that on October 20 1978 34 persons mentioned in Annexure P 7 approached the Deputy Collector to entertain their claim for inclusion in the electoral roll and he refused to receive their applications.
It was contended that on account of noncompliance with Rule 43 of the Rules which was mandatory the entire election process held on the basis of the defective electoral roll .
became a nullity and that therefore the declaration of results of all the 44 successful candidates was liable to be quashed.
On behalf of the respondents it was pleaded that while it was true that the period of 20 days had been mentioned in the notice issued under Rule 41 of the Rules it was open to all the persons who were interested in preferring claims or objections to file them within 30 days from the date of publication of the notice under Rule 41.
The claim of petitioner No 5 was rejected as no evidence in support of his claim was produced before the Deputy Collector.
It was further pleaded that no other claims or objections were preferred either on October 20 1978 or on any other sub sequent date.
They further pleaded that the authorities would have taken action to correct the error in the notice issued under Rule 41 of the Rules granting 20 days  time to prefer claims and objections if it had been brought to their notice by the petitioners immediately after it was noticed by them.
The petitioners were not entitled to any relief under Article 226 of the Constitution on account of the inordinate delay involved in the presentation of the writ petition.
The Collector published the notice under Rule 41 of the Rules on September 30 1978 and also called upon interested persons to prefer claims andor objections thereto within a period of 20 days.
The period prescribed for preferring claims and objections under Rule 43 was 30 days.
