ivil Appeal Nos.
Appeals by special leave from the judgment order dated the 15th April 1978 of the Madhya Pradesh High Court in Misc.
Petition Nos 61 and 6278 respectively.
With Civil Appeal No 213 of 1979 6 Appeal by special leave from the judgment and order dated the 15th April 1978 of the Madhya Pradesh High Court in Misc.
Petition o555 of 1977.
LN Sinha Attorney General R B Datar and Miss A Subhashini for the Appellants.
YS Dharamadhikari N M Ghatate and section V Deshpande for the Respondent.
YS Chitale Suresh Sethi and section K Bhattacharya for the applicant intervener Municipal Corpn.
of Delhi.
Altaf Ahmed for the applicant intervener J  K State Agro.
Industrial Corpn.
Ltd section K Gambhir for the applicant intervener State of MP.
The Judgment of the Court was delivered by CHANDRACHUD CJ.
Civil Appeal No 213 of 1979 filed by the Bharat Aluminium Company Ltd arises out of Misc.
Petition No 555 of 1977 filed by it in the High Court of Madhya Pradesh under Article 226 of the Constitution.
Respondent 1 is the Special Area Development Authority Korba District Bilaspur MP respondent 2 is its Chairman and respondent 3 is the State of Madhya Pradesh.
Civil Appeals Nos 1025 and 1026 of 1978 are by Western Coalfields Ltd The appellant Bharat Aluminium Company Ltd is a Government Company incorporated under the  the entire share capital being owned by the Government of India.
Section 64 empowers the State Government to declare any area as a special area by issuing a notification.
Section 55 provides that for every Special Area there shall be a Special Area Development Authority consisting of a Chairman and such other members as the Government may determine from time to time.
The Chairman and the members of the Development Authority are appointed by the Government.
Section 68 which prescribes the functions of the Development Authority lays down by clauses v and vi that the Development Authority shall make provision for the municipal services and municipal management of the Special Area.
Section 69 by clauses c and d confers upon the Development Authority powers for the purpose of municipal administration and for the purpose of taxation.
They should better have not been so numbered alphabetically since the main clauses themselves are similarly numbered.
Since there was no Municipal Corporation or Municipal Council in the Korba Special Area prior to the constitution of the Development Authority the Government was required under sub clause b above to direct whether the Madhya Pradesh Municipal Corporation Act 1956 or the Madhya Pradesh Municipalities Act 1961 shall apply to the Korba Special Area for the purposes of clauses v and vi of section 68 and clauses c and d of section 69.
Such a direction was first issued by Notification dated January 28 1976 published in the Government Gazette dated February 27 1976 by which the Development Authority Korba was directed to exercise the powers and perform the functions of a Class I Municipality constituted under the Madhya Pradesh Municipality Act 1961.
This Notification became effective from February 271976 from which date Ordinance No 26 of 1975 was made effective.
By another Notification dated March 15 1977 published in Government Gazette dated July 15 1977 the Development Authority Korba was directed under the aforesaid clauses of sections 68 and 69 to exercise the powers and perform the functions under the Madhya Pradesh Municipal Corporation Act 1956.
It says that the Corporation shall impose a tax payable by the owners of buildings or lands situated within the city with reference to the gross annual letting value of the building or land called the property tax.
Rs 6000.
Petitions Nos.
However we are unable to accept any of these.
That is because the legislature which adopts by incorporation the existing provisions of another law cannot be assumed to intend to bind itself to all future amendments or modifications which may be made in the earlier law.
supra But these rules are not absolute and inflexible.
This contention is devoid of substance.
It was therefore a Government Company under section 617 of the .
The appellants may if so advised raise this particular point in future assessments.
The tax is not in the nature of a fee.
Entry 54 of List I relates to Regulation of mines and mineral development to the extent to which such regulation and development under the control of the Union is declared by Parliament by law to be expedient in the public interest.
