Civil Appeal Nos3677 3680 of 1986 Etc.
From the Judgment and Order dated 1031986 of the Karnataka High Court in WP Nos.
Special leave granted in all the cases.
In exercise of its powers under section 637 of the  the Central Government specified 50 as the number of All India Tourist Vehicle Permits  which may be granted by the Karnataka State Transport Authority.
We are concerned in these appeals with the vires and interpretation of this proviso.
The State Transport Authority by its proceedings dated April 30 1984 granted 11 out of the 14 permits to the Karnataka State Tourism Development Corporation one permit to the Indian Tourism Development Corporation and two permits to the Karnataka State Road Transport Corporation.
It was on that ground again it was so stated by the Tribunal that some of the appellants 1012 before the Tribunal had to be denied the grant of permits though otherwise they would have been entitled to the grant of permits having regard to their expertise experience and resources.
The Karnataka State Road Transport Corporation the Karnataka State Tourism Development Corporation and some other private operators have filed these appeals by special leave of this Court under article 136 of the Constitution.
Sections 46 47 and 48 deal with the grant of stage carriage permits.
Section 631 stipulates broadly that a permit granted by the Regional Transport Authority of any one region shall not be valid in any other region unless the permit has been countersigned by the Regional Transport Authority of that other region and a permit granted in any one State shall not be valid in any other State unless countersigned by the State Transport Authority of 1014 that other State or by the Regional Transport Authority concerned.
It is as follows 7 Notwithstanding anything contained in sub section1 but subject to any rules that may be made under this Act any State Transport Authority may for the purpose of promoting tourism grant permits valid for the whole or any part of India in respect of such number of tourist vehicles as the Central Government may in respect of that State specify in this behalf and the provisions of Sections 49 50 51 57 58 59 59 A 60 61 and 64 shall as far as may be apply in relation to such permits Provided that preference shall be given to applications for permits from i the India Tourism Development Corporation ii a State Tourism Development Corporation iii a State Tourist Department iv such operators of tourist cars or such travel agents as may be approved in this behalf by the Ministry of the Central Government dealing in tourism.
Section 68 F1 prescribes that where in pursuance of an approved scheme a State Transport Undertaking applies for a stage carriage permit a contract carriage permit or a public carrier s permit in respect of a notified area or notified route such permit shall be granted to the State Transport Undertaking by the State Transport Authority in a case where the said area or route lies in more than one region and the Regional Transport Authority in any other case.
The proviso to section 471 for example provides that other conditions being equal an application for a stage carriage permit from a cooperative society or a person holding a valid licence for driving transport vehicles shall as far as may be be given preference over applications from individual owners.
Section 471 H also enunciates a rules of preference and says that an application for stage carriage permit from State Transport Undertaking for operating in any inter State route shall be given preference overall other applications.
637 of the .
PSS Appeals allowed.
