The Judgment of the Court was delivered by VENKATARAMIAH J.
Prior to January.
As it came to the notice of the Government that the Indian life insur ers with a few exceptions were virtually controlled by few individuals who were utilising the funds of those companies to the detriment of the industry and the policyholders the Government decided to nationalise the life insurance busi ness.
Pursuant to the said decision the President of India promulgated the Life Insurance Emergency Provisions Ordi nance 1956 on January 19 1956 providing for the vesting of the management of the life insurance business which was called the controlled business under the Ordinance which was being carried on by any insurer in India on that day in the Central Government and providing for its management.
On the passing of the said Ordinance the management of the controlled business of all the insurers in India thus vested in the Central Government and pending the appointment of the custodians for the controlled business of any insurer the person in charge of the management of such business immedi ately before the passing of the Ordinance was required to be in charge of the management of the business for and on behalf of the Central Government.
The Act provided for the establishment and incorporation of the Corporation.
Under the Act the expression appointed day  is de fined as the date on which the Corporation is established.
By virtue of section 7 of the Act on the appointed day all the assets and liabilities appertaining to the controlled business of all insurers the management of which it had been taken over earlier by the Central Govern ment stood transferred to and vested in the Corporation.
When the Corporation thus came into existence it had no employees of its own to carry on the vast business of the large number of insurers which had been taken over by it.
It therefore became necessary to transfer the services of the existing employees of the insurers to the Corporation because without the services of those employees it was almost impossible for the Corporation to run the life insur ance business in India which involved management of the various offices situated in different parts of India serv icing of lakhs of insurance policies the administration of the assets taken over from the insurers and several other activities connected with the life insurance business.
The nature of the work of the Corporation was such that it required the services of the employees with sufficient experience and expertise in running the life insurance business.
2 Notwithstanding anything con tained in sub section 1 or in any contract of service the Central Government may for the purposes of rationalising the pay scales of employees of insurers whose controlled business has been transferred to and vested in it or for the purpose of reducing the remuner ation payable to employees in cases where in the interest of the Corporation and its policyhold ers a reduction is called for alter the terms of service of the employees as to their remuneration in such manner as it thinks fit and if the alteration is not acceptable to any employee the Corporation may terminate his employment on giving him compensation equivalent to three months  remuner ation unless the contract of service with such employee provides for a shorter notice of termination.
3 If any question arises as to whether any person was a whole time employee of an insurer or as to whether any employee was employed wholly or mainly in connection with the controlled business of an insurer immediately before the appointed day the question shall be referred to the Central Government whose decision shall be final.
As mentioned earlier there were more than 200 insurers whose controlled business had been taken over by the Corporation and we are informed that there were about 27000 whole time employees working in them.
Regulation 21 reads as follows 21.
 The above clause 6 was substituted by a new clause on 25111962 which read as follows 6.
 It may be noted that the Field Officers referred to in the former clause 6 had been redesignated as the Development Officers before it was substituted by the later clause 6 of the standardisation order.
It read thus 9.
It may be added that this would mean a modification of the earlier decision of the Board in this matter.
The employees of the Corporation were divided lati tudinally into two groups.
Sub section.
1 guarantees to the trans ferred employee the same tenure at the same remuneration and upon the same terms and conditions on the transfer to the Corporation as he enjoyed on the appointed day under the insurer and he is entitled to them until they are duly altered by the Corporation or his employment in the Corpora tion is terminated.
Sub section.
2 is intended for the purpose of securing uniformity among them.
The second limb of sub section.
2 is the source of controversy before us.
In my opinion it is confined to transferred employees.
There is provision for the transfer of the assets and liabilities pertaining to the business of provident funds 206 superannuation and other like funds of the services of existing employees of insurers to the Corporation and also of the services of existing employees of chief agents of the insurers to the Corporation and finally for the payment of compensation to the insurers for the transfer of the busi ness to the Corporation.
Sub section.
While the first limb of the sub section provides for securing uniformity among the transferred employees in regard to the scales of remu neration and other terms and conditions of service the second limb provides that if after such uniformity has been secured or even in the process of securing such uniformity the Central Government finds that the interests of the Corporation and its policy holders require a reduction in the remuneration payable or revision of the other terms and conditions of service applicable to those employees it may make an order accordingly.
The standpoint of the second limb of the sub section as its language plainly indicates is provided by the inter ests of the Corporation and its policy holders.
For that reason it is open to the Central Government under sub section to ignore the guarantee contained in sub section 1 of section 11 in favour of the employees or anything contained in the  or any other law for the time being in force or any award settlement or agree ment for the time being in force.
Benefits conferred there under on the employees must yield 207 to the need for ensuring that the Corporation and its policy holders do not suffer unreasonably from the burden of such benefits.
The need for such a provision arises because it is a burden by which the Corporation finds itself saddled upon the transfer a burden not of its own making.
Unless the statute provided for such relief the weight of that burden could conceivably cripple the successful working of the Corporation from its inception as a business organisation.
It is a situation to be distinguished from what happens when the Corporation launched on its normal course voluntarily assumes in the course of its working obligation in respect of its employees or becomes subject to such obligations by reason of subsequent industrial adjudication.
Like any other employer the Corporation is then open to the normal play of industrial relations in contemporary or future time.
That the two provisions of sub section.
The scheme of the sections in Chapter IV indicates generally that Parliament has appointed the Cen tral Government as the effective and direct instrumentality for bringing about the transfer and integration in the different sectors of that process.
There is no danger of an order made by the Central Government under the second limb of sub section 2 in respect of transferred employees being struck down on the ground that it violates the equality provisions of Part 111 of the Constitution because similar action has not been taken in respect of newly recruited employees.
2 of section 11 can be exercised more than once.
To effectuate the transfer appropriately and completely it may be necessary to pass through different stages and at each 208 stage to make a definite order.
I am not impressed by the circumstances that the original Bill moved in Parliament for amending sub section.
The intent of the legislative provision must be discovered primarily from the legislation itself.
The observation made by Pathak J in the course of his judgment that there is no danger of an order made by the Central Government under the second limb of sub section 2 in respect of transferred employeesbeing struck down on the ground that it violates the equality provisions of Part III of the Constitution because similar action has not been taken in respect of newly recruited employees is signifi cant.
There were some schools run by municipal boards and district boards in the then State of Punjab which were taken over by the Punjab Government with effect from October 1 1957.
In almost all the public sector corporations Central services and State services 58 years age is considered to be a reasonable age at which officers can be directed to retire from their service.
2        cc.
AIR 1973 CAL.
It may be so.
