Under Article 32 of the Constitution of India.
Ram Jethmalani and Miss Rani Jethmalani for the Petitioner.
G Ramaswamy Additional Solicitor General RP Srivastava 634 and Miss A Subhashini for the Respondent.
The Judgment of the Court was delivered by RANGANATH MISRA J.
The petitioner of this application under Article 32 of the Constitution is an engineer who was employed in the Central Public Works Department under the Ministry of Works and Housing in Government of India and was compulsorily retired by order dated 381976 with effect from 5111976 made under Rule 56j of the Fundamental Rules.
He has assailed that order for retirement and has claimed payment of remuneration which he would have been entitled to draw upto the normal date of superannuation.
The short facts are these.
The petitioner was born on 1021922 and secured his first appointment as a Section Officer under the named employer on 22101947.
He was pro moted as officiating Assistant Engineer in class II service with effect from  255.
1954 and came to be confirmed as Section Officer by an order dated 8101955.
On 371961 he was further promoted as officiating Executive Engineer in Class I service but on 491965 he was reverted to the post of Assistant Engineer in officiating position and was con tinuing in that post when he was compulsorily retired.
The basis of attack to the impugned order is as specified in Ground No A and is to the following effect The impugned order is contrary to the judg ment delivered by this Hon ble Court on 2621980 copy at Annexure C hereto.
According to the said judgment FR 56 ji has no application to officiating government servants hence can have no appli cation to the petitioner since the petitioner was an officiating government servant.
 The impugned notice ran thus No 3245266 EC.
Sd VR .
By 2551954 the petitioner had not at tained the age of 35 years.
Therefore sub clause 1 was not contravened when the order was made.
We need not go into the semantic shapes lexical niceties or linguis tic nuance but only go through the meaning and purpose of the provision.
When a Government servant belonging to a Class I or Class II service or post on regular basis has to be retired compulsorily Rule 56ji comes to the rescue of the Government.
Thus we have reached an inevitable conclusion that Rule 56j is meant to cover only those who are in a post on a regular basis ie in a substan tive capacity and not on an officiating basis only.
 Strong reliance was placed by counsel for the petitioner on the reasons extracted above.
It is clear that sub clause ii is the general rule applicable to all Government servants and sub clause i carves out a class of Government servants into a category and makes a special provision.
We have already indicated that sub clause ii did not apply to the facts of this case as the petitioner had not attained the age of 55 years by the date of the order.
The observations made in Tahiliani s case indisputably support the petitioner.
A person can be in Class I or Class II service or post even when he hold a post of either class substantively or temporarily or on officiating basis.
