Civil Appeal No 8440 of 1983.
From the Judgment and Order dated 22483 of the High Court of Bombay in Writ Petition No 238882.
MK Ramamurthy and AK Sanghi for the Appellant.
Dr YS Chitale PH Parekh RK Dhillon Ms Sunita Sharma and Dr D Chandrachud for the Respondents.
The Judgment of the Court was delivered by VENKATARAMIAH J.
The Act was enacted on 20th December 1955 with the object of regulating certain conditions of service of working journalists and other employees employed in the newspaper establishments.
Newspaper establishment is defined by section 2d of the Act as an establishment under the control of any person or body of persons whether incorporated or not for the production or publication of one or more newspapers or for conducting any news agency or syndicate.
The expression working journalist is defined by section 2f of the Act as a person whose principal avocation is that of a journalist and who is employed as such either whole time or part time in or in relation to one or more newspaper establishments and includes an editor a leader writer news editor sub editor feature writer copy tester reporter correspondent cartoonist news photographer and proof reader but does not include any such person who is employed mainly in a managerial or administrative capacity or being employed in a supervisory capacity performs either by the nature of the duties attached to his office or by reason of the powers vested in him functions mainly of a managerial nature.
A non journalist newspaper employee means any person employed to do any work in or in relation to any newspaper establishment but does not include any such person who is a working journalist or is employed mainly in a managerial or administrative capacity or being employed in a supervisory capacity performs either by the nature of the duties attached to his office or by reason of the powers vested in him functions mainly of a managerial nature as stated in section 2dd of the Act.
Chapter II of the Act deals with certain conditions of service of the working journalists.
Chapter IIA of the Act deals with similar conditions of service of non journalist newspaper employees.
Section 13AA which was inserted by Act 6 of 1979 provides for the constitution of a Tribunal for fixing or revising rates of wages in respect of working journalists where the Central Government is of opinion that the Board constituted under section 9 for the purpose of fixing or revising rates of wages in respect of working journalists under the Act has not been able to function effectively.
That Tribunal has to consist of a Judge of the High Court or of the Supreme Court.
Justice Palekar made his recommendations on 1281980.
The 1st respondent also did not send a reply to the questionnaire issued by the Tribunal nor it gave any evidence before the Tribunal in respect of the matters referred to therein.
The High Court accepted the plea of the Ist respondent and declared that the law reports were not newspapers within the meaning of section 2b of the Act and that the demand made by the Deputy Labour Commissioner to comply with the order made by the Central Government on the basis of the recommendations of Justice Palekar was unsustainable by its judgment dated 22nd April 1983.
Aggrieved by the decision of the High Court the appellants have filed this appeal by special leave.
But we are concerned in this case with the narrow question whether the six law reports which are being published by the Ist respondent are newspapers within the meaning of the Act and whether the employees engaged in their production or distribution are entitled to the benefit of the orders made by the Central Government on the basis of the recommendations of the Palekar Tribunal.
Any other class of printed periodical work as may from time to time be notified in this behalf by the Central Government in the Official Gazette may also be a newspaper.
The only question which remains to be 782 considered is whether they contain public news or comments on public news.
Entry 39 of List III of the Seventh Schedule to the Constitution reads thus Newspapers books and printing presses.
 Newspapers and books are no doubt shown as separate items but the distinction between them sometimes becomes very thin or totally vanishes.
In this connection it is necessary to reproduce a passage from the Report of the Royal Commission on the Press 1947 49 appointed by the British Government and presided over by Sir William David Ross.
It reads thus The newspaper and periodical Press of Great Britain consists of over 4000 publications ranging from newspapers famous throughout the world to the journals of obscure societies.
Its limits are ill defined for there is no definition of either newspaper  or periodical  which enables each to be infallibly distinguished from the other and from publications which are properly speaking neither.
The term newspaper  is usually applied except so far as concerns the important class of trade newspapers to publications devoted mainly to recording current events and periodicals  to magazines reviews and journals which in so far as they are concerned with current events at all are concerned to comment rather than to report but newspapers merge into advertising sheets periodicals into books and pamphlets and both into one another   The expression news is not defined in the Act.
The law reports which are being published by the Ist respondent are reports of recent decisions of the Supreme Court of India and of the High Courts in India which are supplied to it by its agents appointed at New Delhi and other places where High Courts are situated.
Article 141 of the Constitution provides that the law declared by Supreme Court shall be binding on all courts within the territory of India.
Even apart from Article 141 of the Constitution the decisions of the Supreme Court which is a court of record constitute a 783 source of law as they are the judicial precedents of the highest court of the land.
They are binding on all the courts throughout India.
Those decisions also carry persuasive value before courts which are not situated within its territory.
It may be that the decisions contained in these law reports may cease to be items of news after some time but when they are received by the subscribers they do possess the character of works containing news.
784 Strong reliance was placed on behalf of the Ist respondent on the decision of the High Court of Orissa in PSV Iyer vs Commissioner of Sales Tax Orissa AIR 1960 Orissa 221 in which the question that arose for consideration was whether a law journal Cuttack Law Times which was a non official monthly journal containing the decisions of the Orissa High Court the Orissa Board of Revenue and also of the Supreme Court was a newspaper and if it was a newspaper whether it was competent for the Legislature of the State of Orissa to levy sales tax on the sale of the said journal.
The said question arose in that form in view of the language of Entry 54 of List II of the Seventh Schedule to the Constitution which read as follows 54.
Taxes on the sale or purchase of goods other than newspapers subject to Entry 92 A of List I The language of Entry 92 of List I of the Seventh Schedule to the Constitution which conferred on Parliament alone the power to tax sale or purchase of newspapers was in the following terms 92.
Tax on the sale or purchase of newspapers and on advertisements published therein.
Accordingly the High Court of Orissa held that the sale of Cuttack Law Times which according to it was not a newspaper could be taxed by the State Legislature under Entry 54 of List II of the Seventh Schedule to the Constitution of India.
We find it difficult to agree with the above decision since the High Court of Orissa omitted to take into consideration that information about recent decisions of courts of record could be news in which the public was interested.
