From the Judgment and Order dated 9101987 of t he Central Administrative Tribunal Chandigarh in Appln.
WITH SLP Civil No 6998 of 1988 VC Mahajan Mrs Indu Goswami CV Subba Rao P Parmeshwaran for the Appellant in CA No 1709 of 1988.
The Judgment of the Court was delivered by K JAGANNATHA SHETTY J.
A bogus identi ty card in the name of Ashok Kumar TNo.
The said fictitious identity card was used by o ne Suraj Singh cleaner T No 210 K of Beggi Tunnelling Div i sion for the purpose of withdrawing the pay of Ashok Kuma r.
While Suraj Singh by impersonation was receiving the pay of Ashok Kumar he was recognised by the Cashier since he kn ew him personally.
The Inquiry Officer framed charge against the responde nt in the following terms That the said Shri Parma Nand while working as Time Keeper in Time Keeping Sub Division of Beas Sutlej Li nk Project Sundernagar during the month of May 1969 failed to maintain absolute integrity and devotion to duty in as mu ch as he falsely marked the attendance of Shri Ashok Kuma r Token No 59 T in the Pay Roll of Control Survey Divisi on for the month of May 1969 which resulted in fictitio us drawal of Rs238 90 as pay of the said Shri Ashok Kumar.
 After a detailed enquiry against the respondent and t wo others the Inquiry Officer found all the three guilty of the charge framed against each of them.
The other two persons were let off wi th minor punishments of withholding two or three future incr e ments in their pay scales.
Consequentl y the said writ petition stood transferred to the Tribunal by operation of section 29 of that Act.
The Tribunal upon consideration of the matter agre ed with the findings recorded by the Inquiry Officer that t he respondent was the master mind behind the scheme to defra ud the project.
 The Tribunal concluded As such it is a case where the applicant shou ld not be measured with a different yardstick than the other s who have been punished along with applicant.
In the intere st of 25 justice it is necessary to modify the punishment awarded to the applicant.
There will be no order as to costs.
T he public service and posts may be in connection with t he affairs of the union or of any State.
The law cannot provide for hierarchy of Tribunals.
It also provides power to constitute Benches of the Centr al Administrative Tribunal.
Section 27 provides for execution of orders.
15 and Joint Administrative Tribun al under sec.
Section 27 provides for finality of t he orders of the Tribunal.
An administrative or quasi judicial order bas ed on several grounds all taken together cannot be sustain ed if it be found that some of the grounds are non existent or irrelevant and there is nothing to show that the authori ty would have passed the order on the basis of the other rel e vant and existing grounds.
Where the person without enquiry is di s missed removed or reduced in rank solely on the basis of conviction by a criminal court the Tribunal may examine t he adequacy of the penalty imposed in the light of the convi c tion and sentence inflicted on the person.
