Appeal No 513 of 1963.
March 24 1964.
The Judgment of the Court was delivered by DAS GUPTA J.
1947 the Private Limited Company was converted into a Public Limited Company.
It has Branches in Bombay Delhi and Via Madras.
In September 1959 an agreement was entered into between the Company and its employees at Calcutta under which the age of retirement was extended to 58 years subject to the employees passing a medical examination on reaching the age of 55.
Shortly after this the Company s employees at Bombay raised a dispute regarding their retirement age.
As has already been noticed there is no dispute that the age of compulsory retirement should not remain at 55.
The Chart which is marked exhibit U 5 mentions 50 concerns in which the age of retirement is 60.
In Imperial Chemical Industries 427 India Private Ltd vs The Workmen1 where the Tribunal had raised the age of retirement from 55 to 58 and both parties appealed this Court pointed out that one of the documents on the record would conclusively show that in Bombay the age of retirement is almost invariably fixed at 60 and not at 55.
In an earlier decision of this Court in Dunzlop Rubber Co Ltd vs Workmen2 it had been urged that the employer was an All India concern and that changing the terms and conditions of service in regard to the age of retirement in one place might unsettle the uniformity and might have serious repercussions in other branches.
It was mainly in view of this finding of the Tribunal that this Court refused to disturb the award fixing the age of retirement at 60 years.
Reliance was placed for this purpose on the Chart exhibit Cl.
It is not however seriously disputed that the Chart correctly reproduces the information as regards the age of retirement given by the various concerns named there.
This Chart shows the age of retirement for 75 concerns.
In most of the cases the age of retirement is shown as 55 and in a few at 58.
But on a closer examination it is clear that this document is of little assistance for finding out the recent trend.
Exhibit U 6 also shows that in 25 of these concerns the clerical and subordinate staff were not organised into trade unions.
Having embarked an this enquiry the Tribunal appears to have taken considerable pains to perform this duty and it has ultimately persuaded itself to hold that no such trend is established in fact.
If this Court had erred in making those pronouncements we would be the first to admit such mistakes and to correct the error.
After careful consideration of all the materials placed on this record we have however found nothing to justify any doubt about the correctness of what was said on the earlier occasion.
429 Notice has also to be taken in this connection of the Report of the Norms Committee in which the following opinion was expressed After taking into consideration the views of the earlier Committees and Commissions including those of the Second Pay Commission the report of which has been released recently we feel that the retirement age for workmen in all industries should be fixed at 60.
Accordingly the norm for retirement age is fixed at 60.
Accordingly we allow the appeal with costs and in modi fication of the award made by the Tribunal direct that the age of retirement for the workmen of the respondent be fixed at 60.
Appeal allowed.
