Appeal No 801 of 1963.
Before this order could be executed and possession delivered to respondents 1 to 3 the appellants instituted the present suit.
As trustees appointed by respondent No 4 they claimed that they were entitled to the possession of the properties.
In regard to the third point based on the appellants  claim that they had acquired title by adverse possession the lower appellate Court found that it was evident that from the very beginning Pachai Kandai Udayavar and his family had been claiming beneficial interest in the property and they were not holding the same as managers of the trust.
In the result the appellants  claim in regard to the properties covered by these three sale deeds was rejected whereas their claim in regard to the other prop erties.
In consequence the appeal preferred by respondents 2  3 was partly allowed and the decree passed by the lower appellate court in regard to Exts.
Mr Tatachari for the appellants has raised before us an interesting question of law.
He contends that article 134 B would not apply to the present case because the alienations evidenced by Exts.
125 Mr Tatachari also argues that in applying article 144 we must assume that the possession of the alienees was adverse to the temple from the respective dates of the alienations when they were put in possession of the properties covered by the transactions in question.
1962 p 282.
2 LR 27 IA 69.
3 LR 37 IA 147.
At the same time section 10 of the Limitation Act was amended by addition of an explanatory clause which provided inter alia that for the purposes of section 10 any property comprised in a Hindu religious or charitable endowment shall be deemed to be property vested in trust for a specific purpose and the manager of any such property shall be deemed to be the trustee thereof.
2 LR 27 IA 69.
3 LR 37 IA 147.
In appreciating the effect of this decision it is necessary to bear in mind that the plea of limitation with which the Privy Council was concerned in that case was based on article 124 of the Limitation Act.
2 LR 37 IA 147.
3 LR 60 IA 124.
4 LR 62 IA 47.
It does appear that Mr Justice Mukhejea had expressed this view as a Judge of the Calcutta High Court in the case of Hemanta Kumari Basu vs Sree Ishwar Sridhar Jiu 2 and had relied on the two Privy Council s decisions in Gnanasambanda s1 and Damodar Das s cases In the case of Hemanta Kumari Basa2 the attention of Mukherjea J was drawn to the fact that in an earlier decision of the Calcutta High Court in Ronald Duncan Cromartic and Francis Arthur Shephard Sutherland vs Sri Iswar Radha Damodar few and Others 4 D N Mitter J had made observations which were inconsistent with the view which Mukhejea J was disposed to take but the learned Judge commented on the said observations by saying that they were open to criticism.
2 ILR 3 LR 37 IA 147.
4 5 LR 51 IA 83 at p 97.
 It is not easy to see why the successor s right to Challenge an unauthorised alienation made by his predecessor should be affected adversely if the alienation is made by his predecessor on the basis that the property belonged to him and not to the religious endowment.
Column 1 of article 134 B provides for suits brought inter alia by the manager of a Hindu religious or charitable endowment to recover possession of immovable property comprised in the endowment which has been transferred by a previous manager for a valuable consideration.
Confining ourselves to the first column of article 134 B at this stage the question which we have to decide is  does this article permit any distinction to be made between transfers effected by a previous manager on the basis that the property transferred belongs to the religious endowment and those made by him on the basis that the said property is his own private property  If the property is transferred by the manager on the basis that it belongs to the endowment article 134 B clearly applies but does it make any difference to the application of article 134 B if the transfer is made on the other basis that the property belongs not to the endowment but to the manager himself  In either case the successor who challenges the alienation will have to prove that the property in fact belongs to the religious endowment.
Article 134 B applies to all cases where it is shown that the immovable property was comprised in the endowment and that it has been transferred by a previous manager for a valuable consideration.
 What was said by the Privy Council about the impropriety of including an execution sale within the meaning of article 134B can with equal justification be said about introducing words of limitation in the said article which alone can exclude transfers made by the previous manager of the Hindu religious endowment on the basis that the property transferred belonged to 1 LR 77 IA 42 at pp.
For deciding this question it is necessary to refer to some material facts.
Another witness Chandrasekara lyer by name whom the respondents examined also admitted that Pachaikanda had sold away all his properties and had left the village.
