 In view of the fact that the Central Government by virtue of the powers conferred by sections 10 E and 637 delegated its powers under section 237 to them Company Law Board we shall read section 237 as if in place of the words Central Government there are the words Company Law Board or for brevity Board .
 It may be mentioned that the Court did not call for this material at all nor did the appellants seek its production.
 In paragraph 5 it may be recalled Mr Dutt has set out the grounds on which the writ petition deserved to be summarily 325 rejected.
At any rate the case was argued on this footing.
 By order dated February 6 1964 the Chairman of the Company Law Board specified the cases and classes of cases to be considered jointly by the Board and distributed the remaining business between himself and other members of the Board.
1 As soon as may be after the commencement of the Companies Amendment Act 1963 the Central Government shall by notification in the Official Gazette constitute a Board to be called the Board of Company Law Admin istration to exercise and discharge such powers and functions conferred on the Central Government by or under this Act or any other law as may be delegated to it by that Government.
1 of section 637 read with sub section.
1 of section 642 read with sub section.
5 of section 10E the Central Government made the Company Law Board Procedure Rules 1964 and one such rule dealt with distribution of business to the following effect 3.
 The Chairman by an order dated February 6 1964 specified the cases or classes of cases which are to be considered jointly by the Board and distributed the remaining business of the Board between the Chairman and the member each acting individually.
 This sub section enables the work of the Board to be distributed among members while sub section.
 Paragraph 14 of the affidavit.
 The question thus arises what has the Chairman placed before the Court to indicate that his action was within the four corners of his own powers Here it must be noticed that members are ordinarily expected to take recourse to the Registrar because there they have to be in a certain number or command a certain proportion of the voting power.
Bachawat J.
 See Crawford on statutory Construction 1940 Edn article 195 p 335 Normally a discretion entrusted by Parliament to an administrative organ must be exercised by.
