Appeal No 696 of 1966.
Appeal by special leave from the judgment and order dated September 13 1963 of the Madras High Court in Writ Appeal No IO of 1962.
P Ram Reddy and A V Rangam for the appellant.
R Ganapathy Iyer for the respondent.
Purushottam Raju was the sole proprietor of the business and had been assessed to sales tax in respect of his turnover for the years 1948 49 and 1949 50.
Rule 21 A was framed by the State Government under the rule making power granted to it under section 191 and 2 of the Act.
Rule 21 A reads as follows  When the ownership of the business of a dealer liable to pay the tax under the Act is entirely transferred any tax payable in respect of such business and remaining unpaid at the time of the transfer shall be recoverable from the transferor or the transferee as if they were the dealers liable to pay such tax provided that the recovery from the transferee of the arrears of taxes due prior to the date of the transfer shall be only to the extent of the value of the business he obtained by transfer.
It is manifest that a person who purchases a business as a dealer  can be assessed to sales tax only in respect of his turnover and under the scheme of the charging provision of the Act the purchaser of the business has nothing to do with the sales effected by the seller of the business.
By the amending Act of 1959 Act 1 of 1959 an express provision was inserted by which the transferee of the business was made liable for the arrears of sales tax due from the transferor.
But there is no such provision in the Act for the period with which we are concerned in the present case.
Section 191 of the Act empowers the State Government to make rules to carry out the purposes of the Act but the section cannot be utilised to enlarge the scope of section 10 regarding recovery and payment of tax from some other person other than a dealer under the Act.
of income.
In Chatturam vs CIT Bihar1 the Federal Court pointed out relying upon the decision of the House of Lords in 1  21 1.
2  665 Whitney vs Commissioners of Inland Revenue that the liability to tax does not depend upon assessment.
In our opinion the principle of these decisions applies to the interpretation of the Act in the present case.
It was then submitted by Mr Ram Reddy that Rule 21 A may be supported by the language of section 101 of the Act which states 10.
Payment and recovery of tax 1 The tax assessed under this Act shall be paid in such manner and in such instalments if any and within such time as may be specified in the notice of assessment not being less than fifteen days from the date of service of the notice.
If default is made in paying according to the notice of assessment the whole of the amount outstanding on the date of default shall become immediately due and shall be a charge on the properties of the person or persons liable to pay the tax under this Act.
 It was contended that under this section the whole of the amount outstanding on the date of default is charged on the property of the person liable to pay the tax.
In the present case the business which was transferred to the respondent was hence charged with the payment of sales tax and it was open to sales tax authorities to proceed against the assets of the business for realising the amount of sales tax due.
Section 10 of the Act as it stood before the Madras General Sales tax 3rd amendment Act 1956 Act No XV of 1956 read as follows The tax assessed under this Act shall be paid in such manner and in such instalments if any and within such time as may be specified in the notice of assessment not being less than fifteen days from the date of service of the notice.
 This section was amended by section 8 of the Madras General Sales tax 3rd amendment Act 1956 which reads as follows 1 666 Substitution of new section for section 10 in Madras Act IX of 1939.
For section 10 of the principal Act the following section shall be substituted namely 10.
Payment and recovery of tax 1 The tax assessed under this Act shall be paid in such manner and in such instalments if any and within such time as may be specified in the notice of assessment not being less than fifteen days from the date of service of the notice.
If default is made in paying according to the notice of assessment the whole of the amount outstanding on the date of default shall become immediately due and shall be a charge on the properties of the person or persons liable to pay the tax under this Act  .
1 Where any Act to which this Chapter applies is not expressed to come into operation on a particular day then it shall come into operation on the day on which the assent thereto of the Governor the Gover nor General or the President as the case may require is first published in the Official Gazette.
 In the present case the Act is not expressed to come into operation on any particular date but as it was published in the Madras Gazette on October 8 1956 the Act came into operation on that date and not before.
It was next argued on behalf of the appellants that upon a true construction of the registered instrument dated October 5 1956 the respondent undertook to pay not only Sch.
It was however disputed by Mr Ganapathy Iyer on behalf of the respondent that there was any undertaking on the part of the respondent to discharge the liabilities in regard to arrears of sales tax.
For these reasons we hold that the judgment of the Division Bench of the High Court dated September 13 1963 is correct and this appeal must be dismissed with costs.
