 NM Patnaik and Vinoo Bhagar for respondents Nos.
5 to 7 in CAs.
1  157 Shri BK Patro one of the district and sessions.
By its order dated October 10 1966 the High Court ordered the following transfers a Shri KB Panda who was attached to the commission of enquiry in connection with students  1  158 agitation as law secretary to the government of Orissa b Shri BK Patro the then law secretary as district and sessions judge of Ganjam Boudh c Shri T Misra district and sessions judge Ganjam Boudh as superintendent and legal remembrance and ex officio additional law secretary to the government of Orissa d Shri KK Bose the then superintendent and legal remembrance and additional law secretary as district and sessions judge of Mayurbhanj Keonjhar.
As mentioned earlier member sales tax tribunal was an ex cadre post.
Before going into the validity of the orders of transfer relating to the other officers it is necessary to ascertain the law bearing on the subject.
But we were told that in view of the decisions of this Court in State of West Bengal vs Nripendra Nath Bagchi1 and State of Assam vs Ranga Mahammad2 the High Court must be held to have that right as those posts are included in the cadre of superior judicial service.
Before considering the correctness of that submission it is necessary to notice that this argument breaks down when we come to the question of filling up the post of the Registrar.
A decision is only an authority for what it actually decides.
163 be quoted for a proposition that may seem to follow logically from it.
 It is not a profitable task to extract a sentence here and there from a judgment and to build upon it.
At the end of that period the government is bound to allow him to go back to his parent department unless the High Court agrees to spare his services for some more time.
As Shri KK Bose and Shri BK Patro had not been placed at the disposal of the government for any definite period it was open to the High Court to recall them and post them as presiding officers of district courts.
But it was beyond the powers of the High Court to post Shri KB Panda as the law secretary Shri T Misra as superintendent and legal remembrancer and Shri PK Mohanti as the deputy law secretary.
