Appeal by special leave from the jurisdiction and order dated April 29 1965 of the Allahabad High Court in Criminal Misc Contempt Case No 43 of 1965.
A section R Chari M K Ramamurthi Vineet Kumar and Shyamala Pappu for the appellants.
O P Rana for respondent No 1.
No application dated December 21 1963 which was not accepted by the Nyaya Panchayat has been produced.
He produced the telegram received from the Advocate before the SDM.
It happened that the SDM was absent on December 23 1963 and papers were put up before Shri section K Srivas tava Additional Sub Divisional Magistrate who issued the order Put up with records.
Hence judgment shall be given on 25 12 63.
 This order was signed by three Panchas Phagu Parsad Jagat Dubey and Badri Yadav.
It has been admitted by the High Court which has stayed proceedings also in this case.
 We looked at this so called affidavit and found.
 Affidavits were filed in the High Court by Baldeo Prasad pairokar of Mahabir Burma Prasad the Sarpanch and Mahabir and statements of Phagu Prasad and Bunna Prasad were recorded on oath.
 the Nyaya Panchayats proceeded with the case.
Phagu Prasad.
According to him the Panchas did not tell Mahabir that his affidavit was not proper they however told him to get it verified in Tehsil and that it should be duly sealed.
It appeared to the High Court that the Sarpanch first wanted to avoid the petitioner s affidavit being brought on the record by declaring that it was not proper because it did not fully evidence the fact that the High Court had passed an order staying proceedings before the Nyaya Panchayat The High Court further held that the Nyaya Panchas faithfully accepted the objections raised by the Sarpanch and dittoed him about the impropriety of the petitioner s affidavit and inadequacy of the evidence contained therein regarding the stay order alleged to have been.
However if they wanted to ascertain the matter they should have at best stayed the proceedings for a short while and should have asked the applicant to produce a certified copy of the stay order.
In the alternative they should have verified from the Sub Divi sional Magistrate whether Mahabir had really filed an application and affidavit before him along with the original telegram received from his counsel at Allahabad saying that the High Court had already stayed the proceedings before the Nyaya Panchayat.
In order to justify committal for breach of a prohibitive order it is not necessary that the order should have been served upon the party against whom it has been granted if it be proved that he had notice of the order aliunde as by telegram or newspaper report or otherwise and knew that it was intended to be enforced or if he consented to the order or if he was present in Court when the order Was pronounced or hen the motion was made although he left before the order was pronounced.
If a person bona fide comes to the conclusion on the material placed before him that the source of information is not authentic he cannot be held guilty of contempt of court for disobeying the order.
121 administer oaths.
Further the application did not contain the date of the order even a copy of the telegram was not attached to the application and the application seems to have been made after the proceedings on that date had commenced and evidence taken.
It was no part of the duty of the Panchas to enquire from the SDM about the filing of the application before him.
At any rate he has apparently no jurisdiction to stay proceedings before the Nyaya Panchayats when no Proceeding is pending before him.
It is true that in certain cases proceedings can be adjourned to enable the parties to file better proof but a judicial officer is not bound to do so and if he bona fide does not in his discretion adjourn proceedings it cannot be said that he has committed contempt of court.
Contempt of court is a serious matter and a High Court should be chary of finding a judicial officer guilty of contempt of court for disobeying its orders unless there is unimpeachable evidence that the judicial officer had knowledge of the order of the High Court.
In the result we allow the appeal and set aside the judgment and order of the High Court.
