Appeal No 1940 of 1967.
Appeal by special leave from the judgment and order dated April 17 27 1967 of the Gujarat High Court in Civil Revision Application 328 of 1967.
R P Kapur for respondents Nos 2 and 3.
The Judgment of the Court was delivered by Shah J.
By insistence upon procedural wrangling in a com paratively simple suit pending in the Court of Small Causes at Ahmedabad the parties have effectively prevented all progress in the suit during the last six years.
By an agreement dated November 27 1954 between Raval and Faraqui on the one hand and Messrs Filmistan Distributors India Private Ltd hereinafter called Filmistan on the other hand right to exhibit cinematograph films was granted to the latter on certain terms and conditions.
By an order dated December 1 1960 the suit was disposed of as compromised.
CI69 17 438 1955 and further confirmed by document dated December 1 1960 is not a lease 12.
Filmistan then applied to the Court of Small Causes for an order that issues Nos 11 12  13 be tried as preliminary issues.
A revision application against that order was dismissed in limine by the High Court of Gujarat.
Accordingly he held that the question asked in cross examination of the witnesses for Filmistan intended to secure disclosure of the surrounding circumstances and conduct of the parties in order to show in what manner the language of the document was related to the existing facts could not be excluded.
The Court also rejected the contention that there was any bar of estoppel and held that evidence as to the true nature of the transaction was not inadmissible by virtue of section 92 of the Evidence Act.
Filmistan feeling dissatisfied with the order invoked the revisional jurisdiction of the High Court of Gujarat under section 115 of  the Code of Civil Procedure.
Once the jurisdiction of the Court has been taken away any proposal to reopen the question closed by the earlier decision would be exercise of jurisdiction which is not vested in the Court by law and to that extent the decision would become revisable even if it is the decision as to the res judicata of an issue and concluded It is not open to me in revision at this stage to express any opinion about the rights and contentions of the parties with reference to the agreement of December 1 1960.
But the only thing that can be said is that so far as the agreement of November 27 1954 is con cerned it must be held in view of the consent decree of December 1 1960 that that document of November 27 1954 created a lease .
By section 115 of the Code of Civil Procedure the High Court is invested with power to call for the record of any case decided by any Court subordinate to such High Court and in which no appeal lies thereo if such subordinate court appears a to have exercised a jurisdiction not vested in it by law or b to have failed to exercise a jurisdiction so vested or c to have acted in the exercise of its jurisdiction illegally or with material irregularity and to make such order in the case as it thinks fit.
Exercise of the power is broadly subject to three important conditions 1 that the decision is of a Court subordinate to the High Court 2 that there is a case which has been decided by the subordinate Court and 3 that the subordinate Court has exercised jurisdiction not vested in it by law or to have failed to exercise a jurisdiction so vested or to have acted in the exercise of its jurisdiction illegally or with material irregularity.
In the view of the Trial Court the question whether the legal relationship arising out of the agreement dated December 1 1960 was in the nature of a lease or of other character had to be decided at the trial and the previous judgment being a judgment by consent  could not operate as res judicata for it was not a decision of the Court and that the consent decree in suit No 149 of 1960 had not decided that the agreement dated March 27 1954 was of the nature of a lease and that in the plaint in that suit it was not even averred that it was a lease.
But the High Court has recorded a finding that the agreement dated November 27 1954 created a lease and that the consent decree operated as res judicata.
A consent decree accord ing to the decisions of this Court does not operate as res judicata because a consent decree is merely the record of a contract between the parties to a suit to which is superadded the seal of the Court.
A matter in contest in a suit may operate as res judicata only if there is an adjudication by the Court  the terms of section II of the Code leave no scope for a contrary view.
Again it was for the Trial Court in the first instance to decide that question and there after the High Court could if the matter were brought before it by way of appeal or in exercise of its revisional jurisdiction have decided that question.
In our judgment the High Court had no jurisdiction to record any finding on the issue of res judicata in a revision application filed against an order refusing to uphold an objection to certain question asked to a witness under examination.
442 This Court observed in Major section section Khanna vs Brig.
F J Dillon1 that the expression case is a word of comprehensive import  it includes a civil proceeding and is not restricted by anything contained in section 115 of the Code to the entirety of the proceeding in a civil court.
But it was not decided in Major section section Khanna s case1 that every order of the Court in the course of a suit amounts to a case decided.
A case may be said to be decided if the Court adjudicates for the purposes of the suit some right or obligation of the parties in controversy every order in the suit cannot be regarded as a case decided within the meaning of section 115 of the Code of Civil Procedure.
Filmistan will pay the costs of the appeal in this Court and in the High Court.
GC Appeal allowed.
