N Criminal Appeal No 87 of 1967.
721 Appeal by special leave from the judgment and order dated January 24 1967 of the High Court of Mysore in Criminal Appeal No.
29 of 1965.
A section R Chari and R V Pillai for the appellants.
Shyamala Pappu and section P Nayar for the respondent.
The Judgment of the Court was delivered by Hidayatullah CJ.
 These are 14 appellants who appeal against their conviction under section 395 of the Indian Penal Code and sentences of 5 years  rigorous imprisonment and fine of Rs 1000 passed on them.
Originally 20 persons were tried and convicted for the same offence and received a like sentence.
14 alone have appealed to this Court.
The cartmen halted after the market was over on the way for food.
It was a dark night and the assailants were not identified.
The police investigated the case and arrested the 20 persons who were accused in the case as being the culprits involved in this incident.
The accused were convicted on the sole evidence of having in their possession pieces of cloth which were later identified to belong to the traders.
In these searches cloth which was undoubtedly stolen at the time of the dacoity was found in their houses.
The High Court and the Court below drew from this the conclusion that the appellants were themselves the dacoits and convicted them accordingly under section 395 of the Indian Penal Code and sentenced them to  5 years  rigorous imprisonment and fine of Rs 100 .
In this appeal the only contention raised by Mr A section R Chari is that the presumption that they were dacoits ought not to have been drawn since the circumstances do not admit the drawing of such a presumption in the case According to Mr Chari the presumption to be drawn ought to have been one under section 41 1 722 of Indian Penal Code or at the most tinder section 412 of the Indian Penal Code but not of complicity in the crime of dacoity.
According to him there is no other evidence in the case which points to the complicity of the 14 appellants in the crime of dacoity and therefore as they cannot be suspected to be dacoits themselves the only presumption to be drawn is one of receivers of stolen property or as receivers of property which was stolen in a dacoity.
In our opinion the law advocated by Mr Chari is not correct.
The evidence strengthens the other evidence already against him.
It is only when the accused cannot be connected with the crime except by reason of possession of the fruits of crime that the presumption may be drawn.
In what circumstances the one presumption or the other may be drawn it is not necessary to state categorically in this case.
It all depends upon the circumstances under which the discovery of the fruits of crime are made with a particular accused.
It has been stated on more than one occasion that if the gap of time is too large the presumption that the accused was concerned with the crime itself gets weakened.
The presumption is stronger when the discovery of the fruits of crime is made immediately after the crime is.
committed.
The reason is obvious.
Immediately afterwards a number of searches were made and the goods were found with various persons who were prosecuted as offenders and they have been presumed to be involved in the dacoity itself.
It may be 723 noticed that from each person a large number of goods of the same type such as 20 choli pieces or ten pieces of cloth were found.
In two cases only the time gap is about 19 days.
Even then we think that the time gap is too short for original offenders to have disposed of the property to these appellants Or to have left the goods in their custody till such time as the original offenders could have taken them away.
It must not be forgotton that the offence was committed at night by as many as 20 persons or more.
The houses of 20 persons were searched and large quantities of the stolen goods were found in their houses.
It is impossible to think that these 20 persons were merely receivers of stolen property from some other 20 persons who were the dacoits.
But no injury beyond one appears to have been caused.
