Appeal No 1311 of 1967.
For the assessment year 1960 61 relevant to the accounting year 1959 60 after the assessee submitted its income tax return it was asked by the Income tax Officer during the income tax assessment proceedings to produce before him its books of account and the other relevant papers.
Income Tax Officer Muzaffarpur Dated the 3 6 1966.
As we are accepting the contention of the assessee that the impugned notice is invalid inasmuch as it did not comply with the requirements of section 1512 of the Act we have not thought it necessary to examine the other contentions advanced on behalf of the assessee.
2 The Income tax Officer shall before issuing any notice under this section record his reasons for doing so.
At this stage we need not refer to that section  We shall refer to that provision at a later stage.
RF 2Status 3.
446 4.
8Whether the Commissioner is satisfied that Yes it is a fit case for the issue of notice under Sd K Narain section 148.
13 5 66 Commissioner of Income tax Bihar and Orissa Patna 9.
During the year the assessee hasshown to have taken loans from various parties of Calcutta.
From DIs Inv.
Inv15 65 661953 2017 dated Patna 24 9 65 it appears that these persons are name lenders and the transactions are bogus.
Hence proper investigation regarding these loans is necessary.
 In his report the Income tax Officer does not set out any reason for coming to the conclusion that this is a fit case to issue notice under section 148.
All that he says is that from those communications it appears that these persons alleged creditors are name lenders and the transactions are bogus.
Further his report mentions  Hence proper investigation regarding these loans is necessary In other words his conclusion is that there is a case for investigating as to the truth of the alleged transactions.
Before issuing a notice under section 148 the Income tax Officer must have either reasons to believe that by reason of the omission or failure on the part of these assessee to make a return under section 139 for any assessment year to the Income tax Officer or to disclose fully and truly all material facts necessary for his assessment for that year income chargeable to tax has escaped assessment for that year or alternatively not withstanding that there has been no omission or failure as mentioned above on the part of the assessee the Income tax Officer has in consequence of information in his possession reason to believe that income chargeable to tax has escaped assessment for any assessment year.
From the report submitted by the Income tax Officer to the Commissioner it is clear that he could not have had reasons to believe that by reason of the assessee s omission to disclose fully and truly all material  facts necessary for his assessment for the accounting year in question income chargeable to tax has escaped assessment for that year nor could it be said that he as a consequence of information in his possession had reasons to believe that the income chargeable to tax has escaped assessment for that year.
b of section 147.
Further the report submitted by him under section 1512 does not mention any reason for coming to the conclusion that it is a fit case for the issue of a notice under section 148.
