An inquiry into the matter was made by Court of Inquiry.
If this rule was intra vires the  Rao has no case.
Rule 14 of the Army Rules 1954 is as follows 1 When after considering the reports on an officer s misconduct the Central Gove rnment is satisfied or the C in C is of the opinion that the trial of the officer by a court martial is inexpedient or impracticable but considers the further retention of the said officer in the service as undesirable the C in C shall communicate the view of the Central Government or his views as the case may be to the officer together with all reports adverse to him and he shall be called upon to submit his explanation and defence.
2 In the event of the explanation of the officer being considered unsatisfactory by the C in C or when so directed by the Central Government the case shall be submitted to the Central Government with the officer s defence and the recommendation of the C in C as to whether the officer should be a dismissed from the service or b removed from the service or c called upon to retire or d called upon to resign.
450 Before removal he must under the rule be asked to submit his explanation and defence.
If the explanation is found to be unsatisfactory the Central Government has been given the power to dismiss or remove the officer.
Sub section 1 of section 191 gives power to the Central Government to make rules for the purpose of carrying into effect the provisions of the Act.
Sub section 2a provides  Without prejudice to the generality of the power conferred by sub section 1 the rules made thereunder may provide for a the removal retirement release or discharge from the service of persons subject to this Act Sections 18  19 which appear in Ch.
IV of the dealing with Conditions of Service provide as follows  S18 Every person subject to this Act shall hold office during the pleasure of the President.
 section 19 Subject to the provisions of this Act and the rules and regulations made thereunder the Central Government may dismiss or remove from the service any person subject to this Act.
 Offenses under the have been dealt with in sections 34 to 70 in Ch.
Section 191 2 a specifically gives.
It follows that there may be a valid rule where under subject to the other provisions of the Act the Central Government may remove a person from the service.
Rule 14 is such a rule  it is therefore not ultra vires.
It was argued that the words subject to the provisions of this Act occurring in section 19 makes section 19 subject to section 45 and the Central Government has thus no power to remove a person from the service in derogation of the provisions of section 45.
But the power under section 19 is an independent power.
Although section 19 uses the words subject to the provisions of this Act it speaks of removal of a person from the service.
Section 45 provides that on conviction by court martial an officer is liable to be cashiered or to suffer such less punishment as is in this Act mentioned.
For removal from service under section 19 of the read with r 14 of the Army Rules 1954 a court martial is not necessary.
