b To encourage friendly feeling end unanimity among business community and association on all subjects connected with the common good of Indian business.
c To secure organised action on all subjects mentioned above.
fTo provide for arbitration in respect of disputes arising in the course of trade industry or transport or other business matters and to secure the services 350 of expert technical and other men to that end if necessary or desirable.
h To set up museums or show rooms to exhibit the products of India and other countries and to participate in such activities.
1 To secure the interests and well being of the Indian business communities abroad.
m To help in the Organisation of Chambers of Commerce or Commercial Associations in different commercial centres of the country.
 352 It was then contended that the activities of the Federation carried on in the premises in question amounted to work in connection with or incidental or ancillary to trade or business in general within the latter part of the definition of commercial establishment.
A certificate however was granted under Article 1331 c of the Constitution that the case was fit for appeal to this Court.
Before dealing with the contentions canvassed before us it will be useful to notice briefly the scheme and the relevant provisions of the Act.
It shall apply in the first instance.
 Establishment means a shop a commercial establishment residential hotel restaurant eating house theatre or other places of public amusement or entertainment to which this Act applies and includes such other establishment as Government may by notification in the Official Gazette 35 3 declare to be an establishment for the purposes of the Act.
A place in order to fall within the definition of commercial Establishment must in the first instance be premises.
 Mr Pai further maintains that the ratio in R K Mittal s case supra is not applicable to the instant case because the definition of  industry in section 2j of the is far wider than that of commercial establishment in section 25 of the Act.
As regards the preliminary objection it is true that before the High Court it was not argued that the activity of the Federation amounts to the carrying on of any business or trade in the premises in question.
Alternatively it was contended that the case fell within part b of the definition of commercial establishment inasmuch as its activities were connected with trade and business generally.
Any premises where services are rendered to customers fall within the definition of a shop.
