39 40 of 1976.
Besides the learned Judge was openly attacking the Govern ment in its political as well as administrative decision.
He suggested the members of the Bar to revolt against the present Government as it has suppressed the civil liberation sic of the individuals and has also failed miserably in all fields.
He also accepted the hospitality of the Technological Institute of Textiles Mills people who also took him for a sight seeing from Dadri to Pilani.
In that letter they said that Justice DS Tewatia visited the Bar and inspected the court at Charkhi Dadri on 17 February 1975.
He also enquired all about Shri Sohan Lal a leader of the teacher s movement in the State.
In order to prevent unwanted disclosure of its contents the communica tion in question was brought personally by two members of the Bar Association Bhiwani to Chandigarh in a closed cover addressed to the Chief Justice for being handed over to him for his personal attention.
In any case if in view of this Hon ble Court the action of the deponent in addressing the letter in question constitut ed for any reason contempt of court one would be more sorry than the deponent himself.
 The Full Bench of the High Court consisting of Justice Surjit Singh Sandhawalia Justice Prem Chand Jain and Jus tice Bhupinder Singh Dhillon extracted portions from the affidavit of the appellants to which references has been made.
In the absence of any finding by the High Court that the appellants committed any contempt of court there was never any occasion for acceptance of apology.
However if the speech of any Judge is criticised and if it becomes a disputed question of fact as to whether any Judge did speak or not as is alleged by the writer the matter would have to be ascertained by the court on facts whether the Judge concerned did speak on the matters ascribed to him before the court would take any action against the persons who would criticise the Judge s speech.
Invitations by the Bar Associ ation or social invitations naturally Stand on a different footing and no one will find an exception to any Judge attending a social function.
In the absence of such a finding no question arises for acceptance of apology.
247 The judgment is set aside.
