Civil Appeal No 1744 of 1968.
Appeal by Special Leave from the Judgment and Order dated 14 6 1967 of the Mysore High Court in Writ Petition No 44065.
He is a respondent who has not appeared before us and therefore could not be heard by us.
 It is apparent that the petitioner re spondent was claiming relief against the final Inter State seniority list although he was given due opportunity to object to the provi sional list.
In the case before us the petitioner admits that the Mysore State Civil Services Integration Rules provided for filing of objections against the preliminary provisional Inter State Seniori ty list.
His grievance seemed to be that he was not heard after the final list was prepared.
Hence the principle recognised in Shankariah s case supra was not applicable to such a case.
PK Roy  Ors.
 1 from which learned Counsel thought the following observations could perhaps be cited on behalf of the petitioner respondent at p 202 it was argued by Mr Ashoke Sen that in regard to both these matters the respond ents have a right of representation and the final gradation list should have been pub lished after giving them further oppor tunity to make a representation.
As no such opportunity was furnished to the respondents with regard to these two matters 1 202.
830 we hold that the combined final gradation list dated April 6 1962 so far as category 6 is concerned is ultra vires and illegal and that part of the notification alone must be quashed by grant of a writ in the nature of certiorari.
All that is done is that certain principles are applied in the preparation of the list.
But once he has had that opportunity it cannot possibly be said that he should have a further opportunity against even a final seniority list.
If he was to have that opportunity the list would not really be final but only provisional or preliminary.
In PK Roy s case supra the opportunity afforded was to be given before the publication of the final list.
A right to representation was recognised as existing at time when the list was still to be considered as not finalised presumably because some mistakes had crept in due to want of heating on two points.
In that particular case the fist had been prepared without due regard to the particular important points which had to be considered before finalisation.
In order to establish the invalidity of the final list on some such grounds of invalidity those grounds have to be shown to exist.
GR Prabhavalkar  Ors.
1 where it was held by this Court at p 2106 1 AIR 1973 Sc 2102 at 2106.
 We find that as was the case of the petitioner in Prabhavalkar s case supra the petitioner respondent Dr RD Nanjiah and others similarly placed respondents before us have been unable to make out in their petitions any grounds for interference with the final list.
