270 of 1955.
Hemendra Shah J B Dadachanji and Rajinder Narain for the petitioner.
DAS ACTG.
A rule was issued by the High Court but eventually on the 24th August 1955 the High Court Chagla CJ and Desai J discharged the rule.
a Section 462 of the Indian Income tax Act which is impugned before us runs as follows 46.
Article 21 guarantees that no person shall be deprived of his personal liberty except in accordance with procedure established by law.
All that the sub section directs the Collector to do is to proceed to recover the certified amount as if it were an arrear of land revenue that is to say he is to adopt the procedure prescribed by the appropriate law of his State for the recovery of land revenue and that in thus proceeding he is under the proviso to have all the powers a Civil Court has under the Code.
In our opinion the proviso does not indicate a different and alternative mode of recovery of the certified amount of tax but only confers additional powers on the Collector for the better and more effective application of the only mode of recovery authorised by the body of sub section 2 of section 46.
But that section goes on to say that no person shall be imprisoned for a longer period than two years or for a longer period than six months if the arrear does not exceed Rs 500 or for a longer period than three months if the arrear does not exceed Rs 50.
In other words it is section 462 which tells the Collectors of Madras to follow the procedure under section 48 of the Madras Revenue Recovery Act 1864 as if those provisions are set out in the Indian Income tax Act in extenso and it tells the Collectors of all other States to adopt the procedure prescribed by their own State laws as if the provisions prescribing that procedure were set out in that section.
As was said by the Supreme Court of America in Middleton vs Texas Power and Light Company1 There is a strong presumption that a legislature understands and correctly appreciates the needs of its own people that its laws are directed to problems made manifest by experience and that its discriminations are based upon adequate grounds.
If in the matter of recovery of arrears of land revenue defaulters of one State cannot complain of denial of equal protection of the laws on the ground of the difference in the modes of recovery prevailing in other States can it be said to be unreasonable for the Union to adopt for the recovery of its public demand from defaulters of each State the same mode of recovery 1   157.
114 900 of public demand prevailing in that State Here the defaulters are classified on a territorial or geographical basis and this basis of classification has precisely the same correlation to the object of the Indian Income tax Act as it has to the object of the different Public Demands Recovery Acts.
If this is right when a question of imposition is concerned it cannot be wrong when the matter is one of recovery.
In the first place it is a fallacy to regard arrest and detention.
It is a coercive process for recovery of public demand by putting pressure on the defaulter.
For the purposes of this case it will suffice to say that the discrimination complained of is not unconstitutional for the simple reason that the impugned law is based on a territorial classification having a reasonable nexus or correlation between that basis of classification and the object sought to be achieved by the Act.
Adoption of an existing machinery devised for a particular purpose cannot if there be no vice of unconstitutionality in the machinery render it unconstitutional if it is made to subserve a purpose closely akin or similar to the purpose for which it bad been devised.
As already stated under section 46 2 the Collector on receipt of the certificate from the Income tax Officer has to proceed to recover the certified demand as if it were an arrear of land revenue.
A cursory perusal of the two sections will show at once that the procedure prescribed by section 13 of the Bombay City Land Revenue Act 1876 for the recovery of arrears of land revenue was harsher and more drastic than the procedure laid down in section 157 of the Bombay Land Revenue Code 1879 in that a defaulter residing in the City of Bombay could be kept in detention for a day for every rupee of the arrears which might considerably exceed the maximum period of six months which is the period 904 limited by the Code of Civil Procedure for the detention of a judgment debtor in civil jail.
Assuming then but not deciding that section 13 of the Bombay City Land Revenue Act 1876 became inconsistent with the fundamental right guaranteed by article 14 and therefore became void to the extent of such inconsistency it was not as recently explained by this Court in Bhikaji Narayan Dhakras vs The State of Madhya Pradesh Nagpur and Another1 obliterated from the statute book for all times or for all purposes or for all people.
The law was not dead.
 This amendment is nothing less than an enactment of a new provision.
By that time section 13 had been amended and the warrant of arrest was issued on the 7th June 1955 that is to say long after the amendment of the section.
 is that this application must be dismissed.
1 906 CHANDRASEKHARA AIYAR J I agree rather reluctantly.
