Appeal No 182 828 of 1975.
Appeal by Special Leave from the Judgment and Order dated the 19th March 1975 of the Bombay High Court in First Appeal No 524 of 1966 from original decree.
R B Datar for the Appellant.
Defendants 2 to 5 admitted the plaintiff s claim the suit having H been contested by defendant 1 Gurupad only.
He contended that the suit properties did not belong to the joint family that they were Khandappa s self requisitions and that on the date of Khandappa s 764 death in 1960 there was no joint family in existence.
Defendant I has filed this appeal against the High Court s judgment by special leave.
Another Division Bench of the Bombay High Court in Rangubai Lalji vs Laxman Lalji2 had already reconsidered and dissented from earlier Division Bench judgment in Shiramabai Bhimgonda1 In these two cases the judgment of the Bench was delivered by the same learned Judge Patel J.
In the judgment under appeal the High Court has based itself on the judgment in Rangubai Lalji2 endorsing indirectly the view that Shiramabai1 was incorrectly decided.
Court that the suit properties belonged to the joint family and that there was no prior partition is well founded and is not seriously disputed the decision of this appeal rests on the interpretation of Explanation 1 to section 6 of the Hindu Succession Act 30 of 1956.
LR351.
Explanation I For the purposes of this section the interest of a Hindu Mitakshara coparcener shall be deemed to be the share in the property that would have been allotted to him if a partition of the property had taken place immediately before his death irrespective of whether he was entitled to claim partition or not.
Explanation 2.
But since the widow and daughter are amongst the female relatives specified in class I of the Schedule to the Act and Khandappa died leaving behind a widow and daughters the proviso to section 6 comes into play and the normal rule is excluded.
Before considering the implications of Explanation 1 it is necessary to remember that what section 6 deals with is devolution of the interest which a male Hindu has in a Mitakshare coparcenary property at 766 the time of his death.
As between them the two sons the three daughters and the widow will take equally each having one share in the deceased s property under section 10 read with Rules 1 and 2 of that section.
In a partition between Khandappa and his two sons there would be four sharers in the coparcenary property the fourth being Khandappa s wife the plaintiff.
1 SCR 394 2 768 incidents which if the putative state of affairs had in fact existed must inevitably have flowed from or accompanied it and if the statute says that you must imagine a certain state of affairs it cannot be interpreted to mean that having done so you must cause or permit your imagination to boggle when it comes to the inevitable corollaries of that state of affairs.
Explanation 1 to section 6 resorts to the simple expedient undoubtedly fictional that the interest of a Hindu Mitakshara coparcener shall be deemed to be the share in the property that would have been allotted to him if a partition of that property had taken place immediately before his death.
By restricting the operation of the fiction created by Explanation I in the manner suggested by the appellant we shall be taking a retrograde step putting back as it were the clock of social reform which has enabled the Hindu Woman to acquire an equal status with males in matters of property.
Even assuming that two interpretations of Explanation I are reasonably possible we must prefer that interpretation which will further the intention of the legislature and remedy the injustice from which the Hindu women have suffered over the years.
1 AIR 1975 Bombay 257.
2 AIR 1974 Guj.
3 AIR 1967 Orissa 194.
