 Criminal Appeal No 133 of 1975.
Appeal from the Judgment and order dated 3 2 1978 of the Andhra Pradesh High Court in Crl.
A No 62873.
About three months before the occurrence the deceased gave birth to a female child in the house of the accused at Cherlopalle.
After the ninth day the mother and child according to customary practice were taken by the mother of the deceased to her house at Krishna Kalva.
Cherlopalle is about 25 miles from Krishna Kalva.
On 18th December 1972 according to the case of the prosecution the accused once again requested his mother in law to send his wife to his house.
That evening the accused again came to the house of his mother in law.
After dinner all of them went to sleep.
The house consisted of only one room.
Attracted by the cries raised by the PWs 1 to 3 the neighbourers P Ws 4 5 6 and others came there.
After holding the inquest the dead body was sent for postmortem examination.
In the Committing Court the accused was content with a bare denial but in the Court of Sessions he stated that he went to the house of his mother in law at about 10 pm.
On 18th December 1972.
P W 1 beat him with a stick two or three times.
He felt giddy and was about to lose consciousness.
He regained consciousness next morning.
He commented on the failure of the Police to seize the mat or bedding on which the deceased was sleeping.
He therefore acquitted the accused.
Accepting the evidence of P Ws 1 to 3 which was corroborated by the evidence of P Ws 4 and 5 who came to the scene soon afterwards the High Court convicted the accused under Section 302 and sentenced him as aforesaid.
In this appeal the learned Counsel for the appellant argued that the accused had no motive to kill his wife and that his version was more probable than the version of the prosecution.
He submitted that the version of the accused that the occurrence took place at about 10 pm was substantiated by what was mentioned in exhibit P 15 the wound certificate given by PW 13 the Medical officer in respect of the injuries which he found on the person of the accused.
He urged that the knife was not seized by the Police under any seizure Memo nor was the knife sent to any finger print expert.
He also contended that two views were possible on the evidence and the accused was entitled to the benefit of doubt.
It is true that the accused did not have any deep motive to kill the deceased.
He probably attributed the refusal to reluctance on the part of his wife to accompany him straightaway.
However the formulae  of substantial and compelling reasons good and sufficiently cogent reasons and strong reasons and the search for them were abandoned as a result of the pronouncement of this Court in Sanwat Singh  Ors.
In Sanwat Singh s case this Court harked 1 Al.
It stems out of the fundamental principle of our criminal jurisprudence that the accused is entitled to the benefit of any reasonable doubt.
If two reasonably probable and evenly balanced views of the evidence are possible one must necessarily concede the existence of a reasonable doubt.
If the preponderance of probability is all one way a bare possibility of another view will not entitle the accused to claim the benefit of any doubt.
As observed by Lord Denning in Miller vs Minister of pensions5 Proof beyond a reasonable doubt does not mean proof beyond a shadow of a doubt.
1 61 IA 389.
2 AIR 1971 SC 460.
3 Al.
If the evidence is so strong against a man as to leave only a remote possibility in his favour which can be dismissed with the sentence of course it is possible but not in the least probable  the case is proved beyond reasonable doubt but nothing short of that will suffice.
In Khem Karan  Ors.
 this Court observed Neither mere possibilities nor remote possibilities nor mere doubts which are not reasonable can without danger to the administration of justice be the foundation of the acquittal of an accused person if there is otherwise fairly credible testimony.
The appeal is dismissed.
P B R Appeal dismissed.
