ivil Appeal No 196 of 1 970.
ST Desai ATM Sampath Mukul Mudgal and Raju Ramachandran for the Appellants.
RK Garg Mrs Urmila Sirur and Shiv Pujan Singh for the Respondents.
b of clause I of Article 133 of the Constitution granted by the Allahabad High Court against its judgment and decree dated April 21 1969 disposing of appeals out of a suit for declaration and possession.
It was claimed that in the event of Mahant Sadashiva Yati being found out of possession a decree for possession should be made.
He asserted that Shivshanker Yati possessed no personal property.
The suit was contested by the first defendant Kedar Nath Chaubey also referred to as Uma Shanker Yati.
He alleged that Mahant Shivshanker Yati owned personal properties which included the properties in village Amauli that he was the chela of Mahant Shivshanker Yati and the Amauli properties had passed to him under a will executed by the Mahant.
We are concerned in this appeal solely with the Amauli properties.
Math Sauna is an old Math situated in the village of that name in Tehsil Saidpur in the district of Ghazipur.
The surplus the deed directed was to be employed for acquiring further property in the name of the deity and was not to be applied by the Sarbarakar to his personal use.
First Appeal No 80 of 1964 was filed by Kedar Nath Chaubey  Uma Shanker Yati against the declaration that the Amauli properties were owned by Math Sauna or the deity and that Sadashiv Yati was in possession thereof as Mahant and Sarbarakar.
The other appeal First Appeal No 270 of 1965 was filed by the plaintiffs for the relief that Sadashiv Yati was a properly constituted Mahant of Math Sauna and Sarbarakar of the deity.
The High Court allowed both the appeals by its judgment and decree dated April 21 1969.
It held that the Amauli properties had been purchased by Shivshanker Yati in 1921 from 662 the personal and separate funds inherited by him from his predecessor Shivpher Yati and that the Amauli properties must therefore be regarded as his personal and separate properties and they did not belong to the Math or the deity.
The present appeal is directed against that part of the judgment and decree of the High Court.
It is admitted between the parties that the Amauli properties were purchased by Mahant Shivshankar Yati for Rs 40000 forming part of a fund left behind by his predecessor Mahant Shivpher Yati.
The point for decision is whether the fund was the personal property of Mahant Shivpher Yati and if so whether it devolved on Mahant Shivshankar Yati.
The Mahants and members of Math Sauna belonged to the Dashnami Sanyasi sect.
They included sanyasis who had formerly been married men and householders men who had passed through the grihastha ashram.
This Court in Gurcharan Prasad vs Krishnanand 2 affirmed that Nihang Dashnami Sanyasis could pursue money lending business and could own property as absolute owners and enjoy them as their personal property.
The Pronamis given to a Mohunt are generally his personal property.
The mere fact that a Mohunt is an ascetic does not raise any presumption that a property in his possession is not his personal property.
Strictly speaking there is no presumption either one way or the other and in each case the burden is upon the plaintiff to establish that the properties in respect of which he is asking for possession are properties to the possession of which he is entitled in the right in which he sues.
663 There is reason to believe that Mohant Shivbaran Yati Mohant Shivpher Yati and Mahant Shivshankar Yati were not celibates and had been grihasthas and were entitled to possess enjoy and acquire personal property.
The evidence discloses that Mahant Shivpher Yati was held in high regard on account of his personal learning and attainments and has a large number of chelas including many affluent persons from whom he received personal bhents or pranamis of large amounts of money.
His personal property on his death included cash sovereigns and gold besides two fixed deposits with the Bank of Bengal of Rs 45000.
He had also inherited the personal property of Mahant Shivbaran Yati who owned three private properties in village Shiv Dass in the district of Banaras.
On his death in 1917 all those properties and wealth devolved on Mahant Shivshankar Yati.
He was granted a succession certificate by the District Judge Ghazipur in respect of the two fixed deposits made by Mahant Shivpher Yati in the Bank of Bengal.
Mahant Shivshankar Yati employed the inherited money in the purchase of two properties in village Amauli in 1921 paying Rs 30000 for a full interest in one property and Rs 10000 for a moiety share in the other.
In respect of both properties the revenue records mentioned the name of Mahant Shivshankar Yati and not that of the Math or the deity.
Small parcels of these properties were transferred by Mahant Shivshankar Yati from time to time and none of those transfers was challenged by the plaintiffs in the present suit.
It is urged for the appellants that where a nucleus of dedicated property exists the acquisition of additional property should be attributed to the application of the nucleus and must therefore be regarded as property belonging to the Math or the deity.
As has been observed there can be no presumption either way.
All the facts and circumstances must be taken into consideration and on a balancing of the entire evidence it has to be determined whether the property can be said to belong to the Math or deity or is the personal property of the Mahant the burden of proof resting on the party who makes the claim.
In the present case it is difficult to conclude from the material before us that the total income from the properties belonging to the Math and the deity left any appreciable surplus after meeting the expenditure on account of bhog arpan deepdan daily and annual puja and the other obligations specified in the waqf deed.
We are in agreement with the High Court that the fund from which the Amauli properties were acquired constituted the personal property of Mahant Shivpher Yati.
It is pointed out before us that in assessment proceedings under the U P Agriculture Income Tax Act 1948 the Amauli properties were described by Mahant Shivshankar Yati as properties of the Math and therefore a claim to exemption from the levy was made.
We concur with that finding.
In our judgment the High Court is right in the view that the Amauli properties constitute the personal property of Uma Shankar Yati and do not form part of the properties of the Math Sauna or of the deity Sri Thakur Gokarneshwar Mahadeoji.
In the result the appeal is dismissed with costs.
PBR Appeal dismissed.
