1025 26 of 1978.
By another Notification dated March 15 1977 published in Government Gazette dated July 15 1977 the Development Authority Korba was directed under the aforesaid clauses of sections 68 and 69 to exercise the powers and perform the functions under the Madhya Pradesh Municipal Corporation Act 1956.
By section 36 of the aforesaid Adhiniyam local authorities were prohibited from recovering the property tax from November 24 1970.
By section 12 of that Act the provisions inserted in the Municipalities Act and the Municipal Corporation Act with which we are concerned were deemed to have come into force with effect from April 1 1976.
11 The appellant Company disputed its liability to pay the aforesaid amounts on the grounds principally that no tax was leviable on its property since the Company was owned wholly by the Government of India and that respondent 1 was estopped from levying the property tax by reason of the agreement of 1976.
See Secretary of State for India in Council vs Hindustan Co operative Insurance Society Limited Craies on Statute Law 7th Edition pages 360 361 The principle broadly is that where a statute is incorporated by reference into a second statute the repeal of the first statute by a third does not affect the second see Clarke vs Bradlaugh.
see Secretary of State for India in Council vs Hindusthan Cooperative Insurance Society Ltd.
Besides as held by a Constitution Bench of this Court in the Collector of Customs Madras vs Nathella Samathu Chetty  Anr.
Applying these principles we are of the opinion that in the instant case subsequent amendments made to the Municipal Corporation Act and the Municipalities Act will also apply to the power of taxation provided for in section 69d of the Act of 1973.
As observed in Nathella Sampathu Chetty there is a distinction between a mere reference to or a citation of one statute in another and an incorporation which in effect means the bodily lifting of the provisions of one enactment and making them part of another so much so that the repeal of the former leaves the latter wholly untouched.
A reading of the reference to the two earlier Municipal Acts as a reference to those Acts as they stand at the time when the power of taxation is sought to be exercised by respondent 1 will not possibly cause repugnancy between the two earlier Acts on one hand and the Act of 1973 on the other nor indeed will it cause any confusion in the practical application of the earlier Acts because the Act of 1973 does not contain any independent provision or machinery for exercising the power of taxation.
Apart from this the position is put beyond doubt by the language of sections 129 and 133 of two Acts.
A shareholder has merely an interest in the Company arising under its Articles of Association measured by a sum of money for the purpose of liability and by a share in the profit.
 In Heavy Engineering Mazdoor Union vs The State of Bihar  Ors the Heavy Engineering Corporation Limited was incorporated under the and its entire share capital was contributed by the Central Government.
3 Under section 5 of the Nationalisation Act the acquired properties were vested in a Government Company in order to carry out more conveniently the object of that Act and for that purpose the properties were freed from all encumbrances by section 6 of the Act.
4 The taxing power of the State legislature must be construed as limited in its scope so as not to come in conflict with the power and function of the Union to regulate and develop the mines as envisaged by the Nationalisation Act.
5 The impugned tax is manifestly an impediment in the discharge of the aforesaid function since it substantially increases the cost of the developmental activities.
But in order to 20 judge whether on that account the State legislature loses its competence to pass the Act of 1973 it is necessary to have regard to the object and purpose of that Act and to the relevant provisions thereof under which Special Area Development Authorities are given the power to tax lands and buildings within their jurisdiction.
That the declaration in section 2 of the does not result in invalidation of every State legislation relating to mines and minerals is demonstrated effectively by the decision in State of Haryana  Anr.
For these reasons the appeals fail and are dismissed with costs.
