etition Nos.
1073 1100 1117 19 1229 95 142 1554 1746 2140 2155 2271 2396 2459.
Under Article 32 of the Constitution of India AND Writ Petition Nos 42184571 and 5266 5280 of 1983 Under article 32 of the Constitution of India AND Transfer Case Nos 44 339 of 1983 KK Venugopal SS Ray PP Rao VM Tarkuade and R K Garg V Jogayya Sharma MP Rao Sudarsh Menon T VS N Churi G Narasimhulu A Subba Rao MKD Namboodiry HS Guru Raj Rao section Markandeya ATM Sampath DK Garg Nikhil Chandra and A K Panda for the Petitioners.
LN Sinha Attorney General Anil B DivanB Parthasarthi and KR Chaudhary for the Respondents.
GN Rao for the State.
Miss A Subhashini for the Union.
In the elections held to the Legislative Assembly of Andhra Pradesh in January 1983 a new political party called Telugu Desam was swept to power.
It assumed office on January 9 1983.
On February 8 1983 an Order GO Ms No 36 was issued by the Government of Andhra Pradesh stating that it had decided to reduce the age of superannuation of all Government employees other than in the last Grade Service from 58 to 58 years.
Over 18000 Government employees and 10000 public sector employees were superannuated as a result of the order.
A counter affidavit was filed on behalf of the State of Andhra Pradesh by Shri R Parthasarathy Joint Secretary in the Finance Department of the State at the stage of admission of the writ petitions.
By the counter affidavit the Government of Andhra Pradesh denied that any of the provisions of the Constitution were violated by the impugned decision to reduce the age of retirement.
Another affidavit was filed on behalf of the Government of Andhra Pradesh after the rule nisi was issued in the writ petitions.
588 The affidavit is sworn by Shri AK Sharma Deputy Secretary to Government of Andhra Pradesh.
Clause 101 of the Ordinance prescribes that every Government employee not being a workman and not belonging to Last Grade Service shall retire from service on the afternoon of the last day of the month in which he attains the are of 55 years.
Clause 102 provides that every Government employee not being a workman but belonging to the Last Grade Service shall retire from service on the afternoon of the last day of the month in which he attains the age of 60 years.
By clause 15 All Rules and Regulations made under the proviso to Article 309 or continued under Article 3 l 3 of the Constitution or made under any other law for the time being in force governing the recruitment and conditions of service of the Government employees continue to be in force in so far as they are not inconsistent with the provisions of the Ordinance.
Clause 16 of the Ordinance provides that no amendment to the Fundamental Rules shall be deemed to be invalid merely by reason of the fact that the proviso to rule 2 of the Fundamental Rules laid down that the said rules shall not be modified or replaced to the disadvantage of any person already in service.
Clause 16 of the Ordinance declares that every amendment made before or after the commencement of the Ordinance to the Fundamental Rules and the Hyderabad Civil Services Rules shall be and shall be always deemed to have applied to all Government employees whether appointed before or after the amendment.
Clause 18 of the Ordinance provides by sub clause i that the proviso to rule 2 of the Fundamental Rules shall be and shall be deemed always to have been omitted.
Rule 56 of the Fundamental Rules is omitted by Clause l 8ii while Rule 231 of the Hyderabad Civil Services Rules is omitted by clause 19 of the Ordinance.
It was suggested by the petitioners though somewhat in passing that the object of the State Government in reducing the age of retirement was to get rid of n senior members of Government service whose loyalty was thought to be not above suspicion.
A common scheme of general application governing superannuation has therefore to be evolved in the light of experience regarding performance levels of employees the need to provide employment opportunities to the younger sections of society and the need to open up promotional opportunities to employees at the lower levels early in their career.
Inevitably the public administrator has to counter balance conflicting claims while determining the age of superannua 591 tion.
On the one hand public services cannot be deprived of the benefit of the mature experience of senior employees on the other hand a sense of frustration and stagnation cannot be allowed to generate in the minds of the junior members of the services and the younger sections of the society.
If the age of retirement is fixed at an unreasonably low level so as to make it arbitrary and irrational the Court s interference would be called for though not for fixing the age of retirement but for mandating a closer consideration of the matter.
Where an act is arbitrary it is implicit in it that it is unequal both according to political logic and constitutional law and is therefore violative of Article 14l But while resolving the validity of policy issues like the age of retirement it is not proper to put the conflicting claims in a sensitive judicial scale and decide the issue by finding out which way the balance tilts.
592 lative competence or on the legislative power to pass laws which bear on fundamental rights.
e The careful planning by the employees of their important affairs of life like the construction of a house the marriage of a daughter or the repayment of loans has been suddenly set at naught by the reduction in the age of retirement f Two of the most relevant circumstances bearing upon the fixation of the age of retirement have been ignored by the State Government increase in longevity and the prevailing age of retirement in public sector undertakings and g No consideration was given to the plain and direct con sequence of the reduction in the age of retirement namely that the State exchequer would have to find and pay Rs 70 crores on one single day by way of retirement benefits for which no budgetary provision was made It would appear from these contentions as also from the contions advanced by the other learned counsel that the main plank of the petitioners  case is that the decision to reduce the age of retirement from 58 to 55 is unconstitutional because it is arbitrary irrational and unconnected with the object which it seeks to achieve.
In this connection the first ground of challenge to the reduction of the age of retirement is that the One man Pay Revision Commission appointed by the Government of Andhra Pradesh had recommended that the age of retirement should be increased from 55 to 58 that the said recommendation was accepted by the State Government and consequently the age of retirement was raised to 58 with effect from October 29 l 979.
745 dated November 31977 the Government of Andhra Pradesh had appointed Shri A Krishnaswamy a retired member of the l.
Clause 101 of the Ordinance prescribes that every Government employee not being a workman and not belonging to Last Grade Service shall retire from service on the afternoon of the last day of the month in which he attains the are of 55 years.
Clause 102 provides that every Government employee not being a workman but belonging to the Last Grade Service shall retire from service on the afternoon of the last day of the of the Commission cover the review of the existing retirement benefits  the reference would naturally include the age of retirement.
 This was an erroneous and unwarranted reading of the terms of reference.
A review of retirement benefits would undoubtedly cover the examination of the rules or schemes relating to pension provident fund gratuity encasement of leave etc but it cannot include the power to examine the question as regards the fixation of the age of retirement.
In any case the power of a Commission to enquire into a question must depend 595 upon the terms of the Reference and not upon the statements made on the floor of the House.
A delayed decision of the executive can also be had as offending against the provisions of the Constitution and it can be no defense to the charge of unconstitutionality that the decision was taken after the lapse of a long time.
Every decision has to examined on its own merits in order to determine whether it is arbitrary or unreasonable.
It is untenable to contend that a law is bad because it is passed immediately on the assumption of office by a new Government.
If reduction of the retirement age from 58 to 55 is to be regarded as arbitrary on the ground that it overlooks the advance made in longevity fixation of retirement age at 58 is also not likely to sustain the charge of arbitrariness.
Both can fall within the constraints of the Constitution and neither the one nor the other can be considered to be arbitrary or unreasonable.
Maharashtra 58 years Orissa Previously 55 years enhanced to 58 years.
Neither the American nor the English notions or norms for fixing retirement age can render invalid the basis which is widely accepted in our country as reasonable for that purpose.
Paragraph 5 of the Commission s Report mentions that the Varadachariar Commission had recommended earlier that the age for compulsory retirement should be 58 years for all services pensionable and non pensionable with an option to the Government to retire an employee on the ground of loss of efficiency at the age of 55.
Paragraph 6 of the Commission s Report shows that the question was reconsidered in 1963 when the only additional argument advanced against an upward change its adverse effect on educated 599 unemployment.
It was recognized that its actual effect would A be small but importance was attached to its probable impact on public opinion.
On this data the Commission concluded in paragraph 11 of its Report Thus however valid may have been the view taken in 1971 and re affirmed in 1937 38 that the age of 55 was normally the dividing line between health and efficiency on the one side and marked physical deterioration and decline in efficiency On the other there is sufficient reason to think that is no longer so and that the deviding line can be safely moved a few years upwards.
 The Commission then adverted to the prevailing ages of retirement in foreign countries and reiterated that whether we go by our own vital statistics or by the age of retirement prevalent in other countries there was a clear case for raising the age of superannuation substantially above 55 years.
In paragraph 15 of the Report the Commission considered the effect of increasing the age of retirement on the employment situation and concluded that the likely repercussion of increasing the age of retirement on educated unemployment would not be substantial.
After talking into account all the relevant considerations including the fact that most Government servants themselves do not wish to continue in service until they are worn out and have one foot in the grave the Commission summed up its findings by saying that there was much in favour of and very little against raising the age of superannuation.
However.
Paragraph 601 3 of that Chapter shows that whereas some Service Associations Demanded that the age of superannuation should be increased to 60 years on account of increased longevity and on account of the fact that a large number of Government employees were not free from family responsibilities until much later in life because of late marriages some of the Associations suggested that the age of retirement should be reduced again to 55 years mainly with a view to improving the promotional prospects and providing increased employment opportunities to the educated unemployed in the country.
A reduction in the age of superannuation would not therefore ipso facto improve the overall employment position for the educated unemployed 5 Any increase in the age of superannuation beyond the age of 58 would reduce during the period of the increase employment opportunities for a very large number of technical engineering and professional students passing out from the universities technical institutions and industrial training institutes  and 6 The age of retirement should not be changed frequently since it has a vital bearing on the career prospects of and the retirement benefits available to Government employees and since it is an important factor in the attractiveness of Government service.
For these reasons the Commission recommended that the age of superannuation should continue to be 58 years for the Central Government employees with the modification that the retirement should take effect from the afternoon of the last day of the month in which the employee attains the age of superannuation.
In support of this view it quoted the International Labour Organisation The World Employment Programme The three pillars of a strategy for fuller employment are rural development labour intensive public works programmes and the reduction of capital intensity of industrialisation Observing that the dimensions of unemployment problem should not deter the Government from improving the service conditions of its employees.
It is observed therein that lasting solutions to unemployment problems had to be found within the framework of a rapid and employment oriented economic growth that suitable measures had to be evolved in the short term in a co ordinated way particularly for the benefit of the weaker sections and that since the dimension and gravity of educated unemployment vary from State to State a decentralised approach should be adopted on the district employment plan.
According to the Sixth Five Year Plan unemployment would not be eliminated within the Sixth Plan unless efforts were immediately made to make the current unemployed more employable through short term training and vocational programmes and unless special employment programmes are directed towards their absorption.
After stating that the Krishnaswamy Commission was appointed on November 3 1977 for the sole purpose of 603 examining the question of  retirement benefits and that the question of retirement age was not included in its terms of reference the White Paper says that although the Government had accepted the recommendations of the Commission almost in their entirety it did not accept its recommendation that the age of retirement should be increased from 55 to 58 years.
Consequently the resultant vacancies at the direct recruitment level which would have arisen in the chain of appointments that would follow each retirement were also blocked for 3 years continuously thereby denying the promotion opportunities to inservice personnel and employment opportunities for the unemployed causing a great deal of frustration all round.
Besides experienced deserving inservice personnel whose legitimate aspirations for promotion were thwarted could also now look for this much awaited promotion.
Government were thus able to create promotional avenues to serving employees at various levels and create opportunities for appointment against about 18000 posts in Government Panchayat Raj and aided educational institutions alone not to speak of the opportunities that were created in the various Corporations etc owned or controlled by Government.
Either the one or the other of these two stages is regarded generally as acceptable depending upon the employment policy of the Government of the day.
It is not possible to lay down an inflexible rule that 58 years is a reasonable age for retirement and 55 is not.
If the policy adopted for the time being by the Government or the Legislature is shown to violate recognised norms of employment planning it would be possible to say that the policy is irrational since in that event it would not bear reasonable nexus with the object which it seeks to achieve.
It is well settled that Article 311 2 is attracted only when a civil servant is reduced in rank dismissed or removed from service by way of penalty that is to say when the effect of the order passed against him in this behalf is to visit him with evil consequences.
Besides the point made by Shri Tarkunde is concluded by a Constitution Bench decision of this Court in Bishun Narain Misra vs State of Uttar Pradesh 6 In that case the Government of Uttar Pradesh and raised the age of superannuation from 55 to 58 years by a Notification dated November 27 1957 but reduced it again to 55 years by a Notification dated May 25 1961.
It is true that in Moti Ram Deka the Court was concerned to G 1  2 1955 1 SCR26.
3  4  5 1958 SCR1052.
6 1965 I SCR 693.
7  606 determine the validity of Rules 148 3 and 149 3 of the Railway Establishment Code which provided for the termination of the service of a permanent servant by a mere notice But interestingly the judgment in Bishun Narain Mishra shows that it was the appellant therein who relied on the decision in Moti Ram Deka in support of his contention that the rule by which the age of retirement was reduced to 55 years amounted to removal within the meaning of Article 311 2 The Court held that the decision in Moti Ram Deka had no application to the case before them since that case did not deal with any rule relating to age of retirement.
See page 696 of the Report.
He made it clear that his argument should not be construed as a challenge to the power or jurisdiction of the Governor to issue the impugned Ordinance and that his sole attempt was to show that the Ordinance was passed in a hurry as a result of which considerations which are relevant to the fixation of retirement age were ignored.
An executive act is liable to be struck down on the ground of non application of mind.
Not the act of a Legislature.
On the question as to the legislative character of the ordinancemaking power we may refer to the decisions of this Court in AK Roy vs Union of India1 and RK Garg vs Union of India2.
2 119821 SCR 947 at 964 967.
3 19791 SCR 26 608 sions of the Ordinance are in any manner arbitrary or unreasonable and thereby violate Articles 14 and 16 of the Constitution.
It was also urged by counsel that by reducing the age of retirement to 55 years the Government employees were deprived of their right to livelihood.
If the question raised by Shri Garg is academic it will be needless to consider it.
2 11952 SCR 597 at 607.
609 cously absent in these writ petitions.
Besides the ordinance making A power being a legislative power the argument of mala Fides is misconceived.
Its reasons for passing a law are those that are stated in the Objects and Reasons and if no reasons are so stated as appear from the provisions enacted by it.
Even assuming that the executive in a given case has an ulterior motive in moving a legislation that motive cannot render the passing of the law mala fide.
By that amendment a proviso was added to rule 2 which reads thus Provided that the rules shall not be modified or E replaced to the disadvantage of any person already in service By GO Ms No 48 dated February 17 1983 this proviso was deleted with retrospective effect from February 23 1979.
See BS Vaderu vs Union of India1 Raj Kumar vs Union of India2.
1   582 585.
2  965.
