Civil Appeals Nos.
1264 6771 etc.
From the Judgment and Order dated 261269 of the High Court of Andhra Pradesh at Hyderabad in WP Nos 3956 3971 3983 3899 4421 4474 4537 4544 4570 4825 and 493368.
DK Sen Gopal Subramonium and RN Poddar for the Appellant.
Ex parte for the Respondents.
A dealer is at the mercy of the Administrator and is help less against the arbitrary exercise of the power by the Administrator when he chooses to negative the request.
Further the section does not provide nor is any rule brought to our notice which enjoins upon the Administrator to give a hearing to dealer who seeks permission under this Section and give reasons in case he decides to refuse the permission.
 Incidentally the High Court also proceeded to draw analogy from the reasoning adopted by this Court in its decision in Harakchand Ratanchand Banthias vs Asst.
For the reasons which we shall indicate presently it is impossible to the reasoning given by the High Court for striking down sec.
28 in the manner done and in our view the analogy drawn by the High Court from the reasoning adopted by this Court while dealing with unamended sec.
276 of the Act is clearly inapplicable.
28 by reference to which the power conferred upon him thereunder could be exercised by the Administrator but that is not decisive of the matter.
In fact sec.
Even the restriction in the case of a third person in carrying on business as a money lender banker or any other business in the same premises is not absolute in as much as the Administrator can authorise the third person to carry on the business in the licensed premises of the dealer and while implementing such limited restrictions or granting relief against the same he will be guided by the policy and purposes of the Act and by the prime consideration that circumvention of the other provisions of the Act shall not be premitted.
28 cannot be struck down on the ground of excessive delegation of legislative power and its validity has to be upheld.
276 in several of its clauses referred to certain concepts which Administrator was required to take into account and these concepts were regarded as indefinite uncertain and vague.
214 Guj.
g A did not provide any objective standard or norm and because such indefinite uncertain and vague expressions or concepts had been used in some of the clauses under sec.
276 this Court struck down sec.
276 on the ground that it conferred a very wide and vague power on the Administrator.
28 by reference to which the Administrator is required to exercise his power.
In the result we set aside the impugned judgment of the High Court and declare sec.
28 of the Act valid.
