CSS Rao for the Respondent.
 These references under s271 of the have been made by the Income Tax Appellate tribunal Cuttack Bench at the instance of the Commissioner of Wealth Tax Orissa for the opinion of this Court on the following question of law Whether on the facts and in the circumstances of the case the Wealth Tax Officer was in law justified in including in the net wealth of the assessee interest due on accrual basis though not realised on the outstandings of the money lending business the accounts of the assessee being maintained on cash basis  The respondent assessee was assessed to wealth tax for the assessment years 1965 66 1966 67 and 1967 68 the respective valuation dates being March 31 1965 March 31 1966 and March 31 1967 in the status of a Hindu Undivided Family.
In each of the assessments the Wealth Tax Officer included a sum of Rs 150000 estimated as the accrued interest on the assessee s money lending investments.
In doing so the Appellate Assistant Commissioner followed Commissioner of Wealth tax Bihar and Orissa vs Vysyaraju Badreenarayana Moorthy Raju Orissa1 The Wealth Tax Officer appealed to the Appellate Tribunal and contended that accrued interest was liable to be included in the wealth tax assessments of the assessee.
1 of section 27 of the Wealth 1 2 309 Tax Act for a reference of the cases to this Court in view of the conflict of opinion between the Orissa High Court and the Andhra Pradesh High Court and so these references have been made.
The question can be disposed of shortly.
That is the valuation date.
 310 The computation of the net wealth of an assessee calls for a determination of his assets and debts as on the valuation date.
q of s2 indicates that broadly Parliament has fixed upon the last day of the previous year as defined under the Income Tax Act as the valuation date.
His financial activities during that period determine how his net wealth on a particular valuation date differs from his net wealth on the immediately preceding valuation date.
All the assets of the assessee bar those expressly excepted by the statute are to be taken into account and it is immaterial whether the assessee employs one system of accounting or another.
The assets are not confined to cash.
In other words it would be the estimated open market value of the rights in the property which constitute the asset.
In the result the question is answered in the affirmative in favour of the Revenue and against the assessee.
