Criminal Appeal No 317 of 1986 arises out of the judgment and order of the High Court of Patna and the Writ Petition No 316 is in respect of the same detenu.
Birendra Pratap Singh and his associates who were there also returned the firing in same manner.
As a result of this firing one innocent namely Brahamdeo Mishra was killed.
Besides the aforesaid ground the following cases are also referred hereunder as background to show the criminality of the subject.
19683 has already been submitted in this case.
Charge sheet No 2584 has already been submitted in this case.
909 Charge sheet No 2085 has already been submitted in this case.
Emphasis supplied 5.
At the relevant time the petitioner was undertrial in the said criminal case.
910 It is the contention of the petitionerappellant that the order of preventive detention could only be justified against a person in detention if the detaining authority was satisfied that his release from detention was imminent and the order of detention was necessary for putting him back in jail.
 According to the District Magistrate when police pressure to apprehend him became heavy the detenu opted to surrender before the Sub Divisional Judicial Magistrate on 10th January 1986 in substantive case to frustrate the service of the detention order.
Grounds were all indicated.
His representation was duly considered and rejected.
26986.
From the affidavit of the District Magistrate it does not appear that either the prospect of immediate release of the detenu or other factors which can justify the detention of a person in detention were properly considered in the light of the principles noted in the aforesaid decision and especially in the decisions in Rameshwar Shaw vs District Magistrate Burdwan  Anr  and Ramesh Yadav vs District Magistrate Etah and others though there was a statement to the effect that the petitioner was in jail and was likely to be enlarged on bail.
In the facts and circumstances of this case therefore the continued detention of the detenu under the Act is not justified.
A bald statement is merely an ipso dixit 912 of the officer.
Eternal vigilance on the part of the authority charged with both law and order and public order is the price which the democracy in this country extracts from the public officials in order to protect the fundamental freedoms of our citizens.
At least the records of the case do not indicate that.
