Appeal No 1713NT of 1973.
Not present  The Judgment of the Court was delivered by SABYASACHI MUKHARJI J.
1957 2 Whether on the facts and in the circumstances of the case the Tribunal right ly held that the assessee did not validly assign Rs 150000 in favour of his sons and grand sons by his letter dated 11.
1957 3 Whether on the facts and in the circumstances of the case the Tribunal tight ly held that the sum of Rs 150000 was properly included in the assessee s net wealth 4 Whether on the facts and in the circumstances of the case the Tribunal right ly held that the assessee did not make valid gifts aggregating Rs67560 5 Whether on the facts and in the circumstances of the case the Tribunal right ly held that the sum of Rs6756012 was rightly included in the net wealth of the assessee The case relates to the assessment year 1957 58 and the relevant date of valuation was 31st March 1957.
Gift is defined in section 122 of the as transfer of certain existing mova ble or immovable property made voluntarily and without consideration by 126 one person called the donor to another called the donee and accepted by or on behalf of the donee.
34 and 5 were answered in the negative.
But in the cases of non banking companies or firms if these companies or firms do not have overdraft facilities it is not possible to make valid gift if sums or funds are not available.
Commis sioner of Income Tax Poona vs Dharsey Keshavji 143 ITR 509 and Commissioner of Income Tax Poona vs Devichand Uttamchand In the background of facts of those cases the Bombay High Court held that the gifts were valid.
He had large assets but these were represented by land buildings plant machinery and stock in trade.
Interest on the amounts was also credited in the accounts regularly for some time until a bank from which C had obtained an overdraft objected to such crediting of interest.
C s wife withdrew various sums of money from time to time from the interest account and whenever C desired to retransfer amounts to his capital account he obtained let ters of consent from her.
Father had complete control and dominion over that amount.
Rangoon High Court in Abba Dada and Company vs Commis sioner of Income Tax Burma held that the mere book entries were not sufficient in that case to constitute valid gift.
Balance of the firm was only Rs 15.
Memo of gift recorded on stamp paper.
In Commissioner of Wealth Tax vs Gulab Rai Govind Pra sad there was an alleged gift of Rs2 lakhs to minor son by book entries.
Cash Balance was only Rs7626.
But the Allahabad High Court in the case of Gopal Raj Swarup vs Commissioner of Wealth Tax Lucknow supra had to deal with the wealth tax.
If the possession enjoyment or benefit of the donor in the property was consistent with the facts and circumstances of the case other than those of the factum of gift it could not be said that the donee had not retained the possession and enjoyment of the property to the entire exclusion of the donor or to the entire exclusion of the donor in any benefit to him by contract or otherwise.
But in that case the question in the present form in which it arises before us in the instant case did not arise.
As the respondent is not appearing there will be no order as to costs.
