Soli J Sorabjee KJ John and AK Desai for the Respondents.
The Judgment of the Court was delivered by SEN J.
Penalty for wrongful withholding of property 1 If any officer or employee of a company a wrongfully obtains possession of any property of a company or D b having any such property in his possession wrongfully withholds it or knowingly applies it to purposes other than those expressed or directed in the articles and authorised by this Act he shall on the complaint of the company or any creditor or contributory thereof be punishable with fine which may extend to one thousand rupees.
1 of section 630 of the Act.
1 of section 630 of H 172 the Act the High Court of Calcutta in Amritlal Chum vs Devi Ranjan Jha  Anr held that it refers only to the existing officers and employees of a company.
a viz property of a company wrongfully taken possession of by a present officer or employee of the company.
1 of section 630 must be interpreted to mean not only the present officers and employees of a company but also to include past officers and employees of the company.
That has been the consistent view taken by the High Court of Bombay in a series of cases.
1 of section 630 which provide for the launching of a prosecution against an officer or employee of a company for wrongful possession of such property under cls.
1 of section 630 and for the recovery of such property by the issue of process under sub section 2 also extends to past officers and employees of the company and whether the Court trying the offence has the power to issue a process under sub section.
2 against such officer or employee.
As the respondent Shipping Corporation of India a public sector undertakings was in dire need of the flat in question which is situate in a posh locality like the Cuffe Parade in 173 Bombay for the use of its senior executive we could not accede to the request of the learned counsel for the petitioner to refer the case to a bench of three judges and heard learned counsel for the parties at quit some length on August 271987 and dismissed the special leave petition.
After the expiry of the said period of six months the company addressed a letter dated April 26 1985 requesting the petitioner to vacate the premises stating that if he failed to do so he would be liable to pay higher compensation as per the company s rules.
Since the petitioner failed to vacate the flat the company initiated proceedings for his eviction under the Public Premises Eviction of Unauthorised occupants Act 1971.
Instead of availing of that opportunity the petitioner on March 3 1986 moved the High Court by a petition under article 226 of the Constitution and obtained ad interim stay of the proceedings before the Estate officer.
It is further pleaded that the petitioner was given the flat for his residence during the period of his employment and that he was bound to vacate the same after his retirement.
It is asserted that the petitioner with a dishonest intention is wrongfully with holding the flat and has instituted false and frivolous proceedings with the ulterior object of protracting and delaying the eviction proceedings.
It is submitted that on a true construction the scope and effect of the section was limited to such property of the company which was wrongfully obtained by an officer or employee of the company.
b of sub section.
1 for the contention that cl.
b does not stand by itself but is inter connected with cl.
In essence the submission is that sub section.
Secondly it is contended that the legislature never intended to include past officers and employees of a company within the ambit of section 630 of the Act which provides for prosecution of an officer or employee of a company for wrongfully withholding the property of the company inasmuch as it has used different languages where it was so intended namely in sections 538 and 545.
I of section 630 of the Act which defeats the very purpose and object with which it had been introduced.
Section 630 of the Act which makes the wrongful withholding of any property of a company by an officer or employee of the company a penal offence is typical of the economy of language which is characteristic of the draughtsman of the Act.
Sub section.
1 by clauses a and b creates two distinct and separate offences.
a namely where an officer or employee of a company wrongfully obtains possession of any property of the company during the course of his employment to which he is not entitled.
a and although it primarily refers to the existing officers and employees it may also take in past officers and employees.
In contrast cl.
b contemplates a case where an officer or employee of a company having any property of a company in his possession wrongfully withholds it or knowingly applies it to purposes other than those expressed or directed in the 176 articles and authorised by the Act.
That appears to be one of the functions of cl.
It would be noticed that cl.
b also makes it an offence if any officer or employee of a company having any property of the company in his possession knowingly applies it to purposes other than those expressed or directed in the articles and authorised by the Act.
That would primarily apply to the present officers and employees and may also include past officers and employees.
1 of section 630 of the Act.
The High Court of Calcutta in Amritlal Chum s case obviously fell into an error in seeking to curtail the ambit of section 630lb by giving a restrictive meaning to the terms officer or employee  which must take its colour from the context in which it appears.
1 of section 630 is the preservation of the property of a company by the creation of two distinct offences by clauses a and b which arise under different sets of circumstances and it would be rendered nugatory by projecting cl.
a into cl.
b as applicable to such property of a company possession of which is wrongfully obtained by an officer or employee of the company ie refers to the whole of cl.
b relate to any property of a company as mentioned in cl.
Section 630 of the Act plainly makes it an offence if an officer or employee of the company who was permitted to use any property of the company during his employment wrongfully retains or occupies the same after the termination of his employment.
By a curious process of reasoning the High Court of Calcutta in Amritlal Chum s case held that section 630 of the Act applies only to the existing officers and employees and not to those whose employment has been terminated.
In somewhat similar facts an officer of Messrs Jardine Hendersons Limited who had been placed in possession of a furnished flat in premises No 27 Ballygunj Park Calcutta as a condition of his service wrongfully retained possession thereof after ceasing to be an officer of the company.
NG Chaudhuri J speaking for himself and GC Chatterjee J held that the opening words of sub section.
1 of section 630 namely if any officer or employee of a company  qualify the acts of delinquency  specified in clauses a and b thereof.
a of section 6301 was referable to existing officer or employee of a company while cl.
b was wide enough to include former or past officer or employee of the company inasmuch as on a plain reading of the section the two clauses do not permit different interpretations as suggested.
Further whenever the framers of the law in their wisdom thought it proper to bring within the mischief of the provisions of the Act former officers or employees of a company they did not hesitate to do so and they expressly legislated.
In particular the learned judge referred to section 538 which provides for prosecution for offences by officers of companies in liquidation and uses the expression a past or present officer of a company etc  as also section 545 which provides for prosecution of delinquent officers and members of a company during the course of winding up and uses the words any past or present officer etc  Upon that basis he observed that there was no reason to give a twisted and laboured interpretation to the provisions of section 630 of the Act which its plain reading does not permit.
b as taking in the property mentioned in cl.
a ie property wrongfully obtained.
b of section 630 l wholly redundant.
He had been allotted the premises of a flat approximately 3500 square feet in area located at Mayfair Gardens Little Gibbs Road Bombay.
He had been inducted into the flat only by virtue of his capacity as the General Manager of the company s branch office at Bombay but the company allowed him to retain the same on humanitarian grounds for a short period after his retirement to enable him to find alternative accommodation.
The Court repelled the contention that section 630 of the Act applies only to the existing officers and employees of the company and not to former officers and employees and that the phrase any such property  used in cl.
b even though cls.
a and b are separated by the word or  which must in the context in which it appears be read as and  and so construed must mean withholding of property wrongfully obtained by an existing officer or employee.
Kotwal J.
On a careful analysis of section 630 held that the provisions of the section apply not only to the present officers and employees of the company but also to past officers and employees and observed It is held that the features and deductions which flow logically and inescapably on an analysis of section 630 are that i Clause a of the section is self contained and independent of cl.
b with the capacity of creating penal liability 4 embracing the case of an existing employee or officer of the company.
ii Clause b is equally independent and distinct from cl.
iii The entitlement of an officer to the property of the company is contingent on the right and capacity of the officer by virtue of his employment which is transformed into the actual possession of the property and the duration of such right would be co terminus with the terms of employment.
 In Govind T Jagtiani vs Sirajuddin section Kazi supra Kanade J fol lowed the critical analysis of section 630 made by Kotwal J as above and observed that the entitlement of an officer to the property of the company and the duration of such right would be co terminus with the terms of employment and the right would stand extinguished with the termination to the employment giving rise to an obligation to hand over the property back to the company and observed If the property is held back the retained possession would amount to wrongful withholding of the property of the company.
PSS Petition dismissed.
