Civil Appeal No 1377 of 1982.
Clause 2 of the said agreement recites that the licensee had agreed to use the premises as above and merely for the purpose of workshop business.
It further stipulated that the licensee shall pay to the licensor a monthly compensation of Rs225 per month.
It is further stipulated that the licensee shall pay the electric charges in respect of consumption of electricity and the rent of the said premises should be paid by the licensor only.
He recorded further that he thought that BC meant by consent .
In the light of the legal position and also the fact that the rent light bill stood in the name of the respondent showed that there was no desire to create any lease by the document mentioned hereinbefore and the appellant regarded him as a mere licensee.
In July 1967 the appellants 1064 filed an application for eviction under section 41 of the .
If he was such a licensee the non obstante clause of section 15A1 give him the status and protection of a tenant in spite of there being anything to the contrary in any other law or in contract.
It was futher held that a person continuing in occupation of such premises after revocation of the licence was still liable to pay compensation or damages for its use and occupation.
In support of this appeal Sree RF Nariman very laboriously took us through the documents.
He referred us to the decision of this Court in the case of Associated 1066 Hotels of India Ltd vs RN Kapoor  where at page 383 this Court noted that there was a marked distinction between a lease and a licence.
A lease involves a transfer of an interest in land Subba Rao J as the learned Chief Justice then was observed in that case.
 Denning LJ also reiterated the same decision.
For this purpose reference may be made to the language used and the restrictions put upon the use of the premises in question by the appellant.
It permitted user only for 20 hours.
Clause 12 is significant which gave to the licensor the right to enter upon the premises and inspect the same at any time.
In our opinion the background of the facts of this case and the background of the entire document negate the contention of the appellant that it was a lease and not a licence.
But in this case we had not been tempted.
It was a possible view.
In determining whether an agreement creates between the parties the relationship of landlord and tenant or merely that of licensor and licensee the decisive consideration is the intention of the parties.
In any event this is a possible view that could be taken.
In the aforesaid view of the matter we are clearly of the opinion that in view of the intention of the parties in the document and the facts and circumstances of this case it was a licence and not a lease.
In the aforesaid view of the matter this appeal must fail as we find no ground to interfere with the decision of the High Court.
