Under Article 32 of the Constitution of India.
The Judgment of the Court was delivered by OJHA J.
Sd KG Bijlani ADGOFEst.
It appears th at the criterion of promotion is seniority cum merit.
T he learned Single Judge however did not go into the merits of the controversy and dismissed the writ petition on t he ground of unexplained laches and also on the ground that a previous petition for similar relief had not been presse d Against the 98 judgment of the learned Single Judge the appellants pr e ferred a special appeal before a Division Bench of th at Court.
Accordi ng to the learned Judges such a view would militate again st Rule 12 of the Rules mentioned above.
No formal foundation has been raised in t he pleadings in the writ petition in support of the grou nd based on Article 16 of the Constitution.
 It is against this judgment that Civil Appeal No 441 of 1981 was preferred in this Court.
Since the order dated 2 nd February 1981 passed in Civil Appeal No 441 of 1981 so to speak constitutes the basis for the writ petitions me n tioned above it is in our opinion expedient to reprodu ce the said order.
It reads Heard counsel.
It appears that a lar ge number of persons have been promoted to those posts thou gh they have completed only two years of service.
We see no justific a tion for any such differential treatment being given to t he appellants.
If a large number of other persons similar ly situated have been promoted as Chargeman Grade II aft er completing two years of service there is no reason why t he appellants should also not be similarly promoted aft er completing the same period of service.
If the appellants are promote d they will naturally have to be promoted with effect from t he date on which they ought to have been promoted.
Almost analogous prayer had been made in Miscellaneo us Petition No 9357 of 1983 also namely that the responden ts may be restrained from promoting officers to the next high er posts on the basis of recommendations of certain Departme n tal Promotion Committees without complying with the dire c tions of this Court in its order dated 2nd February 198 1.
 The aforesaid writ petitions came up for hearing befo re a bench of two learned Judges of this Court on 9th Septe m ber 1987.
It was also brought to our notice that similar ly placed 125 employees got the benefit of the circular dat ed 6th November 1962 in pursuance of an order passed by t he Madhya Pradesh High Court on 4th April 1983 in writ pet i tions filed by them.
It was urged that in case the sa me relief is not granted to the petitioners they are likely to become juniors to some of the appellants in Civil Appeal N o 441 of 1981 and the petitioners in the writ petitions deci d ed by the Madhya Pradesh High Court on 4th April 1983.
Howeve r merely on completion of two years  service a Supervisor  A  could not claim automatic promotion.
On the other han d promotion depended inter alia on availability of posts a nd the incumbent being found fit by the Departmental Promoti on Committee for being included in the selection list.
It w as further urged that the petitioners of these writ petitio ns were on the basis of the Rules considered for promotion a nd it is not disputed that all of them have in due course be en promoted as Chargeman II and some of them have even be en promoted to higher posts.
He also brought to our notice a subsequent circular dated 20th January 1966 by the Direct or General of Ordnance Factories who had issued.
Ref This office confidential No 673ANG dt.
29665.
or equivalent grades.
Having heard learned counsel for the parties we fi nd substance in the submission made by the learned counsel f or the respondents.
vs Sh.
Soraasundararn Viswanath  Ors 198 8 3 SC Judgments Today 724 wherein it has been held It is well settled that the norms regarding recruitment a nd promotion of officers belonging to the Civil Services can be laid down either by a law made by the appropriate Legisl a ture or by rules made under the proviso to Article 309 of the Constitution of India or by means of executive instru c tions issued under Article 73 of the Constitution of Ind ia in the case of Civil Services under the Union of India a nd under Article 162 of the Constitution of India in the ca se of Civil Services under the State Governments.
Rule 12 provides 104 that no appointment to the posts to which these rules app ly shall be made otherwise than as specified in these rule section This right of promotion as provided by the Rules was neith er affected nor could be affected by the circular.
In the case of Ramchandra Shankar Deodhar  Ors  supra the petitioners and other allocated Tehsildars fr om ex Hyderabad State had under the Notification of the R aj Pramukh dated September 15 1955 all the vacancies in t he posts of Deputy Collector in the ex Hyderabad State avai l able to them for promotion but under subsequent rules of July 30 1959 fifty per cent of the vacancies were to be filled by direct recruitment and only the remaining fif ty per cent were available for promotion and that too on div i sional basis.
In oth er words it resulted in delayed chance of promotion.
It wa s inter alia urged on behalf of the petitioners that t he situation brought about by the rules of July 30 1959 co n stituted variation to their prejudice in the conditions of service applicable to them immediately prior to the reorga n isation of the State and the Rules were consequently i n valid.
A rule which merely affects chances of promoti on cannot be regarded as varying a condition of service.
9522 27 of 1983 it has been pointed o ut that employees who had joined much later than 20th Januar y 1966 namely the date of the subsequent circular of t he Director General of Ordnance Factories superseding h is earlier circular dated 6th November 1962 have also g ot benefit under the orders of this Court dated 2nd Februar y 1981 aforesaid as also under the orders of the Madhya Pr a desh High Court dated 4th April 1983 in the writ petiti on filed before that Court.
As regards the order of the Madh ya Pradesh High Court dated 4th April 1983 it may be point ed out that the said High Court in an earlier writ petiti on being Misc.
At this place it will be usef ul to refer to an affidavit dated 19th November 1983 of D P Gupta who is one of the appellants in Civil Appeal No 4 41 of 1981 filed in CMP Nos.
9356 57 of 1983.
It appears that the remaining 50 diploma holde rs recruited in 1963 and those who had been recruited in t he begning of 1964 or thereafter could not be promoted inasmu ch as by the time their cases could be considered for promoti on the subsequent order dated 28th December 1965 had come in to force and had also come into force the circular dated 20 th January 1966 which had superseded the circular dated 6 th November 1962 and had provided that in future promotions of all such individuals will be effected in accordance with t he normal rules and not merely on the completion of two yea rs satisfactory continuous service.
It cannot be disputed that the Director General of Ordnance Factories who had issued the circular dated 6 th November 1962 had the power to issue the subsequent circ u lar dated 20th January 1966 also.
It is further obvious th at in this view of the matter Supervisors A  who had be en promoted before the coming into force of the order dat ed 28th December 1965 and the circular dated 20th Januar y 1966 stood in a class separate from those whose promotio ns were to be made thereafter.
It may also be noticed that even though the petitione rs on their completion of 2 years  service as Supervisor  A  were not promoted as Chargeman 11 in or about the year 19 66 they chose to wait for about 17 years to file these wr it petitions which were filed in 1983 and nearly 2 years ev en after the decision dated 2nd February 1981 in Civil Appe al No 441 of 1981 which indicates that but for the decisi on in Civil Appeal No 441 of 1981 they would perhaps not ha ve even thought of filing these writ petitions inasmuch as in the meantime they had not only been promoted in the norm al course as Chargeman 1I but some of them had been promot ed even to higher posts in the hierarchy.
For aught we know if the effect of the order dated 28 th December 1965 and the circular dated 20th January 1966 h ad been properly emphasised at the time of hearing of Civ il Appeal No 441 of 198 1 its result may have been differen t.
In this connection reference may also be made to the cou n ter affidavit of Sobha Ramanand Deputy Director Ordnan ce Factory Cells G Block Ministry of Defence filed in Wr it Petition Civil Nos.
3812 19 of 1983 with regard to a matter relevant for promotion.
In paragraph 2i it has be en stated that during 1962 63 due to sudden expansion of Or d nance Factories Organisation in the wake of Chinese aggre s sion a large number of posts of Chargeman 11 and other pos ts were created and as a result thereof persons already in service as Supervisors A  were promoted to the posts of Chargeman II on completion of 2 years  service.
It h as further been stated therein that after the newly creat ed posts were thus filled by promotion chances of promotion of those who were appointed subsequently diminished and f or want of sufficient number of 108 vacancies as Chargeman II they could not be promoted to th at post soon after the completion of 2 years  service.
Nothing substantial has been brought to our notice on beha lf of the petitioners on the basis of which the aforesa id statements made in the counter affidavit may be doubted.
In view of the foregoing discussion we find it diff i cult to grant the reliefs prayed for in the aforesaid wr it petitions simply on the basis of the judgment of this Cou rt dated 2nd February 1981 in Civil Appeal No 441 of 198 1.
It is now n ot disputed that the appellants of this appeal have in purs u ance of the order of this Court dated 2nd February 19 81 been given a back date promotion to the post of Chargeman II synchronising with the dates of completion of their 2 yea rs of service as Supervisor A .
As already noticed earlier certain writ petitions filed in Madhya Pradesh High Court were allowed by that Court on 4 th April 1983 relying on the judgment of this Court dated 2 nd February 1981 in Civil Appeal No 441 of 1981.
Against t he aforesaid judgment of the Madhya Pradesh High Court dat ed 4th April 1983 Special Leave Petitions Civil Nos.
5987 92 of 1986 were filed in this Court by the Union of India a nd were dismissed on 28th July 1986.
The findings of t he Madhya Pradesh High Court in its judgment dated 4th Apri l 1983 thus stand approved by this Court.
At the most they would be entitled to refixation of the ir present salary on the basis of the notional seniority gran t ed to them in different grades so that their present sala ry is not less than those who are immediately below them.
 In so far as Supervisors A  who claimed promotion as Chargeman 11 the following direction was accordingly giv en by the Madhya Pradesh High Court in its judgment dated 4 th April 1983 aforesaid All these petitioners are also entitled to be treated as Chargeman Grade II on completion of two years satisfacto ry service as Supervisor Grade A Consequently notion al seniority of these persons have to be refixed in Supervis or Grade A Chargeman Grade II Grade I and Assistant Forem an in cases of those who are holding that post  .
T he petitioners are also entitled to get their present sala ry re fixed after giving them notional seniority so that t he same is not lower than those who are immediately bel ow them.
The Civil Miscellaneous Petitions in Civil Appe al No 441 of 1981 are disposed of by issuing a direction to the respondents to give the appellants in the said Civ il Appeal the same benefits as were given by the Madhya Prade sh High Court to such of the petitioners before that Court w ho were Supervisors A  and were granted promotion as Chargem an II by its judgment dated 4th April 1983.
In the circu m stances of the case however there shall be no order as to costs.
RSS Petitions dismissed.
