 Criminal Appeal No 8 18 of 1979.
From the Judgment  Order dated the 27101979 of the Madras High Court in Crl.
A No 4 of 1977.
V Krishnamurthy for the Respondent.
He took charge of the office on 6101975 and had been residing in a house opposite the training school.
PW 3 the Principal of the training school issued exhibit P 2 show cause notice to the PW 1 Venkataswamy the canteen contractor as to why his licence for running the canteen should not be cancelled.
On 21101975 the appellant is stated to have pressed the demand to PW 1.
As instructed PW 1 was ready with ten rupees currency notes.
PW 1 handed over the money to the appellant who received the same.
PW 3 the Principal produced the concerned file relating to show cause notice from the house of the appellant on the same day.
At the trial the prosecution witnesses supported the case.
PW 1 affirmed the fact that the appellant made the demand and had also received the amount on 2210.
was guilty.
It was also urged that the appellant being new in the office could exert little influence on the Principal and the whole story is therefore improbable.
It took the view that the evidence of PW 1 find corroboration in the testimony of PW 2 and 6 and the contemporary records.
He had thereafter received the amount of Rs 100 from PW 1.
Of course it is open to that person to show that though that money was not due to him as legal remuneration it was legally due to him in some other manner or that he had received it under a transaction or an arrangement which was lawful.
The burden resting on the accused person in such a case would not be as light as it is where a presumption is raised under section 114 of Evidence Act and cannot be held to be discharged merely by reason of the fact that the explanation offered by the accused is reasonable and probable.
A fact is said to be proved when its existence is directly established or when upon the material before it the Court finds its existence to be so probable that a reasonable man would act on the supposition that it exists.
 On a careful consideration of the facts and circum stances we are not satisfied that the appellant had even by preponderance of probability succeeded in rebutting the presumption.
We find no merit in the appeal.
