Appeal No 787 of 1964.
Appeal from the judgment and decree dated January 5 1961 of the Calcutta High Court in Appeal from Appellate Decree No 1012 of 1955.
AK Sen and D N Mukherjee for the appellant.
Mitter J This is an appeal by a certificate granted by the High Court at Calcutta from a judgment and decree in Second Appeal passed by that court in January 1961.
On the 18th June 1948 the plaintiff the appellant before us instituted Suit No 292 of 1948 for ejectment of three Persons namely Abdul Rahim Abdul Hamid and Abdul Gaffur from the property in suit a parcel of land about 1 cottah 8 chittaks being part of premises No 6  1 Shibtola Lane Entally Calcutta.
In the notice to quit served on the 7th May 1948 the first two persons were described as tenants under the plaintiff and the third as a person who had purported to purchase the structures on the land and the tenancy right therein.
In the plaint itself the first two defendants were described as thika tenants.
No claim was made for rents or taxes although it was alleged that the same were in arrears.
Fifth Additional 172 Court Alipore on November 23 1949.
On March 14 1953 the Calcutta Thika Tenancy Amendment Act 1953 was passed amending the definition of thika tenant still further and introducing important changes in the Act of 1949.
Before the Subordinate Judge a point was taken that after the coming into force of the Act of 1949 the Rent Controller alone had jurisdiction in respect of ejectment suits as the defendant appellant was a thika tenant.
Abdul Gaffur preferred a Second Appeal to the High Court and this was heard and disposed of by a single Judge of that court on July 21 1954 long after the Thika Tenancy Ordinance of 1952 and the Amending Act of 1953 had come into force.
In view of the amendment of the Act in 1953 however.
On remand the Subordinate Judge Seventh Court Alipore rejected the plea of the landlord that the appellant Gaffur could not be regarded as a thika tenant inter alia on the ground that he had sold his interest by a registered sale deed dated April 12 1949 to one Subasini.
Section 29 on the other hand was made applicable to all proceedings including proceedings in execution which were pending at the date of the commencement of the Act.
If any such pending suit or proceeding related to any matter in respect of which the Controller was competent to pass orders the suit or proceeding would be transferred to the Controller who would deal with it in accordance with the provisions of the Act just as if the Act had been in operation on the date of the commencement of the suit or proceeding.
If the Court or Controller holds that the person is such a thika tenant.
In such a case it became open to a person covered by the new definition of a thika tenant to make an application within three months of the commencement of the Ordinance either to the court or to the Controller as the case may be for relief on the basis that the applicant was a thika tenant.
No reference is made in this subsection to the date when the suit was instituted.
Only suits which were pending on 21st October 1952 were to be decided in terms of the Act as finally amended.
It is a general principle of law that statutes are not to operate retrospectively so as to defeat vested rights but such operation may be given by express enactment or by necessary implication from the language employed.
It expressly states that notwithstanding anything contained in any other law for the time being in force or in any contract a thika tenant shall be liable to ejectment on ground specified and not otherwise.
Consequently a landlord who had filed a suit before the 28th October 1949 but was unable to establish any of the grounds mentioned in section 3 could not claim to eject his tenant.
He could only make an application under section 5 after giving notice under section 4.
182 We cannot speculate as to why the legislature thought fit to omit sections 28 and 29 from the Act of 1949.
