Appeals under article 132 1 of the Constitution from the judgment and order dated 28th August 1951 of the High Court of Judicature at Calcutta Harries CJ Chakravarthi Das Banerjee and SR Das Gupta JJ in Civil Revision Cases Nos 942 and 1113 of 1951.
AA Peerbhoy and JB Dadachanji for Habib Mohammad Intervener.
AR Sornanatha Iyer Advocate General of Mysore K Ramaseshayya Choudhry with him for the State of Mysore.
B Sen for the appellant in Case No 298.
2 Nodirection shall be made under sub section 1 for the trial of an offence for which an accused person was being tried at the commencement of this Act before any court but save as aforesaid such direction may be made in re spect of an offence whether such  offence was committed before or after the commencement of this Act.
 Sections 6 to 15 prescribe the special procedure which the court has to follow in the trial of the cases referred to it.
 Before considering whether section 51 infringes to any and what extent the constitutional prohibition under article 14 it is necessary to ascertain the true scope and intendment of the impugned provision.
292 purports to provide for the matters to be tried by a special court and does not in form seek to define the kind or class of offences or cases which the State Government is empowered under the Act to assign to such a court for trial.
The object of the law we assume until the lower Court shall decide otherwise is single to keep up competition and the general language is to be restricted by the specific provi sions and to the particular end.
 The title and the preamble as well as the other specific provisions of the Act here in question show unmistakably that the whole object and purpose of the legislation was to devise machinery for speedier trial of certain offences which must mean trial of cases involving the commission of certain 1 1830 I B  Ad.
294 pledge of the protection of equal laws Yick Wo vs Hopkins 1 that is Jaws that operate alike on all persons under like circumstances.
And as the prohibition under the article is directed against the State which is defined in article 12 as including not only the legislatures but also the Governments in the country article 14 secures all persons within the territories of India against arbitrary laws as well as arbitrary application of laws.
It seems like a contradiction to say that a law having equality of operation may yet give equality of protection.
An affirmative finding on the point may not howev er be decisive of the issue.
A Louisiana pilotage law authorised the appoint ment of State pilots only upon certification by a State Board of river pilot commissioners who were themselves State Pilots.
Among the prescribed qualifications was apprentice ship under a State pilot for a certain period.
 In the face of all these considerations it seems to me difficult to condemn section 5 1 as violative of article 14.
40 306 There is no doubt that the West Bengal Special Courts Ordinance 1949 which was later replaced by the impugned Act West Bengal Special Courts Act X of 1950 to be herein after referred to as the Act was a valid Ordinance when it was promulgated on the 17th August 1949.
Anwar Ali Sarkar who is the respondent in Appeal No 297 along with 49 other persons were the accused in what is known as Dum Dum Factory Raid case where crimes of the utmost bru tality were committed by an armed gang of men on the factory of Messrs Jessop and Company at Dum Dum.
Accordingly a Special Bench was constituted consisting of the Chief Justice and four other Judges who heard both these cases.
 It is in substance modelled upon the equal pro tection clause occurring in the Fourteenth Amendment of the American Constitution with a further addition of the rule of equality before the law which is an established maxim of the English Constitution.
Article 21 of the Constitution only guarantees that no person shall be deprived of his life or personal liberty except in accordance with the procedure established by law.
Amongst other important changes reference may be made to the provision of section 13 of the Act which empowers the Special Court to convict an accused of any offence if the commission of such offence is proved during trial although he was not charged with the same or could be charged with it in the manner contemplated by section 236 of the Criminal Procedure Code nor was it a minor offence within the meaning of section 238 of the Code.
It must appear not only that a classification has been made but also that it is based upon some reasonable ground some difference which bears a just and proper relation to the attempted classification1.
All persons are not by nature attainment or circumstances equal and the varying needs of different classes of persons often require separate treatment and therefore the protecting clause has been construed as a guarantee against discrimi nation amongst equals only and not as taking away from the State the power to classify persons for the purpose of legislation.
Bombay and Another vs.
It merely requires that all persons subject to such legislation shall be treated alike under like cir cumstances and conditions both in the privileges conferred and in the liabilities imposed The inhibition of the amendment was designed to prevent any person or class of persons from being singled out as a special subject for discriminating and hostile legislation.
Appeals dismissed.
Agent for the appellant in Case No 297 PK Bose.
Agent for the respondent in Case No 297 Sukumar Ghose.
