N Criminal Appeal No 425 1974.
Appeal by Special Leave from the Judgment and order dated the 22nd July 1974 of the Madras High Court at Madras in Criminal Appeal No 24 of 1974 and Referred Trial No 3 of 1974.
A N Mulla K Jayaram and P Chandrasekhar for the Appellant  A V Rangam and Miss A Subhasini for the Respondent.
The Judgment of the Court was delivered by GOSWAMI J.
This appeal by special leave is directed against the 4 judgment and order of the High Court of Madras convicting the appellant hereinafter to be described as the accused under section 302 IPC and sentencing him to death.
709 The police had submitted charge sheet under section 30234 IPC against the present accused and accused Jabamani Nadar alias Kanyakumari Comrade alias Ramu and Thamizharasan alias Ramaswami who was shown as an absconder.
On the prayer of the prosecution the case against the first two accused without the absconding accused was taken up for trial.
The two accused were charged under section 120B read with sections 302 and 109 IPC as well as under section 30234 IPC.
The case was referred to the High Court as usual and the accused also preferred appeals against their conviction and sentence.
The High Court acquitted accused Jabamani Nadar alias Kanyakumari Comrade alias Ramu and accepted the reference in respect of the present accused.
His appeal was also dismissed.
Hence this appeal by special leave.
The facts are in a brief compass.
The deceased Viswanatham Pillai was the village Munsif Headman.
On April 26 1971 at about 1000 PM he was sleeping on a bench outside his cattle shed in the open space which is shown in the site plan exhibit P15 at No 9.
The younger brother of the deceased Pandurangam PW 4 who is a leper was also sleeping on the eastern parapet of the sluice of the north Boothagudi channel which is shown at No 5 in the site plan exhibit P15.
Pandurangam woke up at about 1115 PM.
The electric lights were burning in the vicinity He also saw two persons running ahead of accused Karunakaran.
He ran to his elder brother who came from the side of the bench where he was sleeping and who fell down on the southern side of the sluice.
In the first information report which PW 4 lodged at the Thana which is very close to the place of occurrence within about 15 minutes of the occurrence inter alia stated thus 4 L159SCI76 710 At about 1115.
PM I woke up on hearing a noise to the effect younger brother Karunakaran is running after stabbing me with knife catch him .
I too came running.
In that  case even corroboration may not be sought for.
This witness may not have a qualm of conscience in implicating the accused for the 711 mere asking by someone if not by the inimical police officer PW 23 against whom criminal cases were pending at the instance of the accused s father.
It failed to notice certain broad facts which should definitely weigh with the court while appreciating ocular testimony.
This may not in a given case be considered as a very serious infirmity since the witness may not have seen the other.
But the fact that the witness has stated in the first information report that the deceased was only mentioning the name of accused Karunakaran as his assailant this earlier version appears to be contradicted by the medical evidence.
Another very serious departure from his earlier version is that while PW 4 had stated in the first information report that my elder brother meaning the deceased was chasing him from behind in court he has completely given a go by to this statement and stated that Karunakaran was being chased by PWs 1 2 and 3.
He admitted in the course of cross examination that the Sub Inspector asked him whether he had any witnesses and that he did not tell about them due to excitement.
It is difficult to accept this explanation of this witness.
Assuming that his earlier version in the first information report is true that the deceased chased the accused .
as the latter was running away after the assault we would have expected some evidence of a trail of blood stains from the place where he was sleeping to the place where he fell dead.
There were also no blood stains on the bench where he was said to be sleeping.
It is also conceivable that those persons who arrived at the place of occurrence a little earlier than PW 4 did not see the assailants who might have already escaped.
The High Court is not even right that PW 4 stands wholly corroborated by the contents of the FIR.
The conviction and sentence of death are therefore set aside.
The appeal is allowed and the accused shall be released from detention forthwith.
