270 of 1955.
Hemendra Shah J B Dadachanji and Rajinder Narain for the petitioner.
DAS ACTG.
On the 1st February 1954 the Additional Collector issued a notice of demand on the assessee for payment of the assessed amount of tax.
The sale proclamation was issued on the 15th January 1955.
The assessee did not appear in person on the appointed day but on the next day the 17th June 1955 an Advocate acting on behalf of the assessee wrote a letter to the Additional Collector purporting to show cause why the assessee should not be arrested and sent to the civil jail.
A rule was issued by the High Court but eventually on the 24th August 1955 the High Court Chagla CJ and Desai J discharged the rule.
No application was made to the High Court for leave to appeal to this Court from the decision of that High Court but on the 2nd September 1955 the present petition was filed in this Court under article 32 of the Constitution for the relief hereinbefore mentioned.
Article 14 is invoked in two ways.
A Collector in the State of Madras in recovering the certified amount of income tax has to proceed under section 48 of the Madras Revenue Recovery Act 1864 Madras Act II of 1864.
I of 1886 does not insist on imprisonment at all.
897 If the State laws are discriminatory that vice cannot be imputed to section 462.
Each State in its wisdom has devised a machinery which it has considered appropriate and suitable for the recovery of its own public demand.
114 900 of public demand prevailing in that State Here the defaulters are classified on a territorial or geographical basis and this basis of classification has precisely the same correlation to the object of the Indian Income tax Act as it has to the object of the different Public Demands Recovery Acts.
If this is right when a question of imposition is concerned it cannot be wrong when the matter is one of recovery.
Adoption of an existing machinery devised for a particular purpose cannot if there be no vice of unconstitutionality in the machinery render it unconstitutional if it is made to subserve a purpose closely akin or similar to the purpose for which it bad been devised.
As already stated under section 46 2 the Collector on receipt of the certificate from the Income tax Officer has to proceed to recover the certified demand as if it were an arrear of land revenue.
A cursory perusal of the two sections will show at once that the procedure prescribed by section 13 of the Bombay City Land Revenue Act 1876 for the recovery of arrears of land revenue was harsher and more drastic than the procedure laid down in section 157 of the Bombay Land Revenue Code 1879 in that a defaulter residing in the City of Bombay could be kept in detention for a day for every rupee of the arrears which might considerably exceed the maximum period of six months which is the period 904 limited by the Code of Civil Procedure for the detention of a judgment debtor in civil jail.
Further the law was amended on the 8th October 1954 when the proviso to section 13 quoted above was replaced by the following proviso Provided that such imprisonment shall cease at any time upon payment of the sum due and that it shall in no case exceed i A period of six months when the sum due is more than Rs 50 and iiA period of six weeks in any other case.
By that time section 13 had been amended and the warrant of arrest was issued on the 7th June 1955 that is to say long after the amendment of the section.
