From the judgment and decree dated April 21 1969 of the Allahabad High Court in First Appeal No 80 of 1964.
b of clause I of Article 133 of the Constitution granted by the Allahabad High Court against its judgment and decree dated April 21 1969 disposing of appeals out of a suit for declaration and possession.
The plaintiffs filed a suit claiming that the property in dispute belonged to the Math Sauna or the deity Sri Thakur Gokarneshwar 661 Mahadeo Ji installed in the Math Sauna temple and that Mahant Sadashiva Yati was in possession as Mahant and Sarbarakar.
It was claimed that in the event of Mahant Sadashiva Yati being found out of possession a decree for possession should be made.
These properties included properties in village Amauli.
He asserted that Shivshanker Yati possessed no personal property.
The suit was contested by the first defendant Kedar Nath Chaubey also referred to as Uma Shanker Yati.
He alleged that Mahant Shivshanker Yati owned personal properties which included the properties in village Amauli that he was the chela of Mahant Shivshanker Yati and the Amauli properties had passed to him under a will executed by the Mahant.
First Appeal No 80 of 1964 was filed by Kedar Nath Chaubey  Uma Shanker Yati against the declaration that the Amauli properties were owned by Math Sauna or the deity and that Sadashiv Yati was in possession thereof as Mahant and Sarbarakar.
It held that the Amauli properties had been purchased by Shivshanker Yati in 1921 from 662 the personal and separate funds inherited by him from his predecessor Shivpher Yati and that the Amauli properties must therefore be regarded as his personal and separate properties and they did not belong to the Math or the deity.
He had also inherited the personal property of Mahant Shivbaran Yati who owned three private properties in village Shiv Dass in the district of Banaras.
He was granted a succession certificate by the District Judge Ghazipur in respect of the two fixed deposits made by Mahant Shivpher Yati in the Bank of Bengal.
In respect of both properties the revenue records mentioned the name of Mahant Shivshankar Yati and not that of the Math or the deity.
It is pointed out before us that in assessment proceedings under the U P Agriculture Income Tax Act 1948 the Amauli properties were described by Mahant Shivshankar Yati as properties of the Math and therefore a claim to exemption from the levy was made.
In our judgment the High Court is right in the view that the Amauli properties constitute the personal property of Uma Shankar Yati and do not form part of the properties of the Math Sauna or of the deity Sri Thakur Gokarneshwar Mahadeoji.
In the result the appeal is dismissed with costs.
PBR Appeal dismissed.
