Appeal No 52 of 1957.
They further pleaded that the 495 plaintiffs would not be entitled to any damages.
The learned Subordinate Judge held that the defendant had encroached upon the plaintiff  coal land that the suit was not barred by limitations and that they would be entitled to the reliefs prayed for.
Learned counsel for the appellant contends that the said boundary should be fixed solely with reference to the boundaries given in the lease of 1894 whereas learned counsel for the respondents contends that no plan has been annexed to the said lease and therefore the boundary could more satisfactorily and definitely be fixed with reference to the plans annexed to the subsequent lease deeds executed in favour of the successors in interest of the appellant and the respondents.
No plan was annexed to this lease deed.
It appears that Samanta purchased the interest of Banerji in the leasehold of 1894 and thereafter at the request of Samanta on November 23 1900 Durga Prasad Singh gave a fresh lease of the same holding to Samanta and incorporated a map in that lease ie exhibit 3b.
But learned counsel for the appellant contended that the finding is vitiated by the burden of proof having been wrongly thrown on the appellant.
property first pensation for wrong learns in ful taking or detain whose posses ing the same.
 The article says that a suit for recovery of specific movable property acquired by conversion or for compensation for wrongful taking or detaining of the suit property should be filed within three years from the date when the person having the right to the possession of the property first learns in whose possession it is.
Obviously where a person has a right to sue within three years from the date of his coming to know of a certain fact it is for him to prove that he had the knowledge of the said fact on a particular date for 501 the said fact would be within his peculiar knowledge.
Under section 101 of the Evidence Act the burden in the former sense is upon the party who comes to court to get a decision on the existence of certain facts which he asserts.
But the question is whether they have adduced evidence which had the effect of shifting the onus of proof to the appellant.
After noticing the words in the last column of the article the learned Judges proceeded to observe thus  The starting date of limitation in the case of conversion is the date when the person who has the right to possession first learns of the act of conversion.
But it does not prove that the respondents had knowledge of the fact that the appellant had encroached upon any portion of their coal mines.
But the courts found from Commissioner s maps that in the encroached portion there were only underground workings and that the quarries were mostly outside the encroached area.
The learned Subordinate Judge accepted the case of the plaintiffs and held that the coal that was left in the encroached area was entirely lost to them by being rendered unworkable.
Nor can we hold in favour of the appellant on the basis of such a possibility.
No other point was raised.
Appeal dismissed.
