Appeals Nos 45 and 46 of 1959.
Against this decision the sellers appealed.
Civil Appeal No 46 of 1959 has been preferred by the sellers against the appellate court s judgment in so far as it upheld the assessment of purchase tax under section 10b.
Though the learned Solicitor General appearing on behalf of the Sales Tax Officer tried to convince us that these were not really FOB contract sales it appears that the averment in Paras.
In certain circumstances eg if the seller takes the bill of  lading to his own order and parts with it to a third person the property in the goods it has been held does not pass to the buyer even on shipment.
The correctness of the proposition that in the absence of special agreement the property in the goods does not pass in the case of a FOB contract until the goods are actually put on board is not disputed before us.
We see however no justification for thinking that in this clause the time of the export  means the time 1 2 930 when the goods cross the customs frontier.
What the court had to consider in these cases was not however when export commences within the meaning of the Exports Control Order but when the course of export commences for the purpose of article 2861b of the Constitution.
In Civil Appeal No 46 of 1959 the appellants  contention is that on a correct interpretation of the provisions of section 10b of the Bombay Sales Tax Act no purchase tax was leviable from them.
It is therefore contended that  a person  in section 8b should be interpreted to include a registered dealer or anybody else.
If such despatch outside the State of Bombay is by a person to whom the certifying dealer has sold the goods but who is not a registered dealer the certificate has not been complied with.
Mr Sanyal contended that the certificate 933 has to declare only an intention and that if ultimately the actual despatch is made by some person who is not a registered dealer it cannot strictly be said that the declaration has not been carried out.
The scheme of the Legislature clearly is that where the intention as declared has not been carried out purchase tax should be levied.
