On July 8 1958 the appellant terminated the services of Sankaran under r 18 a of the Standing Orders without holding any departmental inquiry and the order was communicated to Sankaran the same day.
The main contention of the appellant is that it is entitled under r 18 a of the Standing Orders to dispense with the service of any employee after complying with its terms.
Rule 18 a is in these terms When the management desires to determine the services of any permanent workmen 826 receiving 12 as.
or more as daily wages otherwise than under rule 21 he shall be given 14 days notice or be paid 12 days wages.
We are of opinion that this claim of the appellant cannot be accepted and it is too late in the day for an employer to raise such a claim for it amounts to a claim to hire and fire an employee as the employer pleases and thus completely negatives security of service which has been secured to industrial employees through industrial adjudication for over a long period of time now.
It was of opinion that even in a case of this kind the requirement of bona fides is essential and if the terminataton of service is a colourable exercise of the power or as a result of victimisation or unfair labour praction the industrial tribunal would have the jurisdiction to intervene and set aside such termination.
Learned counsel for the appellant however urges that the employer was empowered to take action under r 18 a of the Standing orders and having taken action under that rule there was nothing for it to justify before the tribunal.
Learned counsel for the appellant however relies on the decision of this Court in Parshotam Lal Dhingra vs Union of India.
Stress was laid by the learned counsel on the observations at p 862 where it was observed as follows It is true that the misconduct negligence inefficiency or other disqualification may be the motive or inducing factor which influences the Government to take action under the terms of the contract of employment or the specific service rule nevertheless if a right exists under the contract or the rule to terminate the service the motive operating on the mind of the Government is as Chagla C J has said in Srinivas Ganesh vs Union of India 2 supra wholly irrelevant.
No such constitutional provisions have to be considered when one is dealing with industrial employees.
Learned counsel for the appellant also drew our attention to another decision of this Court in 830 The Patna Electric Supply Co Ltd Patna vs Bali Rai1.
The appeal therefore fails and is hereby dismissed with costs.
