Appeal No 513 of 1963.
March 24 1964.
The Judgment of the Court was delivered by DAS GUPTA J.
The first respondent Shaw Wallace  Co was incorporated in January 1946 as a Private Limited Company to take over the business of the partnership firm of the Shaw Wallace  Co which had been doing business in India for about 60 years.
1947 the Private Limited Company was converted into a Public Limited Company.
In September 1959 an agreement was entered into between the Company and its employees at Calcutta under which the age of retirement was extended to 58 years subject to the employees passing a medical examination on reaching the age of 55.
The Chart which is marked exhibit U 5 mentions 50 concerns in which the age of retirement is 60.
In Imperial Chemical Industries 427 India Private Ltd vs The Workmen1 where the Tribunal had raised the age of retirement from 55 to 58 and both parties appealed this Court pointed out that one of the documents on the record would conclusively show that in Bombay the age of retirement is almost invariably fixed at 60 and not at 55.
In an earlier decision of this Court in Dunzlop Rubber Co Ltd vs Workmen2 it had been urged that the employer was an All India concern and that changing the terms and conditions of service in regard to the age of retirement in one place might unsettle the uniformity and might have serious repercussions in other branches.
It is not however seriously disputed that the Chart correctly reproduces the information as regards the age of retirement given by the various concerns named there.
In most of the cases the age of retirement is shown as 55 and in a few at 58.
But on a closer examination it is clear that this document is of little assistance for finding out the recent trend.
Exhibit U 6 also shows that in 25 of these concerns the clerical and subordinate staff were not organised into trade unions.
The main diffi culty in accepting the Company s case on this point viz the pronouncements of this Court however remained.
Having embarked an this enquiry the Tribunal appears to have taken considerable pains to perform this duty and it has ultimately persuaded itself to hold that no such trend is established in fact.
If this Court had erred in making those pronouncements we would be the first to admit such mistakes and to correct the error.
The very few departures from this practice which the Tribunal has mentioned are in our opinion wholly insufficient to indicate any slowing down of this trend.
429 Notice has also to be taken in this connection of the Report of the Norms Committee in which the following opinion was expressed After taking into consideration the views of the earlier Committees and Commissions including those of the Second Pay Commission the report of which has been released recently we feel that the retirement age for workmen in all industries should be fixed at 60.
Accordingly the norm for retirement age is fixed at 60.
Accordingly we allow the appeal with costs and in modi fication of the award made by the Tribunal direct that the age of retirement for the workmen of the respondent be fixed at 60.
Appeal allowed.
