Appeal No 68 of 1964.
The district of Benaras was formerly a part of Oudh territory.
The quantum of this pension was calculated on the basis of 14th of the revenue of the Jagir.
By this arrangement the revenue or land collections of Jagir became payable by the Zamindars direct to the Government and by the grant of the pension Babu Hat Narain Singh and his successors no longer remained the proprietors of the Parganas or the Jagir and became entitled to merely a pension.
The pension was paid regularly from year to year by the Government to Babu Har Narain Singh and his heirs.
During the previous year of the assessment year 1949 50 the assessee received a sum of Rs 36396 on account of the aforesaid pension.
He observed that in fact this income arose from a statutory obligation of the Government to pay it and although the Government recouped this from the person with whom the land was settled land in the genealogical tree of Malikana appears in the second degree its immediate and effective source is the Government s statutory obligation to pay it and this obligation is not land within the meaning of Income tax Act vide CITv.
It relied on the fact that the amount which had been received by the successors of Babu Harnarain Singh varied from year to year.
The learned Additional Solicitor General on behalf of the appellant contends that according to the true interpretation of the letter dated July 7 1837 no right in the land revenue was granted to the assessee.
The allowance was in a sense related to the land revenue assessed on the land ie it was fixed as a percentage of the land revenue but the percentage was merely a measure and indicated the source of the right in lieu of which the allowance was given.
If this is the true interpretation of the arrangement arrived at the question arises whether the pension or allowance is agricultural income Agricultural income  is defined in section 2 of the Act as follows 1 agricultural income means a any rent or revenue derived from land which is used for agricultural purposes and is either assessed to land revenue in British India or subject to a local rate assessed and collected by officers of the Crown as such   In Maharajkumar Gopal Saran Narain Singh vs Commissioner of Income tax Bihar and Orissa2 the facts were that the assessee had conveyed the greater portion of his estate.
But the enquiry should stop as soon as the effective source is discovered.
The remuneration not being received as rent or revenue of agricultural lands under a title legal or beneficial in the property from which the income is received it is not income exempt under section 43viii.
Mr Sastri contends that it is capital receipt.
He refers to the following passage from the speech of Viscount Simon in Commissioner of Inland Revenue vs Wesleyan and General Assurance Society1 It may be well to repeat two propositions which are well established in the application of the law relating to Income tax.
If the other method is adopted tax will not be payable .
