C K Daphtary Attorney General section V Gupte Solicitor General Niren De Addl.
We may at this stage mention that a similar question of fit ment was considered by the Sastry award in para.
292 and certain provisions were made thereunder.
1 As the words of para 292 of the Sastry award as modified by the Labour Appellate Decision are almost the same as the words of para.
The workman s basic pay as on 31st January 1960 shall not be reduced in any case.
b To the basic pay into which he is fitted under cl.
c Such increments shall not however exceed four in number.
b 4 A.
iii In the matter of adjustment all efficiency bars whether in the previously existing scales or in the scales provided by the Sastry award as modified should be ignored.
bTo the basic pay into which he is fitted under clause a annual increment or increment in scale provided by the Sastry award as modified as from that stage onwards should be added at the rate of one increment for every completed three years of his service in the same cadre as on 1st January 1959.
c Such increments shall not however exceed four in number.
d of cl.
We have already referred to the fact that para.
Giving as we must natural meaning to the words used in rules 2 and 4 we are of opinion that in no case can the basic pay be fixed at a higher figure than what the point to point adjustment would give to the workman or the maximum in the new scale.
 The dispute between the bank and the workmen in the present case was this.
iv being subject to cl.
1 903 d of cl.
iv could be allowed.
a b and c of cl.
d and that it did not matter whether what was thus arrived at exceeded the maximum provided under cl.
This means in 1 L8Sup.
a b and c of cl.
i and cl.
a of cl.
b read with sub cl.
c of cl.
b and c cannot exceed the adjusted basic pay as arrived at by point to point adjustment in the Sastry award as modified or the maximum of that scale or the actual basic pay as on 1st January 1959 as the case may be.
a of cl.
Then increments under sub cl.
b read with sub cl.
c of cl.
iv have to be added but this is again subject to the provisions of cls.
i and ii.
d of cl.
d cannot be permitted in view of cl.
d of cl.
d of cl.
iv which are beyond that date must 905 be given over and above what has been worked out under sub cls.
iv of the Desai award.
d of el.
d provides for a period after the date up to which el.
iv in accordance with what we have interpreted these sub clauses as well as cls.
i and ii to mean.
d must always be given.
b read with sub cl.
c may in some cases be not available where the actual pay as on January 1 1959 which will not be reduced under el.
His place of posting was Phagwara in area ITT.
a of el.
b and c because his actual salary coincided with the adjusted basic pay in the Sastry award scale as modified as on January 1 1959.
d for the years 1960 and 1961 and his salary therefore as on January 1 1962 under the Sastry award would come to Rs 119.
The bank actually fixed him at Rs 176 on its own interpretation of the award.
a of cl.
iv his salary will be fixed at Rs 100.
b and c of cl.
a of cl.
d which will bring his salary to Rs 112 as on January 1 1962.
Nakodar is now in area III in the Desai award.
