Appeal No 801 of 1963.
As trustees appointed by respondent No 4 they claimed that they were entitled to the possession of the properties.
It held that the evidence adduced by the respondents did not prove the existence of any temple in favour of which the original grant had been alleged to have been made according to them.
This decision was challenged by respondents 2  3 before the Madras High Court in Second Appeal No 774 of 1957.
There was evidence to show that the properties originally granted had been resumed by the Collector but the learned Judge took the view that the said resumption was only of the melwaram or assessment and that since the lands had been granted in Inam to the deity and its matam their title to the lands remained unaffected by the resumption proceedings.
This article has been introduced in the said Act by Amending Act 1 of 1929 and came into force on 1 1 1929.
It was conceded before the lower appellate Court that the new article was not retrospective in operation and that if the title of the alienees in regard to dharmadlayam properties had been acquired by adverse possession prior to 1 1 1929 it would not be affected by the provisions of article 134 B Thus considered the alienations in regard to items 1 2 part of item 3 items 7  8 and a portion of the well in item 5 sold under Ext.
In the result the appellants  claim in regard to the properties covered by these three sale deeds was rejected whereas their claim in regard to the other prop erties.
In consequence the appeal preferred by respondents 2  3 was partly allowed and the decree passed by the lower appellate court in regard to Exts.
Mr Tatachari for the appellants has raised before us an interesting question of law.
125 Mr Tatachari also argues that in applying article 144 we must assume that the possession of the alienees was adverse to the temple from the respective dates of the alienations when they were put in possession of the properties covered by the transactions in question.
Where however the transfer is made by the manager not as manager but as an individual and he deals with the property not on the basis that it belongs to the religious endowment but on the basis that it belongs to himself considerations which would govern the application of limitation are substantially different and in such a case the transfer being void ab initio the possession of the transferee is adverse from the date of the transfer.
1962 p 282.
2 LR 27 IA 69.
3 LR 37 IA 147.
At the same time section 10 of the Limitation Act was amended by addition of an explanatory clause which provided inter alia that for the purposes of section 10 any property comprised in a Hindu religious or charitable endowment shall be deemed to be property vested in trust for a specific purpose and the manager of any such property shall be deemed to be the trustee thereof.
2 LR 27 IA 69.
3 LR 37 IA 147.
3 LR 60 IA 124.
4 LR 62 IA 47.
2 ILR 3 LR 37 IA 147.
4 5 LR 51 IA 83 at p 97.
 It is not easy to see why the successor s right to Challenge an unauthorised alienation made by his predecessor should be affected adversely if the alienation is made by his predecessor on the basis that the property belonged to him and not to the religious endowment.
Column 1 of article 134 B provides for suits brought inter alia by the manager of a Hindu religious or charitable endowment to recover possession of immovable property comprised in the endowment which has been transferred by a previous manager for a valuable consideration.
Article 134 B applies to all cases where it is shown that the immovable property was comprised in the endowment and that it has been transferred by a previous manager for a valuable consideration.
Therefore we do not think that Mr Tatachari is justified in contending that the transfers with which we are concerned in the present appeal fall outside the purview of article 134 B inasmuch as they are effected by the alienors on the representations that the properties transferred belonged to them as their separate properties.
 What was said by the Privy Council about the impropriety of including an execution sale within the meaning of article 134B can with equal justification be said about introducing words of limitation in the said article which alone can exclude transfers made by the previous manager of the Hindu religious endowment on the basis that the property transferred belonged to 1 LR 77 IA 42 at pp.
Another witness Chandrasekara lyer by name whom the respondents examined also admitted that Pachaikanda had sold away all his properties and had left the village.
This notice was served on witness Raju lyer and Amrithalinga lyer Chinnasamy Iyer and Rangaraja Reddiar who were performing the worship and acting as de facto managers of the temple.
