section Mohan Kumaramangalam C Ramakrishna and A V V Nair for respondent No 2.
They have now come up to this Court by special leave.
We were however not impressed by this argument.
The decision to take action was already taken by the Chairman and there is nothing to indicate that in arriving at that decision he was influenced by the Finance Minister.
We are not aware of the rule on which Mr Setalvad bases himself.
i to iii is a condition precedent to the formation of the opinion.
21944 FCR 1.
b of the section may have been committed.
individual might think that  the facts suggest otherwise It cannot be said that from a huge loss incurred by a company and the working of the company in a disorganised and un businegslike way the only conclusion possible is that it was due to lack of capability.
was the outcome of this memorandum and that by ordering it the Board has in effect enabled the ex Directors who continue to be shareholders to circumvent the provisions of sections 235 and 236 of the .
Section 235 deals with Investigation of affairs of company on application by members or report by Registrar.
The contention is that though the Board acted upon the memorandum submitted by four ex Directors it did not even require them to comply with the provisions of section 236.
The attack on the order thus fails and the appeal is dismissed with costs.
The first part which is a compels the Central Government to appoint inspectors to investigate and report if the company by a special resolution or the court by order declares that the affairs be investigated.
The other provides for the procedure of the Board.
Therefore all that I have to consider is whether the action of the Chairman can be challenged as done either contrary to the provisions empowering him or beyond those provisions.
by no other.
Prima facie all the members of the Board acting together were required to discharge this function and they could not delegate their duty to the Chairman.
Appellant No 2 who is the managing director of the company is not a citizen but even assuming that section 237b imposes restrictions on his right of property or his right to carry on his occupation as managing director those restrictions are reasonable and are imposed in the interests of the general public.
Shelat J.
