Appeal No 787 of 1964.
Appeal from the judgment and decree dated January 5 1961 of the Calcutta High Court in Appeal from Appellate Decree No 1012 of 1955.
AK Sen and D N Mukherjee for the appellant.
In the notice to quit served on the 7th May 1948 the first two persons were described as tenants under the plaintiff and the third as a person who had purported to purchase the structures on the land and the tenancy right therein.
In the plaint itself the first two defendants were described as thika tenants.
No claim was made for rents or taxes although it was alleged that the same were in arrears.
The effect of these provisions will be considered later on.
Before the Subordinate Judge a point was taken that after the coming into force of the Act of 1949 the Rent Controller alone had jurisdiction in respect of ejectment suits as the defendant appellant was a thika tenant.
Abdul Gaffur preferred a Second Appeal to the High Court and this was heard and disposed of by a single Judge of that court on July 21 1954 long after the Thika Tenancy Ordinance of 1952 and the Amending Act of 1953 had come into force.
Under section 27 any person aggrieved by an order of the Controller might present an appeal in writing either to the Chief Judge of the Court of Small Causes in the Presidency town or to 175 the District Judge of a district in which the holding was situate.
1 of this section which enatced that Save as provided in sub section 2 the provisions of the said Act as amended by this Ordinance shall apply to all cases pending before a Court or Controller on the date of the commencement of this Ordinance.
1 of section 5 made the Act as amended by the Ordinance applicable to all cases pending before a court or a controller.
2 of section 5 made a special provision for cases where a decree or order for possession had been made between the commencement of the Act and of the Ordinance and delivery of possession had not been given to the decree holder.
If the matter was in appeal the appellate court had to exercise jurisdiction under this sub section determine whether the tenant was a thika tenant and send the matter to the controller if it was found that the tenant was entitled to the benefit of the Act .
2 of section 5 of the Calcutta Thika Tenancy Amendment Ordinance were to be continued as if such sub sections.
2 of section 1 made the provisions of the Calcutta Thika Tenancy Act 1949 as amended by the Act of 1953 applicable to all suits appeals and proceedings pending on 21st October before any court or before the controller or before a person deciding an appeal under section 27 of the Act.
According to Craies on Statute Law Sixth Edition at p 391 If it is a necessary implication from the language employed that the legislature intended a particular section to have a retrospective operation the courts will give it such an operation.
According to Halsbury s Laws of England third edition Vol 36 page 413 article 627 Unless it is clearly and unambiguously intended to do so a statute should not be construed so as to interfere with or prejudice established private rights under contracts or the title to property or so as to deprive a man of his property without his having an opportunity of being heard.
The provisions of the Act of 1949 as finally amended by the Act of 1953 have to be examined to show how far they disturb the rights of landlord to recover possession of the property from a person who would be a thika tenant on 28th February 1949.
The language of the section leaves no room for doubt as to this.
The legislature clearly meant section 4 to be prospective because according to its language the landlord who wishes to eject the thika tenant 1 2 39 Times Law Reporter 31 181 must give at least one month s notice in writing or three months  notice as the case may be.
The language of section 5 being closely similar to that used in section 4 that section should also be held to be prospective only.
182 We cannot speculate as to why the legislature thought fit to omit sections 28 and 29 from the Act of 1949.
The effect of omission of section 28 has been considered by this Court in Mahadeolal Kanodia vs Administrator General of West Bengal1 where it was held that a thika tenant against whom proceedings for execution of the decree for eviction were pending and who had applied for relief under section 28 lost the protection of that section as a result of the Amending Act of 1953.
As Abdul Gaffur came under the definition of a thika tenant by the Amending Act of 1953 we have to proceed on the basis that he was such a tenant in 1949 with the result that he could claim the benefit of section 4 of the Act.
Consequently the absence of a notice under section 4 would not stand in the way of the landlord nor could his suit be rejected on the ground that he had not applied to the controller.
Most of the Rent Control Acts all over India contain similar provisions and courts have always held such provisions applicable to pending proceedings.
All that the section lays down is that ejectment could not be had unless the existence of one of the grounds was proved.
As section 4 of the Act was prospective only it could not apply to this case.
For reasons we cannot speculate upon the legislature limited the applicability of the Act only to suits and appeals pending on 21st October 1952 and not in February 1949 ie the date of the commencement of the Act of 1949.
