 NM Patnaik and Vinoo Bhagar for respondents Nos.
5 to 7 in CAs.
On that account there appears to have been some friction between the High Court and the gov ernment for some years past.
Thereafter he was posted as superintendent and legal remembrancer.
Shri PC Dey.
On September 21 1966 this Court rendered its decision in Ranga Mahammad s1 case.
In every one of those petitions rule nisi was issued.
The High Court overruled the prayer made on behalf of the government to stay the operation of its decision till necessary orders were obtained from this Court.
As mentioned earlier member sales tax tribunal was an ex cadre post.
Similarly the posts of the law secretary deputy law secretary and file superintendent and legal remembrancer cannot be considered as district courts or courts subordinate to district courts within the meaning of those words in article 235 of the Constitution.
In Bagchi s case1 this Court laid down that the word control found in article 235 includes disciplinary jurisdiction as well.
this Court observed that the High Court is made the sole custodian of the control of the judiciary but that observation was made only in the context of the question that arose for decision.
Some are good stations and some are not so good.
In that cadre no officer holding any post under the government was included.
I entirely deny that it can 1  2 1901 AC 495.
Such a mode of reasoning assumes that the law is necessarily a logical code whereas every lawyer must acknowledge that the law is not always logical at all.
While sparing the service of any judicial officer to the government it is open to the High Court to fix the period during which he may hold any executive post.
In other words the period during which a judicial officer should serve in an executive post must be settled by agreement between the High Court and the government.
Though we hold that the orders of the High Court posting Shri BK Panda as law secretary Shri T Misra as superintendent and legal remembrancer and Shri PK Mohanti as deputy law secretary were excess of its powers we do not set aside the mandamus issued by it for the reasons mentioned earlier.
