The following judgments were deliv ered.
This is an appeal by the State of West Bengal from a judgment of a Full Bench of the High Court of Judicature at Calcutta quashing the conviction of the respondent by the Special Court established under sec tion 3 of the West Bengal Special Courts Ordinance 1949 Ordinance No 3 of 1949 which was replaced in March 1950 by the West Bengal Special Courts Act 1950 West Bengal Act X of 1950 hereinafter referred to as the Act.
The High Court by a Full Bench consisting of the Chief Justice and four other Judges quashed the conviction and directed the trial of the respondent and the other accused persons according to law.
When an Act gives power which may and can offend against a provision or provisions of the Constitution such an Act is ultra vires though it could be administered so as not to offend against the Constitution and he relied in support of this view on certain observations in the judgment of the majority in the Crossroads case1.
delivered separate judgments agreeing with the conclusion of the Chief Justice Das Gupta J however going further and holding that section 5 1 was unconstitutional in its entirety inasmuch as the clas sification sought to be made on the expediency of speedier trial is not a well defined classification.
The principle of construction applicable here is perhaps nowhere better stated than by Lord Tenterden CJ in Halton vs Cove1 It is very true as was argued for the plaintiff that the enacting words of an Act of Parliament are not always to be limited by the words of the preamble but must in many cases go beyond it.
2  4  566 567 568.
I cannot share the view of Das Gupta J that the expediency of speedier trial is too vague and indefinite to be the basis of a well de fined classification.
All that the court is expected to see in dealing with equal protection claims is whether the law impugned is palpably discriminatory and in considering such a question great weight ought to be at tached to the fact that a majority of the elected represen tatives of the people who made the law did not think so though that is not of course conclusive.
In Anwar Ali s case itself there were 49 other accused.
FAZL ALl J.
A rule was issued on this application also.
Amongst other important changes reference may be made to the provision of section 13 of the Act which empowers the Special Court to convict an accused of any offence if the commission of such offence is proved during trial although he was not charged with the same or could be charged with it in the manner contemplated by section 236 of the Criminal Procedure Code nor was it a minor offence within the meaning of section 238 of the Code.
A line is drawn artificially between two classes of cases.
In the opinion of the learned Chief Justice if the State Govern ment had directed certain offences or classes of offences committed within the 1  332 territory of West Bengal to be tried by the Special Court the law or order could not have been impeached as discrimi natory.
It is said that in cases where the law does not lay down a standard or form in accordance with which the classification is to be made it would be the duty of the officers entrust ed with the execution of the law to make the classification in the way consonant with the principles of the Constitution 2.
Mere classification however is not enough to get over the inhibition of the Article The classification must not be arbitrary but must be rational that is to say it must not only be based on some quali ties or characteristics which are to be found in all the persons grouped together and not in others who are left out but those qualities or characteristics must have a reasonable relation to the object of the legislation.
Section 5 1 of the Act runs as follows  A Special Court shall try such offences or classes of offences or cases or classes of cases as the State Government may by general or special order in writing direct.
His contention is that offences may be grouped into two classes namely those that require speedier trial that is speedier than what is provided for in the Code and those that do not require a speedier trial.
An individual case of a crime committed with gruesome atrocity or committed upon an eminent person may shock our moral sense to a greater extent but on ultimate analysis and in the absence of special circumstances such as I have mentioned it is not basically different from another individual case of a simi lar crime although committed with less vehemence or on a less eminent person.
Here the law lays an unequal hand on those who have committed intrinsically the same quality of offence his power must inevitably result in discrimination and this discrimination is in terms incorpo rated in this part of the section itself and therefore this part of the section itself must incur our condemnation.
CHANDRASEKHARA AIYAR J.
I agree in the conclusion reached by my learned brothers that the appeals should be dismissed and I propose to indicate my views as shortly as possible on a few only of the points raised and discussed.
It is well settled that equality before the law or the equal protection of laws does not mean identity or abstract symmetry of treatment.
FN Balsara2 where my learned brother Fazl Ali J has distilled in the form of seven principles most of the useful observations of this Court in the Sholapur Mills case ChiranLal Chowdhury vs The Union of India and Others3 Willis says  The guaranty of the equal protection of the laws means the protection of equal laws.
The Attorney General argued that if the principle of classification has to be applied as a necessary test there is a classification in the impugned Act as it says that it is intended to provide for the speedier trial of certain offences and in the opinion of the legislature certain offences may require more expeditious trial than other offences and this was a good enough classification.
Agent for Habib Mohammad Intervener Rajinder Narain.
