Appeal by special leave from the jurisdiction and order dated April 29 1965 of the Allahabad High Court in Criminal Misc Contempt Case No 43 of 1965.
A section R Chari M K Ramamurthi Vineet Kumar and Shyamala Pappu for the appellants.
O P Rana for respondent No 1.
The relevant facts are these.
No application dated December 21 1963 which was not accepted by the Nyaya Panchayat has been produced.
On December 23 1963 Mahabir submitted an application in the Court of Shri R Singh SDM Deoria alleging that writ petition has been admitted and a stay order has been issued.
He produced the telegram received from the Advocate before the SDM.
It happened that the SDM was absent on December 23 1963 and papers were put up before Shri section K Srivas tava Additional Sub Divisional Magistrate who issued the order Put up with records.
Hence judgment shall be given on 25 12 63.
 This order was signed by three Panchas Phagu Parsad Jagat Dubey and Badri Yadav.
The application of Mahabir referred to in the order reads thus 118 lm15.
It has been admitted by the High Court which has stayed proceedings also in this case.
 We looked at this so called affidavit and found.
On May 21 1964 Mahabir filed an application under sections 4 and 5 of the  against the five appellants and section K Srivastava ASDM.
 Affidavits were filed in the High Court by Baldeo Prasad pairokar of Mahabir Burma Prasad the Sarpanch and Mahabir and statements of Phagu Prasad and Bunna Prasad were recorded on oath.
 the Nyaya Panchayats proceeded with the case.
Phagu Prasad.
According to him the Panchas did not tell Mahabir that his affidavit was not proper they however told him to get it verified in Tehsil and that it should be duly sealed.
The High Court held  There was no reasonable ground for the Panchas to have doubted the averments made in the application and affidavit of Mahabir that the High Court had stayed further proceedings before the Panchayat nor is there any thing in the order sheet to show that the Panchas did not believe the contents of the application and affidavit of Mahabir.
However if they wanted to ascertain the matter they should have at best stayed the proceedings for a short while and should have asked the applicant to produce a certified copy of the stay order.
In order to justify committal for breach of a prohibitive order it is not necessary that the order should have been served upon the party against whom it has been granted if it be proved that he had notice of the order aliunde as by telegram or newspaper report or otherwise and knew that it was intended to be enforced or if he consented to the order or if he was present in Court when the order Was pronounced or hen the motion was made although he left before the order was pronounced.
If a person bona fide comes to the conclusion on the material placed before him that the source of information is not authentic he cannot be held guilty of contempt of court for disobeying the order.
121 administer oaths.
Further the application did not contain the date of the order even a copy of the telegram was not attached to the application and the application seems to have been made after the proceedings on that date had commenced and evidence taken.
It was no part of the duty of the Panchas to enquire from the SDM about the filing of the application before him.
At any rate he has apparently no jurisdiction to stay proceedings before the Nyaya Panchayats when no Proceeding is pending before him.
Contempt of court is a serious matter and a High Court should be chary of finding a judicial officer guilty of contempt of court for disobeying its orders unless there is unimpeachable evidence that the judicial officer had knowledge of the order of the High Court.
In the result we allow the appeal and set aside the judgment and order of the High Court.
