The Judgment of the Court was delivered by Bhargava J.
TIffs is a finding of fact recorded by the Tribunal and nothing has been shown by learned counsel for the Company which would induce us to interfere with this finding of fact.
In fact learned counsel was unable to urge that this finding of fact suffered from any error at all.
On this finding it is clear that the region cure industry principle laid down in the ease of French Motor Car Co Ltd 1 could not have been applied by the Tribunal when fixing the wages in the Company.
On their basis it appears to us that there will be full justification for fixing the minimum wage in the Company at Rs 95 per mensum which is about the average of the wages prevailing in all those concerns.
into account.
In this case however there is nothing to show that the Company is providing any such amenities which are different from the amenities that are being provided by those concerns in the region which.
There is only an exception in the case of Indian Aluminium Company.
Therefore the decision by the Tribunal not to equate the casual workers with the permanent employees.
The Tribunal had directed that the increase of Rs 12 pm in the total minimum wage packet allowed by it will enure to the benefit of the lowest paid female badIi and permanent dailyrated workers also.
The previous agreement of 1959 was binding only up to 12th December 1962 and we think that the Tribunal 213 Sup.
That reference under section 102 of the Act however failed due to some technical defect.
refer it.
account of that year could only be prepared after the closure of the year on 31st March 1963.
In fact the reference included a dispute even for the year 1963 64 which year had not even started running.
In this connection learned counsel for the workmen urged that at least by the time when the Award was given the completed accounts for the year 1962 63 were available but it seems to us that this circumstance is of no assistance.
The award had to cover the year 1963 64 also and at least for that year the accounts could not possibly have been completed as that year was still running when the award was given by the Tribunal on the 11 th January 1964.
In the case of even the lowest paid clerical staff to whom dearness allowance is separately payable the bonus is only calculated on the basis of basic wages and the dearness allowance is ignored.
