Appeal No 1940 of 1967.
Appeal by special leave from the judgment and order dated April 17 27 1967 of the Gujarat High Court in Civil Revision Application 328 of 1967.
section T Desai and I N Shroff for the appellants.
R P Kapur for respondents Nos 2 and 3.
By insistence upon procedural wrangling in a com paratively simple suit pending in the Court of Small Causes at Ahmedabad the parties have effectively prevented all progress in the suit during the last six years.
By an agreement dated November 27 1954 between Raval and Faraqui on the one hand and Messrs Filmistan Distributors India Private Ltd hereinafter called Filmistan on the other hand right to exhibit cinematograph films was granted to the latter on certain terms and conditions.
By an order dated December 1 1960 the suit was disposed of as compromised.
Filmistan then applied to the Court of Small Causes for an order that issues Nos 11 12  13 be tried as preliminary issues.
A revision application against that order was dismissed in limine by the High Court of Gujarat.
The Court also rejected the contention that there was any bar of estoppel and held that evidence as to the true nature of the transaction was not inadmissible by virtue of section 92 of the Evidence Act.
The High Court referred to a number of authorities and observed that the correctness of the findings of the Trial Court on issues Nos 12 and 13 may not be examined in exercise of the powers under section 115 of the Code of Civil Procedure.
The Court proceeded to observe  The question then arises for consideration whether in fact the subordinate Court has decided the question of res judicata and that it is true that the jurisdiction of the Court of mall Causes to decide disputes between a tenant and his landlord and falling within the purview of section 28 of the Bombay Rent Control Act is derived from section 28 of the said Act but at the same time if an issue is in fact barred by res judicata then the Court has no 440 jurisdiction on principles of res judicata to go into that question or to decide that question over again to the extent to which the Court viz the trial court in the instant case proposed to go into that question and allow the whole question that was closed once for all by consent decree of December 1 1960 to be reopened it is proposing to exercise the jurisdiction which is not vested in it by law.
Once the jurisdiction of the Court has been taken away any proposal to reopen the question closed by the earlier decision would be exercise of jurisdiction which is not vested in the Court by law and to that extent the decision would become revisable even if it is the decision as to the res judicata of an issue and concluded It is not open to me in revision at this stage to express any opinion about the rights and contentions of the parties with reference to the agreement of December 1 1960.
But the only thing that can be said is that so far as the agreement of November 27 1954 is con cerned it must be held in view of the consent decree of December 1 1960 that that document of November 27 1954 created a lease .
By section 115 of the Code of Civil Procedure the High Court is invested with power to call for the record of any case decided by any Court subordinate to such High Court and in which no appeal lies thereo if such subordinate court appears a to have exercised a jurisdiction not vested in it by law or b to have failed to exercise a jurisdiction so vested or c to have acted in the exercise of its jurisdiction illegally or with material irregularity and to make such order in the case as it thinks fit.
Exercise of the power is broadly subject to three important conditions 1 that the decision is of a Court subordinate to the High Court 2 that there is a case which has been decided by the subordinate Court and 3 that the subordinate Court has exercised jurisdiction not vested in it by law or to have failed to exercise a jurisdiction so vested or to have acted in the exercise of its jurisdiction illegally or with material irregularity.
But the High Court has recorded a finding that the agreement dated November 27 1954 created a lease and that the consent decree operated as res judicata.
A consent decree accord ing to the decisions of this Court does not operate as res judicata because a consent decree is merely the record of a contract between the parties to a suit to which is superadded the seal of the Court.
A matter in contest in a suit may operate as res judicata only if there is an adjudication by the Court  the terms of section II of the Code leave no scope for a contrary view.
Again it was for the Trial Court in the first instance to decide that question and there after the High Court could if the matter were brought before it by way of appeal or in exercise of its revisional jurisdiction have decided that question.
442 This Court observed in Major section section Khanna vs Brig.
But it was not decided in Major section section Khanna s case1 that every order of the Court in the course of a suit amounts to a case decided.
A case may be said to be decided if the Court adjudicates for the purposes of the suit some right or obligation of the parties in controversy every order in the suit cannot be regarded as a case decided within the meaning of section 115 of the Code of Civil Procedure.
We recommend that the form of the issues Nos 11 12 and 13 will be rectified by the learned Trial Judge.
GC Appeal allowed.
