AND Civil Appeals Nos 2183 and 2184 of 1968.
The Judgment of the Court was delivered by Shah J.
Ms Tarapore  Company hereinafter called the plaintiffs applied in Suit No 118 of 1967 for an interim injunction restraining the Bank of India Ltd the first defendant in the suit from taking any steps in pursuance of a letter of credit opened in favour of Ms VO Tractors Export Moscow the second defendant.
In appeals under the Letters Patent preferred by the second defendant.
That is a matter not in dispute.
The expression judgment in article 133  1  in the context in which it occurs means a final adjudication by the Court of the rights of the parties and that an interlocutory judgment even if it decides an issue or issues without finally determining the rights and liabilities of the parties is not a judgment however cardinal the issue may be.
In the present case not even an issue has been decided and it is not contended that the order of the High Court amounts to a judgment or a decree.
The orders now under appeal do not finally dispose of those rights but leave them to be determined by the Courts in the ordinary way.
Kuppusami Rao vs The King2 The Federal Court held that the expression final order in section 205 1  of the Government of India Act 1935 means an order which finally determines the points in dispute and brings the case to an end.
In Sardar Syedna Taher Saifuddin Saheb vs The State of Bombay4 a suit was filed for a declaration that the order of ex 1 LR 60LA.
Against the order deciding the issue an appeal was preferred to this Court with certificate granted by the High Court under article 132 and article 133 of the Constitution and it was held that the appeal was not maintainable since the decision on the issue did not finally dispose of the dispute between the parties.
In Srinivasa Prasad Singh vs Kesho Prasad Singh1 an order deciding that circumstances had not been established such as would justify an order for stay of execution of a decree under appeal was not a final order and was on that account not appealable to the judicial Committee.
In Mohanlal Thakkar s casea after an enquiry under section 476 Code of Criminal Procedure 1898 a Magistrate ordered that a complaint be filed against a person in respect of offences under sections 205 467 and 468 read with section 114 IP Code.
It was thereafter for the court trying the complaint to decide whether the offence complained of was committed by the appellant.
The order refusing to grant an interim injunction did not determine the rights and obligations of the parties in relation to the matter in dispute in the suit.
GC Certificate revoked.
