Appeal No 1311 of 1967.
M C Chagla N D Karkhanis section P Chowdhury Bhuvanesh Kumari for the appellant.
section C Manchanda R N Sachthey and B D Sharma for the respondent.
For the assessment year 1960 61 relevant to the accounting year 1959 60 after the assessee submitted its income tax return it was asked by the Income tax Officer during the income tax assessment proceedings to produce before him its books of account and the other relevant papers.
In that statement it gave the lull names and address of the alleged creditors.
On June 3 1966 the 1st respondent Income tax Officer Ward A  Muzaffarpur issued to the assessee a notice under section 148 of the Indian Income tax Act 1961.
As we are accepting the contention of the assessee that the impugned notice is invalid inasmuch as it did not comply with the requirements of section 1512 of the Act we have not thought it necessary to examine the other contentions advanced on behalf of the assessee.
At this stage we need not refer to that section  We shall refer to that provision at a later stage.
Name of District Ward of Circle A Ward Muzaffarpur G IR No 303 C 11.
RF 2Status 3.
Whether it is a new case or one in which re assessment or recomputation has to be made Re assessment 5.
During the year the assessee hasshown to have taken loans from various parties of Calcutta.
From DIs Inv.
Before issuing a notice under section 148 the Income tax Officer must have either reasons to believe that by reason of the omission or failure on the part of these assessee to make a return under section 139 for any assessment year to the Income tax Officer or to disclose fully and truly all material facts necessary for his assessment for that year income chargeable to tax has escaped assessment for that year or alternatively not withstanding that there has been no omission or failure as mentioned above on the part of the assessee the Income tax Officer has in consequence of information in his possession reason to believe that income chargeable to tax has escaped assessment for any assessment year.
From the report submitted by the Income tax Officer to the Commissioner it is clear that he could not have had reasons to believe that by reason of the assessee s omission to disclose fully and truly all material  facts necessary for his assessment for the accounting year in question income chargeable to tax has escaped assessment for that year nor could it be said that he as a consequence of information in his possession had reasons to believe that the income chargeable to tax has escaped assessment for that year.
b of section 147.
Further the report submitted by him under section 1512 does not mention any reason for coming to the conclusion that it is a fit case for the issue of a notice under section 148.
We are of the opinion that if only he had read the report carefully he could never have 448 come to the conclusion on the material before him that this is a fit case to issue notice under section 148.
