m To help in the Organisation of Chambers of Commerce or Commercial Associations in different commercial centres of the country.
This contention was negatived in these terms    that contention overlooks the fact that the advice in question is not tendered for any consideration.
A certificate however was granted under Article 1331 c of the Constitution that the case was fit for appeal to this Court.
Before dealing with the contentions canvassed before us it will be useful to notice briefly the scheme and the relevant provisions of the Act.
There is no doubt that the registered office of the Federation is premises.
Mr Rao learned Counsel for the appellants strongly relies on the aforesaid decision.
Mr Pai learned Counsel for the Federation has firstly raised a preliminary objection that before the High Court at no stage it was urged on behalf of the Appellants that the activity of the Federation carried on in the premises was a business or trade.
It is pointed out that it was wrongly assumed in Mittal s case supra that the Federation was systematically assisting not only its members but also other business men and industrialists even if they were not its members.
This point will not require any additional material for its decision.
An examination of the activities of the Federation showed that the Federation carried on systematic activities to assist its members and other businessmen and industrialists and even to non members as for instance in giving them the right to subscribe to their bulletin in taking up their cases and solving their difficulties and in obtaining concessions and facilities from them from the Government.
It takes up with the concerned authorities the specific difficulties experienced by the trade in the day today business and endeavours to attain for the traders and industrialists those material advantages by unified action which they may not be able to achieve in their individual capacity.
We therefore do not think that R K Mittal s case supra was incorrectly decided and needs reconsideration.
Any premises where services are rendered to customers fall within the definition of a shop.
These services are material services.
It will bear repetition that the Federation also publishes periodicals bulletins etc.
and issues the same to member free of this Court in R K Mittal s case supra we would hold that the commercial or industrial exhibitions runs museums and makes profits.
