This evidence of Ramkrishna Deshpande stands corroborated by the Sanad which shows in the year 1860 61 the Manager of the Sansthan as Balkrishnabuwa Guru Govindbuwa.
It is clear from the Sanad that the Government treated the temple as a public religious endowment.
This is a document which was relied upon both by the District Judge as well as by the High Court.
Varaspatra is a deed of nomination by which an Adhikari for the Sansthan was nominated in order to take charge of the property maintain and continue the religious worship of the deity as per tradition as well as of the celebration of the festivals in accordance with the customary practice of the Sansthan.
That ownership is of your own.
In the gift deed exhibit 37 executed by three businessmen of Amalner there are recitals to the similar effect When we were joint the said field was given as a gift to you for the service of the sansthan viz Shri Vithal Rukhmai Sansthan Amalner and was given in your possession.
You should spend the income of the said property for the purpose of Naivadya for the Deity Pandurang at night that day.
Hence with the intention object that some service may be rendered by me for his Devasthan I have given in gift out of love the below mentioned property valued at Rs 600 Six hundred without taking any consideration from you for the purpose of expenses of performing worship and offering Naivadya food.
This Court further held When once it is understood that the true beneficiaries of religious endowments are not the idols but the worshippers and that the purpose of the endowment is the maintenance of that worship for the benefit of worshippers the question whether an endowment is private or public presents no difficulty.
In accordance with this theory it has been held that when property is dedicated for the worship of a family idol it is a private and not a public endowment as the persons who are entitled to worship at the shrine of the deity can only be the members of the family and that is an ascertained group of individuals.
This Court also distinguished the aforesaid Privy Council decision of Babu Bhagwan Din s case Supra in Narayan Bhagwantrao Gosavi Balajiwale vs Gopal Vinayak Gosavi and others.
Even if a few ascetics are fed and given shelter such a purpose is not to be deemed an independent charity in which the public or a section of it has an interest.
He stays there for about 4 months.
To sum up from the documentary and oral evidence produced the following features are present in the present case 1 The deity installed in the temple was intended by the Founder to be continually worshipped by an indeterminate multitude of the Hindu public 2 In order to facilitate worship by the public the founder also intended that regular Bhajan Kirtan and worship shall be maintained and annual ceremonies and processions for pilgrimage shall be conducted by the saints in succession nominated by the reigning saint.
