Appeal No 1951 of 1975.
II No 158 of 1974 published in the Gujarat Govt.
VB Patel 1.
of the learned counsel for the parties and will be disposed by a common judgment.
Appeal No 1951 of 1975 is directed against the award of the Industrial Tribunal Gujarat dated September 24 1975 in the dispute between the Alembic Glass Industries Ltd Baroda and its workmen while appeal No 631 of 1976 arises out of the Tribunal s award in the dispute between Jyoti Limited Baroda and its workmen.
Speaking broadly the dispute in both cases related to the workmen s demand for 10 days sick leave with retrospective effect and its accumulation over a period of three years ie upto 30 days.
The workmen particularly felt aggrieved because by virtue of the first proviso to section 49 of the  hereinafter referred to as the Act they were not entitled to the sickness benefit for the first two days of sickness except in the case of a spell of sickness following at an interval of not more than 15 days the spell of sickness for which sickness benefit was last paid.
It has been argued by the learned counsel for the appel lants that as the benefits of sections 47 and 49 of the Act are already admissible to workmen in Baroda with effect from December 14 1969 and they are quite adequate the Tribunal committed an error 83 of law in granting the additional benefits mentioned above.
Section 56 of the Act pro vides for medical benefits to the insured workmen or in certain cases to the members of his family.
It appears to us clear however that in providing for periodical payments to an insured worker in case of sickness sickness benefit or for medical treatment or attendance to him or the members of his family the legislature did not intend to substitute any of these benefits for the workmen s right to get leave on full pay on the ground of sickness.
 The matter came up again for consideration by this Court in Technological Institute of Textiles vs Its Workmen and others2 and it was held as follows with specific reference to the first proviso to section 49 of the Act according to which a person qualified to claim sickness benefit is not enti tled to it for the initial waiting period of two days except in the case of continuous illness of the nature mentioned therein With regard to sick leave the argument on behalf of the appellant was that benefits were granted by the  but that is not a bar to the demand of the workmen for sick leave.
The reason is that the first proviso to section 49 of the Employees  State 1 1964 1 SCR 234.
2 1965 2 L L3149.
84 Insurance Act states that a person qualified to claim sickness benefit shall not be entitled to the benefit for an initial waiting period of two days except in the case of a spell of sickness following at an interval of not more than fifteen days the spell of sickness for which benefit was last paid.
It is apparent that the Employees  State Insurance Scheme does not cover all contingencies of sickness and in any event the first two waiting days are not covered.
In our opinion the tribunal was there fore justified in its view that the workmen are entitled to 7 days  sick leave with wages on pro duction of a medical certificate.
 It would thus appear that the Scheme of the benefits admissible under the Act cannot be said to cover the work men s demand for sick leave to the extent allowed by the Tribunal.
Section 61 of the Act cannot thus be said to be applicable for the simple reason that the benefits granted by the Tribunal are not similar to those admissible under the Act.
The Act does not in fact deal with the question of sickness leave.
The other question regarding the adequacy of the sick ness benefit under the provisions of the Act has been exam ined by the Tribunal with reference to the reports of the National Commission of Labour 1969 the Labour Laws Review Committee and the Norms Committee of Gujarat State which go to show that the benefit cannot be said to be adequate for it works out to about half the average wage of a workman and even that amount is not admissible for the first two days of sickness except in the case of a spell of sickness following at an interval of not more than 15 days the spell of sickness for which the sickness benefit was last paid.
It has to be appreciated that a workman is prevented from earning the normal daily wages during the period of his illness and there is no justification for the argument that the rate of benefit at about half his wage under the Act should be considered sufficient so as to deny him the bene fit of sick leave on full emoluments for a period of 7 days when he is certified by a competent medical officer to be ill for that or a longer period.
It has not been disputed before us that the region cure industry basis is suitable in cases like the present for examining any controversy regarding the work man s demand for additional benefits but it has been argued by the learned counsel for the appellants that the award of the benefit of sick leave to the workers of the two Compa nies could not be justified on that basis.
We find that the Tribunal has examined this aspect of the controversy also and we have no reason to disagree with the view which it has taken.
As has been stated the Act came into force in the region concerned on December 14 1969 and it has not been disputed before us that till then it was the practice in the glass industries to grant sick leave with wages for periods varying from 6 to 10 days.
In fact in the 85 case of the Alembic Glass Industries Ltd Baroda the Tribunal made an award for 7 days sick leave on full pay and dearness allowance in 1958 subject to the condition that the benefit would cease to apply when the benefits of the Act became available to the workmen.
The benefit of sick leave was therefore lost when the Act was made applicable to the region from December 14 1969.
That was obviously under a mistaken impression of the sickness benefit which the Act allowed for as has been shown it does not deal with all aspects of the demand for sickness benefit and does not at any rate provide for the grant of leave on full emoluments during the period of the workman s physical incapacity to earn his normal wages because of his sickness.
It there fore appears that the Tribunal could not be said to have erred in restoring the benefit which the workmen were re ceiving under the award of 1958 for it was taken away under the mistaken impression that it had been adequately replaced by the new provisions on the coming into force of the Act.
those companies.
It is therefore futile to contend that the benefit should not be admissible on the ground that it had not been allowed by other companies in the region.
Even the Alembic Glass Industries Ltd has allowed 6 days sick leave in a year to its employ ees in Bangalore and it is permissible to accumulate it upto 12 days in addition to the current year s leave under a settlement dated July 17 1969 which is being continued even after the coming into force of the Act.
Learned coun sel for the appellants have invited our attention to the case between the Textile Labour Association and the Ahmeda bad Millowner s Association where the demand for sick leave was refused but as the Tribunal has pointed out the demand there was for a month s leave every year in addition to 15 days casual leave and pay in lieu of privilege leave.
The Full Bench of the Industrial Court in that case considered the paying capacity of the mills also and held that the additional leave demanded by the workmen would be very much beyond the paying capacity of the industry.
As against this the Tribunal has examined the financial capacity of the two companies in question and has given adequate rea sons for holding that they are in good financial position and can bear the additional burden of sick leave.
Mr ST Desai has raised the argument in the case of Jyoti Ltd Baroda that the Tribunal laboured under a misconception that 86 the sickness benefit would be lost for the first two days of sickness under the first proviso to section 49 of the Act that the Tribunal should not in any view of the matter have given the benefit of 7 days sick leave and that the workmen did not deserve anything more than sickness benefit for the first two days also.
The argument is however futile because as has been stated the Tribunal has cor rectly examined the controversy and given adequate reasons for allowing the benefit of 7 days sick leave in the manner set out in the award.
It appears however that it was not necessary in the circumstances of the case to award the benefit of the sick leave with retro spective effect from January 1 1975 in the case of Jyoti Ltd Baroda.
