39 40 of 1976.
Besides the learned Judge was openly attacking the Govern ment in its political as well as administrative decision.
In that letter they said that Justice DS Tewatia visited the Bar and inspected the court at Charkhi Dadri on 17 February 1975.
The High Court did not take any action against two persons on the letter written by five members of the Bar Association of Charkhi Dadri.
In order to prevent unwanted disclosure of its contents the communica tion in question was brought personally by two members of the Bar Association Bhiwani to Chandigarh in a closed cover addressed to the Chief Justice for being handed over to him for his personal attention.
have no relevance or relation to the functioning of the learned Judge of the High Court.
In any case if in view of this Hon ble Court the action of the deponent in addressing the letter in question constitut ed for any reason contempt of court one would be more sorry than the deponent himself.
The elementary basis of acceptance of apology is that there is to be a finding of committal of contempt.
In the absence of any finding by the High Court that the appellants committed any contempt of court there was never any occasion for acceptance of apology.
It is necessary to state here that if any Judge address es on political problems or controversies the Judge exposes himself to discussion by public.
It is no part of the duty of a Judge nor is it a duty in discharge of office of a Judge to go and address a meeting on political matters to redress grievances of the people.
To say that will not by itself be a contempt.
Invitations by the Bar Associ ation or social invitations naturally Stand on a different footing and no one will find an exception to any Judge attending a social function.
Judges are by reason of their office and nature of work expected not to get involved in controversial matters or to concern themselves with political issues or policies under taken by political parties as a part of their political programme.
In the absence of such a finding no question arises for acceptance of apology.
247 The judgment is set aside.
