Civil Appeal No 1744 of 1968.
He is a respondent who has not appeared before us and therefore could not be heard by us.
We have however gone through his petition and the affidavit filed in its support where in paragraph 16 he states as fol lows The Mysore State Civil Service Integra tion Rules 1960 provide for filing objections only against the preliminary provisional Inter State Seniority List and do not provide any provision for filing objections or appeal ing against the final Inter State Seniority List as per Annexure B .
Otherwise he would no doubt have objected that the rules had not been complied 1 SLR 1969 p1 C As.
His grievance seemed to be that he was not heard after the final list was prepared.
Hence the principle recognised in Shankariah s case supra was not applicable to such a case.
 1 from which learned Counsel thought the following observations could perhaps be cited on behalf of the petitioner respondent at p 202 it was argued by Mr Ashoke Sen that in regard to both these matters the respond ents have a right of representation and the final gradation list should have been pub lished after giving them further oppor tunity to make a representation.
As no such opportunity was furnished to the respondents with regard to these two matters 1 202.
No element of punishment at all is involved in preparing either a provisional or a final seniority list.
All that is done is that certain principles are applied in the preparation of the list.
But once he has had that opportunity it cannot possibly be said that he should have a further opportunity against even a final seniority list.
If he was to have that opportunity the list would not really be final but only provisional or preliminary.
It was an opportunity to be given before the final list was to be declared and published as a final list.
What we have observed does not mean that if a final list is prepared contrary to the rules applicable or is vitiated on some ground showing that a condition precedent to the finalisation of the list is absent it would still be inviolable Dr sacrosanct.
In order to establish the invalidity of the final list on some such grounds of invalidity those grounds have to be shown to exist.
Learned Counsel for the Central Government had cited before us Union of India vs.
GR Prabhavalkar  Ors.
1 where it was held by this Court at p 2106 1 AIR 1973 Sc 2102 at 2106.
It is not within the province of the Courts to lay down what are in the principles to be adopted for purposes of equation.
In this case no mala fides are alleged.
