270 of 1955.
DAS ACTG.
Two private limited companies namely Indestro India Ltd and Indestro Eastern Ltd also carry on business and have their respective offices in the same premises.
The assessee is said to have some connection with the two companies the nature of which however is not quite clear on the record before us.
The assessee did not appear in person on the appointed day but on the next day the 17th June 1955 an Advocate acting on behalf of the assessee wrote a letter to the Additional Collector purporting to show cause why the assessee should not be arrested and sent to the civil jail.
The contentions put forward on behalf of the assessee not being considered satisfactory the Additional Collector on the 30th June 1955 issued a warrant for the arrest of the assessee under section 13 of the Bombay City Land Revenue Act 1876.
In the view we have taken about the merits of the petition it is not necessary for us to consider the question of its maintainability after the dismissal of the petition under article 226 or to make any pronouncement on this occasion on the scope and ambit of article 32 of the Constitution in that situation.
The principal contentions urged by the learned Advocate appearing for the petitioner are as follows namely a that section 462 of the Indian Income tax Act under which the Income tax Officer issued the recovery certificate to the Additional Collector of Bombay is void under article 131 of the Constitution in that the same offends article 221 and 2 article 21 and article 14 of the Constitution b that section 13 of the Bombay City Land Revenue Act 1876 under which the warrant of arrest was issued by the Additional Collector is void under article 13 1 of the Constitution as the same is repugnant to article 14 of the Constitution.
Article 21 guarantees that no person shall be deprived of his personal liberty except in accordance with procedure established by law.
In our opinion the proviso does not indicate a different and alternative mode of recovery of the certified amount of tax but only confers additional powers on the Collector for the better and more effective application of the only mode of recovery authorised by the body of sub section 2 of section 46.
The contention is that section 462 which sanctions such discrimination is clearly violative of the equal protection clause of the Constitution and has therefore become void under article 13 1.
As was said by the Supreme Court of America in Middleton vs Texas Power and Light Company1 There is a strong presumption that a legislature understands and correctly appreciates the needs of its own people that its laws are directed to problems made manifest by experience and that its discriminations are based upon adequate grounds.
There can on the same principle be no objection to people of a backward area who may be in need of aid in the shape of tax remission to be exempted from taxation either wholly or in part.
It is said that the income tax demand being a Union demand there should be uniformity in the punishment to be meted out to defaulters and it can be done easily by suitably amending section 462 so as to provide for the detention of all defaulters for the same period in all cases in all States.
The case of Bowman vs Lewis1 is in point.
Indeed in that very case it was recognised that it was not impossible that a distinct territorial establishment and jurisdiction might be intended as or might have the effect of discrimination against a particular race or class where such race or class should happen to be the principal occupants of the disfavoured area.
Adoption of an existing machinery devised for a particular purpose cannot if there be no vice of unconstitutionality in the machinery render it unconstitutional if it is made to subserve a purpose closely akin or similar to the purpose for which it bad been devised.
The first objection formulated by learned counsel for the petitioner must therefore be rejected.
Assuming then but not deciding that section 13 of the Bombay City Land Revenue Act 1876 became inconsistent with the fundamental right guaranteed by article 14 and therefore became void to the extent of such inconsistency it was not as recently explained by this Court in Bhikaji Narayan Dhakras vs The State of Madhya Pradesh Nagpur and Another1 obliterated from the statute book for all times or for all purposes or for all people.
The law was not dead.
It is only after the sale proceeds were found to be insufficient to satisfy the assessed amount and the assessee failed to pay up the balance that the question of the arrest of the defaulter arose.
By that time section 13 had been amended and the warrant of arrest was issued on the 7th June 1955 that is to say long after the amendment of the section.
We may mention that our attention was drawn to the decision of the Madras High Court in Erimmal Ebrahim Hajee vs The Collector of Malabar1 but learned counsel could not rely upon it as an authority as it was itself under appeal before this Court.
 is that this application must be dismissed.
