Another Division Bench of the Bombay High Court in Rangubai Lalji vs Laxman Lalji2 had already reconsidered and dissented from earlier Division Bench judgment in Shiramabai Bhimgonda1 In these two cases the judgment of the Bench was delivered by the same learned Judge Patel J.
Testamentary successive is out of question as the deceased had not made a testamentary disposition though under the explanation to section 30 of the Act the interest of a male Hindu in Mitakshara coparcenary property is capable of being disposed of by a will or other testamentary disposition.
Since Explanation 1 is intended to be explanatory of the provisions contained in the section what the Explanation provides has to be correlated to the subject matter which the section itself deals with.
Two things become necessary to determine for the purpose of giving relief to the plaintiff.
The deceased Khandappa died leaving behind him two sons three daughters and a widow.
The son daughter and a widow are mentioned as heirs in class I of the Schedule and therefore by reason of the provisions of section 8a read with the 1st clause of section 9 they take simultaneously and to the exclusion of other heirs.
As between them the two sons the three daughters and the widow will take equally each having one share in the deceased s property under section 10 read with Rules 1 and 2 of that section.
Explanation 1 which contains the formula for determining the share of the deceased creates a fiction by providing that the interest of a Hindu Mistakshara coparcener shall be deemed to be the share in the property that would have been allotted to him if a partition of the property had taken place immediately before his death.
In a partition between Khandappa and his two sons there would be four sharers in the coparcenary property the fourth being Khandappa s wife the plaintiff.
That Explanation compels the assumption of a fiction that in fact a partition of the property had taken place the point of time of the partition being the one immediately before the death of the person in whose property the heirs claim a share.
In order to ascertain the share of heirs in the property of a deceased coparcener it is necessary in the very nature of things and as the very first step to ascertain the share of the deceased in the coparcenary property.
For by doing that alone can one determine the extent of the claimant s share.
That assumption once made is irrevocable.
In other words the assumption having been made once for the purpose of ascertaining the share of the deceased in the coparcenary property one cannot go back on that assumption and ascertain the share of the heirs without reference to it.
Section 3 of the Hindu Women s Rights to Property Act.
By restricting the operation of the fiction created by Explanation I in the manner suggested by the appellant we shall be taking a retrograde step putting back as it were the clock of social reform which has enabled the Hindu Woman to acquire an equal status with males in matters of property.
We are happy to find that the view which we have taken above has also been taken by the Bombay High Court in Rangubai Lalji vs Laxman Lalji supra in which Patel J very fairly pronounced his own earlier judgment to the contrary in Shiramabai Bhimgonda vs Kalgonda supra as incorrect.
The Full Bench of the Bombay High Court in Sushilabai supra has considered exhaustively the various decisions bearing on the point and we endorse the analysis contained in the judgment of Kantawala C J who has spoken for the Bench.
2 AIR 1974 Guj.
