 Criminal Appeal No 133 of 1975.
Appeal from the Judgment and order dated 3 2 1978 of the Andhra Pradesh High Court in Crl.
A No 62873.
The Judgment of the Court was delivered by CHINNAPPA REDDY J.
They were married about one and a half years before the occurrence.
About three months before the occurrence the deceased gave birth to a female child in the house of the accused at Cherlopalle.
After the ninth day the mother and child according to customary practice were taken by the mother of the deceased to her house at Krishna Kalva.
Cherlopalle is about 25 miles from Krishna Kalva.
The accused and P W 8 went away.
After dinner all of them went to sleep.
The house consisted of only one room.
Attracted by the cries raised by the PWs 1 to 3 the neighbourers P Ws 4 5 6 and others came there.
After holding the inquest the dead body was sent for postmortem examination.
nearly horizontal.
In the Committing Court the accused was content with a bare denial but in the Court of Sessions he stated that he went to the house of his mother in law at about 10 pm.
He regained consciousness next morning.
The Learned Sessions Judge held that the prosecution had failed to establish any motive and that the evidence of the prosecution witnesses was discrepant conflicting and improbable  He thought that the prosecution had made an attempt to improve its case which was originally based on circumstantial evidence to made it appear as if PW 3 had also seen the stabbing.
He commented on the failure of the Police to seize the mat or bedding on which the deceased was sleeping.
He therefore acquitted the accused.
The High Court reversed the finding of acquittal.
The High Court observed that the learned Sessions Judge had magnified the importance to be attached to minor discrepancies.
Accepting the evidence of P Ws 1 to 3 which was corroborated by the evidence of P Ws 4 and 5 who came to the scene soon afterwards the High Court convicted the accused under Section 302 and sentenced him as aforesaid.
He urged that the knife was not seized by the Police under any seizure Memo nor was the knife sent to any finger print expert.
We have perused the relevant evidence as well as the judgments of the Sessions Judge and the High Court.
below the arm pit on the left side.
The Inspector of Police P W 15 however stated that P W 3 did not state before him that she saw the accused making a gesture as if he was stabbing the deceased.
vs State of Rajasthan1.
In Sanwat Singh s case this Court harked 1 Al.
After Sanwat Singh vs State of Rajasthan this Court has consistently recognised the right of the Appellate Court to review the entire evidence and to come to its own conclusion bearing in mind the considerations mentioned by the Privy Council in Sheo Swarup s case.
If two reasonably probable and evenly balanced views of the evidence are possible one must necessarily concede the existence of a reasonable doubt.
If the preponderance of probability is all one way a bare possibility of another view will not entitle the accused to claim the benefit of any doubt.
As observed by Lord Denning in Miller vs Minister of pensions5 Proof beyond a reasonable doubt does not mean proof beyond a shadow of a doubt.
1 61 IA 389.
2 AIR 1971 SC 460.
3 Al.
If the evidence is so strong against a man as to leave only a remote possibility in his favour which can be dismissed with the sentence of course it is possible but not in the least probable  the case is proved beyond reasonable doubt but nothing short of that will suffice.
In Khem Karan  Ors.
 this Court observed Neither mere possibilities nor remote possibilities nor mere doubts which are not reasonable can without danger to the administration of justice be the foundation of the acquittal of an accused person if there is otherwise fairly credible testimony.
