section K Gambhir for RR.
One of the grounds on which the appellants challenged the validity of the electoral roll the calendar of events and the declaration of results of election was that the entire election process had become vitiated on account of the defect in the notice issued under Rule 1 of the Rules notifying that claims and objections should be preferred within a period of 20 days from the date of the publication of that notice when sub rule 3 of Rule 4 of the Rules prescribed that such claims and objections could be preferred within 30 days from the date of publication of that notice.
The claim of petitioner No 5 was rejected as no evidence in support of his claim was produced before the Deputy Collector.
The allegation that 34 persons had approached the Deputy 495 Collector requesting him to receive their applications for inclusion of their names in the electoral roll on October 20 1978 was denied.
The High Court after hearing the parties dismissed the petition holding i that respondent No 2 the Deputy Collector had asked petitioner No S to appear before him on October 30 1978 and that as he did not produce any evidence in support of his claim his application was dismissed ii that none of the persons mentioned in Annexure P 7 preferred any claim before respondent No 2 on October 20 1978 and that he did not refuse to receive any such claim and that no person preferred any claim or objection after October 19 1978 before respondent No 2 and iii that the petitioners were not entitled to any relief as they had approached the Court after undue delay.
Since one of the grounds on which the High Court dismissed the petition was that the petitioners were not prompt in moving the High Court we shall first examine whether the High Court was right in doing so since if we agree with the High Court on the above question it would become unnecessary to go into the other questions raised before us.
It was open to them to move the State Government under Rule 6 of the Rules to make an order directing the Collector to follow .
the provisions governing the preparation of the electoral roll.
It was also open to them to file a writ petition immediately after the publication of the said notice questioning its legality.
None of the above courses was adopted by the petitioners.
By that time the nominations had all been received.
No satisfactory explanation was given in the course of the petition by the petitioners as to why they delayed the filing of the petition till December 28 1978 even though they knew that there was an error in the notice issued under Rule 41 of the Rules in the month of October 1978 more than two months before the date on which i was filed.
It was however argued before us relying upon a news item which had appeared in a daily called Nav Bharat  dated October 21 1978 in which there was a reference to a statement made by the Minister for Local Self Government of Madhya Pradesh regarding the irregularity in the division of Raipur town into different wards for purposes of election.
No satisfactory reason for the delay was set out in the petition.
We make no order as to costs.
