ON Criminal Appeal No 126 of 1955.
Appeal by special leave from the judgment and order dated the 9th August 1955 of the Bombay High Court in Criminal Application No 726 of 1955.
He was in the Indian Air Force as an emergency Commissioned Officer between 1943 to 1948 and thereafter on extension for another four years until he attained the age of 55.
On his own showing he was concerned over the political future of Goa and was opposed to any attempts at intimidation of Indian residents of Goan origin by other political groups and has freely expressed these views in his journalistic articles.
He was arrested on the 9th June 1955 and is in detention since then under the impugned order which runs as follows 384 No P D A 1555A Political and Services Department Secretariat Bombay 8th June 1955.
O R D E R.
It is therefore enough to state in its broad outlines the background which is alleged as follows 1a There was a sudden search by the police on the 24th August 1954 at the appellant s place for alleged possession of illicit liquorwhich in fact was not found.
bOn the same day a search was carried out by the police also at his residence at Mahim but nothing was found.
The objection by the appellant relating to this is contained in paragraph 15g of his application before the High Court.
If the ground which is supplied is incapable of being understood or defined with sufficient certainty it can be called vague.
2He is collecting intelligence about the security arrangements on the border area and making such intelligence available to the Portuguese authorities.
But having regard to the nature of the alleged activities of the appellant it is not unlikely that no more could be gathered or furnished.
Such a right to call for particulars has been recognised in the case in the State of Bombay vs Atma Ram Sridhar Vaidya1 as flowing from his constitutional right to be afforded a reasonable opportunity to make a representation to the Board.
In the circumstances and having regard to thefact that what is alleged is espionage activity ata time when relations between the two Governments on the affairs of Goa were somewhat delicate we are inclined to think with the High Court that the grounds cannot be considered to be vague.
Now it has been held in Atma Ram Sridhar Vaidya s case1 by the majority of the Court that the constitutional right of a detenue under article 225 comprises two distinct components.
1The right to be furnished grounds of detention as soon as may be and 2The right to be afforded the earliest opportunity of making a representation against his detention 1  184 391 which implies the right to be furnished adequate particulars of the grounds of detention to enable a proper representation being made.
The meaning is clear that at no time it was in public interest to disclose the details referred to in the particular paragraph of the affidavit and there is nothing to suggest that this question was not considered by the detaining authority at the time when the grounds were furnished.
But what has been urged before us is that the decision not to disclose the facts as well as the ambit of the non disclosure must be clearly communicated to the detenue at the time when the grounds are furnished.
All the contentions raised before us fail and this appeal is dismissed.
