1025 26 of 1978.
Respondent 1 the Special Area Development Authority for the Korba Special Area is constituted under section 65 of the Madhya Pradesh Nagar Tatha Gram Nivesh Adhiniyam 23 of 1973 referred to hereinafter as the Act of 1973 .
On June 24 1976 respondent 1 the Special Area Development Authority Korba entered into an agreement with the appellant Company under which the Company agreed to contribute a sum of Rupees three lakhs annually to the seed capital of the Authority in consideration of the Authority agreeing not to exercise its power of taxation or of levying any other charges on the assets and activities of the Company under the Act of 1973 as amended from time to time or under any other Act or notification.
Civil Appeal No 213 of 1979 by special leave is directed against the dismissal of the Writ Petition.
However we are unable to accept any of these.
It is urged that the provisions conferring powers of taxation under the aforesaid two Acts must be taken to have been incorporated in section 69d of the Act of 1973 and any subsequent change in those provisions by amendment of the two Acts cannot be availed of by respondent 1.
The answer to this contention will depend mainly upon whether the provisions of the Municipalities Act and the Municipal Corporation Act were incorporated into the Act of 1973 by its section 69d.
In the case last cited the Privy Council qualified its statement of the law by saying that the principle that an amendment of the first law which is not expressly made applicable to the subsequent incorporating Act cannot be deemed to be incorporated into the second Act applies if it is possible for the subsequent Act to function effectually without the addition page 267.
It is therefore not necessary to follow the procedure prescribed by sections 129 and 133 of the respective Acts.
The learned Attorney General contends that the taxing authority must all the same apply its mind to the question whether it wants to bring to tax the land or the building or both.
Under section 51 of the Coal Mines Nationalisation Act 26 of 1973 which applies in the instant case the right title and interest of a nationalised coal mine vest by direction of the Central Government in the Government company.
By sub section 2 of section 141 the property tax levied on the owner can also be recovered from the occupier of the land or the building.
It is true that on account of the declaration contained in section 2 of the Mines and Minerals Development and Regulation Act 1957 the legislative field covered by Entry 23 of List II will pass on to Parliament by virtue of Entry 54 List I.
Entry 5 of List II relates to Local Government that is to say the constitution and powers of municipal corporations and other local authorities for the purpose of local self Government.
Entry 54 of List I does not contemplate the taking over of municipal functions.
Demands were made upon the lessee for successive years for the payment of land cess under sections 78 and 79 of the Madras District Boards Act 1920.
The proceeds of the land cess were required to be credited to the District fund which had to be used for everything necessary for or conducive to the safety health convenience or education of the inhabitants or the amenities of local area concerned.
It was further held by the Court that the land cess was not a tax on mineral rights but was in truth and substance a tax on lands within the meaning of Entry 49 of the State List.
This Court held that the pith and substance of the amended section 102 fell within Entry 23 although it incidentally touched land and that therefore the amendment was subject to the overriding power of Parliament as declared in section 15 of the .
Since the Central Act was primarily concerned with the development and regulation of declared industries and not with the ownership of industrial undertakings it was held that the State legislature had the competence to enact the impugned law.
