Civil Appeals No 2611 and 2611 A of 1981.
A K Sen and G L Sanghi Vineet Kumar and Devinder Gupta for the Appellant.
578 DD Thakur SN Kacker and RP Bhatt for respondent in 261181.
In the meantime by a deed dated December 7 1966 which was registered on December 24 1966 the plot in question was taken on lease jointly by Ved Gupta Todar Mal and Krishan Kumar for a period of 40 years on the terms and conditions set out therein.
By a subsequent agreement executed by the 14 partners on February 22 1969 the name of the Cinema business was changed from Metro Theatre  to Apsara Theatre.
 The construction of the Cinema Theatre appears to have been completed by the middle of June 1969.
Annexure D is a copy of the said licence and it is expressly stated therein that the said licence has been granted to Shri Ved Gupta and that it shall remain in force until March 31 1970 provided that Shri Ved Gupta or any person to whom with the consent of the licensing authority the licence is transferred continues to own or manage the cinematographs used ill the said Apsara Theatre.
Thereupon Todar Mal preferred an appeal against the said order passed by the District Magistrate.
The Minister of State for Revenue and Law Government of Jammu and Kashmir heard counsel on both sides and ultimately dismissed Todar Mal s appeal by a detailed order of which Annexure G is a copy.
On the date of the institution itself the District Judge Jammu issued an order of temporary injunction restraining defendants 1 to 7 from interfering with the possession and the running of the Theatre Apsara by the plaintiffs.
In being served with the order of injunction Ved Gupta wrote to the District Magistrate on September 24 1980 that it had become impossible for him to operate the Cinema licence in view of the temporary injunction issued by the District Court and since it is only the licensee who is held responsible under the Act and the Rules for due compliance with all the terms and conditions of the licence and answerable to the licensing authority for all commissions and omissions in the Cinema premises he may be saved from any prosecution or other action under law in the capacity of licensee of the Apsara Theatre in respect of any illegal acts or offences committed by others in the said premises.
2 If the judges composing the bench are equally divided on any point they shall state the point upon which they differ and the case shall then be heard upon that point by one or more of the other Judges designated for the purpose by the Chief Justice and such point shall be decided according to the opinion of the majority if any of the judges who have heard the case including those who first heard it.
Aggrieved by the decision of the High Court Ved Gupta has filed these appeals after obtaining special leave from this Court.
In the judgment of the learned Acting Chief Justice he has opened the discussion of the merits of the case by an elaborate consideration of the question as to whether the licence in respect of the Apsara Theatre had been granted to Shri Ved Gupta in his individual capacity or as representing the partnership.
Admittedly the licence in respect of the Apsara Theatre was granted by the District Magistrate in the sole name of Ved Gupta and in all the relevant columns of the document of licence Ved Gupta has been shown as the licensee and there is no mention at all of the firm or its partners.
An application filed by Shri Krishan Kumar for a declaration that the licence was the property of the firm and for inclusion of his name and that of Todar Mal in the said licence as joint licensees was rejected by the District Magistrate by his order dated December 29 1977.
That writ petition was dismissed by the High Court on May 9 1978 SLP Civil No 3490 of 1978 filed by Todar Mal against the High Court s order dismissing his writ petition was rejected by this Court on November 13 1978.
The order of the licensing authority was confirmed on appeal by the State Government.
Such being the case we are unable to appreciate why the learned Acting Chief Justice has devoted a considerable part of his judgment to a discussion of the aforesaid question as to whether the licence belonged to Ved Gupta alone or whether it was the property of the firm.
That Section is in the following terms 6 F Power to revoke licence Where the holder of a licence or a person in charge of a cinematography or management thereof or an owner or partner thereof or an employee thereof has been convicted of an offence under Section 6 or Section 6 E of this Act or under Section 15 of the Jammu and Kashmir Entertainments Duty Act 1959 the licence may be revoked by the licensing authority.
While the firm and the partners may have a right to share in the profits of the business which may be conducted in the Theatre on the strength of licence issued to Ved Gupta they have no right or interest in the licence which was granted to Ved Gupta in his personal and individual capacity.
That Rule reads 88v.
It is now relevant to recall that what has happened in this case is that in a suit filed by Krishan Kumar along with 11 other partners an order of temporary injunction was issued on September 23 1980 restraining Ved Gupta from interfering in any manner with the running of the Theatre by the plaintiffs.
There was no suspension of the licence issued to Ved Gupta in respect of the Theatre.
Any such operation by them would have been in clear and gross contravention of the law embodied if the relevant provisions of the Act and the Rules.
In the absence of any legal right or legitimate expectation being 593 available to the petitioners there was no obligation on the part of the District Magistrate to afford them a hearing before passing the impugned order.
We are therefore unable to uphold the view taken by the High Court that the impugned order was violative of principles of natural justice.
Proceeding on that premise the learned Acting Chief Justice has said that under the provisions of the Act the power to suspend a licence is conferred only by Section 6 F of the Act as one implicit in the larger power of revocation and unless the conditions precedent mentioned in the said Section are present the licensing authority had no jurisdiction to suspend the licence.
As already observed by us the impugned order is not one suspending the licence issued in respect of the Theatre.
Civil Appeal No 261 l A of 1981 which is directed against the order passed in CMP No 454 of 1981 is disposed of as infructuous 594 in view of our having set aside the judgment of the Division Bench on the merits.
HLC Appeal allowed.
