1073 1100 1117 19 1229 95 142 1554 1746 2140 2155 2271 2396 2459.
Under Article 32 of the Constitution of India AND Writ Petition Nos 42184571 and 5266 5280 of 1983 Under article 32 of the Constitution of India AND Transfer Case Nos 44 339 of 1983 KK Venugopal SS Ray PP Rao VM Tarkuade and R K Garg V Jogayya Sharma MP Rao Sudarsh Menon T VS N Churi G Narasimhulu A Subba Rao MKD Namboodiry HS Guru Raj Rao section Markandeya ATM Sampath DK Garg Nikhil Chandra and A K Panda for the Petitioners.
GN Rao for the State.
Miss A Subhashini for the Union.
A counter affidavit was filed on behalf of the State of Andhra Pradesh by Shri R Parthasarathy Joint Secretary in the Finance Department of the State at the stage of admission of the writ petitions.
after which the age of retirement was increased to 58 in 1979 has no relevance to the present decision of the State to reduce the age of retirement that the fact that the average expectation of life is about 70 years is not a ground for increasing the age of retirement of Government employees that the general trend was for reducing the age of retirement that the Government of Kerala and Karnataka had reduce the age of retirement of their employees to 55 though it was earlier increased from 55 to 58 that in some States in India the age of retirement is 55 and not 58 the present decision was taken by the Government in order to fulfill its commitment that it will take welfare measures in order to improve the lot of the common man and.
Another affidavit was filed on behalf of the Government of Andhra Pradesh after the rule nisi was issued in the writ petitions.
588 The affidavit is sworn by Shri AK Sharma Deputy Secretary to Government of Andhra Pradesh.
Clause 101 of the Ordinance prescribes that every Government employee not being a workman and not belonging to Last Grade Service shall retire from service on the afternoon of the last day of the month in which he attains the are of 55 years.
Clause 102 provides that every Government employee not being a workman but belonging to the Last Grade Service shall retire from service on the afternoon of the last day of the month in which he attains the age of 60 years.
Clause 103 provides that every workman belonging to the Last Grade Service or employed on a monthly rate of pay in any service notified as Inferior shall retire from service on the afternoon of the last day of the month in which he attains the age of 60 years.
Clause 16 of the Ordinance provides that no amendment to the Fundamental Rules shall be deemed to be invalid merely by reason of the fact that the proviso to rule 2 of the Fundamental Rules laid down that the said rules shall not be modified or replaced to the disadvantage of any person already in service.
Clause 16 of the Ordinance declares that every amendment made before or after the commencement of the Ordinance to the Fundamental Rules and the Hyderabad Civil Services Rules shall be and shall be always deemed to have applied to all Government employees whether appointed before or after the amendment.
Clause 18 of the Ordinance provides by sub clause i that the proviso to rule 2 of the Fundamental Rules shall be and shall be deemed always to have been omitted.
Shri Venugopal challenged the Ordinance on the ground that it is unreasonable.
Shri Tarkunde challenged it on the ground that the superannuation of the employees by reduction of the age of retirement amounts in the circumstances to removal  of the employees within the meaning of Article 311.
whereas in the case of compulsory retirement a notice of three months is 590 required to be given by the Government under the relevant rules in the case of superannuation of employees who had already attained the age of 55 on February 8 1983 when the first Order was issued the impugned law gives to the employees a notice of 20 days only since all such employees had to retire on February 28 1983.
This is the broad outline of the petitioners  case.
A common scheme of general application governing superannuation has therefore to be evolved in the light of experience regarding performance levels of employees the need to provide employment opportunities to the younger sections of society and the need to open up promotional opportunities to employees at the lower levels early in their career.
On the one hand public services cannot be deprived of the benefit of the mature experience of senior employees on the other hand a sense of frustration and stagnation cannot be allowed to generate in the minds of the junior members of the services and the younger sections of the society.
Where an act is arbitrary it is implicit in it that it is unequal both according to political logic and constitutional law and is therefore violative of Article 14l But while resolving the validity of policy issues like the age of retirement it is not proper to put the conflicting claims in a sensitive judicial scale and decide the issue by finding out which way the balance tilts.
592 lative competence or on the legislative power to pass laws which bear on fundamental rights.
Shri Venugopal who led the argument on behalf of the petitioners contends that the provisions of the Ordinance whereby the age of retirement is reduced from 58 to 55 are arbitrary and irrational and hence violative of Articles 14 and 16 of the Constitution for the following reasons a The age of superannuation was increased from 55 to 58 years with effect from October 29 1979 after an elaborate and scientific inquiry by a One Man Pay Commission b The State Government issued the order reducing the age of retirement within one month of the assumption of office by it.
Even otherwise not more than one per cent of the unemployed educated youths are likely to get employment as a result of the reduction in the age of retirement from 58 to 55.
e The careful planning by the employees of their important affairs of life like the construction of a house the marriage of a daughter or the repayment of loans has been suddenly set at naught by the reduction in the age of retirement f Two of the most relevant circumstances bearing upon the fixation of the age of retirement have been ignored by the State Government increase in longevity and the prevailing age of retirement in public sector undertakings and g No consideration was given to the plain and direct con sequence of the reduction in the age of retirement namely that the State exchequer would have to find and pay Rs 70 crores on one single day by way of retirement benefits for which no budgetary provision was made It would appear from these contentions as also from the contions advanced by the other learned counsel that the main plank of the petitioners  case is that the decision to reduce the age of retirement from 58 to 55 is unconstitutional because it is arbitrary irrational and unconnected with the object which it seeks to achieve.
The very foundation of this argument is fallacious By GO NO.
745 dated November 31977 the Government of Andhra Pradesh had appointed Shri A Krishnaswamy a retired member of the l.
Clause 101 of the Ordinance prescribes that every Government employee not being a workman and not belonging to Last Grade Service shall retire from service on the afternoon of the last day of the month in which he attains the are of 55 years.
Clause 102 provides that every Government employee not being a workman but belonging to the Last Grade Service shall retire from service on the afternoon of the last day of the of the Commission cover the review of the existing retirement benefits  the reference would naturally include the age of retirement.
 This was an erroneous and unwarranted reading of the terms of reference.
A review of retirement benefits would undoubtedly cover the examination of the rules or schemes relating to pension provident fund gratuity encasement of leave etc but it cannot include the power to examine the question as regards the fixation of the age of retirement.
A delayed decision of the executive can also be had as offending against the provisions of the Constitution and it can be no defense to the charge of unconstitutionality that the decision was taken after the lapse of a long time.
Every decision has to examined on its own merits in order to determine whether it is arbitrary or unreasonable.
Both can fall within the constraints of the Constitution and neither the one nor the other can be considered to be arbitrary or unreasonable.
Maharashtra 58 years Orissa Previously 55 years enhanced to 58 years.
A distinction was however made between ministerial and non ministerial officers presumbly because it was thought that the duties of the former did not suffer from the effects of advancing age as did those of the others and it was decided in effect that subject to continued efficiency ministerial officers should be retained in service till they attained the age of 60.
The continuing shortage of trained man power led to a further review of the problem in 1958 but apart from laying down the criteria for grant of extension and re employment and re emphasizing the need to retain technical and scientific personnel beyond the age of superannuation the only significant advance on the earlier decisions was that re employment or extension might be granted upto two years at a time.
There was an extraordinary unanimity of opinion amongst Heads of Departments distinguished retired public servants public men and economists who gave evidence before the Commission that the age of superannuation should be raised the only difference being as to whether it should be raised to 58 or 60 years.
The data supplied to the Commission by the Comptroller and Audi 600 tor General showed that at least in the case of Gazetted and Class 111 employees there was a significant increase in the percentage of persons who lived for two years or more after superannuation.
On this data the Commission concluded in paragraph 11 of its Report Thus however valid may have been the view taken in 1971 and re affirmed in 1937 38 that the age of 55 was normally the dividing line between health and efficiency on the one side and marked physical deterioration and decline in efficiency On the other there is sufficient reason to think that is no longer so and that the deviding line can be safely moved a few years upwards.
 The Commission then adverted to the prevailing ages of retirement in foreign countries and reiterated that whether we go by our own vital statistics or by the age of retirement prevalent in other countries there was a clear case for raising the age of superannuation substantially above 55 years.
After talking into account all the relevant considerations including the fact that most Government servants themselves do not wish to continue in service until they are worn out and have one foot in the grave the Commission summed up its findings by saying that there was much in favour of and very little against raising the age of superannuation.
The Commission recommended that the age of superannuation should be 58 for all classes of public servants including those for whom the retirement age then was 60.
A reduction in the age of superannuation would not therefore ipso facto improve the overall employment position for the educated unemployed 5 Any increase in the age of superannuation beyond the age of 58 would reduce during the period of the increase employment opportunities for a very large number of technical engineering and professional students passing out from the universities technical institutions and industrial training institutes  and 6 The age of retirement should not be changed frequently since it has a vital bearing on the career prospects of and the retirement benefits available to Government employees and since it is an important factor in the attractiveness of Government service.
The age of retirement is 70 years in Brazil and Peru 65 years in Chile 63 years in Philippines and 64 years in Lebanon.
the Commission concluded that there was a case for increasing the retirement age of the State Government employees to 58 years.
According to the Sixth Five Year Plan unemployment would not be eliminated within the Sixth Plan unless efforts were immediately made to make the current unemployed more employable through short term training and vocational programmes and unless special employment programmes are directed towards their absorption.
After stating that the Krishnaswamy Commission was appointed on November 3 1977 for the sole purpose of 603 examining the question of  retirement benefits and that the question of retirement age was not included in its terms of reference the White Paper says that although the Government had accepted the recommendations of the Commission almost in their entirety it did not accept its recommendation that the age of retirement should be increased from 55 to 58 years.
By a notification dated September 17 199 the recommendations of the Commission B in regard to the revision of pay scales were accepted by the Government but not so the recommendation regarding increasing the age of retirement from 55 to 58 years.
The specific case of the State Government on the question of reduction of the age of retirement from 58 to 55 years is stated thus As a result of revision of the age of superannuation upwards from 55 years to 58 years the normal channels of promotions that would have opened up had the retirements taken place in the normal course were choked.
Consequently the resultant vacancies at the direct recruitment level which would have arisen in the chain of appointments that would follow each retirement were also blocked for 3 years continuously thereby denying the promotion opportunities to inservice personnel and employment opportunities for the unemployed causing a great deal of frustration all round.
Besides experienced deserving inservice personnel whose legitimate aspirations for promotion were thwarted could also now look for this much awaited promotion.
 604 The White Paper explains that in order to ensure that the employees who had retired by the end of February 1983 should get their pensionary benefits without delay the Government had constituted a special Pension cell in the Finance Department by a notification dated February 16 1983.
Either the one or the other of these two stages is regarded generally as acceptable depending upon the employment policy of the Government of the day.
If the policy adopted for the time being by the Government or the Legislature is shown to violate recognised norms of employment planning it would be possible to say that the policy is irrational since in that event it would not bear reasonable nexus with the object which it seeks to achieve.
Therefore it is vital from the point of view of their well being that the question should be considered with the greatest objectivity and decided upon the basis of empirical data furnished by scientific investigation.
What is vital for the welfare of the citizens is of necessity vital for the survival of the State.
See Satish Chandra vs Union of India1 Shyam Lal vs State of U P1 State of Bombay vs Saubhagchand M Doshi3 Purshottam Lal Dhingra vs Union of India4 and P Balakotiah vs Union of India5.
Besides the point made by Shri Tarkunde is concluded by a Constitution Bench decision of this Court in Bishun Narain Misra vs State of Uttar Pradesh 6 In that case the Government of Uttar Pradesh and raised the age of superannuation from 55 to 58 years by a Notification dated November 27 1957 but reduced it again to 55 years by a Notification dated May 25 1961.
It was held by this Court that the termination of service of an employee on account of his reaching the age of superannuation does not amount to his removal from service within the meaning of Article 311 2.
It is true that in Moti Ram Deka the Court was concerned to G 1  2 1955 1 SCR26.
3  4  5 1958 SCR1052.
6 1965 I SCR 693.
7  606 determine the validity of Rules 148 3 and 149 3 of the Railway Establishment Code which provided for the termination of the service of a permanent servant by a mere notice But interestingly the judgment in Bishun Narain Mishra shows that it was the appellant therein who relied on the decision in Moti Ram Deka in support of his contention that the rule by which the age of retirement was reduced to 55 years amounted to removal within the meaning of Article 311 2 The Court held that the decision in Moti Ram Deka had no application to the case before them since that case did not deal with any rule relating to age of retirement.
See page 696 of the Report.
The power of the Governor to promulgate an ordinance is contained in Article 213 which occurs in Chapter IV of Part VI of the Constitution.
An executive act is liable to be struck down on the ground of non application of mind.
2 119821 SCR 947 at 964 967.
3 19791 SCR 26 608 sions of the Ordinance are in any manner arbitrary or unreasonable and thereby violate Articles 14 and 16 of the Constitution.
The burden to establish maa fides is a heavy burden to discharge.
2 11952 SCR 597 at 607.
609 cously absent in these writ petitions.
Besides the ordinance making A power being a legislative power the argument of mala Fides is misconceived.
Its reasons for passing a law are those that are stated in the Objects and Reasons and if no reasons are so stated as appear from the provisions enacted by it.
Finally there is no substance in the contention that the amendment to the Fundamental Rules whereby the proviso to rule 2 was deleted is beyond the powers of the rule making authority or the Legislature.
See BS Vaderu vs Union of India1 Raj Kumar vs Union of India2.
1   582 585.
2  965.
