From the Judgment and Order dated 261269 of the High Court of Andhra Pradesh at Hyderabad in WP Nos 3956 3971 3983 3899 4421 4474 4537 4544 4570 4825 and 493368.
DK Sen Gopal Subramonium and RN Poddar for the Appellant.
The challenge to the other provisions of the Act at the instance of persons engaged in gold trade ie manufacturers shroffs and dealers in gold was rejected by the High Court.
Section 28 of the Act runs thus 28.
The High Court s reasoning in this behalf is to be found in its judgment at page 87 of the paper book and it runs thus The Administrator as is evident from this provision is given unlimited authority or power to refuse permission or to grant permission.
The main object in putting the Act on the Statute Book as indicated by its long title is to provide in the economic and financial interests of the community for the control of the production manufacture supply distribution use and possession of and business in gold ornaments and articles of gold and for matters connected therewith or incidental thereto.
Therefore in our view the objective the policy and the Scheme of the Act together with the necessity to ensure prevention of circumvention of the other provisions of the Act afford more than sufficient guidance to the Administrator in the matter of exercising the power of discretion conferred on him under sec.
If that be so it cannot be said that unfettered or uncanalised or arbitrary power has been conferred upon the Administration under sec.
Having regard to this position which obtains in the case sec.
We may indicate that the same provision section 28 was challenged before the Patna High Court in Bihar State Bullion Merchants  Association vs Union of lndia1 and the Gujarat High Court in Ramanlal Purshottamamdas Chokshi vs Union of India  Others 2 and these High Courts have upheld its validity.
For instance under clause a the Administrator was required to have regard to the number of dealers existing in the region  in which the applicant was intending to carry on business as dealer but the word region  was no where defined in the Act similarly clause b required the Administrator to have regard to the anticipated demand  as estimated by him for the ornaments in that region but the expression anticipated demand  was really vague and incapable of assessment leading to a great deal of uncertainty similarly the expression 1AIR 1971 Patna 240.
214 Guj.
