Leave to appeal was refused.
Rasika Bai shouted out to the assailants not to beat Ramchander but they threatened her and then ran away.
It is to be noted that the SubInspector does not say that Tukaram brought the report to him but that exhibit 4 the report received from the Police Patel states that Tukaram gave the Police Patel the information.
That leaves the matter equivocal but in view of what the Police Patel tells us we think that he did mean to convey that 1089 Tukaram was the complainant probably because he did not want to enter a woman s name and so picked on the nearest male relative.
He says he did not know any names at that time and that is evident from the report.
What is certain is that there was no point in sending off a report without names the next morning if the idea of delay was to concoct a story and implicate innocent persons.
In the circumstances we think Mahadappa told the truth.
The Inquest Report shows eight injuries.
All be says about Tukaram and Nilia is thatThe accused present were striking Ramchander Pandurang Bhilia and Tukia were holding axes.
So the part they played was negligible.
We refer to the other eye witnesses here to show that there is no discrepancy on this point but we only rely on Rasikabai and Subhana for determining the fact Bhilia was directly charged with the murder and the injury on the throat is ascribed to him in the charge.
It is true they all ran away when the eye witnesses arrived and later absconded but there is nothing to indicate that they ran away together as a body or that they met afterwards.
It requires a pre arranged plan because before a man can be vicariously convicted for the 1095 criminal act of another the act must have been done in furtherance of the common intention of them all Mahbub Shah vs King Emperor1.
Pandurang is not even of the same caste as the others 1 1945 LR 72 IA 148 153 154.
It is true prior concert and arrangement can and indeed often must be determined from subsequent conduct as for example by a systematic plan of campaign unfolding itself during the course of the action Which could only be referable to prior concert and pre arrangement or a running away together in a body or a meeting together subsequently.
But to quote the Privy Council again the inference of common intention should never be reached unless it is a necessary inference deducible from the circumstances of the case.
