CSS Rao for the Respondent.
The Judgment of the Court was delivered by 308 PATHAK J.
The contention found favour with the Appellate Assistant Commissioner and accordingly he deleted the additions of Rs 150000 representing accrued interest.
In doing so the Appellate Assistant Commissioner followed Commissioner of Wealth tax Bihar and Orissa vs Vysyaraju Badreenarayana Moorthy Raju Orissa1 The Wealth Tax Officer appealed to the Appellate Tribunal and contended that accrued interest was liable to be included in the wealth tax assessments of the assessee.
The question can be disposed of shortly.
The expression net wealth is defined by cl.
Of all the assets wherever located belonging to the assessee on the valuation date is in excess of the aggregate value of all the debts owed by the assessee on the valuation date  According to the scheme of the Wealth Tax Act the net wealth of an assessee has to be determined as it obtains on a particular date.
His financial activities during that period determine how his net wealth on a particular valuation date differs from his net wealth on the immediately preceding valuation date.
The reasons for defining the valuation date in terms of the last day of the income tax previous year stop there.
That appears plainly from the definition or net wealth which speaks of the aggregate value of all the assets belonging to the assessee on the valuation date.
In other words it would be the estimated open market value of the rights in the property which constitute the asset.
It is apparent that what accrues as a right also falls to be included within the assets of an assessee under the Wealth Tax Act.
In this view of the matter we approve of the opinion expressed by the Andhra Pradesh High Court in Vedrevu Venkappa Rao supra 311 and in Commissioner of Wealth Tax AP I vs Pachigolla Narasimha Rao1 and the Calcutta High Court in Dipti Kumar Basu vs Commissioner of Wealth Tax West Bengal2 and hold that the view taken by the Orissa High Court in Commissioner of Wealth tax vs Vysyaraju Badreenarayana Moorthy Raju Orissa supra and by the Karnataka High Court in A T Mirji vs Commissioner of Wealth Tax Karnataka3 cannot be accepted.
In the result the question is answered in the affirmative in favour of the Revenue and against the assessee.
