Civil Appeal Nos3677 3680 of 1986 Etc.
4053 to 4056 of 1985.
The Judgment of the Court was delivered by CHINNAPPA REDDY J.
By section 24 of Amending Act 47 of 1978 a proviso to section 637 was introduced.
By the time the proviso came into force 36 permits had been granted by the Karnataka State Transport Authority and 14 remained to be granted.
By an order dated February 1 1984 the Supreme Court directed the Karnataka State Transport Authority to dispose of these applications.
The Tribunal by its order dated February 28 1985 set aside the grant of the two permits in favour of the Karnataka State Road Transport Corporation set aside the grant of three out of eleven permits to the Karnataka State Tourism Development Corporation and instead granted three permits to private operators and increased the number of permits granted to the Indian Tourism Development Corporation from one to three.
The Tribunal took the view that having regard to the rule of preference enunciated by the proviso to section 637 the applications from the non preferred  category had to be excluded as the number of applications from the applicants who were required to be given preference exceeded the number of permits to be granted.
It was on that ground that the grant of two permits to the Karnataka State Road Transport Corporation was set aside though the Appellate Tribunal had no doubt regarding the resources and ability of that corporation to operate the tourist services.
The Tribunal rejected their appeals regretfully.
637 the preference became operative only if other things were equal.
It was also urged that the fourth sub clause of the proviso offended article 14 and had to be struck down.
Desai J speaking for the court observed However when an application for a permit is made under Chapter IV the Undertaking has to compete with private operators who may as well make an application for permit.
When an application for a stage carriage permit is being processed as required by sec.
Their merits and demerits must be ascertained keeping in view the requirements of a to f of section 471 and after comparing the merits and demerits of both not with the yard stick of mathematical accuracy but other things being equal the application of the Undertaking will have preference over others.
A question was raised before us about the vires of the fourth clause of the proviso to section 637.
It was said that the object of the proviso to section 1018 637 was very obviously the promotion of tourism and the approval of the Central Government would be given to those operators of tourist cars and travel agents who may be expected to serve that purpose.
The High Court of Karnataka tided over the difficulty by interpreting the expression tourist cars as meaning tourist vehicles.
637 of the .
It is seen that the scheme excludes omnibus operators and requires applicants to have 1019 either two years  experience in the car hire business with contacts in the tourist business or to own five tourist taxies.
The matter appears to be left to the total discretion of the Central Government virtually as we said pre empting the decision of the statutory tribunal.
In the result we set aside the orders of the State Transport Appellate Tribunal and the High Court and direct the State Transport Appellate Tribunal to hear the appeals in the light of what we have said.
