The order states the grounds as follows 1.
Birendra Pratap Singh and his associates who were there also returned the firing in same manner.
The normal tempo of life was completely disturbed.
The people started running helter and skelter for their lives.
In this case subject and his associates opened fire on police party who went to apprehend Raghunath Singh absconder under NSA.
Charge sheet No 2584 has already been submitted in this case.
It is the case of the appellantpetitioner that the detenu was not served with all the documents referred to andor relied on.
The petitionerappellant submits that he was produced before the Advisory Board but he was not given any hearing.
The petitioner appellant thereafter filed a writ petition in the High Court of Patna which was dismissed without any speaking order.
It has been further stated that the service of the detention order had been properly made.
His representation was duly considered and rejected.
The grounds stated that there was indiscriminate firing on 24th December 1985 on Katras Coal Dump and the petitioner started indiscriminate firing to kill Birendra Pratap Singh a rival of his calendestine business of coal to establish the criminal superiority in full view of the shopkeepers customers and passers by of the area.
In those circumstances it appears that the grounds for forming the satisfaction for the need for the detention were there and there was rational nexus between the object of the order as contemplated by the Act and the materials on record.
26986.
From the affidavit of the District Magistrate it does not appear that either the prospect of immediate release of the detenu or other factors which can justify the detention of a person in detention were properly considered in the light of the principles noted in the aforesaid decision and especially in the decisions in Rameshwar Shaw vs District Magistrate Burdwan  Anr  and Ramesh Yadav vs District Magistrate Etah and others though there was a statement to the effect that the petitioner was in jail and was likely to be enlarged on bail.
In the facts and circumstances of this case therefore the continued detention of the detenu under the Act is not justified.
At least the records of the case do not indicate that.
There is no statement in the petition that the detenu is on bail.
