Respondent in person.
Rs25000 Hari Prakash Gupta .
Rs 50000 By that letter the assessee had directed the Company to debit his account to the extent of Rs 150000 and credit the respective amounts in the names of the aforesaid per sons.
It appears further that copies of this letter were sent to one Om Prakash Gupta and Ved Prakash Gupta.
It must be mentioned however that the company ie Messrs Tika Ram and Sons.
It was also stated to be carrying on business of advancing money and taking money on loan when necessary.
Such delivery may be made in the same way as goods sold may be delivered.
The Calcutta High Court had to consider this in the case of Commissioner of Gift Tax West Bengal 111 vs Tara chand Maghraj There the High Court after discussing various decisions 128 including certain decisions of the Allahabad High Court which we shall presently note and the provisions of section 122 of the  and the Sale of Goods Act.
Commis sioner of Income Tax Poona vs Dharsey Keshavji 143 ITR 509 and Commissioner of Income Tax Poona vs Devichand Uttamchand In the background of facts of those cases the Bombay High Court held that the gifts were valid.
In the case of Baliram Mathuradas By his legal Heir Madanlal Paliram vs Commissioner of Income Tax Bombay City II the Bombay High Court had occasion to consider this question and held that there was no evidence of acceptance.
Similarly in the case of Virji Devshi vs Commissioner of Income Tax Bombay the Bombay High Court held 129 Just as the entries in his own account book by a person would not constitute a valid transfer even the entries in the accounts of the firm would not be sufficient The Madras High Court had also taken divergent views.
C was not in a position to make gifts in cash of the amounts credited in favour of his wife and relatives.
He had large assets but these were represented by land buildings plant machinery and stock in trade.
This deci sion went up to the Privy Council but on the aspect of gift no opinion was expressed by the Judicial Committee.
Father had complete control and dominion over that amount.
Shyamo Bibi had to deal with a case where the credit balance of 2 12 lakhs was with the firm.
Cash Balance was only Rs7626.
The Tribunal never doubted that the transaction in question was bona fide but dismissed the appeal of the assessee on the sole ground that the transfer evidenced by the entries in the books of account and by the declaration did not operate to bring into existence a valid gift.
In the impugned judgment the Allahabad High Court had followed the said decision.
The said decision was also followed in Bhau Ram Jawaharmal vs Commissioner of Income Tax UP in Gopal Jalan vs Commissioner of Income Tax UP and in Phool Chand Gajanand vs Commis sioner of Income Tax UP We are of the opinion that each case must be decided on the facts of that case.
There M the deceased was a 132 partner in a firm having a half share in the partnership.
But in that case the question in the present form in which it arises before us in the instant case did not arise.
