The Secretary Metropolitan Development Department made an endorsement on the letter to the effect that the Minister for Animal Husbandry and Veterinary services had himself visited the site.
The WEBCON submitted further reports.
Taj Group suggested further modifications.
Thereafter an expert Committee was consti tuted to supervise the construction Of alternative facili ties.
On April 23 1982 Late Smt.
The decision was taken without considering the impact on the Zoo and without consulting various interested authorities and institutions.
The decision of the Govern ment was also wrong as it was apparently based on some assumptions which had been made without inquiry and verifi cation.
Thereafter the Managing Committee reversed its earlier stand.
The learned counsel for the appellants drew our atten tion to a letter written by Dr Biswas to the Statesman dated August 3 1982 in which he disowned having made any statement to a press correspondent by name Bachi J Karkaria that the hotel posed no threat at all to the migratory flight path.
The proposition that a decision must be arrived at after taking into account all relevant considera tions.
265 2nd.
Another term was that the Zoological Garden Committee would be suitably compensated for any expenditure incurred by it on the construction of any building on the land.
Paragraphs 165 166 and 167 deal with simple cases of creation of non agricultural tenancies by way of long term leases.
Realising that the scheme of offering to renew con tracts with the old licences on the same terms was open to objection the Government changed its policy and formulated a new scheme by which offers were invited from intending purchasers of Kendu leaves but the invitation was restricted to these individuals who had carried out the contracts in the previous year without default and to the satisfaction of the Government.
jobbery or nepotism.
The concern of the appellants has been to preserve the Zoo to protect and encourage the migratory birds to keep their trajectory clear to preserve their diurnal feed and nocturnal habitat and to protect the Zoo.
