MK Ramamurthy CS Vaidyanathan section Ravindra Bhatt Mohan SR Setia and Probir Choudhary for the Respondents.
The Judgment of the Court was delivered by VENKATARAMIAH J.
1955 there were more than 200 insur ers carrying on life insurance business in India.
The Act provided for the establishment and incorporation of the Corporation.
By virtue of section 7 of the Act on the appointed day all the assets and liabilities appertaining to the controlled business of all insurers the management of which it had been taken over earlier by the Central Govern ment stood transferred to and vested in the Corporation.
The whole time employees of the erstwhile insurers whose services were thus transferred to the Corpo ration are hereinafter referred to as the transferred employees  of the Corporation.
The conditions governing the retirement of those offi cials with which we are concerned in these appeals were also diverse and different.
In some cases the age of retirement had been fixed at 55 years in some at 58 years and in some others at 60 years.
The above regulation thus made a distinction between an employee who entered the service of the Corporation after it was estab lished ie after 1st September 1956 and the transferred employees insofar as the age of retirement was concerned.
Clause 6 of that order originally read as follows 6.
The longitudinal division of the employees was as follows.
The office of section 11 of the LIC Act was to provide for a smooth take over and to promote some common conditions of service in a situation where a jungle of divergent contracts of employment and industrial awards or settlements confront ed the State.
Sub section.
Sub section.
Predictably when the transferred employees of different insurers were brought together in common employment under the Corporation they would have been enjoying different scales of remuneration and other terms and conditions of service.
The question is whether the provision is confined to transferred employees only or extends to all employees generally.
Sub section.
While the first limb of the sub section provides for securing uniformity among the transferred employees in regard to the scales of remu neration and other terms and conditions of service the second limb provides that if after such uniformity has been secured or even in the process of securing such uniformity the Central Government finds that the interests of the Corporation and its policy holders require a reduction in the remuneration payable or revision of the other terms and conditions of service applicable to those employees it may make an order accordingly.
The fixation of 60 years as the age of superan nuation in the case of transferred employees cannot be considered to be unreasonable in view of the history of this case.
vs The State of Haryana  Ors  The facts of that case were these.
There was to be no further recruitment to that cadre and all vacancies arising in that cadre were to be replenished by direct recruitment to the State cadre.
Thereafter only the employees who are directly recruited by the Corporation who are about 54000 in number would continue to remain in its service.
While dealing with this question the Court can take judicial notice of the differ ent ages of retirement prevailing in the several services in India.
In almost all the public sector corporations Central services and State services 58 years age is considered to be a reasonable age at which officers can be directed to retire from their service.
It is true that originally employees belonging to Class III and Class IV categories amongst the transferred employees were given the benefit of retirement at the age of 60 years but the employees belong ing to Class III and Class IV categories recruited after 1st September 1956 were required to retire on the completion of 58 years of age.
Having accepted the promotion along with the higher benefits flowing from it he cannot contend after several years that he had been prejudicially affected by the condition relating to the age of retirement applicable to Class I officers appointed after September 1 1956.
The petitioner in the said case who entered Railway service in 1954 as a skilled artisan and was selected and confirmed in grade D  chal lenged that part of the notification which gave favourable treatment to apprentice train examiners who had already been absorbed in grade D  as arbitrary and discriminatory anti violative of Article 14 and 16 of the Constitution.
The regulations and other provisions as in force immediately before the commencement of the Life Insurance Corporation Amendment Act 1981 with respect to the terms and conditions of service of employees and agents of the Corporation including those who became employees and agents of the Corpo ration on the appointed day under this Act shall be deemed to be rules made under clause cc of sub section 2 and shall subject to the other provisions of this section have effect accordingly underlining by us empha sis supplied Clause cc of section 482 of the Act however has been given retrospective effect from 20th June 1979.
Does he still carry the stamp of experience and expertise of having worked with insurer Once a transferred em ployee of Class III and a direct appointee in that class are promoted to Class I obviously on merit efficiency and seniority then how can the distinction of transferred  and direct  be maintained.
So long employees are in Class III they can be said to constitute two different classes of transferred and direct appointees but once they are promoted they become similarly situated and the dis tinction stands obliterated.
They on promotion form one integrated cadre of Class I officers.
It however distinguished it on the ground that the employees in question had not been promoted from Class III to Class I as it was the case here but the petitioners before it had continued in Class I or Class 11 right from the commence ment.
We may also refer to one decision of the Madras High Court and another decision of the Calcutta High Court which arose trader the provisions of the Banking Companies Acqui sition and Transfer of Undertakings Act 1970 Act 5 to 1970 where again the claim of employees of the banks in question who joined their service after nationalisation to the benefit of the conditions prescribed in the case of employees of the former banking companies whose services were taken over on nationalisation as regards the age of retirement arose for consideration.
Clause b however provided that every ministerial railway serv ant who had entered the Government service on or before 31st March 1938 and who satisfied the conditions mentioned either in sub clause i or sub clause ii thereof was entitled to continue in service till he attained the age of 60 years.
220 The Respondent in that case that is A Pitchumani while he was entitled before December 23 1967 to continue in service till he attained the age of 60 years as he had joined the service of the Madras and Southern Mahratta Railway Company on August 16 1927 ie prior to March 31 1938 and satis fied the other conditions mentioned in clause b of rule 2046 could not have the benefit of that clause on and after December 23 1967 since in the Madras and Southern Mahratta Railway Company where he was formerly working there was no rule similar to clause b as regards the age of retirement.
AIR 1973 CAL.
385 Sabyasachi Mukharji J has upheld the said classi fication of railway employees into two categories viz those who joined on or before 313 1938 and those who joined after 313 1938 for purposes of fixing the age of superan nuation on the basis of same historical facts which are set out in detail in that judgment.
By making the above observation this Court has virtually accepted the position that when there are special circumstances justifying the difference it is open to fix different ages of retirement for the employees of an establishment in appropriate cases.
Thereafter only one class of employees would be in the service of the Corpo ration namely those appointed subsequent to 1st September 1956 by the Corporation in respect of whom the Corporation has fixed the age of retirement as 58 years which corre sponds to the age of retirement in almost all the public sector establishments the Central Government services and the State Government services.
It may be so.
We need an ombudsman but the court cannot make do page 1031 The decision taken by the Corporation and the Central Government as regards the ages of retirement of the differ ent classes of the employees of the Corporation in the instant case is a bona fide one and cannot be characterised as unreasonable.
