He was pro moted as officiating Assistant Engineer in class II service with effect from  255.
The vires of Rule 56j of the Fundamental Rules as also the power to compulsorily retire a public servant have been upheld by this Court and do not require to be re examined.
According to the said judgment FR 56 ji has no application to officiating government servants hence can have no appli cation to the petitioner since the petitioner was an officiating government servant.
In short an officiating Govern ment servant does not really belong to Class I or Class II service until he acquires a right thereon.
When a Government servant belonging to a Class I or Class II service or post on regular basis has to be retired compulsorily Rule 56ji comes to the rescue of the Government.
But if he is only a temporary hand he has no right to the post and can always be reverted to the post if any on which he has a lien.
It is clear that sub clause ii is the general rule applicable to all Government servants and sub clause i carves out a class of Government servants into a category and makes a special provision.
But the correct ness thereof is disputed by learned Additional Solicitor General appearing for the Union of India and that is why this writ petition was directed to be heard by a larger Bench.
Instances are abundant where officers are promoted to Class I or Class II service or post of such class on officiating basis and such officiation lasts for a number of years.
There is however no reasons why sub clause i should be confined to service or post held on substantive basis.
There is no warrant for the conclusion that officiating Government servants in Class I or Class II service or post are outside the purview of sub clause i.
The purpose of Fundamental Rules 56j is to confer power on the appropriate authority to compulsorily retire Government servant in the public interest and the classification of Government servants into two categories covered by sub clauses i and ii has a purpose behind it.
The purpose of the sub clauses is to classify Gov ernment servants into two categories and sub clause i takes within its sweep those Government servants who at the relevant time are in Class I or Class II service or post whether substantively temporarily or on officiating basis.
It has been represented to us by counsel for the petitioner that the similarly placed persons had gone before the Delhi High Court challenging the orders of compulsory retirement and the Delhi High Court relying upon Tahiliani s case give them relief.
But he would be entitled to pecuniary benefit of salary and allowances admissible under the rules.
1976 and 292.
By now both the petitioners would have retired from service and therefore they cannot be resorted in service.
They would however be entitled to salary and other service allowances payable to them from the date of compulsory retirement till the date of their normal superannuation.
HLC Petition allowed.
