The agreement recited that the licensee shall not allow any other person to use and occupy the said premises and shall not do any unlawful or illegal business therein.
It was only when the person was in occupation by permission of the grantor that after the recovery of the permission a suit for possession could have been instituted under section 41 of the said Act.
It was recorded by the court with the expression BC a term of some ambiguity as explained later that the appellant was not claiming protection as a sub tenant under the Rent Act but only the subtenancy as such and therefore it was recorded that as agreed BC .
The learned Judge noted that the only point that arose for consideration was whether the appellant proved that he was a sub tenant as such or not.
The learned Judge recorded further that it was practice in the Court of Small Causes Bombay of using the expression 1063 BC.
The respondent refused to do so.
The High Court allowed the revision on the ground that the licence was not put an end to by the appellants and that in any event by filing the application for eviction the appellant licensor had granted an implied licence to the respondent licensee to continue in possession till a decree of eviction was passed in his favour.
It was futher held that a person continuing in occupation of such premises after revocation of the licence was still liable to pay compensation or damages for its use and occupation.
It was further held that filing an application under section 41 of the 1065 might in certain circumstances have the effect of putting an end to the licence if it was subsisting on the date of its filing.
The High Court affirmed the decision of this Court and upheld the order of the Court of Small Causes and ordered eviction.
In support of this appeal Sree RF Nariman very laboriously took us through the documents.
He referred us to the decision of this Court in the case of Associated 1066 Hotels of India Ltd vs RN Kapoor  where at page 383 this Court noted that there was a marked distinction between a lease and a licence.
It permitted user only for 20 hours.
In our opinion the background of the facts of this case and the background of the entire document negate the contention of the appellant that it was a lease and not a licence.
But in this case we had not been tempted.
It was a possible view.
In determining whether an agreement creates between the parties the relationship of landlord and tenant or merely that of licensor and licensee the decisive consideration is the intention of the parties.
This is a salutary test.
In any event this is a possible view that could be taken.
vs Ms Bright Bros Pvt.
In the aforesaid view of the matter this appeal must fail as we find no ground to interfere with the decision of the High Court.
The appeal fails and is dismissed.
