Civil Appeal No 8440 of 1983.
Newspaper establishment is defined by section 2d of the Act as an establishment under the control of any person or body of persons whether incorporated or not for the production or publication of one or more newspapers or for conducting any news agency or syndicate.
The expression working journalist is defined by section 2f of the Act as a person whose principal avocation is that of a journalist and who is employed as such either whole time or part time in or in relation to one or more newspaper establishments and includes an editor a leader writer news editor sub editor feature writer copy tester reporter correspondent cartoonist news photographer and proof reader but does not include any such person who is employed mainly in a managerial or administrative capacity or being employed in a supervisory capacity performs either by the nature of the duties attached to his office or by reason of the powers vested in him functions mainly of a managerial nature.
A non journalist newspaper employee means any person employed to do any work in or in relation to any newspaper establishment but does not include any such person who is a working journalist or is employed mainly in a managerial or administrative capacity or being employed in a supervisory capacity performs either by the nature of the duties attached to his office or by reason of the powers vested in him functions mainly of a managerial nature as stated in section 2dd of the Act.
Chapter II of the Act deals with certain conditions of service of the working journalists.
Those provisions relate to the retrenchment payment of gratuity hours of work leave fixation or revision of wages etc.
Aggrieved by the decision of the High Court the appellants have filed this appeal by special leave.
But we are concerned in this case with the narrow question whether the six law reports which are being published by the Ist respondent are newspapers within the meaning of the Act and whether the employees engaged in their production or distribution are entitled to the benefit of the orders made by the Central Government on the basis of the recommendations of the Palekar Tribunal.
In order to be a newspaper a work must be a i printed work ii a periodical and iii should contain public news or comments on public news.
Any other class of printed periodical work as may from time to time be notified in this behalf by the Central Government in the Official Gazette may also be a newspaper.
The only question which remains to be 782 considered is whether they contain public news or comments on public news.
Entry 39 of List III of the Seventh Schedule to the Constitution reads thus Newspapers books and printing presses.
 Newspapers and books are no doubt shown as separate items but the distinction between them sometimes becomes very thin or totally vanishes.
It reads thus The newspaper and periodical Press of Great Britain consists of over 4000 publications ranging from newspapers famous throughout the world to the journals of obscure societies.
The term newspaper  is usually applied except so far as concerns the important class of trade newspapers to publications devoted mainly to recording current events and periodicals  to magazines reviews and journals which in so far as they are concerned with current events at all are concerned to comment rather than to report but newspapers merge into advertising sheets periodicals into books and pamphlets and both into one another   The expression news is not defined in the Act.
The law reports which are being published by the Ist respondent are reports of recent decisions of the Supreme Court of India and of the High Courts in India which are supplied to it by its agents appointed at New Delhi and other places where High Courts are situated.
As soon as a decision is rendered the members of the public would be interested in knowing it.
At any rate lawyers and others connected with courts and judicial proceedings who constitute a substantial section of the public are interested in knowing the contents and the effect of the decisions.
The Ist respondent All India Reporter Limited and other publishers of law reports in the interests of their own business vie with each other to publish the judgments of the Supreme Court or of the High Courts as early as possible in their law reports which are published periodically either weekly fortnightly or monthly.
It is by reading these law reports they come to know of the latest legal position prevailing in the country on any question decided in the decisions reported in the said reports.
Tax on the sale or purchase of newspapers and on advertisements published therein.
 After referring to the definition of the expression newspaper  in the Press and Registration of Books Act 1867 the Indian Post Offices Act 1898 the Parliamentary Proceedings Protection of Publication Act 1956 the Delivery of Books and Newspapers Act 1956 the  etc.
Accordingly the High Court of Orissa held that the sale of Cuttack Law Times which according to it was not a newspaper could be taxed by the State Legislature under Entry 54 of List II of the Seventh Schedule to the Constitution of India.
785 The High Court of Madras declined to follow the above decision of the Orissa High Court in its decision in TV Ramnath and Another vs Union of India and Others 1975 Labour and Industrial Cases 488 in which the Madras Law Journal a law report published from Madras was held to be a newspaper and the establishment in which the said law report was being published was a newspaper establishment which attracted the provisions of that Act.
In doing so he distinguished the decision of the Australian Court in Ex Parte Stillwell in which the Bradshaw s Guide was held to be a book of reference which lacked every element of what could be called a newspaper on which the Orissa High Court had relied.
The Ist respondent cannot derive any assistance from the deci 786 sion of the High Court of Bombay in Commissoner of Sales Tax vs Ms Express Printing Press AIR 1983 Bombay 191 in which the Bombay High Court held that the two publications by name Jocker  and Jabara  which contained predictions or forecasts of lucky numbers were not newspapers since those publications had nothing to do with any recent event which had taken place.
In the course of the said report it is obversed thus In this connection the Press Registrar scrutinised reports published in certain foreign countries regarding their own Press and it was noticed that in the catalogues prepared by them specialised newspapers such as the one under consideration were not excluded from the list of newspapers.
A catalogue of Yugoslav newspapers and magazines for instance includes publications relating to the following subjects Political information economics law and states administration education philology natural sciences medicine agriculture technology geography ethnography history archives archaeology literature music applied art film chess photography tourism stamp collecting physical culture and sport humour and religion.
 It is significant that the expression newspaper  as defined in the Act includes not merely public news  but also comments on public news .
 speeches made at conferences in which the legal fraternity is interested etc.
SL Appeal allowed.
