The Judgment of the Court was delivered by K JAGANNATHA SHETTY J.
He made this entry with ulterior motive to withdraw the pay of Ashok Kumar for the month of May 1969 even though Ash ok Kumar was not working in that Division.
A bogus identi ty card in the name of Ashok Kumar TNo.
The enqui ry was conducted under the Punjab Government Servants Condu ct Rules 1966.
The report of e n quiry was forwarded to the competent authority who aft er giving an opportunity of being heard dismissed the respon d ent from service.
access to the records which 24 were fabricated at the relevant time the Inquiry Officer h ad come to the conclusion that the applicant was the mast er mind behind the scheme to defraud the Project.
T he respondents shah comply with this order within four mont hs from its receipt and pay all consequential benefits to t he applicant.
The question which has to be decided therefore is whether the Tribunal has power to modify the penalty award ed to the respondent when the findings recorded as to h is misdemeanour is supported by legal evidence.
Section 29 provides for automatic transfer of all pending proceedin gs in the High Court under Articles 226 and 227 relating to service matters except appeals to the Tribunal for adjud i cation.
The Act thus excludes the jurisdiction power and a u thority of all Courts except the Supreme Court and confe rs the same on the Tribunal in relation to recruitment a nd service matters.
Section 32 28 comprehensively defines service matters  to mean all ma t ters relating to conditions of service including the disc i plinary matters.
In State of Orissa vs Bidyabhushan 1963 Suppl 1 S CR 648 the enquiry was conducted against the petitioner on several charges and eventually he was dismissed from ser v ice.
T he show cause notice issued to the corporation mentioned t wo grounds for supersession.
An administrative or quasi judicial order bas ed on several grounds all taken together cannot be sustain ed if it be found that some of the grounds are non existent or irrelevant and there is nothing to show that the authori ty would have passed the order on the basis of the other rel e vant and existing grounds.
If t he inference that Nand Kumar was a person likely to have off i cial dealings with the respondent was one which reasonab le person would draw from the proved facts of the case t he High Court cannot sit as a court of appeal over a decisi on based on it.
If the enquiry h as been properly held the question of adequacy or reliabili ty of the evidence cannot be convassed before the High Court.
If the penalty can lawfully be imposed and is imposed on the proved misconduct the Tribunal has no pow er to substitute its own discretion for that of the authorit y.
This Court aft er considering the matter was of opinion that the appella nt therein was not offered a reasonable opportunity to defe nd himself and accordingly the enquiry and consequential ord er of 34 removal from service were found to be bad.
