Collector.
In this connection it may be rele vant to mention that in CA 4339 4186 in respect of which show notice was issued as to why value of drums should not be included in the assessable value of fusel oil and Styrene Monomer 90 of Styrene Mono 982 mer had been sold directly in tanks and only 10 of Styrene Monomer had been sold in drums and the show cause notice on 20th October 1983 had been issued relating to clearance of fusel oil in 45 drums but the said drums had been supplied by the buyer.
The Asstt.
Explanation.
Reliance may be placed to the observations of this Court at pp.
Furthermore no cost was in fact incurred by the assessee.
Therefore it was held that the value of the excisable article has to be computed with reference to the price charged by the manufacturer the computation being made in accordance with the terms of section 4.
vs Bombay Tyre International Ltd supra dealing with the aspect of secondary packing where this Court reiterated that the degree of secondary packing which is necessary for putting the excisable article in which it is sold in the wholesale market at the factory was the degree of packing where the cost would be included in the value of the goods for the purpose of excise duty.
In the aforesaid view of the matter the appeals are allowed and the orders of the Tribunal are set aside.
The value of the aforesaid drums should therefore be excluded from the assessable value for the purpose of excise duty.
In the case of styrene monomer the finding is that the supply is in tankers to the extent of 90 and only 10 of the sales were made in drums.
In the alternative he contended that atleast so far as styrene monomer sales are concerned the cost of drums cannot enter into the picture.
He reminded us of the oft quoted truism that in tax matters one has to look at what is said and that there is no question of any intend ment implication equity or liberality in construing the taxing provision.
The object and purpose of the levy the meaning of the expression assessable value  as interpreted in section before its amendment cou pled with the now well established position that the amend ment intended to make no change in this position the use of the word cost rather than value the nature of the other payments referred to in sub clause ii all these show beyond doubt that while generally the normal price for which the goods are sold at the factory gate is to be taken as the assessable value an addition thereto has to be made where in addition to the price the manufacturer levies a charge for the packing which is intrinsically and inevitably incidental to placing the manufactured goods on the market.
