 Criminal Appeal No 8 18 of 1979.
A No 4 of 1977.
He took charge of the office on 6101975 and had been residing in a house opposite the training school.
PW 3 the Principal of the training school issued exhibit P 2 show cause notice to the PW 1 Venkataswamy the canteen contractor as to why his licence for running the canteen should not be cancelled.
On 21101975 the appellant is stated to have pressed the demand to PW 1.
PW 1 handed over the money to the appellant who received the same.
PW 1 affirmed the fact that the appellant made the demand and had also received the amount on 2210.
The Trial Court accepted the prosecution evidence rejected the plea of the appellant and recorded the conviction.
was guilty.
It took the view that the evidence of PW 1 find corroboration in the testimony of PW 2 and 6 and the contemporary records.
The decisions of the Court in State of Rajasthan vs Mohamed Habeeb  CI Ernden vs State of Uttar Pradesh  and Lohana Kantilal vs State AIR 1954 Saurashtra 12 1 were referred to.
The learned counsel appearing for the appellant however maintained that the appellant had a consistent case even from the earliest opportunity that the currency notes found in his possession was the money returned by PW 1 the cir cumstances of the case would probabalise this case of the appellant and the presumption if any arising under section 4 is rebutted and the conviction cannot therefore be sus tained.
The case of Dipawali gift or return of a loan given to PW 1 has not been even suggested.
P 2 memo had been issued on the basis of the complaint received from the appellant that on getting the explanation from PW 1 he on 18101975 itself passed orders and closed the file.
Of course it is open to that person to show that though that money was not due to him as legal remuneration it was legally due to him in some other manner or that he had received it under a transaction or an arrangement which was lawful.
it must further be shown that the explanation is a true one.
The argument that clause d of section 51 of the Prevention of Corruption Act is not attracted on the proved facts is also not impressive.
