The tenants filed revision petitions against the order of the Court of Small Causes but these were dismissed on 20111968.
It held that there was a valid tease between the quondam owners and the tenants under Exts.
He also conceded that there may be a difference in principle between a civil court and a court of limited jurisdiction.
The Division Bench observed   .
Mount Road belongs to the Corporation.
We do not think mat these contentions have any force.
counsel contended that section 10 makes it clear beyond doubt that the Rent Controller is precluded from deciding any issue regarding title to the property and that if any such question arises he should leave it to be decided by ordi nary civil courts in appropriate proceedings.
He has no doubt to ensure that the person applying for the fair rent is the tenant or the landlord.
The correctness of that finding may be questioned in any subsequent legal proceeding in the ordinary courts of the land where the question might arise for decision.
However if the property is an inam village whether the inam village is an inam estate is within his exclusive jurisdiction and in regard to it the jurisdic tion of the Civil Courts is clearly barred.
It is unnecessary to refer in detail to this case except to set out a passage from pages 682 3 where Hidayatullah CJ speaking for the Constitution Bench reviewed all earlier cases on the sub ject and enunciated the principles emerging therefrom of which the following are relevant here The result of this inquiry into the diverse views expressed in this Court may be stated as follows 1 Where the statute gives a finality to the orders of the special tribunals the Civil Courts  jurisdic tion must be held to be excluded if there is adequate remedy to do what the Civil Courts would normally do in a suit.
Such provision however does not exclude those cases where the provisions of the particular Act have not been complied with or the statutory tribunal has not acted in conformity 565 with the fundamental principles of judicial procedure.
The order was confirmed by the first appel late court and on furher appeal by the High Court.
This contention was upheld by the appellate court and the High Court.
Since the relationship is denied by the landlord the Rent Con troller had decided that question incidentally.
It also took a technical plea that the decision of the Additional Settlement Officer that the suit land was poramboke and not ryoti  land was final and the Civil Court s jurisdiction to decide that question was barred under section 64 C of the Tamil Nadu Estates Abolition and Conversion into Ryotwari Act 1948 which ran as follows 64 C Finality of orders passed under this Act 1 Any order passed by the Government or other authority under this Act in respect of matters to be determined for the purposes of this Act shall subject only to any appeal or revision provided by or under this Act be final.
It is possible we have to ask ourselves having regard to the context scheme and terms of the legis lation that the statute could have envisaged the Rent Controller and the authorities to whom appeal or revision could be preferred from his orders to be final authorities to adjudicate on issues of title also The answer in our opinion has to be in the negative.
