vil Appeal No 6202 NT of 1983.
Kapil Sibal Additional Solicitor General SP Goel A Subba Rao CVS Rao Mahabir Singh Bishambher Lal and KC Dua for the Respondents.
Counsel state that the facts in all these appeals are identical and that the only facts neces sary or atleast on record before us on the basis of which the issue us is to be decided are these Each of the appellants petitioners hereinafter referred to compendi ously as assessees  is a registered dealer in the State of Haryana.
Section 2e a Originally section 2e defined export  to mean the taking out of goods from the State to any place outside it otherwise than by way of sale in the course of inter State trade or commerce.
Explanation 2 to the second defini tion provided 2 The proceeds of the sale of any goods on the purchase of which tax is leviable under this Act or the purchase value of any goods on the sales of which tax is leviable under this Act shall not be included in the turnover but the purchase value of the goods liable to tax under section 9 shall be included.
p of section 2.
The 1990 Act also inserted an Explanation 6 to the clause wef 313.
Provided that this section shall not apply to a dealer who deals exclusively in goods specified in Schedule B Goods on which no tax is leviable section 6 read with section 15.
Provided that this sub section shall not apply to a dealer who deals exclusively in goods specified in Schedule B Provided further that  .
f Amendment Act 8 of 1986 substituted in the proviso to section 9 1  the words scientific goods guar gum uten sils and handicrafts in place of scientific goods and guar gum wef 26286.
The second was to omit the words sub section 1 of at the end of clause b.
These provisions read thus.
It also omitted the proviso to the said clause.
As a result of section 53 such penultimate sales become export sales falling beyond the purview and competence of State legislatures.
Purchases of raw materials in the State used in the manufacture of goods inside the State attract the tax under section 91 unless those manufactured goods are dealt with in one of three ways 1 disposed of by way of sale inside the State 2 despatched to a place outside the State but by way of a sale in the course of inter State trade or commerce or 3 despatched to a place outside the State but by way of sale in the course of export outside the territory of India.
The language of section 91aii later 91b using the words within the meaning of sub section 1 of section 5 of the  have to be given full meaning in other words the exemption under section 91 has to be restricted only to export sales falling within the scope of section 51.
Clause 91b referred to cases where raw materials were purchased and exported and the word export  was defined in section 2c as meaning the taking out of the goods from the 361 State to any place outside it otherwise than by way of sale in the course of inter State trade or commerce Act 44 of 1976 amended the definition of export  in section 2c by adding the wide words or in the course of export out of the territory 01  India wef 14.
Faced with this situation Shri Gupta for the State contended that this argument will not avail the assessees as according to him section 91b of the Act has been de clared unconstitutional by this Court and is therefore non est.
Though section 6 as amended purports to make dealers liable to pay tax on their sales as well as purchases the actual charge of tax under section 15 is only imposed on the sales and purchases that form part of his taxable turnover.
