Petition No 15001 of 1989.
AND IA No 1 of 1989 in SLP No 12288 of 1984.
K Ram Kumar SA Ahmed Tanweer Abdul and Mohan Pandey for the Respondents.
In view of the fact that a petition of compromise in respect of the entire subject matter of litigation has been filed in this Court it is unnecessary to refer to the facts leading to the litigation.
Through the first wife he had a son born to him by name Sudarshan Gupta and through the second another son by name Anand Babu.
In February 1985 during the pendency of the special leave petition the adoptive mother died.
The question as to recording of the compromise was taken up by the Court and parties have been heard.
One of the stipulation in the compromise deed which has admittedly been signed by the father and his two sons stipulates The petitioner has given to the second and third respondents the two sons an amount of Rs 1 lakh each and the second and third respondents have received the same In the face of such a statement in the compromise deed signed by the parties the second respondent had disputed the fact of payment and has in the meantime alienated about 81 acres of property which constitutes the subject matter of dispute to third parties.
Admittedly the transfers are pendente lite.
Mr Ram Kumar who appeared for the second respondent apart from maintaining that his client has not received the sum of Rs1 lakh has not been able to point out any justification as to why the compromise should not be acted upon and on the basis of it the litigation may not be disposed of.
108 where the power of the Court under Order 23 rule 3 of the Code of Civil Procedure in the face of an objection of one of the parties to the compromise was considered.
Relying upon several authorities of different High Courts and one of the Privy Council referred to in the decision the High 542 Court held that once the Court was satisfied that there was a compromise it was for the Court to record the same and no option lay before the Court to act otherwise.
Rs 77124 being the amount paid by the alienees before the Sub Registrar in respect of the sale deeds shall be deposited within the same period in the Trial Court and the alienees of the different sale deeds would be entitled to withdraw the amounts on the basis of the record made by the Sub Registrar on each of the sale deeds.
Their possession is without authority of law.
In view of the fact that there was the allegation of payment of Rs 1 lakh to Sudarshan Gupta which we have not investigated and to meet the further allegation that some improvements have been made to the property which too we have not gone into we direct that the mesne profits shall be set off against the same.
Under orders of this Court security has been furnished for mesne profits.
In view of the aforesaid direction the security furnished in the Trial Court shall stand discharged and the alienees will have no liability to account for mesne profits.
543 4.
The alienees shall deliver vacant possession of the property by 30th of April 1991 to Seshiah and in the event of failure to do so the Trial Court is directed by our present order to deliver vacant possession of the entire property in suit including those which are covered by the sale deeds in favour of the alienees to Seshiah within one month therefrom.
If necessary the Trial Court may appoint a Commissioner and take police help for executing this order and such cost shall ultimately be borne by the defaulting alienees but may initially be met by Seshiah.
There would be no order for costs.
