C No 677 of 1988.
Under Article 32 of the Constitution of India.
PN Duda N Safaya PK Choudhary and Ms Rekha Pandey for the Petitioners.
Kapil Sibal Additional Solicitor General Ms A Subha shini and K Swamy for the Respondents.
The Judgment of the Court was delivered by V RAMASWAMI J.
In this petition under Article 32 of the Constitution the petitioners have questioned the con stitutional validity of Section 5 of the 12 of 1919 hereinafter called the Act .
The grounds on which the vires of the provisions is attacked are that the section gives an unguided unchanelised and arbitrary power to the State Government to include any substance as poison for the purpose of restriction to be imposed on the posses sion for sale and sale of the same.
It was further contended that the restriction imposed on possession for sale and sale were not reasonable restrictions.
The object of the enactment is to regulate the posses sion for sale and the sale whether wholesale or retail of poisons and the importation of the same.
In other words it is intended to control over the traffic in poisons.
In exercise of this power by the Notification No F 104472 fin.
G dated 781973 the Lt Governor of Delhi amended the Delhi Poisons Rules 1926 hereinafter called the Rules by including to the list of substances included in the Rules as Poisons the substance commonly known 222 as thinner  containing spirit and other soluble material such as shellac in which the percentage of such soluble material does not exceed 30 as poison and consequential amendment of rules 12 and 13 of the Rules.
It was the con tention of the petitioners before the authorities that their unit is manufacturing only those thinners which contain only liquid substance like as ecotone ethyl acetate SDS etc.
and not all solubles.
 According to them therefore the substance manufactured by them would not come within the amended Rules.
Though in the beginning the petitioners were contending that in substance manufactured by them did not come within Rule 2x2 and there were some correspondence in this regard when the competent authority held that the substance manufactured by the petitioners would come within the definition of thinner  as contained in Rule 2x2 of the Rules the petitioners did not question the finding on any material.
Before us also they had not placed any materi al to show that the finding was wrong or that the substance would not come within Rule 2x2.
In fact the learned counsel argued the petition on the basis that the petition ers are a manufacturer of thinner  within Rule 2x2 which has been declared as poison for purposes of the Act.
Originally the Act contained a schedule in which the list of substances declared as poisons were listed.
Rule 2 was amended as already stated including thinner  of the description mentioned therein as poison.
Section 5 of the Act the con stitutional validity of which is questioned reads as fol lows 5.
 It was a law in force in the territory of India before the commencement of the Constitution and as such continued in force.
The Act is intended to regulate the importation possession and sale of poisons.
Some substances were includ ed in the Rules made in 1926 as poisons and that is not in dispute.
Rules of 1926 were made in exercise of the rule making power under Section 3 of the Act.
Rules were amended in 1973 and duly notified as required by the Act.
It is not all poisonous substances that are brought within the regula tion under the Act.
It is those substances which the Govern ment consider its possession for sale or sale to be regulat ed in the interest of health and safety of the society.
This limitation is inherent in the scheme of the Act itself.
Of course no comprehensive definition can be given to the word poison.
Under this term would fall anything calcu lated to destroy life.
Substances harmless in themselves might become poison by the time or manner of their adminis tration.
Nothing is a poison unless regard be had to its administration.
If the resultant effect of administering into the system pro duces a violent morbid or fatal changes or which destroys living tissues the substance can be safely called poison.
Section 4 of the Act impliedly sets out certain guidelines when the State can notify a substance as poison.
It states that the State Government may by rule regulate the posses sion of any specified poison in any local area in which the use of such poison for the purpose of committing murder or mischief by poisoning cattle appears to it to be of such frequent occurrence as to render restriction on the posses sion thereof desirable.
Any substance which is used for purposes mentioned therein can definitely be declared as poison.
That is what the Government have done in this case.
It has become a notorious fact which we can even take judicial notice of that the substance known as thinner  as it is or mixing with some other substances are taken as intoxicating spirits endangering the life.
In many cases deaths have also occurred due to drinking such substance.
If the Government thought in the circumstances that the posses sion or sale of the same is to be regulated it could not be said that they have no power to regulate.
Section 2 224 also enables the Government by Rule to regulate the posses sion for sale and the sale of the specified poison.
It is in exercise of this power Rule 13 was amended by substituting the old Rule by the following Rule 13 1 All poisons kept for sale by any licence holder under these rules except those kept by a chemist druggist or compounder for the purchase of dispensing or compounding in compliance with the prescription of medical or veterinary practitioner shall be kept in a box almirah room or building according to the quantity maintained which shall be secured by lock and key and in which no sub stance shall be placed other than poisons possessed in accordance with a licence granted under the Act and each poison shall be kept within such box almirah room or building in a separate closed receptacle of glass metal or earthenware.
Every such box almirah room or building and every receptacle shall be marked with the word poison  in red charac ters both English and vernacular and in the case of receptacles containing separate poison  with the name of such poison .
ii All poisons  mentioned in clause x of rule 2 shall be kept in a room or building according to quantity maintained which shall be secured by lock and key in a separate receptacle of glass metal and earthenware etc.
Every such room building and every such receptacle shall be marked with the word poison  in red character both English and vernacular with the name of the poison .
 We are not impressed with the argument that any require ment in this Rule is unreasonable or offends the petition ers  right to carry on any trade or business.
It is a busi ness which can be termed even as inherently dangerous to health and safety of society in view of the rampant misuse and sale to the poor weak and helpless as an intoxicant.
A law in such circumstance can regulate the trade.
This posi tion is well settled and it would be pedantic to cite all the authorities of this Court on this point.
It is also not necessary that the same substance should be declared as poison for the entire country.
The notification and its application to any area would depend on the necessity 225 to declare the substance as poison on the particular facts and situation prevailing in that area and the need to regu late the possession and sale in that area.
No question of discrimination can arise in such circumstances.
The writ petition accordingly fails and it is dismissed.
Rule nisi is discharged.
