August 14.
It is alleged that on January 10 1942 an agreement was entered into between the Rajah of Venkatagiri and one Sri Balumuri Nageswara Rao whereby the Rajah agreed to give annual leases in respect of certain slate quarries within his estate for five years in succession commencing from February 1942 if the Rajah was satisfied with the work carried on by the lessee during the preceding year.
The order required the Government to hold the enquiry and pass the appropriate orders within three months from the date of that order.
1 Saving of rights of certain lessees and others.
The long title and the preamble to the Abolition Act indicate it is urged that the object of the Act is to provide for the acquisition of the rights of landholders and that the policy of the Act is not to interfere with the rights of other persons in the estate.
The Abolition Act was enacted by the Madras Legislature in exercise of the legislative power con ferred on it by the Government of India Act 1935.
It may be conceded 71 558 that normally this is the correct approach to the problem but the argument loses much of its force.
In the circumstances the court must interpret the Abolition Act as it finds it by giving the ordinary and natural meaning to the words used by the Madras legislature and uninfluenced by any pre conceived notion as to validity of the Abolition Act.
2 of section 20 of the Abolition Act.
The provision of section 20 of the Abolition Act has been considered and construed by a Bench of the Madras High Court.
If the third proviso also applies to such leases as the petitioners contend then the lease can be terminated only if the Government is satisfied that it is in the public interest that it should be terminated and that further in such cases the lessee will also be entitled to compensation under section 202.
In other words while under the second proviso the Government can terminate the lease at its option and unconditionally under proviso iii that can be done only if it is in 1 ILR 1195.
In our view the scheme of the Act is to render ineffective all rights created after July 1 1945 for a period exceeding one year.
The reason for conferment of such an unconditional right on the Government is well known for it was on that crucial date that the party which came into power later declared its intention to abolish all zemindaries and intermediary interest in land.
In out opinion there is no substance in the principal point urged by learned counsel appearing for the appellant before us.
