DK Sen Gopal Subramonium and RN Poddar for the Appellant.
Ex parte for the Respondents.
In these 11 appeals only that part of the judgment of the Andhra Pradesh High Court is assailed by the Union of India where the challenge to the validity of section 28 of the Gold Control Act 1968 has succeeded.
Further the section does not provide nor is any rule brought to our notice which enjoins upon the Administrator to give a hearing to dealer who seeks permission under this Section and give reasons in case he decides to refuse the permission.
276 of the Act is clearly inapplicable.
It cannot be disputed that sec.
 In Harakchand Banthria s case supra this Court has further pointed out that even though import of gold into India had been banned considerable quantities of contraband gold were finding their way into the country through illegal channels affecting the national economy and hampering the country s economic stability and progress that the Customs Department was not in a position to effectively combat the smuggling over the long borders and coast line that therefore anti smuggling measures had to be supplemented by a detailed system of control over internal transactions and that the Gold Control Act 1968 was passed for this purpose.
It is also clear that the restrictions which have been imposed in sec.
In fact sec.
Moreover regard must be had to be the nature of the restrictions imposed by the Section.
Having regard to this position which obtains in the case sec.
276 in several of its clauses referred to certain concepts which Administrator was required to take into account and these concepts were regarded as indefinite uncertain and vague.
e and public interest  in cl.
276 this Court struck down sec.
No such vague or indefinite expressions or concepts are to be found in sec.
28 by reference to which the Administrator is required to exercise his power.
In the absence of parity of situation or circumstances the doctrine of parity of reasoning cannot be invoked.
SR Appeal allowed.
