MKD Namboodary for the Petitioner in SLP Civil N o 6998 of 1988.
There will be no order as to costs.
It provides power to Parliament to enact law for establishme nt of Administrative Tribunals for adjudication of disput es with regard to service matters.
In pursuance of the provisions of the Act the Centr al Government has established the Central Administrative Trib u nal with a Bench at Chandigarh whose order has been cha l lenged before us.
Because the Tribunal is just a substitute to t he civil court and High Court.
But the Court in a case in which an order of dismissal of a public servant is impugned is n ot concerned to decide whether the sentence imposed provid ed it is justified by the rules is appropriate having rega rd to the gravity of misdemeanour established.
If the High Court is satisfied that if some but not all of t he findings of the Tribunal were unreasonable the order of the Governor on whose powers by the rules no restrictions in determining the appropriate punishment are placed w as final and the High Court had no jursidiction to direct t he Governor to review the penalty for as we have alrea dy observed the order of dismissal passed by a competent a u thority on a public servant if the conditions of the co n stitutional protection have been complied with is n ot justifiable.
 This proposition in Dhirajlal s case was explained a nd the statement of law in Bidyabhushan s case was affirmed in State of Maharashtra vs BK Takkamore  Ors  It was case of supersession of the Corporation.
On the other hand an order bas ed on several grounds some of which are found to be non exis t ent or irrelevant can be sustained if the court is sati s fied that the authority would have passed the order on t he basis of the other relevant and existing grounds and t he exclusion of the irrelevant or non existent grounds cou ld not have affected the ultimate opinion or decision.
 The learned Judge also said at 227 Now it is settled by the decision of this Court in State of Orissa vs Bidyabhushan Mohapatra that if the ord er of a punishing authority can be supported on any finding as to substantial misdemeanour for which the punishment can be imposed it is not for the Court to consider whether the 33 charge proved alone would have weighed with the authority in imposing the punishment.
Considering all these facts this Court felt that it would not be fair to direct a low paid class IV employee to face the hazards of a fresh enquiry.
If it is his case that he is not t he government servant who has been in fact convicted he c an also agitate this question in appeal revision or review.
He was found guilty of t he charge framed against him.
