act1953 bombay act.
according to learned counsel the mere circumstance that the respondent s jagir was found under s 24.
he urged that having regard to such determination that was made by the competent authority under s 2 4 i of the act it would be clear that a further inquiry into the respondent s rights to mines and mineral products particularly gravel and stones under s 372 of the code would be misconceived and incompetent.
he pointed out that presumably pursuant to this determination the mamlatdar idar had passed an order on november 241959that the respondent s right to stones and gravel in the two villages of kapoda and isarwada though not to mica had been recognised by the government and accordingly the necessary entry pertaining to respondent s right to stones and gravel had been made in the relevant revenue records at least in the case of village kapoda and had been duly certified.
he further urged that the two letters addressed by the respondent one to the collector on october 111968 and the other to the mamlatdar on october 41971merely contained a request to make appropriate entries in the revenue records based on the mamlatdar s order dated november 241959 and therefore the collector could not pronounce upon those letters as containing a claim put forward by the respondent for the first time to mines and mineral products in the said jagir villages to initiate an inquiry under s 372 of the bombay land revenue de.
according to the learned counsel for the respondent unless a claim to property or rights over property was made either by the state against any person or by any person against the state there could be no occasion for the collector to held an inquiry contemplated by s 372 of the code.
he therefore urged that the high court was right in quashing the collector s order dated february 231973.
having regard to the rival contentions of the parties summarised above it will appear clear that really two questions one general and the other specific in the light of the facts obtaining in the instant case arise for our determination in this appeal.
the general question is whether once the competent authority under s 2 4 i of the act declares that the particular jagir is a proprietary one a further inquiry under s 372 of the land revenue code with a view to determining whether the jagirdar had rights to mines and mineral products in such jagir subsisting on the appointed date is competent.
ithe further inquiry initiated by the collector under s 372 was misconceived and uncalled for.
dealing with the first question which is of a general character it is clear that the answer thereto depends upon the true scope and ambit of the inquiry under s 2 4 i of the act and to determine the same it will be necessary to consider the scheme and object of the act and in particular the purpose of the said inquiry.
s 2vii defines jagirdar as meaning a holder of a jagir village and includes his co sharer.
if any question arises.
i whether a jagir is proprietary or non proprietary iiwhether any land is ghatked or jiwai or iiiwhetherany person is a permanent holder.
as a consequence of the abolition of jagirs under s 3 all jagir villages became unalienated villages and therefore under s 4 it has been provided that all jagir villages shall be liable to the payment of land revenue in accordance with the provisions of the code and the rules made thereunder and the provisions of the code and the rules relating to unalienated land shall apply to such villages.
grant or law for the time being in force or by custom or usage.
in the first place the preamble and s 3 of the act clearly show that the object of the enactment is to abolish jagirs of all kinds in the merged territories and merged areas in the state of bombay and to convert all jagir villages into unalienated villages liable to the payment of land revenue in accordance with the provisions of the bombay land revenue code.
in other words the competent authority holding an inquiry under s 24 i can come to the conclusion that a particular jagir is proprietary if it finds that the jagirdar under the terms of a grant or agreement is entitled to some rights or interest in the soil other than mines or mineral products.
in this case also notwithstanding the alleged unqualified grant in favour of the respondent the mamladar s order dated november 241959on which the respondent strongly relies has held that the rights to excavate mica were retained by the state and not granted to the respondent though the material or basis on which it is so held is not available on the record.
in other words our answer to the general question raised above would be that even after the competent authority has declared a particular jagir to be a proprietary one under s 24.
i of the act a further inquiry under s 372 of the bombay land revenue code into the question whether a jagirdar had any subsisting rights to mines and mineral products in the jagir villages on the appointed date would be competent unless the grant of a right to mines and mineral products or the actual enjoyment thereof in keeping with the grant happens to be the basis of the determination under s 2 4 1 of the act.
decision on a reading of sub s 2which we have quoted above it will appear clear that laying a claim to a property or any right in or over the property either by the state against an individual or by the individual against the state is a condition precedent to the collector s power to hold an inquiry contemplated by that provision.
in other words before the collector can initiate an inquiry under that provision either the state or the individual must put forward a claim to a property or any right in or over the property and it is such claim that is to be inquired into by the collector whose decision subject to a civil suit filed within one year is rendered final.
admittedly by his previous order dated november 241959the mamlatdar of talukadar had declared that the respondent had been granted all the rights particularly the right to quarry and remove gravel and stones in isarwada and kapoda villages in the year 1947 by the idar stale and that thereafter in the years 1952 and 1953 the jagirdar had taken the produce of stone and that therefore the government could not stop him from taking out gravel and stones but that the rights to excavating mica had been retained by the state further pursuant to this order the appropriate entry had been made in the relevant village records form no 6 of village kapoda on june 181963recognising the respondents right to take out gravel and stones which entry was verified and confirmed on march 301965it was in this situation that the respondent made the aforesaid two applications one to the collector sabarkantha and the other to the mamladar taluka idar whereby relying upon the previous order of the mamlatdar dated november 241959he requested that appropriate entries pertaining to his right to gravel and stones should be similarly made in respect of village isarwada.
besides while determining the proprietary nature of the grant under s 241 of the act the competent authority had on evidence led before it alluded among others to the respondent s right to excavate and sell gravel and stones and enjoyment thereof by the respondent.
in these circumstances it would be fair and proper that the respondent is not subjected to a further inquiry under s 372 of the code so far as his right to excavating gravel and stones from the two villages of kapoda and isarwada is concerned.
if and when he prefers a claim to this particular mineral productfrom other villages comprised in his grant or to the other mines ormineral products in all the villages including isarwada and kapodaan inquiry into such claim under s 372 could be held but even the decision at such inquiry would be subject to adjudication by a civil court in appropriate proceedings for the final pronouncement on such rights must as is clear from the scheme of the bombay land revenue code always rest with the civil court.
appeal dismissed.
