Kozhikode in ID No 89 of 1958.
This is an appeal by special leave in an industrial matter.
The tribunal held that 825 something seemed to have happened on the afternoon of June 21 1958 but there was no evidence to prove what had actually happened.
As far back as 1952 the Labour Appellate Tribunal had occasion to consider this matter relating to discharge by notice or in lieu thereof by payment of wages for a certain period without assigning any reason see Buckingham and Carnatic Co Ltd Etg.
Further it held that where the termination of service is capricious arbitrary or unnecessarily harsh on the part of the employer judged by normal standards of a reasonable man that may be cogent evidence of victimisation or unfair labour practice.
The reason given by the appellant in the order terminating the services of Sankaran of July 8 1958 namely that the proposed inquiry if conducted would lead to further friction and deterioration in the rank and file of the employees in general and also that maintenance of discipline in the undertaking would be prejudiced if Sankaran were retained in service cannot be accepted at its face value so that the necessity for an inquiry intended to be held for misconduct actually charged might be done away with.
In any case even if the inquiry was not held by the appellant and action was taken under r 18 a it is now well settled in view of the decisions cited above that the employer could defend the action under r 18a by leading evidence before the tribunal to show that there was in fact misconduct and therefore the action taken under r 18a was bona fide and was not colourable exercise of the power under that rule.
In the circumstances if the tribunal did not accept the evidence of the two witnesses 828 who were produced it cannot be said to have gone wrong.
Stress was laid by the learned counsel on the observations at p 862 where it was observed as follows It is true that the misconduct negligence inefficiency or other disqualification may be the motive or inducing factor which influences the Government to take action under the terms of the contract of employment or the specific service rule nevertheless if a right exists under the contract or the rule to terminate the service the motive operating on the mind of the Government is as Chagla C J has said in Srinivas Ganesh vs Union of India 2 supra wholly irrelevant.
That case in our opinion has no application to the facts of this case because that case dealt with an application under section 33 of the Industrial Disputes Act while the present proceedings are under section 10 of the Act and the considerations which apply under section 33 are different in many respects from those which apply to an adjudication under section 10.
Appeal dismissed.
