A number of other articles were also seized at that time but we are not concerned with them as they have no connection with the charges against the appellant.
2 That it has not been established that the five registered letters were in the exclusive possession of the appellant.
The High Court has chosen to accept the evidence of the prosecution with regard to the fact of seizure and that being a question to be decided only by the Court of fact this Court would not re examine the evidence for satisfying itself as to the correctness or otherwise of the conclusions reached by the High Court.
In so far as the contravention of provisions of section 342 Code of Criminal Procedure are concerned it is sufficient to point out that no grievance was made either before the Court of the Additional Sessions judge or before the High Court that there was such a contravention and the appellant was prejudiced and we cannot allow the point to be raised for the first time here the reason being that whether there was prejudice is a question of fact and cannot be permitted to be agitated for the first time in an appeal under article 136 of the Constitution.
In so far as section 52 of the Act is concerned the argument is that the prosecution having merely shown that the registered letters were recovered from an almirah in the house in which the appellant lives the 413 utmost that could be said is that he was in possession of letters that is assuming that he was in the exclusive possession of the house and the almirah.
Whoever being an officer of the Post Office commits theft in respect of or dishonestly misappropriates or for any purpose whatsoever secretes destroys or throws away any postal article in course of transmission by post or anything contained therein shall be punishable with imprisonment for a term which may extend to seven years and shall also be punishable with fine.
To secrete means according to the dictionary to hide.
It seems to us that bearing in mind the  fact that an officer of the post office having in the course of his duties access to postal articles kept or lying in the post office the legislature has deliberately enlarged the scope of section 52 so as to encompass secretion destruction or throwing away of postal articles by an officer of the post office even though they may not have been entrusted to him or even though the are riot articles with which he is required or is competent to deal in the course of his duties.
The object of the provision is to prevent postal articles in course of transmission by post  from being tampered with and so the secreting destruction  etc of postal articles to which the provision is directed is to such secreting destruction etc as would frustrate or tend to frustrate their delivery to the addressees.
Then Mr Misra contended that it would not be correct to say that the five registered letters recovered from the almirah were in the course of transmission by post because that recovery was made 7 or 8 months after those letters had been despatched and that no complaint had ever been made regarding their nondelivery by the senders or the addressees of those letters.
2 that at least nine of those postal articles were addressed to the respondent himself vide exhibit Ka 9 serial No 66 3 that Dewan Singh who we are informed is a very old man would not foist the said incriminating articles on his son and thus ruin his career for ever and 4 that the respondent alone can be said to have had some motive for secreting and concealing the registered letters and other postal articles in question.
 Before the High Court could take into consideration the circumstance that as between himself and his father the appellant had a better opportunity to 417 get at postal articles it had to find affirmatively that the almirah was in the exclusive possession of the appellant.
We have not been able to discover anything in the judgment which directly bears on this question.
The third reason that the rather would not foist articles to incriminate the son and thus ruin his career assumes that had the father kept the articles he could have done so only if he wanted to incri minate the son.
But to say that he must be deemed to be in exclusive possession of these articles and not merely in their joint possession along with his father because he had the opportunity to get at the articles and then infer that he must have utilized the opportunity and was therefore in their exclusive possession would be arguing in a circle.
Moreover since entrustment of the articles has not been established the taking away of the articles by the appellant from the post office if that is how he came by the articles would be theft but it has not been found that he committed any theft.
Appeal allowed.
