This appeal arises out of an industrial dispute as regards the age of retirement.
In support of their demand for fixing the age of retirement at 60 the workmen tried to show that in recent years at least the tendency in comparable concerns in Bombay region has been to fix the retirement age at 60.
The workmen claim that these showed clearly a tendency in the Bombay region to fix the age of retirement in comparable concerns at 60.
In Imperial Chemical Industries 427 India Private Ltd vs The Workmen1 where the Tribunal had raised the age of retirement from 55 to 58 and both parties appealed this Court pointed out that one of the documents on the record would conclusively show that in Bombay the age of retirement is almost invariably fixed at 60 and not at 55.
It is important to notice that the correctness of the Tribunal s finding that in all the awards in recent times in the Bombay region the trend had been to fix the retirement age at 60 years was not challenged before this Court In the present case an attempt appears to have been made on behalf of the respondent Company to show that it was not correct to say that the trend in Bombay region had been to fix the age of retirement at 60.
The Statement filed by the workmen to explain this Chart shows that in two of these cases  viz Ingerzoll Band and Northern Assurance Co the demand for fixing the age of retirement at 60 years is under negotiation.
The main diffi culty in accepting the Company s case on this point viz the pronouncements of this Court however remained.
Having embarked an this enquiry the Tribunal appears to have taken considerable pains to perform this duty and it has ultimately persuaded itself to hold that no such trend is established in fact.
We ought to add in this connection that the approach adopted by the Tribunal in dealing with this aspect of the problem is not very commendable and that its present conclusion that what was said by itself on an earlier occasion and was confirmed by this Court in appeal was in fact inaccurate is on the whole unsound.
The very few departures from this practice which the Tribunal has mentioned are in our opinion wholly insufficient to indicate any slowing down of this trend.
What the Tribunal has failed to notice is that instances which may justify a revision of the judicial opinion expressed on an earlier occasion about a particular trend must be strong and unambiguous and they must speak for the period both before and more particularly after the previous finding had been recorded in the matter.
429 Notice has also to be taken in this connection of the Report of the Norms Committee in which the following opinion was expressed After taking into consideration the views of the earlier Committees and Commissions including those of the Second Pay Commission the report of which has been released recently we feel that the retirement age for workmen in all industries should be fixed at 60.
On a consideration of all the facts and circumstances disclosed by the oral and documentary evidence on this record we have come to the conclusion that the age of retirement of the appellant workmen should be fixed at 60.
Accordingly we allow the appeal with costs and in modi fication of the award made by the Tribunal direct that the age of retirement for the workmen of the respondent be fixed at 60.
