Secretary to Lt Government NWP.
The source of the pension was a liability undertaken by the Government for extinguishing the proprietary rights of the Jagirdar and when the immediate source of the income was not land or rent collections from land it is difficult to hold that the receipt of the assessee was agricultural income within the meaning of Section 43viii of the Income tax Act.
If this is the true interpretation of the arrangement arrived at the question arises whether the pension or allowance is agricultural income Agricultural income  is defined in section 2 of the Act as follows 1 agricultural income means a any rent or revenue derived from land which is used for agricultural purposes and is either assessed to land revenue in British India or subject to a local rate assessed and collected by officers of the Crown as such   In Maharajkumar Gopal Saran Narain Singh vs Commissioner of Income tax Bihar and Orissa2 the facts were that the assessee had conveyed the greater portion of his estate.
And rent is not land within the meaning of the definition This Court observed in Mrs Bacha F Guzdar Bombay Commissioner of Income tax Bombay4 as follow Agricultural income as defined in the Act is intended to refer to the revenue received by direct association with the land which is used for agricultural purposes and not by indirectly extending it to cases where that revenue or part thereof changes hands either by way of distribution of dividends or otherwise 1  2 3 16 ITR325 4 705 The same test was adopted by this Court in Maharajadhiraja Sir Kameshwar Singh vs Commissioner of Income tax Bihar and Orissa1 and the Court again looked to the source of the right in order to determine whether income was agricultural income or not.
The source of the right in which a fraction of the net income of the trust is to be appropriated by the appellant as his remuneration is not in the right to receive rent or revenue of agricultural lands but rests in the covenant in the deed to receive remuneration for management of the trust.
Both the source and character of the income are therefore altered when a part of the income of the trust is appropriated by the appellant as his remuneration and that is so notwithstanding that computation of remuneration is made as a percentage of the income a substantial part whereof is derived from lands used for agricultural purposes.
The remuneration not being received as rent or revenue of agricultural lands under a title legal or beneficial in the property from which the income is received it is not income exempt under section 43viii.
 It follows from the decisions of the Privy Council and the judgments of this Court cited above that if it is held in this case that the source of the allowance or pension is the arrangement arrived at in 1837.
He refers to the following passage from the speech of Viscount Simon in Commissioner of Inland Revenue vs Wesleyan and General Assurance Society1 It may be well to repeat two propositions which are well established in the application of the law relating to Income tax.
First the name given to a transaction by the parties concerned does not necessarily decide the nature of the transaction.
If the other method is adopted tax will not be payable .
