ivil Appeal No 325 of 1965.
Appeal by special leave from the Award dated September 20 1963 of the Central Government Industrial Tribunal Bombay in Reference CG IT 25 of 1962.
section V Gupte Solicitor General M Rajagopalan and K R Choudhuri for the appellants.
C B Agarwala J B Dadachanji O C Mathur and Ravinder Narain for the respondents.
The Judgment of the Court was delivered by Hidayatullah J.
This is an appeal by special leave against an award dated September 20 1963 made by the Presiding Officer of the Central Government Industrial Tribunal Bombay in a reference made by the Government of India under section 102 of the .
The appellants are the workmen of the Bombay Port Trust who are and have been represented in this dispute by the Bombay Port Trust Employees  Union.
The respondents to this appeal are the trustees of the Port of Bombay.
The reference was made on a joint application of the parties.
and the matter in dispute was stated to be  Whether the existing system of work of the shore crew of the Prince s and Victoria Docks under which each shift consists of 8 hours  normal duty 2 hours  variable recess and 12 hours  overtime needs any modification The Tribunal by the award impugned here held that the Union was not able to establish that the existing system of work needed any modification.
The Port Trust had under its control several docks.
Reference in this judgment will be made to the Prince s and Victoria Docks the Alexandra Docks Butcher Island and the Flotilla Crew.
These represent different areas of work where different groups of workmen were employed.
From the facts appearing on the record it appears that the Trustees first introduced a two shift system of work in the Alexandra Docks on June 30 1953 and the same system was extended to the Prince s and Victoria Docks on December 15 1953.
Previously the shore crew at all these places worked in a single shift and were liable to be called out at 634 any hour of the day or night.
In 1956 the workmen who were then represented by the Port Trust General Workers  Union made a demand for a fixed recess of two hours.
Thus the 12 hours  shift at the Alexandra Docks was 8 hours  of duty 3 hours  overtime and one hour variable recess.
They contended that regard being had to the number of actual work hours the case of shore crew at the Prince s and Victoria Docks and the Butcher Island could not be compared with that of the crew at the Alexandra Docks or the Flotilla Crew.
The hours of work and the payment of overtime are therefore governed by the provisions of the and the Minimum Wages Central Rules 1950 and the controversy in this case must be appreciated and resolved in accordance with them.
2 The provisions of sub section 1 shall in relation to the following classes of employees apply only to such extent and subject to such conditions as may be prescribed a      637 b      c employees whose employment is essentially intermittent d      e      3 For the purposes of clause c of sub section 2 employment of an employee is essentially intermittent when it is declared to be so by the appropriate Governmen t on the ground that the daily hours of duty of the employee or if there be no daily hours of duty as such for the employee the hours of duty normally include periods of inaction during which the employee may be on duty but is not called upon to display either physical activity or sustained attention.
1 Where an employee whose minimum rate of wages is fixed under this Act by the hour by the day or by such a longer wage period as may be prescribed works on any day in excess of the number of hours constituting a normal working day the employer shall pay him for every hour or for part of an hour so worked in excess at the overtime rate fixed under this Act or under any law of the appropriate Government for the time being in force whichever is higher.
2 The working day of an adult worker shall be so arranged that inclusive of the intervals for rest if any it shall not spread over more than twelve hours on any day.
5 Nothing in this rule shall be deemed to affect the provisions of the .
Explanation The expression ordinary rate of wages means the basic wage plus such allowances including the cash equivalent of the advantages accruing through the concessional sale to the person employed of foodgrains and other articles as the person employed is for the time being entitled to but does not include a bonus.
It is whether the fixing of a two hours  rest and two hours  overtime involves a breach of the two sections of the Act and the two rules quoted here  The workmen claim that under a scheme of 12hour shifts with 8 hours  work overtime should be at least 3 hours if not 4 and by fixing only two hours  overtime the Trustee are B guilty of the breach of the Act and the Rules.
There is no definition of interval either in the Act or the Rules but the provisions of section 13 2 c read with section 13 3 give us an indication of what is meant by an interval of rest.
There is clear antinomy between hours of work and intervals of rest in sub rules 1 and 2 of Rule 24 and the phrase inclusive of one or more specified intervals  governs the normal working day and not the number of hours of work.
A working day of 12 hours is thus made up of hours of work and hours of rest and the number of hours of work which cannot exceed 9 is part of the normal working day which may also include one or more specified intervals of rest.
From section 13 read with Rule 24 we know that the number of hours constituting a normal working day is 9.
The section so read lays down  Where an employee   works on any day in excess of 9 hours the employer shall pay him for every hour or for part of an hour so worked in excess at the overtime rate    Under Rule 25 1 b this overtime rate is double the ordinary rate of wages.
He may go up to 9 hours on any day without paying any overtime provided he does not exceed 48 hours in the week.
He can specify the intervals of rest and spread the 8 hours or 9 hours as the case may be together with intervals of rest over 12 hours in a twelvehour shift.
These periods of rest must not be periods during which the workman is on duty and inaction is due to want of work for him but they must be pre determined periods of inaction during which the workman is neither called upon nor expected to display physical activity or sustained attention.
For the hours of rest he is not required to pay overtime but he must specify those hours.
As in the present case the total number of hours of work in a week is 48 8 hours per day for 6 days overtime is payable for that hour or part of an hour beyond the 8 hours in which the workman is either made to work or the interval is not specified.
The Port Trust can say that it will not take more than two hours extra work on any day and specify the remaining two hours as the intervals for rest.
54Daily hours Subject to the provisions of section 51 no adult worker shall be required or allowed to work in a factory for more than nine hours in any day Provided   55.
1 The periods of work of adult workers in a factory each day shall be so fixed that no period shall exceed five hours and that no worker shall work for more than five hours before he has had an interval for rest of at least half an hour.
The periods of work of an adult worker in a factory shall be so arranged that inclusive of his intervals for rest under section 55 they shall not spread over more than ten and a half hours in any day Provided that the Chief Inspector may for reasons to be specified in writing increase the spread over to twelve hours.
The only difference is that a worker must not be made to work for more than 5 hours at a stretch before he has had an interval for rest of half an hour at the least.
There is no provision in the which breaks up the hours of work by interposing a compulsory period of rest as is done by the latter part of section 55 of the .
The reason perhaps is that in some employments time for work depends on some 643 extraneous factors and hours of rest cannot always be fixed to break up those hours.
This is achieved by pres cribing that the hours of work in a six day week shall not exceed 48 although on any particular day the hours of work in a day may go up to 9.
The crew at the Prince s and Victoria Docks work in a different way and their case cannot be compared with that of the Flotilla Crew or the crew at the Alexandra Docks.
We hold therefore that the decision of the Central Government Industrial Tribunal is right in a circumstances of this case.
