Appeal No 696 of 1966.
Appeal by special leave from the judgment and order dated September 13 1963 of the Madras High Court in Writ Appeal No IO of 1962.
P Ram Reddy and A V Rangam for the appellant.
R Ganapathy Iyer for the respondent.
The respondent purchased by a registered instrument dated October 5 1956 the business carried on by one Purushottam Raju under the name All India Trading Company.
This appeal is brought by special leave from the judgment of the Division Bench of the Madras High Court dated September 13 1963 in Writ Appeal No 10 of 1962.
Rule 21 A reads as follows  When the ownership of the business of a dealer liable to pay the tax under the Act is entirely transferred any tax payable in respect of such business and remaining unpaid at the time of the transfer shall be recoverable from the transferor or the transferee as if they were the dealers liable to pay such tax provided that the recovery from the transferee of the arrears of taxes due prior to the date of the transfer shall be only to the extent of the value of the business he obtained by transfer.
The trans feree shall also be liable to pay tax under the Act on the sales of goods effected by him with effect from the date of such transfer and shall within thirty days of the transfer apply for registration or licence as the case may be unless he already holds a certificate of registration or licence as the case may be.
2 In particular and without prejudice to the generality of the foregoing power such rules may provide for c the assessment to tax under this Act of businesses which are discontinued or the ownership of which has changed 664 The first question to be considered in this appeal is whether Rule 21 A is intra vires of the power of the State Government under sections 191 and 2 of the Act.
goods.
It is manifest that a person who purchases a business as a dealer  can be assessed to sales tax only in respect of his turnover and under the scheme of the charging provision of the Act the purchaser of the business has nothing to do with the sales effected by the seller of the business.
The turnover in respect of such sales remains therefore the turnover of the transferor and not of the transferee.
By the amending Act of 1959 Act 1 of 1959 an express provision was inserted by which the transferee of the business was made liable for the arrears of sales tax due from the transferor.
The word is used sometimes to mean the computation of income sometimes the determination of the amount of tax payable and sometimes the whole procedure laid down in the Income tax Act for imposing liability on the tax payer.
The liability is definitely created by sections 3 and 4 of the Income tax Act which are the charging sections and the assessment order under section 23 only quantifies the liability which has already been definitely and finally created by the charging sections and the provision in regard to assessment relates only to the machinery of taxation.
In our opinion the principle of these decisions applies to the interpretation of the Act in the present case.
It follows therefore that Rule 21 A is beyond the rule making power of the State Government either under section 191 or section 192c of the Act.
Payment and recovery of tax 1 The tax assessed under this Act shall be paid in such manner and in such instalments if any and within such time as may be specified in the notice of assessment not being less than fifteen days from the date of service of the notice.
If default is made in paying according to the notice of assessment the whole of the amount outstanding on the date of default shall become immediately due and shall be a charge on the properties of the person or persons liable to pay the tax under this Act.
In the present case the business which was transferred to the respondent was hence charged with the payment of sales tax and it was open to sales tax authorities to proceed against the assets of the business for realising the amount of sales tax due.
In our opinion there is no justification for this argument.
Section 10 of the Act as it stood before the Madras General Sales tax 3rd amendment Act 1956 Act No XV of 1956 read as follows The tax assessed under this Act shall be paid in such manner and in such instalments if any and within such time as may be specified in the notice of assessment not being less than fifteen days from the date of service of the notice.
 This section was amended by section 8 of the Madras General Sales tax 3rd amendment Act 1956 which reads as follows 1 666 Substitution of new section for section 10 in Madras Act IX of 1939.
Payment and recovery of tax 1 The tax assessed under this Act shall be paid in such manner and in such instalments if any and within such time as may be specified in the notice of assessment not being less than fifteen days from the date of service of the notice.
If default is made in paying according to the notice of assessment the whole of the amount outstanding on the date of default shall become immediately due and shall be a charge on the properties of the person or persons liable to pay the tax under this Act  .
1 Where any Act to which this Chapter applies is not expressed to come into operation on a particular day then it shall come into operation on the day on which the assent thereto of the Governor the Gover nor General or the President as the case may require is first published in the Official Gazette.
 In the present case the Act is not expressed to come into operation on any particular date but as it was published in the Madras Gazette on October 8 1956 the Act came into operation on that date and not before.
