iminal Appeal No112 of 1965.
On December 13 1963 a notice was issued to the five members of the Panchayat to assemble on December 25 1963 and hear the case.
On December 23 1963 Mahabir submitted an application in the Court of Shri R Singh SDM Deoria alleging that writ petition has been admitted and a stay order has been issued.
He produced the telegram received from the Advocate before the SDM.
The statements of the complainant and his witnesses Bhabhuti and Damri are recorded.
Hence judgment shall be given on 25 12 63.
The application of Mahabir referred to in the order reads thus 118 lm15.
It is therefore prayed that the proceedings in this case may be stayed A document purporting to be an affidavit was also attached in which it was stated I make oath and say that in the above case I have filed a writ petition in the High Court that it has been admitted and that proceedings in the case have been stayed by the High Court.
that it has not been sworn to before any person authorised to administer oaths.
 Affidavits were filed in the High Court by Baldeo Prasad pairokar of Mahabir Burma Prasad the Sarpanch and Mahabir and statements of Phagu Prasad and Bunna Prasad were recorded on oath.
in his statement stated As the paper of Mahabir s application and affidavit was not good we had asked him to get them written on a proper paper obtained from the Tehsil.
We had also told him to get the affidavit verified before some Tehsil authority.
According to him the Panchas did not tell Mahabir that his affidavit was not proper they however told him to get it verified in Tehsil and that it should be duly sealed.
It appeared to the High Court that the Sarpanch first wanted to avoid the petitioner s affidavit being brought on the record by declaring that it was not proper because it did not fully evidence the fact that the High Court had passed an order staying proceedings before the Nyaya Panchayat The High Court further held that the Nyaya Panchas faithfully accepted the objections raised by the Sarpanch and dittoed him about the impropriety of the petitioner s affidavit and inadequacy of the evidence contained therein regarding the stay order alleged to have been.
The High Court held  There was no reasonable ground for the Panchas to have doubted the averments made in the application and affidavit of Mahabir that the High Court had stayed further proceedings before the Panchayat nor is there any thing in the order sheet to show that the Panchas did not believe the contents of the application and affidavit of Mahabir.
However if they wanted to ascertain the matter they should have at best stayed the proceedings for a short while and should have asked the applicant to produce a certified copy of the stay order.
The learned counsel for the appellants Mr Chari says that no contempt of court has been established because a Court is entitled not to act on an application which is not accompanied by an affidavit properly sworn to or a certified copy of the order He urges that the Nyaya Panchayats exercised judicial powers and even if the Panchas erred in not staying proceedings before finding them guilty of contempt of court it should be definitely proved that the order was passed deliberately to by pass the order of the High Court.
In order to justify committal for breach of a prohibitive order it is not necessary that the order should have been served upon the party against whom it has been granted if it be proved that he had notice of the order aliunde as by telegram or newspaper report or otherwise and knew that it was intended to be enforced or if he consented to the order or if he was present in Court when the order Was pronounced or hen the motion was made although he left before the order was pronounced.
The only material before them was the application dated December 25 1963 which was not supported by any affidavit sworn to before a person authorised to 1 1962 Supp 3 SCR 127138.
121 administer oaths.
The learned counsel for the State contends that we should not reappreciate the facts but with respects it seems to us that the High Court while dealing with the evidence has not kept in mind the principles which we have mentioned above.
