Petition under article 32 of the Constitution of India for enforcement of fundamental rights.
section V Gupte P A Choudhury and K Rajendra Chaudhuri for the petitioners.
M C Setalvad P Ramachandra Rao Advocate General Andhra Pradesh A Raghubir and A V Rangam for respondent No 1.
Sardar Ali Khan P N Duda and J B Dadachanji for res pondent No 46.
Section 3 of the Act gave the power to make Rules in respect of certain classes of employment in certain areas.
The Rules were made on March 21 1959.
Requirement as to residence Prior to Appointment  A person shall not be eligible for appointment to a post within the Telengana area under the State Government of Andhra Pradesh or to a post under a local authority other than a cantonment board in the said area unless ihe has been continuously residing within the said area for a period of not less than fifteen years immediately preceeding the prescribed date and iihe produces before the appointing authority concerned if so required by it a certificate of eligibility granted under these rules Provided that in relation to posts in the Secretariat Departments and the Offices of the Heads of Departments of the State Government of Andhra Pradesh situated in the cities of Hyderabad and Secunderabad the requirement as to residence laid down in this rule shall apply to the filling of only the second vacancy in every unit of three vacancies which are to be filled by direct requirement Provided further that any period of temporary absence from Telengana area for the purpose of prosecuting his studies or for undergoing medical treatment or any period of such temporary absence not exceeding three months for any other reason shall not be deemed to constitute a break in the continuity of such residence but for purpose of calculating the said period of fifteen years any such period of temporary absence shall be excluded.
3Nothing in this article shall prevent Parliament from making any law prescribing in regard to a class or classes of employment or appointment to an office under the Government of or any local or other authority within a State or Union territory any requirement as to residence within that State or Union territory prior to such employment or appointment.
For the original words of the clause under any State specified in the First schedule or any local or other authority within its territory any requirement as to residence within that State  the present words from under the Government  to Union territory  have been substituted.
Under article 35a this power is conferred upon Parliament but is denied to the Legislatures of the States notwithstanding anything in the Constitution and under b any law in force immediately before the commencement of the Constitution in respect to the matter shall subject to the terms thereof and subject to such adaptations that may be made under article 372 is to continue in force until altered or repealed or amended by Parliament.
any requirement as to residence within the State or Union territory prior to employment or appointment to an office in that State or Union territory.
Firstly whether Parliament  while prescribing the requirement may prescribe the requirement of residence in a particular part of the State and secondly whether Par liament can delegate this function by making a declaration and leaving the details to be filled in by the rule making power of the Central or State Governments.
It has already made a declaration that no person shall be disqualified for any office in the territory of India because of his residence in any particular part of India.
He contends that the power is given to Parliament to make any law and therefore Parliament is supreme and can make any law on the subject as the article says.
The claim of Mr Setalvad that Parliament can make a provision regarding residence in any particular part of a State would render the general prohibition lose all its meaning.
