Appeal from the judgment and decree dated March 31 1965 of the Madras High Court in Appeal No 276 of 1962.
The case of the appellant was that the trusteeship of the temple was hereditary.
9 of Madras Act 19 of 1951 states In this Act unless there is anything repugnant in the subject or context 9 hereditary trustee  means the trustee of a religious institution succession to whose office devolves by hereditary right or is regulated by usage or is specifically provided for by the founder so long as such scheme of succession is in force This Act has been substituted by Madras Act 22 of 1959 but the definition of the trustee is identical in both the Acts.
It is not the case of the appellant that the trustees of the temple of the Kumaran Koil are hereditary trustees because their office  devolves by hereditary right or because succession to that office is specifically provided for by the founder.
The contention on behalf of the appellant is that the succession is regulated by usage.
In our opinion there is no warrant for this argument.
The phrase regulated by usage in section 69 of the Act must be construed along with the phrase succession to this office and when so construed that part of the definition would only apply where the ordinary rules of succession under the Hindu law are modified by usage and succession has to be determined in accordance with the modified rules.
Ordinarily a shebaitship or the office of dharmakartha is vested in the heirs of the founder unless the founder has laid down a special scheme of succession or except when usage or custom to the contrary is proved to exist.
Mukherjea J in Angurbala Mullick vs Debabrata Mullick4 delivering the judgment of this Court observed Unless therefore the founder has disposed of the shebaitship in any particular manner and this right of disposition is inherent in the founder or except when usage or custom of a different nature is proved to exist shebaitship like any other species of heritable property follows the line of inheritance from the founder In the case of mutts whose heads are often celibates and sometimes sanyasins special rules of succession obtain by custom and usage.
In Sital Das vs Sant Ram5 the law was taken as wellsettled that succession to mahantship of a mutt or religious institution is regulated by custom or usage of the particular institution except where the rule of succession is laid down by the founder himself who created the endowment.
1954 SC 606.
Hereditary succession is succession by the heir to the deceased under the law the office must be transmitted to the successor according to some definite rules of descent which by their own force designate the person to succeed.
