N Criminal Appeal No 87 of 1967.
The High Court and the Court below drew from this the conclusion that the appellants were themselves the dacoits and convicted them accordingly under section 395 of the Indian Penal Code and sentenced them to  5 years  rigorous imprisonment and fine of Rs 100 .
In this appeal the only contention raised by Mr A section R Chari is that the presumption that they were dacoits ought not to have been drawn since the circumstances do not admit the drawing of such a presumption in the case According to Mr Chari the presumption to be drawn ought to have been one under section 41 1 722 of Indian Penal Code or at the most tinder section 412 of the Indian Penal Code but not of complicity in the crime of dacoity.
He contends that the circumstances under which the one presumption or the other may be drawn under section 114 of the have not been stated by law and therefore it is necessary always to start with the lesser presumption and draw the higher presumption only when there is some other evidence to show the complicity of the persons in the crime itself.
According to him there is no other evidence in the case which points to the complicity of the 14 appellants in the crime of dacoity and therefore as they cannot be suspected to be dacoits themselves the only presumption to be drawn is one of receivers of stolen property or as receivers of property which was stolen in a dacoity.
In our opinion the law advocated by Mr Chari is not correct.
The evidence strengthens the other evidence already against him.
It has been stated on more than one occasion that if the gap of time is too large the presumption that the accused was concerned with the crime itself gets weakened.
The presumption is stronger when the discovery of the fruits of crime is made immediately after the crime is.
The reason is obvious.
Disposal of the fruits of crime requires the finding of a person ready to receive them and the shortness of time the nature of the property which is disposed of that is to say its quantity and its character determine whether the person who had the goods in his possession received them from another or was himself the thief or the dacoit.
They need not be stated here for they differ from case to caseIn the present case the goods stolen were a large quantity of cloth taken for sale to the market.
These goods were not sold and were being taken back to the dealers by the cartmen A large number of persons said to be 20 in number pelted stones at the cartmen and looted the property.
It may be 723 noticed that from each person a large number of goods of the same type such as 20 choli pieces or ten pieces of cloth were found.
It is impossible to think that within the short time available these goods could have been easily disposed of to receivers of stolen property or could be placed in the custody of friends till such time as the original offenders could take them away The time gap in some cases is as short as two days and in some others it is not more than five days.
Even then we think that the time gap is too short for original offenders to have disposed of the property to these appellants Or to have left the goods in their custody till such time as the original offenders could have taken them away.
We are therefore satisfied that the proper inference was drawn in this case.
It must not be forgotton that the offence was committed at night by as many as 20 persons or more.
The houses of 20 persons were searched and large quantities of the stolen goods were found in their houses.
It is legitimate therefore to raise the presumption in this case that the persons with whom the goods were found were the dacoits themselves.
This presumption has been drawn and in our opinion rightly in this case The conviction was therefore correct in all the circumstances of the case.
As regards the sentence the offence no doubt was serious.
Therefore we think that a sentence of three years  rigorous imprisonment will meet the ends of justice in this case.
The appeal is allowed to this extent.
