Section 151 2 of the Act reads No notice shall be issued under Section 148 after the expiry of four years from the end of the relevant assessment year unless the Commissioner is satisfied on the reasons recorded by the Income tax Officer that it is a fit case for the issue of such notice Section 148 prescribes  1 Before making the assessment re assessment or re computation under Section 147 the Income tax Officer shall serve on the assesee a notice containing all or any of the requirements which may be included in a notice under sub section 2 of Section 139 and 445 the provisions of this Act shall so far as may be apply accordingly as if the notice were a notice issued under that sub section.
 Section 147 deals with income escaping assessment.
At this stage we need not refer to that section  We shall refer to that provision at a later stage.
RF 2Status 3.
Whether it is a new case or one in which re assessment or recomputation has to be made Re assessment 5.
13 5 66 Commissioner of Income tax Bihar and Orissa Patna 9.
Sd section P Chaliha 30 4 66.
Income tax Officer A Ward Muzaffarpur.
 In his report the Income tax Officer does not set out any reason for coming to the conclusion that this is a fit case to issue notice under section 148.
The material that he had before him for issuing notice under section 148 is not mentioned in the report.
Further his report mentions  Hence proper investigation regarding these loans is necessary In other words his conclusion is that there is a case for investigating as to the truth of the alleged transactions.
Before issuing a notice under section 148 the Income tax Officer must have either reasons to believe that by reason of the omission or failure on the part of these assessee to make a return under section 139 for any assessment year to the Income tax Officer or to disclose fully and truly all material facts necessary for his assessment for that year income chargeable to tax has escaped assessment for that year or alternatively not withstanding that there has been no omission or failure as mentioned above on the part of the assessee the Income tax Officer has in consequence of information in his possession reason to believe that income chargeable to tax has escaped assessment for any assessment year.
Unless the requirements of clause a or b of section 147 are satisfied the Income tax Officer has no jurisdiction to issue a notice under section 148.
From the report submitted by the Income tax Officer to the Commissioner it is clear that he could not have had reasons to believe that by reason of the assessee s omission to disclose fully and truly all material  facts necessary for his assessment for the accounting year in question income chargeable to tax has escaped assessment for that year nor could it be said that he as a consequence of information in his possession had reasons to believe that the income chargeable to tax has escaped assessment for that year.
b of section 147.
To Question No 8 in the report which reads Whether the Commissioner is satisfied that it is a case for the I issue of notice under section 148 he just noted the word yes and affixed his signatures thereunder.
