ivil Appeal Nos.
630 631 of 1971.
The short question before us in these appeals by special leave is whether sales of Arc carbons known as Cinema Arc Carbons manufactured by the appellant company were rightly subjected to sales tax for two assessment years 1965 66 and 1966 77 on the ground that they fall under entry No 4 of the 1st Schedule of the Andhra Pradesh General Sales Tax Act 1957 hereinafter referred to as the Act .
Hence the Tribunal dismissed the appeal without taking further evidence.
Neither the use of the term electrode to describe them suggesting a connection with electricity nor their utilisation in a process involving application of electrical power could convert them into electrical goods as contemplated by the entry in the Madras Act.
The High Court rightly observed that these decisions had no bearing whatsoever upon the very different entry in a schedule of an entirely different Act of a different State.
The same question has been argued before us with the help of some more cases to which the same criticism applies.
The additional cases cited before us were Pashabhai Patel  CoP Ltd vs Collector of Sales Tax Maharashtra State4 where it was held a tractor 1 TRC No 26 of 2962 decided on 9th August 1963 2 1968 22 STC 172 Madras 3 1968 22 STC 476 Madras 4 1964 15 STC32.
563 is not agricultural machinery within the meaning of entry 9 in Schedule of the Bombay Sales Tax Act 1953 Agrawal Brothers vs Commissioner of Sales Tax Madhya Pradesh1 where it was also held that a tractor which is nothing but a self propelled vehicle capable of pulling a load or traction does not acquire the character of agricultural machinery or implement merely because when used on agricultural land it is used also to draw certain agricultural implements like a plough The State of Mysore vs Mores India Ltd2 where it was held that a typewriter ribbon is not an essential part of a type writer so as to attract the tax under entry 18 of the second schedule to the Mysore Sales Tax Act 1957 Commissioner Sales Tax U P v Free India Cycle Industries3 where it was held that rexine saddle covers used also for bicycle seats are not covered by entry No 34 introduced by Section 3A of the UP Sales Tax Act 1948 as modified subsequently which read bicycles tricycles cycle rickshaws and perambulators and parts and accessaries thereof other than tyres and tubes The Madhya Pradesh State Co operative Marketing Society Jabalpur vs The Commissioner of Sales Tax MP Indore4 where it was held that oil engines and pumps which are not known in the commercial world as agricultural machinery could not be covered by an entry meant for goods sold for agricultural purposes simply because some of them are also sold to agriculturists for agricultural purposes.
The meaning of this entry can only be satisfactorily determined in the light of the language of the entry itself considered in the context in which it occurs.
The entry No 4 occurs in a schedule in which descriptions of goods to be taxed indicate that the expression required for use there with has been employed for equipment or accessories connected with the main purpose.
For instance in entry No 5 the expression occurs at the end as follows Photographic and other cameras and enlargers films and plates paper and cloth and other parts and accessories required for use therewith.
It is not enough to show that the article can be put to other uses also.
It is its general or predominant user which seems to determine the category in which an article will fall.
The first entry in the schedule relates to motor vehicles and includes component parts of motor vehicles and articles including batteries adapted for use as parts and accessories of motor vehicles but excludes certain other articles by putting in the words not being such articles as are ordinarily also used for other purposes than as 1 1965 16 STC 860.
2 1970 26 STC 87.
The words parts thereof are used in several entries such as entry No 6 for clocks time pieces and watches entry No 10 for dictaphones and other similar apparatus for recording sound and entry No 11 for sound transmitting equipment such as telephones and loud speakers.
our object in indicating the nature of entries amdist which entry No 4 occurs is to show that some precision has been attempted in making the entries.
Of course even where an entry relates to parts manufactured for use for a particular kind of instrument of gadget only the article manufactured to serve as a part of a particular kind of apparatus would not cease to be covered by the intended entry simply because a purchaser makes some other use of it.
The best guide to their intentions is the language actually employed by them.
We find that the term accessories is used in the schedule to describe goods which may have been manufactured for use as an aid or addition.
A sense in which the word accessory is used is given in Webster s Third New International Dictionary as follows all objects or device that is not essential in itself but that adds to the beauty convenience or effectiveness of something else.
Other meanings given there are supplementary or secondary to something of greater or primary importance additional any of several mechanical devices that assist in operating or controlling the tone resources of an organ Accessories are not necessarily confined to particular machines for which they may serve as aids.
We think that the Andhra Pradesh High Court correctly held that the main use of the arc carbons under consideration was duly proved to be that of production of powerful light used in projectors in cinemas.
The fact that they can also be used for search lights signalling stage lighting or where powerful lighting for photography or other purposes may be required could not detract from the classification to which the carbon arcs belong.
That is determined by their ordinary or commonly known purpose or user.
Consequently we dismiss these appeals with costs.
VPS Appeals dismissed.
