Petition No 55 of 1954.
In support of the petition the appellants urged that section 12 under which the respondent purported to act authorised the cancellation of only leases granted by the evacuee and not by the Custodian himself and that no directions could be given under section 10 as it applied only to properties of the evacuee and that by reason of the sale the movables in question had become the property of the appel 124 980 lants.
The petition was heard by Tendolkar J who stated the points for determination thus 1 Whether the Custodian has power under section 12 of the  to terminate a lease granted by himself and 2 Whether the directions given by the Custodian are beyond the jurisdiction conferred upon him by section 10 of the said Act On the first question he held that section 12 applied only to leases granted by the evacuee and not by the Custodian and that therefore the notice Exhibit C was ultra vires the powers of the Custodian under that section.
Section 5 of the Administration of Evacuee Property Amendment Act 1954 XLII of 1954 enacts the following Explanation to section 12 of Act XXXI of 1950 In this sub section lease  includes a lease granted by the Custodian and agreement  includes an agreement entered into by the Custodian.
And it provides that the Explanation shall be inserted and shall be deemed always to have been inserted in the section.
Mr Desai learned counsel for the appellants concedes that this amendment which is retrospective in operation would govern the rights of the parties in the present appeal and that under the section as it now stands the Custodian has the power and had always the power to cancel leases created not merely by the evacuees but also by himself.
But he con tends that this power could be exercised only so as to override a bar imposed by any law but not the contract under which the lease is held and this result flows according to him from the language of the non obstante clause which is limited to anything contained in any other law for the time being in force and does not include or any contract between the parties.
The section expressly authorises the custodian to vary the terms of the lease and that cannot be reconciled with the contention of the appellants that it confers no authority on him to go back upon his own contracts.
The operative portion of the section which confers power on 982 the Custodian to cancel a lease or vary the terms thereof is unqualified and absolute and that power cannot be abridged by reference to the provision that it could be exercised notwithstanding anything contained in any other law for the time being in force.
This provision is obviously intended to repel a possible contention that section 12 does not by implication repeal statutes conferring rights on lessees and cannot prevail as against them and has been inserted ex abundanti cautela.
It was next contended by Mr Desai that even if the Custodian had the power under section 12 to cancel the lease in favour of the appellants be bad no power under that section to cancel the agreement to sell the mills and the factory to them which was one of the matters contained in Exhibit A that the notice Exhibit C was to that extent without jurisdiction and that the respondent should accordingly be prohibited from cancelling that portion of Exhibit A in pursuance of Exhibit C.
Tendolkar J stated in his judgment and quite correctly that these were the two points that rose for determination.
The question of the rights of the appellants in so far as they related to the purchase by them of the mills and the factory was not raised in the petition and no contentions were put forward in support thereof at any stage of the proceedings.
