Upon that finding the plaintiff.
As against that decree defendant 1 filed first appeal No 524 of 1966 in the Bombay High Court while the plaintiff filed cross objections.
By a judgment dated March 19 1975 a Division Bench of the High Court dismissed defendant 1 s appeal and allowed the plaintiff s cross objections by holding that the suit properties belonged to the joint family that there was no prior partition and that the plaintiff is entitled to a 724th share.
Since the view of the High.
LR351.
2 765 shall devolve by survivorship upon the surviving members of the coparcenary and not in accordance with this Act  Provided that if the deceased had left him surviving a female relative specified in class I of the Schedule or a male relative specified in that class who claims through such a female relative the interest of the deceased in the Mitakshara coparcenary property shall devolve by testamentary or intestate succession as the case may be under this Act and not by survivorship.
Explanation 2.
 The Hindu Succession Act came into force on June 17 1956 Khandappa having died after the commencement of that Act to wit in 1960 and since he had at the time of his death an interest in Mitakshara coparcenary property the pre conditions of section 6 are satisfied and that section is squarely attracted.
The interpretation of that Explanation is the subject matter of acute controversy between the parties.
In the instant case the plaintiff s suit based as it is on the provisions of section 6 is essentially a claim to obtain a share in the interest which her husband had at the time of his death in the coparcenary property.
Explanation 1 which contains the formula for determining the share of the deceased creates a fiction by providing that the interest of a Hindu Mistakshara coparcener shall be deemed to be the share in the property that would have been allotted to him if a partition of the property had taken place immediately before his death.
One must therefore imagine a state of affairs in which a little prior to Khandappa s death a partition of the coparcenary property was effected between him and other members of the coparcenary.
Khandappa would have therefore got a 14th share in the coparcenary property on the hypothesis of a partition between himself and his sons Two things are thus clears  One that in a partition of the coparcenary property Khandappa would have obtained a 14th share and 767 two that the share of the plaintiff in the 14th share is 16th that is to say 124th.
The question is which of these two views is to be preferred.
The fiction created by Explanation 1 has to be given its due and full effect as the fiction created by section 18A9 b of the Indian Income tax Act 1922 was given by this Court in Commissioner of Income tax Delhi vs section Teja Singh1.
The section did not provide further that in the circumstances therein stated a notice under section 22 shall be deemed to have been issued and the notice shall be deemed not to have been complied with.
In order to ascertain the share of heirs in the property of a deceased coparcener it is necessary in the very nature of things and as the very first step to ascertain the share of the deceased in the coparcenary property.
In other words the assumption having been made once for the purpose of ascertaining the share of the deceased in the coparcenary property one cannot go back on that assumption and ascertain the share of the heirs without reference to it.
The Hindu Succession provides by section 141 that any property possessed by a female Hindu whether acquired before or after the commencement of the Act shall be held by her as a full owner thereof and not as a limited owner.
1 AIR 1975 Bombay 257.
