Civil Appeal Nos.
5 6 in CA 161779.
Municipal Corporation of Raipur in the month of December 1978 under the provisions of the Madhya Pradesh Municipal Corporation Act 1956 No 23 of 1956 hereinafter referred to as the Act  the Collector of Raipur published the preliminary electoral roll on September 30 1978 under Rule 41 of the Madhya Pradesh Munici 493 pal Corporation Preparation Revision and Publication of Electoral Rolls and Selection of Councillors Rules 1963 hereinafter referred to as the Rules  promulgated under the Act by the Madhya Pradesh State Government and issued a public notice under Rule 41 of the Rules calling upon persons whose names had not been included in the electoral roll and who claimed to be included in i and persons who had any objection to the inclusion of the name of any person in the said electoral roll to submit their claims andor objections within 20 days from the date of the publication of the said notice before Shri K P Pande Deputy Collector Raipur who had been authorised to pass orders on such claims or objections.
One of the grounds on which the appellants challenged the validity of the electoral roll the calendar of events and the declaration of results of election was that the entire election process had become vitiated on account of the defect in the notice issued under Rule 1 of the Rules notifying that claims and objections should be preferred within a period of 20 days from the date of the publication of that notice when sub rule 3 of Rule 4 of the Rules prescribed that such claims and objections could be preferred within 30 days from the date of publication of that notice.
The period prescribed for preferring claims and objections under Rule 43 was 30 days.
It is not the case of the petitioners that they did not know immediately after the publication of such notice that in the said notice a period of 20 days had been mentioned in its preamble as the period within which the claims and objections could be preferred and in paragraph 7 thereof it had been stated that any such claim or objection filed beyond the prescribed period was liable to be rejected.
It was open to them to move the State Government under Rule 6 of the Rules to make an order directing the Collector to follow .
After November 25 1978 a large number of nominations were received by the Returning officer.
They do not show that any 497 of the petitioners had raised any objection with regard to the date within which the claims and objections could be preferred to the electoral roll mentioned in the notice.
We have therefore to proceed on the basis that it was only on December S 1978 for the first time that the attention of the Collector was drawn to the said error and that the writ petition itself was presented on December 28 1978.
The question whether in a given case the delay involved is such that it dissentients a person to relief under Article 226 is a matter within the discretion of the High Court which as in all matters of discretion has to exercise it judiciously and reasonably having regard to the surrounding circumstances.
On the facts and in the circumstances of the case we are of the view that the writ petition was rightly dismissed by the High Court as there was no satisfactory explanation for the delay in preferring it.
We therefore find it unnecessary to deal with the other points urged before us.
