ON Criminal Appeal No 126 of 1955.
Appeal by special leave from the judgment and order dated the 9th August 1955 of the Bombay High Court in Criminal Application No 726 of 1955.
M R Parpia J B Dadachanji and section N Andley for the appellant.
Whereas the Government of Bombay is satisfied with respect to the person known as Shri Lawrence Joachim Joseph DeSouza of Bombay that with a view to preventing him from acting in any manner prejudicial to the relations of India with the Portuguese Government and to the Security of India it is necessary to make the following Order Now therefore in exercise of the powers conferred by sub clause 1 of clause a of sub section 1 of section 3 of the Act IV of 1950 the Government of Bombay is pleased to direct that Shri Lawrence Joachim Joseph DeSouza of Bombay be detained.
1The order of detention was mala fide.
They are to be found from the relevant communication to the detenue which is as follows In pursuance of section 7 of the Act IV of 1950 you are hereby informed that the grounds on which a detention order has been made against you by the Government of Bombay under sub clause 1 of clause a of subsection 1 of section 3 of the said Act are that With the financial help given by the Portuguese authorities you are carrying on espionage on behalf of the Portuguese Government with the help of underground workers.
These activities which are being carried on by you with the object of causing further deterioration in the relations between the Portuguese Government and the Indian Government over the question of Goan National Movement are prejudicial to the security of India and to the relations of India with Portugal.
2If you wish to make a representation against the order under which you are detained you should address it to the Government of Bombay and forward it through the Superintendent Arthur Road Prison Bombay.
It is as follows The grounds are not specific and no particulars of the activities alleged to have been carried on by the petitioner are given viz the particulars such as the length of period for which the petitioner is alleged to have carried on the so called espionage activities or the details of financial aid alleged to have been received by the petitioner from the Portuguese authorities or the names of any of the so called underground workers alleged to be aiding the petitioner or any details of intelligence alleged to have been collected by the petitioner or made available by him to the Portuguese Government.
Such a right to call for particulars has been recognised in the case in the State of Bombay vs Atma Ram Sridhar Vaidya1 as flowing from his constitutional right to be afforded a reasonable opportunity to make a representation to the Board.
Assuming however that the grounds furnished in this case are open to the challenge of vagueness the further question which arises is whether the validity of the order of detention can be sustained by reason of the claim in public interest of non disclosure of facts made by the Under Secretary to the Government of Bombay by means of his affidavit filed in the High Court.
But the right of the detenue to be furnished particulars is subject to the limitation under article 226 whereby disclosure of facts considered to be against public interest cannot be required.
The meaning is clear that at no time it was in public interest to disclose the details referred to in the particular paragraph of the affidavit and there is nothing to suggest that this question was not considered by the detaining authority at the time when the grounds were furnished.
