Caretaker.
VII Junior Architect Rs 760 40 1000 50 Rs 860 50 1160 Engineering 1300.
70 1690 80 2010.
 Further it appears that the Tribunal intended to grant the increase of Rs 150 to each draughtsman and Rs 100 to all other workmen in their basic pay.
On the same date the Tribunal disposed of the application by the following order There can be no doubt that a flat increase of Rs 150 to each of the employees in the category of Draftsmen and of Rs 100 to each employee in the other categories has been granted under my award.
When the award is sent for publication a necessary corrigendum be made in the award and the aforesaid words after the figures Rs 150 and Rs 100 be added.
It may be mentioned that only from that point of view viz to grant flat increase of Rs 150 and of Rs 100 to the employees in the category of Draftsmen and the other categories respectively that a burden statement was called for from the company and the same was submitted vide exhibit C 51.
The revised pay scales of all categories except the category of Draughtsmen shows an increase of Rs 100 in the initial pay fixed in each scale the increase in the case of the category of Draughtsmen being Rs 150 .
No second flat increase was envisaged at all.
Considering the fitment of the workman in the revised scales it was stated in the award that a workman found drawing a salary less than the beginning of the grade would be stepped up to the beginning of the grade and if his pay fell between two steps in the reclassified pay scales the basic pay was to be fixed at the step higher in the revised scale.
The statement then goes on to indicate that if a flat increase of Rs 75 per month were given to individual workmen of all categories the total increase would be Rs 578220 .
The statement afforded an indication merely of what the additional financial load would be if a flat increase was given to the individual workman on the alternative basis set forth therein.
Our attention has been drawn to what purports to be an endorsement by counsel for the appellant on the application dated 22nd December 1978 filed by the Union before the Tribunal to the effect that the appellant would submit to whatever the Tribunal decided and it is urged that the appellant is bound by the order made on the application.
The only contention of the workmen is that the Tribunal should have fixed the dearness allowance in communion with the cost of living index.
The award is a composite document in which the several elements of increased wage scales larger increments longer span of 20 years for earning increments dearness allowance at 10 of the basic wage besides several other benefits have been integrated into a balanced arrangement in keeping with what the Tribunal has found to be the financial capacity of the appellant.
In the result Civil Appeal No 2299 of 1979 is allowed in part insofar that the order dated 22nd December 1978 of the Industrial Tribunal Maharashtra Bombay is quashed to the extent that it modifies the original award dated 20th December 1978 and the corrigendum made consequent thereto is also quashed.
Civil Appeal No 2300 of 1979 is dismissed.
In the said award Your Honour has observed at the end of Para 22 In view of the increase that is being allowed in the basic pay I do not propose to revise the existing scheme of Dearness Allowance .
Further it appears that the Tribunal intended to grant the increase of Rs 150 to each draughtsman and Rs 100 to all other workmen in their basic pay.
Thereafter the Tribunal made an order on the same day in the following terms There can be no doubt that a flat increase of Rs 150 to each of the employees in the category of Draftsmen and 181 of Rs 100 to each employee in the other categories has been granted under my award.
When the award is sent for publication a necessary corrigendum be made in the award and the aforesaid words after the figures Rs 150 and Rs 100 be added.
It may be mentioned that only from that point of view viz to grant flat increase of Rs 150 and of Rs 100 to the employees in the category of Draftsmen and the other categories respectively that a burden statement was called for from the company and the same was submitted vide exhibit C 51.
Nor can it be doubted that fitment into the revised pay scales is certainly a part of the revision of pay scales.
The Tribunal then observed  the flat increase of Rs 150 in the category of Draftsmen and Rs 100 in the case of the other categories would be fair.
Now if without any flat or ad hoc increase of salary the workmen were to be fitted into the revised scales of pay it would obviously result in serious anomalous situations.
