Cheque for Rs 300 was encashed by the appellant on 29th December 1960.
353 On the 10th January 1964 the plaintiffs filed the suit in the court of Subordinate Judge Masulipatam.
It was further stated that the said two cheques were encashed and the appellant had duly appropriated the amount and credited in the accounts towards the premium payable by the deceased.
It was further stated that the averments in the plaint that the defendant Corporation cashed the above two cheques and appropriated the amounts and credited these in the account towards premium payable for the proposal were false.
The respondents plaintiffs examined Shri RV Bhupala Prasad son of the deceased and the Corporation on its behalf examined Shri Jagannadhachari the Superintendent of the Corpo 355 ration branch at Guntur.
In his deposition he had stated that the Divisional Manager was the competent authority for accepting the proposal for Rs 50000.
He had further stated that the proposal form was sent from the office at Guntur to the Divisional office at Masulipatam and exhibit B 1 to B 4 and B 8 were sent in this connection.
He further stated that according to the financial powers Standing order it was the Divisional Manager who was competent to accept a proposal for Rs 50000 exhibit B 13 is the copy of the Standing order.
He further stated that the letters DM  were also written by him indicating that the papers should go to the Divisional Manager on exhibit B 4.
When the acceptance was complete and when there was no requirement necessary and if the full first instalment was 356 in deposit it would be adjusted towards premium amount he stated.
Underwriting and Revivals a Standard Section Head 2000 Sum Proposed lives and Supdt or JO 5000  do  revival on ASO 10000  do  original ADM 25000  do  terms DM 100000  do  Note Proposals on standard lives for more than Rs 100000 should be referred to the Central Underwriting Section Learned Subordinate Judge by his judgment dated 19th November 1964 held that there was no concluded contract.
He held that as per the prospectus of Life Insurance Corporation of India the risk under the Corporation policy commenced on the date of receipt of the first premium in full or the date of acceptance whichever was later and the second instalment of the premium falls due on a date calculated from such date of commencement of risk.
The Trial Court further expressed the view that the other averments in the claim that the deceased was assured and told by the local agent and the field officer of the Corporation that the payment of the first premium would amount to the acceptance of the proposal were not established and even if such a representation was made that did not alter the position as under the rules the payment of the premium could never amount to the acceptance of the proposal if the proposal was not otherwise accepted.
In the result the suit filed by the respondents plaintiffs was dismissed with costs.
The appellants before the High Court also filed civil miscellaneous petition praying that in the circumstances stated in the affidavit filed therewith the High Court might be pleased to direct the Life Insurance Corporation to produce certain documents viz proposals review slips and proposal dockets and the connected papers of the present case and statements furnished by the Divisional office to the Zonal office showing the new business in the year 1960 and proposal register work of Divisional office for the year 1960.
The High Court by its judgment dated 14th April 1970 held after considering the standing order exhibit B 13 and the various documents produced for the first time on record that there was acceptance of proposal and like 358 other contracts the contract of insurance was complete by offer and acceptance.
Relying on certain other documents which were called for for the first time by the High Court relating to certain other cases where only the Assistant Divisional Manager made similar endorsement the High Court came to the conclusion that there was a valid contract.
The High Court was of the view that the plea that Divisional Manager was the only authority to accept had not been categorically taken in the written statement filed on behalf of the Corporation.
The High Court in our opinions was also wrong in its view about the powers of the different authorities under Chapter III of the Standing order 1960 dealing with the financial powers.
He had stated that the purpose of review slip was to enable the Divisional Manager to asses the risk and take a decision.
When an insurance policy becomes effective is well settled by the authorities but before we note the said authorities it may be stated that it is clear that the expression underwrite signifies accept liability under .
The mere execution of the policy is not an acceptance an acceptance to be complete must be communicated to the offeror either directly or by some definite act such as placing the contract in the mail.
The test is not intention alone.
When the application so requires the acceptance must be evidenced by the signature of one of the company s executive officers.
 Though in certain human relationships silence to a proposal might convey acceptance but in the case of insurance proposal silence does not denote consent and no binding contract arises until 360 the person to whom an offer is made says or does something to signify his acceptance.
The general rule is that the contract of insurance will be concluded only when the party to whom an offer has been made accepts it unconditionally and communicates his acceptance to the person making the offer.
Having regard to the clear position in law about acceptance of insurance proposal and the evidence on record in this case we are therefore of the opinion that the High Court was in error in coming to the conclusion that there was a concluded contract of insurance between the deceased and the Life Insurance Corporation and on that basis reversing the judgment and the decision of the learned Subordinate Judge.
We however record that in view of the fact that such a long time has elapsed and further in view of the fact that principal amount together with interest amounting to about Rs 85000 have already been paid to the wife of the deceased and his children the Life insurance Corporation in this case does not insist on the full repayment of the sum paid and counsel on behalf of the Life Insurance Corporation has stated that they would accept if half of what has been received by the respondents namely principal together with interest is paid back to the Corporation.
We order accordingly that the respondents will therefore pay back half of the actual amount received both of the principal together with interest within three months from this date.
SR Appeal allowed.
