The people started running helter and skelter for their lives.
19683 has already been submitted in this case.
910 It is the contention of the petitionerappellant that the order of preventive detention could only be justified against a person in detention if the detaining authority was satisfied that his release from detention was imminent and the order of detention was necessary for putting him back in jail.
The service of order of detention on the petitioner while he was in jail was futile and useless since such an order had no application under section 32 of the Act.
In the affidavit of the District Magistrate the detaining authority it has been stated that the activities of the petitioner s brother and the petitioner have disturbed the normal tempo of life in Katras and Jogta Police Stations in Dhanbad area.
The grounds stated that there was indiscriminate firing on 24th December 1985 on Katras Coal Dump and the petitioner started indiscriminate firing to kill Birendra Pratap Singh a rival of his calendestine business of coal to establish the criminal superiority in full view of the shopkeepers customers and passers by of the area.
In those circumstances it appears that the grounds for forming the satisfaction for the need for the detention were there and there was rational nexus between the object of the order as contemplated by the Act and the materials on record.
From the affidavit of the District Magistrate it does not appear that either the prospect of immediate release of the detenu or other factors which can justify the detention of a person in detention were properly considered in the light of the principles noted in the aforesaid decision and especially in the decisions in Rameshwar Shaw vs District Magistrate Burdwan  Anr  and Ramesh Yadav vs District Magistrate Etah and others though there was a statement to the effect that the petitioner was in jail and was likely to be enlarged on bail.
In this case there were grounds for the passing of the detention order but after that the detenu has surrendered for whatever reasons therefore the order of detention though justified when it was passed but at the time of the service of the order there was no proper consideration of the fact that the detenu was in custody of that there was any real danger of his release.
Nor does it appear that before the service there was consideration of this aspect properly.
