1957 3 Whether on the facts and in the circumstances of the case the Tribunal tight ly held that the sum of Rs 150000 was properly included in the assessee s net wealth 4 Whether on the facts and in the circumstances of the case the Tribunal right ly held that the assessee did not make valid gifts aggregating Rs67560 5 Whether on the facts and in the circumstances of the case the Tribunal right ly held that the sum of Rs6756012 was rightly included in the net wealth of the assessee The case relates to the assessment year 1957 58 and the relevant date of valuation was 31st March 1957.
Rs25000 Om Prakash Gupta .
A similar letter was written by Ved Prakesh thanking the assessee his father for the gift of Rs25000 made to him and Rs50000 gifted to his son.
The Tribunal held that they were not carrying on banking business.
In the case of banking companies or other firms and companies who have overdraft facilities even if the sums are not in credit of the donor and are not with such companies or firms gifts might be possible by adjustment of the book entries.
Reference may also be made for this proposition to the decision of the Delhi High Court in New India Colour Co vs Commissioner of IncomeTax New Delhi The effect of the two aforesaid decisions of the learned fudges of the Delhi High Court indicates that in case there was not sufficient cash balance from out of which the amount gifted could be physically given to the donee more entries in the books of account in the form would not constitute delivery of possession over the gifted property to the donee and gift in such case will not be valid.
Commis sioner of Income Tax Poona vs Dharsey Keshavji 143 ITR 509 and Commissioner of Income Tax Poona vs Devichand Uttamchand In the background of facts of those cases the Bombay High Court held that the gifts were valid.
It was held by the Bombay High Court that there was no valid gift.
The Allahabad High Court in the case of Commissioner of Income Tax UPv Smt.
The transfer was effected by debit ing the assessee s personal account in the books of the Hindu undivided family with Rs50000 and crediting the same in the personal account of his son.
In the impugned judgment the Allahabad High Court had followed the said decision.
If the possession enjoyment or benefit of the donor in the property was consistent with the facts and circumstances of the case other than those of the factum of gift it could not be said that the donee had not retained the possession and enjoyment of the property to the entire exclusion of the donor or to the entire exclusion of the donor in any benefit to him by contract or otherwise.
There M the deceased was a 132 partner in a firm having a half share in the partnership.
On 27th March 1957 M made a gift of Rs 1 lakh to his son L and of Rs50000 to his wife K by making debit entries in his account in the firm and corresponding credits to the accounts of L and K With effect from 28th March 1957 L was taken as a partner in the firm by giving L one forth share out of the half share of M M died on 9th January 1962.
But in that case the question in the present form in which it arises before us in the instant case did not arise.
