Pursuant to the said scheme the State of Uttar Pradesh appointed the respondent as the Secretary Zila Sainik Board Unnao on 20th of August 1979.
the date of assumption if it is not terminated earlier by giving a one month s notice by the Hon ble Gover nor or on paying one month s salary in lieu thereof or by giving one month s notice by the Officer.
 The respondent was required to furnish his acceptance of the terms and conditions contained in the said order includ ing the above term relating to the period of appointment and on his accepting the terms and conditions he was appointed as the Secretary in the District Soldiers Board in the district of Unnao in the State of Uttar Pradesh .
Again the term was extended upto 30th of August 1985 by an order dated 1st June 1983.
A Division Bench of the High Court found that the order of termination that had been served on the respondent was an invalid one since it had been issued on the basis of Vigilance Report and no opportunity had been given to the respondent to show cause why such action should not be taken against him.
In the Penultimate paragraph of the judgment the High Court further stated It is open for the opposite parties to con sider the claim of the petitioner for continu ation in service or of fresh appointment and no observations in this regard are being made by this Court.
 The judgment was delivered on 2431988.
In support of the Review Petition the respondent relied on an interim order which had been passed by the High Court during the pendency of the Writ Petition on 10th of July 1986 which reads thus The post will be kept vacant and in case the petitioner succeeds in his Petition it would be made available forthwith to the petitioner by way of an appointment.
 The contention of the respondent was that the said interim order entitled him to be reinstated in service irrespective of the fact whether the Governor had extended the period of his appointment beyond 30th of August 1985.
The High Court allowed the Review PetitiOn on 2671988 and made an order reinstating the Respondent in service which reads as follows This is an application for review of our Judgment dated 2431988 by which we allowed the Writ Petition filed by the Petitioner with certain directions.
It seems that when the writ petition was decided our attention was not drawn towards the interim order dated 1071986 passed by learned single Judge in which it was provided that one post will be kept vacant and in case the petitioner suc ceeds in his petition it would be made avail able forthwith to the petitioner by way of his appointment.
The petitioner has pointed out inaccuracy in the second paragraph of the operative part of the judgment which says that It is open for the opposite parties to consider the claim of the petitioner for continuation in service or of fresh appoint ment and no observations in this regard are being made by this Court Aggrieved by the above order made on review which di rected the State of Uttar Pradesh the appellant herein to reinstate the respondent in service the State Government has filed this apeal by special leave.
It is not disputed that the scheme under which the respond ent 244 had been appointed provided for an appointment by contract for a specified term which could be extended from time to time and that the term of the respondent had been extended on different occasions after his first appointment and he was not entitled to continue in service beyond 30th August 1985 unless there was a further extension.
The appellant government never accepted the position that the respondent was entitled to be treated as a regular employee who had a vested right to continue to hold the post till he attained 58 years of age.
The true position that emerges from the material on record is that the respondent was employed only under a contract which specified the term of his appointment which extended only Upto 30th of August 1985.
1985 was found to be an invalid one.
It is on this basis that the High court had while setting aside the order of termination by its order dated 2431988 directed that the respondent was entitled to salary upto the period he was entitled to remain in service and further observed that it was open for the opposite parties to consider the claim of the respondent for continu ation in service or of fresh appointment and no observations in this regard were made by the Court.
A reading of the Judgment of the High Court dated 2431988 shows that the respondent had not urged before the High Court that the order of appointment issued in his case was not in the nature of a contract and the subsequent orders extending his period of appointment till 30th of August 1985 were liable to be ignored and that he should be treated as a person regularly appointed in Government service entitled to con tinue till he completed the age of 58 years.
His only case was that the interim order that had been passed on 10786 entitled him to be reinstated in service even though there was no order of extension of service.
1988 declaring that the respondent was entitled to salary upto the period he was entitled to remain in service ie 30th August 1985 it was not right in making an order on Review on 2671988 relying upon the interim order dated 1071986 which in the circumstances could not have the effect of controlling the jurisdiction of the High Court to dispose of the Writ Petition on merits as it did on 2431988.
We therefore set aside the order dated 2671988 passed by the High Court on review and restore the Judgment dated 2431988 passed in the Writ Petition.
We however make it clear that what we have stated above does not affect in any way what the High Court has stated in the penultimate paragraph of the Judgment dated 2431988 which reads thus It is open for the opposite parties to con sider the claim of the petitioner for continu ation in service or the fresh appointment and no observations in this regard are being made by this Court.
No costs.
TNA Appeal allowed.
