The appellant produced the currency notes.
Before the High Court the contentions of the appellant were that there was no independent evidence regarding the demand the messenger who had contacted PW 1 at the 337 behest of the appellant had not been examined the solitary evidence of PW 1 is insufficient the explanation offered by the appellant was probable and there is no conclusive evi dence to hold that the appellant.
was guilty.
The recovery of the currency notes from the appellant proves the guilty conduct of the appel lant in view of the presumption arising under section 41 of the Prevention of Corruption Act which has not been rebutted.
The decisions of the Court in State of Rajasthan vs Mohamed Habeeb  CI Ernden vs State of Uttar Pradesh  and Lohana Kantilal vs State AIR 1954 Saurashtra 12 1 were referred to.
The High Court thought that though the conviction under section 161 IPC and section 52 of the Prevention of Corruption Act is to be maintained no separate sentence need be award ed under section 161 IPC.
The appellant has reiterated the contentions before us.
PW 3 the Principal has averred in unequivocal terms that Ex.
This conduct of the appellant is clearly incon sistent with the transaction of loan or return of money by PW 1 338 This Court observed in Dhanvantrai Balwantrai Desai vs State of Maharashtra AIR 1964 SC 575 as under Where any gratification other than legal gratification or any valuable thing is proved to have been received by an accused person the court is required to draw a presumption that the person received that thing as a motive of reward such as is mentioned in section 161 IPC Therefore the Court has no choice in the matter once it is established that the accused person has received a sum of money which was not due to him as a legal remuneration.
Of course it is open to that person to show that though that money was not due to him as legal remuneration it was legally due to him in some other manner or that he had received it under a transaction or an arrangement which was lawful.
The burden resting on the accused person in such a case would not be as light as it is where a presumption is raised under section 114 of Evidence Act and cannot be held to be discharged merely by reason of the fact that the explanation offered by the accused is reasonable and probable.
