The second lease deed Ext.
The present appeal by Special Leave granted on 37.
It was therefore not open to the High Court to entertain a collateral attack on the validity of binding nature or correctness of the order of the Court of Small Causes and to consider and determine afresh the issue as to whether the LIC is the owner of the premises as claimed or not.
The Division Bench observed   .
He submitted that if the tenants had filed a suit for declaration that the order passed in the earlier proceedings as a nullity that would have been bound to fail.
A tenant shall not be evicted whether in execution of a decree or otherwise except in 560 accordance with the provisions of this section or sections 14 to 16 Provided that nothing contained in the said sec tions shall apply to a tenant whose landlord is the Govern ment Provided further that where the tenant denies the title of the landlord or claims right of permanent tenancy the Controller shall decide whether the denial or claim is bona fide and if he records a finding to that effect the landlord shall be entitled to sue for eviction of the tenant in a Civil Court and the Court may pass a decree for evic tion on any of the grounds mentioned in the said sections notwithstanding that the Court finds that such denial does not involve forfeiture of the lease or that the claim is unfounded.
counsel contended that section 10 makes it clear beyond doubt that the Rent Controller is precluded from deciding any issue regarding title to the property and that if any such question arises he should leave it to be decided by ordi nary civil courts in appropriate proceedings.
It is unnecessary to refer in detail to this case except to set out a passage from pages 682 3 where Hidayatullah CJ speaking for the Constitution Bench reviewed all earlier cases on the sub ject and enunciated the principles emerging therefrom of which the following are relevant here The result of this inquiry into the diverse views expressed in this Court may be stated as follows 1 Where the statute gives a finality to the orders of the special tribunals the Civil Courts  jurisdic tion must be held to be excluded if there is adequate remedy to do what the Civil Courts would normally do in a suit.
In that case the respondent being in need of money entered into an agreement with the appellant for a loan of Rs2000 and it was simultaneously decided that she should execute a nominal document of sale and rent note of her house.
It also took a technical plea that the decision of the Additional Settlement Officer that the suit land was poramboke and not ryoti  land was final and the Civil Court s jurisdiction to decide that question was barred under section 64 C of the Tamil Nadu Estates Abolition and Conversion into Ryotwari Act 1948 which ran as follows 64 C Finality of orders passed under this Act 1 Any order passed by the Government or other authority under this Act in respect of matters to be determined for the purposes of this Act shall subject only to any appeal or revision provided by or under this Act be final.
If the civil court in this case had come to the conclusion that there is a relationship of a landlord and a tenant and that the LIC was entitled to recover the rent from the tenants it will have to pass a decree in favour of the LIC on the basis of the fair rent fixed by the Rent Controller.
The appeal is therefore dismissed.
