hereinafter called the rent act is the question involved in this appeal by special leave from the judgment and order of the high court of gujarat dated 21st of august1979.
nos 24 and 5 in the name of respondent no 2m s.
bharat neon signs hereinafter referred to as respondent no 2.
it is clear from the evidence on record that the partnership firm had undergone metamorphosis from time to time and again ever since the year 1960 the firm bharat neon signs first originated on 4th of october1960 as many as six persons were named in the partnership firm on or about 4th of october1960 and they had executed a deed of partnership on 13th of october1960 which is exhibit 114 on the record.
however the document is silent as to where the business was started.
on or about 24th of october1960.
another partnership deed being exhibit 69 came to be executed among the six persons and the father of the appellant girdharlal.
the document is exhibit 69 and is signed by the father of the appellant and the appellant himself also.
it may be mentioned that the partnership deed exhibit 114 was executed by six persons and at that stage the appellant or his father were not partners in the firm.
but thereafter when the partnership deed exhibit 69 was executed the appellant and his father joined the firm with an agreement to share profits only and their share was fixed at 0 03 paise in a rupee.
september1961 at this time the share of the appellant was fixed at 0 03 paise in a rupee to share the profits only.
in 1965 some partners retired and the remaining four partners executed a fresh partnership deed exhibit 117 on 1st.
april1965 this last partnership deed was executed by the appellant and original defendants.
it is true that since after 4th of october1960 the partnership firm was carrying on business in the premises in question.
it is well settled that if there was such a partnership firm of which the appellant was a partner as a tenant the same would not amount to subletting leading to the forfeiture of the tenancy.
a i r 1972 gujarat 6 1970 indlaw guj 68 thakkar j of the gujarat high court as the learned judge then was held that the mere fact that a tenant entered into a partnership and allowed the premises being used for the benefit of partnership does not constitute assignment or subletting in favour of the partnership firm entitling a landlord to recover possession.
it accordingly decreed the suit for possession instituted by the landlord.
in the premises the appeal was allowed.
it may be mentioned that the respondent no 1 is the landlord of two premises which were quite adjacent as mentioned before.
it is further stated that he had filed a civil suit to dissolve the partnership and to take account and his suit was pending in city civil court.
the court of small causes came to the conclusion on an analysis of the evidence before it and the terms of the three partnership deeds referred to hereinbefore that there was a genuine partnership in law which was acted upon.
the high court in revision reversed that finding.
the first question therefore is whether the high court could do so in the facts of this case and secondly whether the high court was right in so doing.
that has to be found in section 4 of the indian partnership act1932it says partnership is the relation between persons who have agreed to share the profits of a business carried on by all or any of them acting for all emphasis supplied.
section 6 of the said act reiterates that in determining whether a group of persons is or is not a firm or whether a person is or is not a partner in a firm regard shall be had to the real relation between the parties as shown by all relevant facts taken together.
the following important elements must be there in order to establish partnership1 there must be an agreement entered into by all parties concerned2.
the agreement must be to share profits of business and 3 the business must be carried on by all or any of the persons concerned acting for all.
it is true that in the partnership deeds the bank accounts were not to be operated by the appellant and further that irrespective of the profit.
but there is nothing illegal about it.
the appellant was to bring his asset being the tenancy of the premises in question for the user of the partnership.
it is evident from the sales tax registration and other registration certificates and licences under the shops and establishments act that the partnership was registered in the name of the appellant and the appellant was also indicated as a partner.
it was so in the income tax returns and assessments.
but the question is from the three deeds itself which were examined in detail by the court of small causes and which were re examined by the high court could it be said unequivocally that there was no partnership.
the deeds gave the appellant the right to share the profits and made him agent for certain limited purposes of the firm and there was evidence that the partnership deeds were acted upon.
that in the partnership deed which is not necessary to recite the terms the petitioner was completely excluded in operating the bank accounts etc.
the first partnership deed which is exhibit 114 is dated 13th october1960 it recited that the partnership firm should be presently started at ahmedabad and the same should later be started in another city.
in this the appellant was not a partner.
exhibit 69 at page 136 of volume ii of the paper book is a partnership deed wherein girdharlal the father of the appellant no 1 and the appellant no 1 joined as partners.
however on account of the death of khristi girdharbhai chimanlal on 1 2 61 and other reasons the said partnership was dissolved from 8 9 61 thereafter we the parties from the first to seventh part have after purchasing at its cost price all the debts and dues goods stock etc together with goodwill of the dissolved partnership started manufacturing and selling of neon signs tubes in partnership from 9 9 61 we the parties of all the seven parts execute the deed of the said partnership to day.
i e 22 9 61 the terms and conditions.
it was contended by mr mehta that there was no agency reading the partnership deeds as we have read that conclusion does not emanate from position appearing debiting the fixed amount payable to the appellant in the expenses account which also is not inconsistent with partnership.
in any event all these factors were considered by the court of small causes bearing in mind the correct legal principles.
the high court on a reappraisal of these very evidence came to the conclusion that the partnerships were camouflages and were not acted upon and in fact and in reality the partnership firm was a sub tenant of the appellant herein.
scr 933 1961 indlaw sc 157 had to consider section 351 of the delhi ajmer rent corntrol act1952.
the high court may at any time call for the record of any case under this act for the purpose of satisfying itself that a decision made therein is according to law and may pass such order in relation thereto as it thinks fit.
it was held in the majority judgment by hidayatuiiah j as the learned chief justice then was that though section 35 of the delhi and ajmer rent control act was worded in general terms but it did not create a right to have the case re heard.
kapur j who delivered a separate judgment however observed that the power under section 351 of the said act of interference by the high court is not restricted to a proper trial according to law or error in regard to onus of proof or proper opportunity of being heard.
it is very much wider than that when in the opinion of the high court the decision is erroneous on the question of law which affects the merits of the case or decision was manifestly unjust the high court is entitled to interfere.
it was sufficient for the rent court to proceed on the finding that the appellant and s were living together as husband and wife whether they were legally married or not.
it was further held that whether there was subletting was not a mixed question of law and fact.
1961 indlaw sc 157 supra bhagwati j observed that the ambit of section 351 of the delhi ajmer rent control act which fell for consideration in hari shanker s case 1961 indlaw sc 157 supra was the same as section 293 of the bombay rent act and therefore he expressed the opinion that the high court could interfere only if there was miscarriage of justice due to mistake of law.
it extended to corrections of all errors which would make the decision contrary to law.
as we read the power the high court must ensure that the principles of law have been correctly borne in mind.
it must be such a decision which no reasonable man could have arrived at.
lastly such a decision does not lead to a miscarriage of justice.
if a possible view has been taken the high court would be exceeding its jurisdiction to substitute its own view with that the courts below because it considers it to be a better view.
the fact that the high court would have taken a different view is wholly irrelevant.
the authority vested in the high court under the amendment still remained only in the domain of the jurisdiction and power of revision and no further.
the amending provision therefore only related to procedure and not to any rights of the parties.
he also referred to section 4 of the partnership act about the principles of partnership namely1 there must be agreement entered into by all the persons concerned 2 the agreement must be to share the profits of a business and 3 the business must be carried on by all or any of the persons concerned acting for all.
in the instant case judged by the aforesaid principles it is possible to hold that there was a partnership of which the appellant was a partner.
if that was so there was nothing that could be clone about such a view within the ambit and scope of the power of section 292 of the rent act.
in the light of the aforesaid principles and the facts that have emerged we are of the opinion that the high court exceeded its jurisdiction under section 292 of the rent act.
and it was a possible view to take.
in the result the appeal is allowed and the judgment and order of the gujarat high court dated 21st of august1979 are set aside.
