members of general public are the shareholders and the shares of the company are traded in through various stock exchanges in the country.
on behalf of the respondents it is contended that the appellant had been managing the canteen up to the year 1982 and thereafter introduced the contract system for maintaining the canteen so established that though the management of the canteen had been entrusted to the contractors from time to time the personnel employed in the canteen were retained by all the contractors and they have been paid salaries through contractors that the workmen employed in the canteen have been provided with esi benefits under the code No.
he thus rejected the contention.
air 1996 ap 430 1996 indlaw ap.
302that a writ in the nature of mandamus certiorari and prohibition are recognised as public law remedies and are not available to enforce private law rights.
however noticing that the expression any person or authority used in article 226 of the constitution should not be confined only to statutory authorities and instrumentalities of state but would cover any other person or body performing public duty.
1989 2 scc 691 1989.
indlaw sc 589to contend that mere running of a factory to manufacture and sell of cigarettes can never be considered to be a public duty much less an incident thereto such as providing a canteen to its workmen.
on behalf of the respondent heavy reliance was placed on this decision and also the decision of the high court in t gattaiahs case to contend that in running a canteen under section 46 of the act the appellant was discharging a public duty and therefore a writ of mandamus would lie against it.
n anadi muktas case the contention similar to the present case had been raised.
in that case the respondent was managing the affiliated college to which public money is paid as government aid which played a major role in the control maintenance and working of educational institutions.
employment in such institutions therefore is not devoid of any public character inasmuch as the service conditions of the academic staff were controlled by the university particularly in regard to their pay scales and the protection by university decisions creating a legal right or duty relationship between the staff and the management.
it was further explained in that decision that the term authority used in article 226 of the constitution should receive a liberal meaning unlike the term in article 12which is only for the purpose of enforcement of fundamental rights under article 32 the words any person or authority used in article 226 are therefore not be confined only to statutory authorities or instrumentalities of the state but would cover any other person or body performing public duty.
in de smith woolf and jowells judicial review of administrative action5th edn.
it is noticed that not all the activities of the private bodies are subject to private law e g the activities by private bodies may be governed by the standards of public law when its decisions are subject to duties conferred by statute or when by virtue of the function it is performing or possibly its dominant position in the market it is under an implied duty to act in the public interest.
by way of illustration it is noticed that a private company selected to run a prison although motivated by commercial profit should be regarded at least in relation to some of its activities as subject to public law because of the nature of the function it is performing.
after detailed discussion the learned authors have summarized the position with the following propositions 1 the test of whether a body is performing a public function and is hence amenable to judicial review may not depend upon the source of its power or whether the body is ostensibly a public or a private body.
in such a case that branch of the law and its remedies should and normally will be applied and b where there is a contract between the litigants.
in such a case the express or implied terms of the agreement should normally govern the matter.
prima facie therefore a private person or an incorporated company can not be taken out of the sweep and the contemplation of article 226 of the constitution.
that decision does not take note of the fact as to the nature of the functions that a person or an incorporated company should be performing to attract judicial review under article 226 of the constitution.
in anadi muktas case this court examined the various aspects and the distinction between an authority and a person and after analysis of the decisions referred in that regard came to the conclusion that it is only in the circumstances when the authority or the person performs a public function or discharges a public duty article 226 of the constitution can be invoked.
in the present case the appellant is engaged in the manufacture and sale of cigarettes.
manufacture and sale of cigarettes will not involve any public function.
in such cases public duty is owed to the public in general and not specific to any person or group of persons.
439 1999 indlaw sc 513referred to the decisions in parimal chandra rahas case reserve bank of india vs workmen1996.
3 scc 267and m m r khan vs union of india1990 supp.
scc 191 1996 indlaw sc 618and held that the workmen of a statutory canteen as in the present case would be workmen of an establishment for the purposes of the act only and not for other purposes.
since we have held that the high court had no jurisdiction to entertain a petition under article 226 of the constitution we would have set aside the order made by the high court.
civil appeal nos 653397 653497.
in these appeals on a reference made on the question whether certain persons employed in the canteen should be treated as employees of the appellant and if so in what category they are to be fitted in and to what wages they are entitled to the industrial tribunal hyderabadhereinafter referred to as the tribunal inquired into the matter.
w 49 in the modified form.
in those circumstances the tribunal passed an award that these workmen should be treated as employees of the appellant and they are entitled to payment of appropriate scales and designations in terms of ex.
against this award a writ petition was filed before the high court.
a contention is also sought to be made that it is not possible to run a canteen in the refinery area.
it is contended that under the petroleum rules framed under the petroleum act1934there are certain hazardous areas where there can not be a canteen as no fire furnace source of heat or light capable of igniting inflammable vapours shall be allowed except in the firing spaces or stills and boilers.
however there is no material on record to show that the canteen is located in such an area where it would be hazardous to have a fire furnace source of heat or light to cook food.
in the absence of such material we find no substance in this contention.
in the circumstances aforesaid the contention vis vis the findings recorded by the tribunal we find absolutely no merit in these appeals and the same shall stand dismissed.
