act 1992 for short the act in misc.
application nos.
41 of 1999 4 of 2001 265 266 and 275 of 2003.
however out of the said 29 entitles only late harshad mehta and two of his younger brothers were cited as accused in various criminal cases filed against them.
before the learned special court the parties herein filed several applications which can be sub divided in three categories as would be noticed shortly hereinafter.
application No 41 of 1999 seeking permission of the special court for sale of residential premises commonly known as madhuli of eight notified entities.
the appellants herein filed several misc.
applications praying for lifting of attachment on their residential premises on the ground that the same had been purchased much prior to 1 april 1991 and the same had no nexus with any illegal transactions in securities.
alternatively it was prayed that since their asset base was greater than genuine liabilities the said residential premises should be released from attachment.
by reason of the impugned order dated 17 october 2003 the learned special judge allowed misc.
4 of 2001 and 41 of 1999.
it was directed in case all adult members of the family of late shri harshad metha who are presently occupying the abovereferred flats file an undertaking in this court within a period of four weeks from today undertaking to vacate the flat occupied by them and hand over peaceful possession thereof to the custodian within a period of four weeks from the date on which the custodian sends them communication asking them to vacate the flats on sale of the flats being sanctioned by the court.
contentions of the parties appellants 9.
mr mahesh jethmalani learned senior counsel appearing on behalf of the appellants in assailing the said judgment of the learned special court inter alia raised the following contentions i some of the entities having their asset base much more than actual liability the impugned judgments are unsustainable.
a copy of the auditor s report having only been supplied during pendency of these appeals the learned special judge committed a serious error in passing the impugned judgment relying on or on the basis thereof.
mr ashok h desai learned senior counsel appearing on behalf of the custodian on the other hand would inter alia submit.
iithe applications for de notification filed by the appellants herein having been withdrawn the contention raised by the appellants that they are not liable in terms of the provisions of the act are not open to question particularly in view of the fact that no application for de notification could be filed subsequently as they had become barred by limitation.
iiithe order of assessment under the income tax act having become final and binding as on the date when the orders of assessment were passed and thus mere filing of appeals were not sufficient for raising a contention that the taxes did not become due.
civil appeal No 2795 of 2004 and the kedarnath jute mfg.
ivthe appellants herein apart from the corporate entity which is a front company of late harshad mehta have received large loans advances and credits from the harshad mehta group and there had been intermingling of the assets to the tune of crores of rupees they can not escape their liabilities under the act.
the affidavit filed by the appellants herein before the special court clearly shows that the liabilities exceed the assets in all cases.
even in the case of dr pratima mehta wherein some excesses has been shown if the interest is calculated for the last over 13 years of the amount received the liabilities would exceed the assets.
the assets of the harshad mehta group are valued at rs 972 crores apart from the income tax dues whereas the aggregate amount of income tax dues exceed rs 13800 crores.
hitesh mehta and dr pratima mehta who are medical practitioners by profession having affirmed affidavits admitting that the share broking and investment businesses which were part of family businesses were undertaken and conducted by late harshad mehta and they had no knowledge thereabout nor were they involved therewith.
ixthe sale of commercial property had never been seriously contested by the appellants and in fact the contention of the appellants herein before the special court was that if the commercial properties were sold there would be no need to sell the residential properties.
2 to deal with the situation and in particular to ensure speedy recovery of the huge amount involved to punish the guilty and restore confidence in and maintain the basic integrity and credibility of the banks and financial institutions the special court trial of offences relating to transactions in securities ordinance 1992 was promulgated on the 6th june 1992.
section 3 of the act provides for appointment and functions of the custodian.
3 of section 3 contains a non obstante clause providing that on and from the date of notification under sub section 2 any property movable or immovable or both belonging to any person notified under that sub section shall stand attached simultaneously with the issue of the notification and such attached properties may be dealt with by the custodian in such manner as the special court may direct.
in the ordinance which preceded the act there was no provision for giving post facto hearing to a notified person for cancellation of notification but such a provision has been made in the act as would appear from section 42 thereof 1 of section 4 of the act reads as under contracts entered into fraudulently may be cancelled if the custodian is satisfied after such inquiry as he may think fit that any contract or agreement entered into at any time after the 1st day of april 1991 and on and before the 6th june 1992 in relation to any property of the person notified under sub s 2 of section 3 has been entered into fraudulently or to defeat the provisions of this act he may cancel such contract or agreement and on such cancellation such property shall stand attached under this act.
provided that no contract or agreement shall be cancelled except after giving to the parties to the contract or agreement a reasonable opportunity of being heard.
2 of section 4 however provides for a hearing as regard correctness or otherwise of the notification notifying a person in this behalf in the event an appropriate application therefor is filed within 30 days of the issuance of such notification.
section 5 provides for establishment of the special court.
section 7 confers exclusive jurisdiction upon the special court.
section 11 of the act reads as under discharge of liabilities.
notwithstanding anything contained in the code and any other law for the time being in force the special court may make such order as it may deem fit directing the custodian for the disposal of the property under attachment.
the act provides for stringent measures.
recedents as regard scope of the act.
constitutionality and or interpretation of the act came up for consideration before this court in harshad shantilal.
does the word due refer merely to the liability to pay such taxes etc or does it refer to a liability which has crystallised into a legally ascertained sum immediately payable.
do the taxes in cl.
a of section 112 refer only to taxes relating to a specific period or to all taxes due from the notified person.
at what point of time should the taxes have become due.
as regard question No 1 it was held in the present case the words taxes due occur in a section dealing with distribution of property.
at this stage the taxes due have to be actually paid out.
in other words taxes as assessed which are presently payable by the notified person are taxes which have to be taken into account under section 112a while distributing the property of the notified person.
in the context of section 112 therefore the taxes due refer to taxes as finally assessed.
secondly payment in full may or may not be made by the special court depending upon various circumstances.
he may not in these circumstances explain transactions before the income tax authorities in case his position is prejudicially affected in defending criminal charges.
but if the assessment is a best judgment assessment the special court may examine whether for example the income which is so assessed to tax bears comparison to the amounts attached by the custodian or whether the taxes so assessed are grossly disproportionate to the properties of the assessee in the hands of the custodian applying the wednesbury principle of proportionality.
in regard to question No 5 this court agreed with the finding of the special court that neither penalty nor interest can be considered as tax under section 112a of the act.
but the said observation was held to be not laying down a law by a 3 judge bench of this court in l s synthetics ltd v fairgrowth financial services ltd and another 2004 11 scc 456 2004 indlaw sc 715 holding i.
a notified party has the requisite locus to bring the fact to the notice of the special court that certain sum is owing and due to him from a third party whereupon a proceeding can be initiated for recovery thereof by the custodian and consequent application thereof in discharge of the liability of the notified person.
3 of section 3 should be literally construed and so construed all properties belonging to the notified person shall be subject to attachment which may consequently be applied for discharge of his liabilities in terms of section 11 of the said act.
the appellants herein are notified persons in terms of the provisions of the act.
the act would also have made provision for a subsistence allowance or the like for the notified person.
the apprehension expressed by the special court does not appear to be well founded if what a notified person obtains by way of purported income or gift or inheritance is really his own money such money would upon establishment of the fact stand attached automatically under the provisions of section 33.
in any event it is for parliament to enact a law that meets all contingencies.
it has further been held that the property be shares dividends and bonus and rights shares would also be attached property.
iwhether the appellants being not involved in offences in transactions in securities could have been proceeded against in terms of the provisions of the act.
iiwhether individual liabilities of the appellants ought to have been separately considered by the special court as not a part of harshad mehta group.
iiiwhether the tax liabilities could not have been held to be due as the order of assessments did not become final and binding.
ivwhether the commercial properties could have been sold in auction.
however by an order dated 14 july 2000 the said applications were permitted to be withdrawn with a permission to re file the same.
it is not in dispute that the said applications are pending for consideration before the special court.
it is no doubt true that the law of limitation bars a remedy but not a right.
air 1957 bom 178 1957 indlaw mum 110 and hari raj singh v sanchalak panchayat.
it would not be proper for us to consider as to whether such a remedy being not available in terms of section 42 of the act can still be determined if raised by way of defence.
in l s synthetics ltd 2004 indlaw sc 715 supra this court observed a statute of limitation bars a remedy and not a right.
in construing a special statute providing for limitation consideration of plea of hardship is irrelevant.
although we do not intend to enter into the correctness or otherwise of the said contention of the appellants at this stage however there can not be any doubt whatsoever that they being notified persons all their properties would be deemed to be automatically attached as a consequent thereto.
however the contention of the appellants that the properties held by them otherwise are sufficient to meet their liabilities was required to be gone into as in our considered opinion there can not be a any dispute that the appellants have such a right.
a corporate veil indisputably can be lifted on several grounds.
lifting the corporate veil.
a transaction of benami indisputably can be a subject matter of a lies in terms of section 41 of the act as and when such a question is raised the same may have to be dealt with by the special court appropriately.
in para 14 of the sur rejoinder the appellants denied the asset and liability position as arrived at by the custodian.
according to the appellants the custodian has under estimated the assets and exaggerated and overstated their liabilities.
a triable issue had been raised and the custodian s petition should have been converted into a suit.
in fact according to the appellants there are gross errors in the material relied upon by the custodian.
several charts have been filed before us by the appellants to show i liabilities have been exaggerated by the custodian.
no credit for rs 1227 crores released to revenue on interest are given by the custodian.
ii liabilities have been shown in relation to unperformed contracts.
credits not given for relief obtained from income tax.
subsequent to the filing of the present appeal in a large number of cases the revenue demands have been set aside.
it is open to the appellants herein to show that even if they continued to be notified the custodian was not right in clubbing all the individual members of the family as a single entity styled as harshad mehta group.
even in the rejoinder filed by the custodian e g paragraphs 14 20 21 and 22 before the special court such contentions have been raised.
the appellants herein contended that the custodian did not furnish the requisite particulars thereof and inspection was refused on the grounds stated therein.
mr desai contended that if interest is calculated liabilities would be more than assets.
but the said chart has been drawn up on the basis of the audited accounts the correctness whereof is itself in dispute.
his death has also forced upon him bankruptcy.
on the other hand the contention of the custodian is that the appellants had not only taken huge loans or advances from harshad mehta in one capacity or the other but also even transactions and shares were made by harshad mehta on their behalf.
only because there had been large intermingling and flow of funds from harshad mehta and inter se within the group the same by itself may not justify the conclusion that all of their assets were required to be sold irrespective of their individual involvement.
furthermore the question as regard liability of the parties should have been determined at the stage of section 9 a of the act.
the appellants have contended that the custodian had taken contradictory or inconsistent stand inasmuch as the liabilities of all the entities were treated to be joint liabilities of harshad mehta group.
he furthermore wanted to treat the liabilities of the notified entities also as their separate liabilities.
such claims may also be preferred.
the act confers wide power upon the custodian and the learned special court and in that view of the matter having regard to the principles of natural justice the judgment and order of the learned judge special court should have furthermore been supported by sufficient and cogent reasons.
it is not in dispute that the tax liabilities of the appellants individually were assessed on the basis of best judgment assessment.
indlaw sc 732 supra the appeal where against being civil appeal No 5812 of 2000 was dismissed by this court by an order dated 4 december 2000 stating that it was in agreement with the decision of the special court which called for no interference.
it is significant that in the present case the liability had even been quantified and a demand had been created in the sum of rs 149776 by means of the notice dated november 21 1957 during the pendency of the assessment proceedings before the income tax officer and before the finalisation of the assessment.
it is not possible to comprehend how the liability would cease to be one because the assessee had taken proceedings before higher authorities for getting it reduced or wiped out so long as the contention of the assessee did not prevail with regard to the quantum of liability etc.
but in this case the orders of assessment have been set aside.
if the orders of assessment have been set aside the liabilities of the appellants have to be worked out on the basis of the new orders of assessment.
so long such orders of assessment are not passed by the competent assessing authorities it can not be said that the appellants are liable to pay a huge amount by way of income tax dues on the basis of such orders of assessment which have since been set aside.
iv jyoti mehta rs 1457 crores.
sudhir mehta rs 339 crores viii.
aatur holdings rs 15 95 crores even after deducting the amount set aside by itat.
1998 indlaw sc 732 supra.
in fact the appellants have brought on records various orders passed by income tax appellate authorities to show that the demands of the revenue have been set aside.
such subsequent events could also be taken into consideration for the purpose of review.
in fact one of the contentions raised on behalf of the appellants had been that if commercial properties are sold there would be no need to sale the residential properties.
however the finalization shall be subject to the result of these appeals.
in the former event even if such a decree is set aside the interest of the bona fide purchaser in an auction sale is saved.
smt and another 1994 2 scc 368 1994 indlaw sc 1613.
1967 2 scr 77 1966 indlaw sc 120.
in padanathil ruqmini amma v p k abdulla 1996 7 scc 668 1996 indlaw sc 3096 this court making a distinction between decree holder auction purchaser himself and a third party bona fide purchaser in an auction sale observed the ratio behind this distinction between a sale to a decree holder and a sale to a stranger is that the court as a matter of policy will protect honest outsider purchasers at sales held in the execution of its decrees although the sales may be subsequently set aside when such purchasers are not parties to the suit.
he is a party to the litigation and is very much aware of the vicissitudes of litigation and needs no protection.
arunachal bhawan barakhamba road is subject matter of a separate proceeding pending before this court viz civil appeal.
admittedly the flats have been sold subject to the result of these appeals.
the appellants shall be entitled to take the help of a chartered or cost accountant and may make notes therefrom for their use in the pending proceeding.
the appellants shall file their objections to the said report if any within ten days thereafter.
a reply and or rejoinder thereto shall be filed within one week from the date of the receipt of the copy of the objection.
such hearing in the peculiar facts and circumstances of this case should continue from day to day.
it will also be open to the learned judge special court to pass an interim order or orders as it may think fit and proper in the event any occasion arises therefor.
save and except for sufficient or cogent reasons the learned judge shall not grant any adjournment to either of the parties.
if in the meanwhile orders of assessment are passed by the income tax authorities the custodian shall be at liberty to bring the same to the notice of the learned special court which shall also be taken into consideration by the learned judge special court.
however the parties shall bear their own costs.
