after conducting its second and final meeting on 10th.
as per the schedule this shifting was to be done in two phases 1 st phase 1 district jail shahjahanpur 2 district jail azamgarh 3 district jail jaunpur and 4 district jail moradabad 2 nd phase 1 district jail badaun 2 district jail varanasi 3 district jail barielly and 4 district jail muzaffarnagar.
prisons in the districts of lucknow moradabad were added to the list.
in its meeting dated 10 10 2007 the committee recommended that a detailed project report dpr be prepared by the rajkiya nirman nigam and that acquisition of lands for shifting of the prisons be done on a priority basis.
one admeasuring 25 89 hectares 63 93 acres in village morchha tehsil puwayan in the district of shahjahanpur.
however the provisions of section 5a inquiry were dispensed with.
2 scc 377 2008 indlaw sc 2494 having thus stated the high court dismissed the writ petition.
before this court the appellants broadly raised the following arguments 1 whether or not the state government was justified in acquiring the said pieces of fertile agricultural land when there were alternative sites of unfertile banjar land available.
2 whether or not the state government was justified in dispensing with the inquiry which is mandated to be conducted under section 5a of the act especially when one year elapsed between the notifications u s 4 and the one u s 6 they further stated that the high court had erred insofar as it upheld the factum of urgency in the absence of a categorical finding an enquiry under section 5a would have been detrimental to public interest.
it was urged that it was clear from the counter of the respondent that the contemplation of a new prison was under consideration of the state government for several years.
committee was formed matter was discussed at a leisurely pace at various levels and there is no material fact to justify the abridgement of the appellants right of raising an objection to acquisition and of a hearing under section 5a of the act.
even though right to property is no longer fundamental and was never a natural right and is acquired on a concession by the state it has to be accepted that without right to some property other rights become illusory.
the concept even though sought to be defined u s 3f of the act is not capable of any precise definition.
it must be accepted that in construing public purpose a broad and overall view has to be taken and the focus must be on ensuring maximum benefit to the largest number of people.
by judicial interpretation the contents of these part iii rights are constantly expanded.
if public purpose can be satisfied by not rendering common man homeless and by exploring other avenues of acquisition the courts before sanctioning an acquisition must in exercise of its power of judicial review focus its attention on the concept of social and economic justice.
in this context we reiterate the principle laid down by this court in authorised officer thanjavur and another vs s naganatha.
ayyar and others reported in 1979 3 scc 466 1979 indlaw sc 224wherein this court held it is true that judges are constitutional invigilators and statutory interpreters but they are also responsive and responsible to part iv of the constitution being one of the trinity of the nation s appointed instrumentalities in the transformation of the socio economic order.
in other words public purpose must be viewed through the prism of constitutional values as stated above.
the aforesaid principles in our jurisprudence compel this court to construe any expropriartory legislation like the land acquisition act very strictly.
in the background of the aforesaid discussion this court proceeds to examine the scope of a person s right under section 5a of the act.
initially section 5a was not there in the land acquisition act1894 but the same was inserted long ago by the land acquisition amendment act1923 vide s 3 of act 38 of 1923.
in order to remedy this shortcoming in the act of 1894an amendment by way of incorporation of section 5a was introduced on 11th july1923 the statement of objects and reasons for the said amendment is as follows the land acquisition act i of 1894 does not provide that persons having an interest in land which it is proposed to acquire shall have the right of objecting to such acquisition nor is government bound to enquire into and consider any objections that may reach them.
v dated 14th july1923.
air 1964 sc 1217 1963 indlaw sc 141 speaking through justice k n wanchoo as his lordship then was.
a of the act.
in a recent judgment of this court in essco fabs 2008 indlaw sc 2494 supra2009 2 scc 377this court after considering previous judgments as also the provisions of s 17 of the act held whereas sub s 1 of s 17 deals with cases of urgencysub s 2 of the said section covers cases of sudden change in the channel of any navigable river or other unforeseen emergency.
but even in such cases i e cases of urgency or unforeseen emergencyenquiry contemplated by section 5 a can not ipso facto be dispensed with which is clear from sub s 4 of s 17 of the act.
in our opinion therefore the contention of learned counsel for the respondent authorities is not well founded and can not be upheld that once a case is covered by sub ss 1 or 2 of s 17 of the act sub s 4 of s 17 would necessarily apply and there is no question of holding inquiry or hearing objections under section 5 a of the act.
acceptance of such contention or upholding of this argument will make sub s 4 of s 17 totally otiose redundant and nugatory.
in the writ petition before the high court the petitioners have given the details of the land holding and it has also been stated that the entire holding of petitioners 25791011 and 13 have been acquired and as a result of such acquisition the petitioners have become landless.
in paragraph 15 of the writ petition it has been clearly stated that there was a time gap of more than 11 months between s 4 and s 6 notifications which demonstrates that there was no urgency in the state action which could deny the petitioners their right under section 5a in the counter which was filed in this case by the state before the high court it was not disputed that the time gap between s 4 notification read with section 17and s 6 notification was about 11 months.
but such acquisition can be made only by strictly following the mandate of the said act.
no order as to costs.
