at that time jage ram a 1 and his sons rajbir singh.
additionally madan and rakesh attacked the complainant with lathi blows on shoulder and left elbow respectively and caused several other injuries to the complainant party.
jagdish and his injured sons raised alarm hearing which rajesh and usha came to rescue them and on seeing them the accused persons fled away.
injured sukhbir was vomiting in the hospital and later on he was referred to general hospital gurgaon as his condition deteriorated.
a ct scan disclosed that large extra dural haematoma was found in the frontal region with mass effect and sukhbir needed urgent surgery and he was operated upon and the large extra dural haematoma was removed.
dr pardeep kumar pw 2 also examined the other injured persons pw 5 jagdish and pw.
he examined the witnesses and after completion of investigation challan was filed under sections 307 325 324 read with section 34 ipc.
in the trial court prosecution examined nine witnesses including jagdish pw5 mange ram pw6 and dr prem kumar pw2 and dr hiiol kanti pal pw9.
first accused jage ram pleaded that on the date of occurrence complainant party jagdish and his sons mange ram and sukhbir forcibly trespassed into the land belonging to the accused and attempted to forcibly cut the pullas.
he has denied that rajesh and usha had seen the incident.
high court modified the sentence of madan a 3 rakesh a 4 section 323 ipc and sentenced them to undergo rigorous imprisonment for six months two counts respectively.
in this appeal the appellants assail the correctness of the impugned judgment.
it was submitted that injured witness sukhbir was not examined in the court and neither ct scan nor x ray nor operational notes of sukhbir were produced before the court and in the absence of such material evidence courts below erred in convicting the second accused section.
additionally the learned counsel contended that the defence plea of private defence was not considered by the courts below in proper perspective.
as it emerges from the evidence complainant jagdish pw 5 and his two sons sukhbir and mange ram were cutting pullas.
in the wordy altercation second accused rajbir.
cogent and convincing grounds are required to discard the evidence of injured witnesses.
appellants have raised the contention that the prosecution failed to adduce evidence that a 2 rajbir attempted to commit murder of sukhbir.
it was submitted that injured person sukhbir was neither examined nor medical evidence like ct scan x ray and operational notes and sukhbir were produced to corroborate the oral evidence and while so courts below erred in convicting second accused rajbir.
dr pardeep kumar pw 2 who examined sukhbir found during his medico legal examination a lacerated wound in the middle of the top of the skull.
further pw 9 has stated that during the ct scan it was revealed that a large extra dural haemotoma was present in the frontal region with mass effect and to avoid further deterioration of his condition he was operated upon by frontal trephine craniopmy an haemotoma measuring about 125 ml was evacuated.
for the purpose of conviction section 307 ipc prosecution has to establish i the intention to commit murder and ii the act done by the accused.
although the nature of injury actually caused may be of assistance in coming to a finding as to the intention of the accused such intention may also be adduced from other circumstances.
in the case of state of m p vs kashiram ors.
2009 4 scc 26 2009 indlaw sc 92 the scope of intention for attracting conviction section 307 ipc was elaborated and it was held as under.
it is sufficient to justify a conviction section 307 if there is present an intent coupled with some overt act in execution thereof.
it is therefore the duty of every court to award proper sentence having regard to the nature of the offence and the manner in which it was executed or committed etc.
for the conviction section 307 ipc courts below imposed upon the 2nd appellant rigorous imprisonment of five years while imposing punishment courts have an obligation to award appropriate punishment.
he surrendered on 5 1 2012 and is stated to be in custody since then for more than three years.
having regard to the facts and circumstances of the case in our considered view the period of sentence of five years may be reduced to three years apart from directing the second appellant rajbir.
as noticed above injured sukhbir sustained grievous head injuries and was deeply comatose and was in a state of shock and trauma.
learned counsel for the injured witness submitted that for quite some time injured sukhbir was unconscious and thereafter suffering from mental trauma.
having regard to the nature of injuries sustained by sukhbir and the period of treatment and other circumstances we are of the view that it would be appropriate to direct second appellant accused rajbir.
a 3 and a 4 have also given lathis blows to pw 5 and were convicted section 323 ipc and sentenced to undergo rigorous imprisonment for three months by the high court.
having regard to the fact that the occurrence was of the year 1994 considering the other facts and circumstances of the case the sentence of imprisonment imposed on jage ram a 1 madan a 3 and rakesh a 4 is reduced to the period already undergone by them.
307 ipc is confirmed and the sentence of imprisonment of five years is reduced to the period already undergone and additionally the second accused shall pay a compensation of rs 750000 to the injured witness sukhbir.
compensation amount of rs 500000 deposited in this court by the 2nd appellant shall be paid to the injured witness sukhbir.
bail bonds of accused a1 a3 and a4 shall stand discharged.
