i was tried before the court of sessions visakhapatnam for offences under section 120 b indian penal code section 409 section 477 a and section 471 read with section 467 i p c while respondent No 2 was tried for an offence under section 120 b and for offences under sections 409 read with section 109 477 a and 471 read with section 467 i p c each of the respondents was convicted of the first two offences but.
the respondent No i alone was convicted of the other two offences.
various sentences were passed against them by the additional sessions judge visakhapatnam who presided over the court.
the respondents preferred appeals before the high court challenging their convictions and sentences.
the state on the other hand preferred an application for revision under section 439 cr.
p c for the enhancement of the sentences passed on the respondents.
the state of andhra pradesh has come up before this court in appeal by obtaining special leave under article 136 of the constitution.
in the year 1929 the andhra engineering co which was originally a partnership firm formed by one d l n raju was converted into a private limited company with its headquarters at visakhapatnam.
we shall refer to this company throughout as the aeco.
it obtained licences from the government under the electricity act for supply of electrical energy to visakhapatnam anakapalli and some other places.
some time later other industrial concerns the andhra cements ltd vi jayawada and the east coast ceremics.
rajahmurthy were started apparently by raju himself and the aeco was appointed the managing agent of each of these concerns.
a mention may be made of the fact that in june 1952 the vesco undertaking was acquired by the government under the provisions of the electricity undertaking acquisition act but nothing turns on it.
the same practice was followed at the meeting of the general body of the shareholders.
he died in the year 1939 and was succeeded by r k n g raju an advocate of rajahmundry.
he was succeeded by t visweswara rao p w 6 an employee of the aeco.
eventually their choice fell on g v subba raju p w 25 a resident of manchili who held a large number of shares in the aeco and who was besides related to r k n g raju by marriage.
it is said that this person has not received much education and knows only bow to sign his name in english.
he agreed and was elected managing director of aeco in the middle of 1948.
upon this understanding he accepted the position offered to him.
the vesco used to receive large amounts of money from high tension power consumers such as the railways k g hospital the port administration the andhra university etc.
but domestic consumers usually paid their bills in cash to the bill collectors who used to hand over their collections to the respondent No 2.
on the basis of the entries in the handover book the final accounts were written up.
these amounts also used to be noted in the private note book and entered.
another thing which the respondent No i initiated was opening a heading in the ledger called advance purchase of materials.
a lakh of rupees passed through that account.
besides that c section raju 's management of andhra cements had landed it into a loss of rs 30 000.
subbaramayya took his work seriously and called for information on a number of points from the respondent No 1.
he however was unable to obtain any information.
in january 1952 he therefore brought one section g krishna aiyar who had vast experience in the maintenance of accounts of electrical undertaking 's having been chief accountant of the south madras electric supply corporation to undertake an investigation and then to act as financial adviser.
however the meeting was postponed and eventually held on december 9 1951.
on that date the respondent No 1 produced the auditor 's report.
that was also the feeling of a number of shareholders who wanted to see the original but one dutt who was chairman of the meeting after seeing exhibit p 234 said that the report seemed to be a genuine one.
the interim report showed that there was a shortage of about rs 90 000 for this period.
in fact in april 1952 the collector attached vesco properties for realising this amount.
on the next day the police placed an armed guard around the office of the respondent No i and seized a number of papers.
on may 13 1954 a chargesheet was filed against the two respondents as well as murti and the approver ramana.
he however directed ramana to make his confession before a submagistrate.
according to the prosecution both these concerns were running smoothly and efficiently during the lifetime of d l n raju because he was personally attending to their affairs.
his successor however apart from the fact that be continued to be staying mostly at rajahmundry was also interested in several other ventures including a sugar factory at dewas in central india.
eventually many of those ventures failed.
according to the prosecution the second raju was not bestowing sufficient care and attention on the affairs of vesco.
it is the prosecution case that as secretary of vesco and the resident representative of the managing agents the respondent No i was attending to the day to day affairs of vesco which included the receiving of all sums of money due to vesco spending money for the purpose of vesco attending to the appointment supervision and control of the staff of vesco purchasing materials required for the purpose of vesco and supervising over the accounts of vesco.
he was thus all important with respect to the every day affairs of vesco.
his dual capacity enabled the respondent No i to earn the confidence not only of the directors of aeco but also of those of vesco.
the accounts maintained by the vesco used to be explained by him not only to the directors but also to the shareholders.
the knowledge of the financial position of vesco obtained by them used to be derived essentially from the respondent No 1.
the explanations of the managing agents and the directors of vesco with respect to the items mentioned in the orders of the board used also to be placed by him before the shareholders.
it was also his duty to have the accounts of vesco audited by the auditors elected by the general body and to produce before the auditors the relevant accounts vouchers bank statements and so on.
there were no complaints about the management of the affairs of vesco or the aeco till the end of 1946 or the beginning of 1947.
one significant fact however which occurred prior to 1946 is referred to by the prosecution.
till the year 1945 messrs c p rao co a firm of chartered accountants were the auditors of vesco but after the respondent No i became secretary.
one b rajan was elected auditor not only for vesco but for all the other four concerns including aeco.
this person was auditor for greenlands hotel at visakhapatnam.
of which the respondent No i was a director.
r k n g raju took till towards the end of 1947 and died at madras in april 1948.
according to the prosecution the respondent No i wanted to take advantage of this fact and conceived of a scheme for misappropriating as much money belonging to vesco as possible before the managing agency agreement of aeco came to an end in october 1948.
i secured the promotion of the approver k v ramana who was originally accounts clerk to the post of senior accountant.
similarly k v gopala raju was transferred from the post of stores clerk to the general department and k s n murty the discharged accused was appointed stores clerk in his place.
later however murty was also got transferred to the general section and replaced by p w 18.
srinivasa rao originally a stores boy.
the approver who was originally an accounts clerk with the aeco was it may be mentioned appointed a cashier in vesco in 1946 at the instance of the respondent No i and was thus beholden to him.
he was later promoted as senior accountant and in his place the respondent No 2.
laksbminarayana rao was appointed the cashier.
according to the prosecution the respondent No i took both the approver and lakshminarayana rao in his confidence as also some other persons known and unknown for carrying out his nefarious purpose namely the misappropriation of the funds of vesco during the subsistence of aeco 's managing agency of vesco.
the conspiracy is said to have been hatched in the year 1947 and falsification of accounts and misappropriation of funds of vesco went on till the end of the accounting year.
the term of the managing agency was renewed in 1943 and aeco con tinued to be managing agents until the vesco was taken over by the government in 1952.
i continued to be the secretary of vesco and resident representative of the managing agents throughout the period of conspiracy.
after the death of r k n g raju it was discovered that the aeco was indebted to many concerns which were under its managing agency the liability being shown either as that of aeco or that of r k n g raju personally.
again the vesco was shown as indebted to the andhra cement to the extent of rs 42 000.
this amount was however paid by the aeco from the funds of vesco.
i and some of his friends were in search of a rich and substantial man who would be amenable to them to fill the post of managing director of aeco.
according to the prosecution the report is a forged document.
the points which he urged are briefly these 1 that there was a misjoinder of charges and persons in that the various provisions of section 239 were clubbed together and an omnibus charge of conspiracy was framed which on its face was one likely to embarrass the respondents and make their task of defending themselves difficult.
the procedure adopted in the investiga tion and committal stages was irregular.
3 irrelevant evidence was introduced and some evidence was introduced in a manner not authorised by the evidence act.
4 that the court abused its powers under s 342 cr.
p c while conducting the examination of the respondents.
if the evidence of the approver is left out the remaining evidence would be inadequate to sustain the prosecution case.
here again the question of clubbing together of the various provisions of cls.
a to d of section 239 was not raised expressly in the argument before the court.
but the ultimate decision of the case would negative such argument.
mr bhimasankaram then relying upon the decision in r v dawson 1960 2 w l r 435 contended that in any event it was not desirable to try the respondents at the same trial for as many as 83 offences and pointed out that these observations had received the approval of this court in the state of andhra pradesh v kandimalla subbaiah 1962 2 b c r 194.
in the first place there the trial had not actually begun.
again what was said by this court was that it is undesirable to complicate a trial by introducing a large number of charges spread over a long period but even so this was a question of propriety which should be left to the discretion of the judge or magistrate trying the case.
objection was taken very seriously by mr bhimasankaram to the charge of conspiracy framed in this case.
that charge reads thus adverting to the portion which we have bracketed his first objection was that the charge comprises within it not merely the conspiracy but also what was in fact done in pursuance of the conspiracy.
his next objection was that it brought within its purview all the various offences which were alleged to have been committed by the respondents.
the third objection was that no charge of conspiracy could have been framed after the conspiracy had borne its fruits.
the last objection was that the charge of conspiracy was added to the charge sheet very late.
we shall first deal with the third point.
the offence of conspiracy is an entirely independent offence and though other offences are committed in pursuance of the conspiracy the liability of the conspirators for the conspiracy itself can not disappear.
in the indian penal code as originally enacted conspiracy was not an offence.
section 120 b which makes criminal conspiracy punishable was added by the indian criminal law amendment act 1913 8 of 1913 along with section 120 a section 120 a defines conspiracy and section 120 b provides for the punishment for the offence of conspiracy.
his second contention was that reference was made to a number of documents in some of these questions and those documents were not made available to the respondents for answering those questions.
the third contention was that the questions were involved confusing and bordered on cross examination.
finally he said that the court did not perform its duty under section 342 4 of the code as amended as it failed to bring to the notice of the respondents that they may if they chose give evidence in their defence.
we have read the questions and so also the answers.
that is to say they have given their explantion regarding the circumstances appearing in the evidence set out in the questions and wherever that was not feasible they have said that they would do so in their written statements.
further 64 documents were missing from the records when they came to the high court and that this has caused serious prejudice to the respondent.
here one of the offences alleged against the respondents is criminal breach of trust punishable under section 409 i p c it is not exclusively triable by a court of sessions and the punishment as set out in the 7th column of schedule ii cr.
p c was transportation for life or imprisonment of either description for ten years and fine.
he contends that since the offence is punishable with transportation for life section 337 1 could not be availed of for granting pardon to the approver.
it seems to us that it would not be correct to read section 337 1 in the way sought by learned counsel.
the very object of this provision is to allow pardon to be tendered in cases where a grave offence is alleged to have been committed by several persons so that with the aid of the evidence of the person pardoned the offence could be brought home to the rest.
the gravity is of course to be determined with reference to the sentence awardable with respect to that offence.
on the strength of these considerations mr chari for the state contends that if the words any offence punishable with imprisonment which may extend to 10 years were interpreted to mean offences which were punishable with imprinsonment of less than 10 years grave offences which are not exclusively triable by a court of sessions will be completely out of section 337 1.
he suggests that this provision can also be reasonably interpreted to mean that where the offences are punishable with imprisonment exceeding 10 years pardon may be granted to the approver.
coming to the next ground of attack on the validity of pardon the argument of mr bhimasankaram is that whereas section 337 1 speaks of pardon being granted by a district magistrate or presidency magistrate a sub divisional magistrate or any magistrate of first class except in cases where an enquiry or trial was pending before another magis tratc the pardon here was granted by the additional district magistrate in a case where an enquiry was pending before the district magistrate and is therefore illegal and of no avail.
he contends that section 337 1 speaks of the district magistrate which expression does not include an additional district magistrate.
in support of his contention he strongly relied upon the decision in kandaswamy gounder.
in re the appellant i l r 1957 mad 715 and the cases referred to therein in particular the decision in winson v queen 1866 l r i q b what has been held in all these cases is that where the trial of a person who was charged with having committed an offence or offences jointly with several persons is separated from the trial of those persons he would be a competent witness against them though of course there will always be the question as to what weight should be attached to his evidence.
this legal position does not according to him offend the guarantee against testimonial compulsion and he points out that that is the reason why an accused person is not to be administered an oath when the court examines him under section 342 1 for enabling him to explain the circumstances appearing in evidence against him.
if pardon is tendered to an accused person and eventually it is found that the pardon is illegal such person is pushed back into the rank of an accused person and being no more than an accomplice would be a competent witness.
ganeswara rao was also an old employee of aeco having been appointed a stenotypist in the year 1923 on an initial salary of rs p m eventually he became the head clerk therein.
he pressed his claim for appointment as secretary of vesco and representative of the managing agents at visakhapatnam and r h g raju appointed him to that post.
it is thus apparent that offences committed within a space of 12 months were tried along with offences committed beyond that period.
thus this is a special provision available in case of doubt and is neither subject to the limitations prescribed by section 233 nor those of the other preceding provisions.
let us therefore examine closely the provisions of section 239.
a c and d of section 239 as well as that occurring in section 2351 ought to be given the same meaning according to the normal rule of construction of statutes.
it was contended by mr chari that the expression former part would apply to the first sub division of chapter xix which deals with the form and content of the charges and the powers of the court with regard to the absence of charge and alteration of charge.
a large number of decisions of the different high courts and one of the privy council have been considered in this case.
but while this principle is easy to appreciate and follow where one person alone is the accused and the interaction or intervention of the acts of more persons than one does not come in it would where the same act is committed by several persons be not only inconvenient but injudicious to try all the several persons separately.
this would lead to unnecessary multiplicity of trials involving avoidable inconvenience to the witnesses and avoidable expenditure of public time and money.
the transaction in which all of them have participated is the same and the abetment by x y and z of the offence committed by a b and c would itself establish the connection of their acts with those of x y and z next let us take cls.
let us consider these clauses along with another illustration.
two persons a and b enter a house at night and first together commit the murder of a man sleeping there and then also his wife.
the offences are of the same kind and must be deemed to have been committed in the course of the same transaction because of association and mutual connection.
let us suppose that a group of persons are accused of having been members of an unlawful assembly the common object of which was to overawe by sheer force another group of persons and take forcible possession of a piece of land.
some of the members of the unlawful assembly carried axes with them while some others carried lathis and attacked the other group.
during the course of the attack one person from the second group was killed as a rest of blows with an axe inflicted by the aggressors a b and c two persons of the second group sustained grievous hurt as a result of lathi blows and one person sustained simple hurt.
nor again could they be tried jointly only with the help of cl.
what intrinsic difficulty is there in trying them all together simultaneously availing of cls.
all these persons can be jointly tried for offences under section 147 by recourse to cl.
the reasons given by the allahabad high court therefore do not merit acceptance.
the decision in singarachariar 's case 1934 indlaw mad 352 c has really no bearing upon the point before us.
this decision is therefore of little assistance.
on the other band there is the decision of this court in the state of andhra pradesh v kandinmlla subbaiah which is to the effect that where several persons had committed offences in the course of the same transactions they could jointly be tried in respect of all those offences under section 239 of the code of criminal procedure and the limitation placed by section 234 of the code could not come into operation.
there nine persons were jointly tried for an offence under section 5 1 c and d of the prevention of corruption act 1947 and section 109 i p c read with s 420 section 466 and section 467 i p c and all except one for offences under sections 420 467471 i p c some of them were also charged with separate offences under some of these provisions.
it is true that the question of reading the various clauses cumulatively did not specifically arise for decision in that case but the high court had held that the first charge was an omnibus charge containing as many as 203 offences and that it was in direct violation of sections 234 235 and 239 of the code of criminal procedure.
this decision has been followed in natwarlal sakarlal.
mody v the state of bombay.
in that case the impact of section 120 b i p c on sections 233 and 239 of the code of criminal procedure was considered by this court and this court observed.
criminal conspiracy was however not an unknown thing before the amendment of the indian penal code in 1913.
the idea was to prevent the commission of crimes by so to speak nipping them in the bud.
coming to the next point of mr bhimsankaram regarding the abuse of powers under section 342 his first contention was that long and involved questions were put to the respondents.
what the learned additional sessions judge has done is to err on the side of over cautiousness by putting every circumstance appearing in the evidence to the respondents for eliciting their explanations.
his object was to obviate the possibility of a complaint before the appellate court that they were denied the opportunity of explaining the circumstances appearing in evidence against them because of defective questions.
we are also satisfied that there is no substance in the complaint that the questioning bordered on cross examination.
the entries in the account books of vesco show that certain sums of money were paid to various parties crompton engineering co lumin electric co d brothers radio and electrical madras vizagapatam municipality p v ramanayya bros and andhra power system.
the prosecution be established by reference to section 34 of the indian evidence act which reads thus.
what it does is to make entries in books of account regularly kept in the course of business relevant in all proceedings in a court of law.
it says nothing about non existence of entries in account books.
the decision in queen empress v grees chunder banerjee 1884 i l r 10.
similarly in ram prashad singh v lakhpati koer 1902 i l r 30.
lord robertson during the course of the hearing has observed that no inference can be drawn from the absence of any entry relating to any particular matter which observation supports the view taken in queen empress v girish chander banerjee 1884 i l r 10 c l 1024.
if it is left out of account he contends there is nothing left in the prose cution case because as pointed out by the additional sessions judge himself the evidence of the approver is the pivot of the prosecution case.
the first reason is that none of the offences alleged to have been committed falls within section 337 of the code of criminal procedure and the second reason is that the pardon was granted by an authority not empowered to grant it.
it will be noticed that transportation for life was not the only punishment provided for an offence under section 409 of the indian penal code even before the amendment made to the indian penal code by section 117 of the act 26 of 1955 the other alternative being imprisonment up to 10 years.
now of course by the amendment made by section 117 of act 26 of 1955 for the words transportation for life the words imprisonment for life have been substituted but the original structure of all the sections now amended continues.
iii to the code a magistrate first class has the power to grant pardon under section 337 but it is limited by the proviso thereto to certain classes of cases.
by government order No 3106 dated september 9 1949 the government of the province of madras issued certain instructions to the magistrates in pursuance of the separation of the judiciary from the executive.
the latter category comprises of the executive officers of the revenue department on whom the responsibility for the maintenance of law and order was to continue to rest.
para 4 of the instructions provides.
in addition to his general supervisory functions and the special powers under the code of hearing revision petitions transfer petitions appeals from second class magistrates and the like the district magistrate was also to be assigned a specific area the cases arising from which would be disposed of normally by himself.
this body of magistrates was made subordinate to the high court.
part iv of the government order deals with the allocation of powers between the judicial and executive magistrates.
in spite of the government order all magistrates who have under sch.
iii to the code of criminal procedure the power to grant pardon will continue to have that power and therefore a pardon granted by a judicial magistrate in contravention of the government order will not be rendered invalid.
in our opinion there is no subtance in the contention.
there is therefore no warrant for drawing a distinction between the powers of the district magistrate and the powers of a district magistrate.
mr chari in support of his contention has cited a large number of cases indian as well as english and certain passages from halsbury 's laws of england.
now as regards the reliability of the approver.
the section itself shows that the motivating factor for an approver to turn what in england is called king 's evidence is the hope of pardon and not any noble sentiment like contrition at the evil in which he has participated.
whether the evidence of the approver should in any given case be accepted or not will have to be determined by applying the usual tests such as the probability of the truth of what he has deposed to the circumstances in which he has come to give evidence whether he has made a full and complete disclosure whether his evidence is merely self exculpatory and so on and so forth.
but it should remove from its mind the misconception that the additional sessions judge has not believed him.
the decision in sarwan singh v the state of punjab 1957 b c r 953 on which reliance has been placed by the high court has been explained by this court in the case of maj e g barsay v the state of bombay.
with these observations we set aside the acquittal of the respondents and remit the appeal to the high court for decision on merits in the light of our observations.
the first question for consideration is whether there was a misjoinder of parties and of persons.
in coming to the conclusion that the provisions of various clauses of section 239 can not be applied cumulatively the high court has relied upon the decision in re vankavalapati gopala rao 1956 airandhra 21.
each clause is an exception to the general rule enacted in section 233 cr.
if such a combination is permissible all persons accused of offences described in cls.
the chapter is split up into two sub heads form of chargesand joinder of charges.
221 to 223 deal with the framing and content of charge.
section 224 deals with the interpretation of the language of the charge and section 225 with the effect of errors in the charge.
sub s 2 of section 235 deals with a case where an offence falls within two definitions and sub s 3 deals with a case in which a number of acts are alleged against an accused person different com binations of which may constitute different offences.
then we come to section 236 which provides that if a single act or series of acts is of such a nature that it is doubtful which of several offences the facts which can be proved will constitute the accused may be charged with having committed all or any of such offences and further provides that any number of such charges may be tried together.
it also permits that charges could be framed against an accused person in the alternative if the court thinks fit.
f there is a conjunction and.
it could not have been the intention of the legislature to create such a situation.
unless we read section 2341 as not enacting a fetter on section 2351 it may not be possible to give full effect to the latter.
let us consider whether there is anything intrinsically incompatible in combining two clauses of section 239.
the best evidence to prove the latter set of facts consists of the account books of the firms themselves.
it may further be mentioned that the account books of vesco show certain payments made to billimoria co of kharagpur.
papers seized by the police include receipts purporting to have been signed by one j j billimoria on behalf of the firm.
in coming to this conclusion it has relied upon the provisions of section 356 2a of the code of criminal procedure.
