this appeal is by special leave against the judgment of the high court of punjab and haryana confirming the conviction of the accused under section 51c of the prevention of corruption act 1947 as also the sentence awarded by the sessions judge of one year 's rigorous imprisonment and a fine of rs 2500 in default six months rigorous imprisonment.
the question therefore would be whether these facts were sufficient to sustain the sanction under 51c even if the charge under 51d had failed.
this question in turnwill depend upon what are the ingredients of the offences under 51c and d read with section 52.
thirdly the judgments show that there was utter confusion in respect of the date on which possession of the acquired land was given to the appellant and the date on which it was given to the contractor for carrying on the work as also in respect of the fact whether there was any crop standing when the appellant took possession of the land and at what period of time the crop was cut and the work commenced.
even if exhibit dq gave a correct picture it could be in relation to the airstrip already in existence as this would be necessary for a contractor who is charged with duty to carry out extension work to go on the site collect materials and get everything ready to execute his contract.
in fact as we have noticed earlier this is what telu ram says in his evidence namely that on loan january63 no delivery of possession of the remaining land other than rd 4500 to 1200 the land in which there is the existing run way was given.
it was then that he wrote on 23 1 1963 as per exhibit 8 to the assistant garrison engineer complaining that the possession of the whole of the land had not been delivered to him.
a copy of this letter was sent to the garrison engineer the appellant.
this letter shows two things a that complete site 4500 to 0 ft has not yet been handed over as it was presumed that the possession of the land could not be had so for and b that as levels have not been given the final excavation of the foundation can not be done and all subsequent operations are therefore withheld.
the facts of the case in brief are that in view of the chinese invasion air field at sirsa required to be extended for which purpose the ministry of defence govt.
of india took steps to acquire some lands of agriculturists pursuant to which a notification dated november 27 1962 was issued under section 4 of the land acquisition act 1894 for acquiring 51 79 acres of land situated in the state of ahmedpur.
the lands which were acquired belonged to several land holders including moti ram and p w 12 kewal chand.
the collector gave his award on 26 2 63 in respect of these lands which actually measured 49 47 acres at rs 1350 per acre amounting to rs 66784 50 np.
apart from this amount compensation was also awarded for standing crop amounting to rs 11073 13.
after accepting illegal gratification of rs 3000 from them.
a regular case is therefore registered and entrusted to inspector baldev rai handa for investigation.
after this f i r certain statements were recorded by the military authorities being da to de dm dm 1 dn dl of mani gain mulkh raj ganpat ram telu ram kewal chand and sukhchain lal jain.
of india ministry of home affairs on llth april 1966 as per exhibit p 23.
by order and in the name of the president.
sd a p veera raghavan.
you have verbally asked me now to take the site after the crop is cut and the necessary marking of the alignment has been taken in hand but this handing over has not been shown on the site order book by the a g e b r despite my request.
the work of the extension of aerodynamic was entrusted to one telu ram p w 8 contractor with whom the trusted to m e s department entered into an agreement on december 3 1962.
this agreement was signed both by the appellant and p w 14.
after the completion of the first phase the second phase was to start on 10th october 1963 and completed by 9th may 1964.
february 1963 to the appellant.
24 bears the signature of n l handa the tehsildar and of sukhchain lal jain p w 11 on behalf of the military estate officer and the appellant.
it is lastly contended that certain witnesses who would be necessary to unfold the prosecution story have not been called and in spite of the court directing the production of the usufruct register it was not produced.
these omissions it is submitted by the learned advocate has prejudiced the accused.
the facts disclose the commission of the offence of criminal misconduct as defined in section 51d read with section 52 of the prevention of corruption act 1947 by major som nath accused.
under 51c a public servant is said to commit the offence of misconduct in the discharge of his duty if he dishonestly or fraudulently misappropriates or otherwise converts for his own use any property entrusted to him or under his control as a public servant or allows any other person so to do and under d if he by corrupt or illegal means or by otherwise abusing his position as a public servant obtains for himself or for any other person any valuable thing or pecuniary advantage.
of india does not cover the trial of the charge under section 51c of the prevention of corruption act.
in fact the order specifically mentions thisprovision while granting sanction.
in support of this contention three decisions have been cited before us namely bhagat ram v state of punjab 1954 indlaw sc 188 madan mohan singh v state of u p privy council 82.
and gokulchand dwarkadas mordrka v the king 1948 indlaw pc 39.
acquisition of land for sirsa airfield.
the additional deputy commissioner hissar will be visiting his location on 13th feb 1963.
the military estates officer delhi mr k k gamkhar will also be here on 13th morning.
this is interest of the project.
it would however appear from exh.
mani ram patwari had stated that by the 20th march 1963 some ground had been cleared.
he also inform in that letter that the excavation in all available portions of the taxi track and runway has been completed.
he was asked about the symbolic delivery of possession the handing over of the actual possession of the land on 13 2 63 and the existence of crops on the date when possession was delivered on 16 2 63.
the nonexamination of other witnesses without anything more can not be treated as defect in the prosecution.
nor in their lordships view is a sanction given without reference to the facts constituting the offence a compliance with the actual terms of cl.
the case of jaswant singh v the state of puniab.
1957 indlaw sc 59 was also cited by the respondent 's advocate in support of the contention that the trial of two offences requiring sanction was not valid.
sinha j as he then was while dismissing the appeal observed at page 766.
on a careful consideration of the evidence both oral and documentary it is established that the appellant who was in charge of the expansion work on the air strip was given possession of the land acquired for that purpose on 13 2 63 that there was standing thereon a bumper crop of sarson gram and lusan on that day that he was therefore entrusted with this crop that he postponed giving delivery of the land to the contractor till at any rate after the 23rd march 1963 and before the 6th april 1963 and that he allowed the crop to be cut and taken away without in any way accounting for it which shows that it was done dishonestly and raudulently.
the fact that otwithstanding overwhelming evidence particularly of his own admission at the time he denies that there were ever any crops when delivery of possession of the land acquired was taken by him further reinforces the conclusion that he allowed the crops to be cut away with dishonest or fraudulent motive.
we do not think in these circumstances there is any justification whatever for interfering with the concurrent findings of the trial court and the high court that the appellant is guilty of an offence under section 51c read with section 52 of the prevention of corruption act and consequently the appeal is dismissed.
