this appeal is by special leave against the judgment and decree of the high court of kerala which dismissed an appeal against the judgment and decree of the subordinate court of havelikkara.
the appellant had filed a suit on october 24 1942 for the recovery of rs 2 lakhs and interest thereon from the date of suit and for costs originally against the state of travancore now the state of kerala the respondent and three others who however were not made parties in the appeal before the high court.
it was the appellant 's case that he had been in occupation of the said 160 acres of cherikkal land unregistered dry lands in hilly tracts about which and the adjoining lands there was a dispute as to whether the same belonged to a jenmi family known as koodalvalli illom hereinafter called the illom or to the government of the erstwhile travancore state.
the appellant 's father and the appellant had occupied these lands made improvement thereon by planting coconut trees arecanut palms peppervines rubber trees jack trees other trees and by constructing bungalow huts wells etc.
in the bona fide belief that the lands belonged to the illom.
it was stated that according to the practice prevailing in the erstwhile state of travancore the cultivators could enter into unoccupied waste lands belonging to the janmies with the object of cultivating and improving them and as they held the lands under them by paying rent the consent of the jemies to such occupation was implied.
while this dispute was pending it appears the appellant applied to the conservator of forests for registration of the lands in his name but the application was rejected on june 14 1919 stating that the land applied for can not be registered ext.
a while the application for registration was pending the dispute between the illom and the state of travancore had reached a stage when the illom had to institute a suit o section No.
january 1918 in the district court at quilon for a declaration of its title to those properties.
an appeal against it was dismissed on september 27 1943.
the high court issued a commission for inspecting the properties and the commissioner in his report part 13 of ext.
a rubbers state and a large number of other valuable trees like jack trees mango trees coconut trees etc.
it appears that as there was no injunction restraining his dispossession in l c case.
the appellant pursuant to this order was dispossessed from the lands and possession of these lands was given to the second defendant nair service society ltd in august 1939.
the rest of the claim was dismissed.
law dictionary mean such products of the soil as are annually planted served and saved by manual labour as cereals vegetables grass maturing for harvest or harvested etc but not grass on lands used for pasturage.
section 9 of the act is in the following terms any person unauthorised occupying any land for which he is liable to pay a fine under section 6 and an assessment or prohibitory assessment under section 7 may be summarily evicted by the division peishkar and any crop or other product raised on the land shall be liable to forfeiture and any building or other structure erected or anything deposited thereon shall also if not removed by him after such written notice as the division peishkar may deem reasonable be liable to forfeiture.
forfeiture under this section shall be disposed of as the division peishkar may direct.
it is the case of the appellant that even after the act was passed unauthorised occupants of land belonging to the government who had made improvements therein had under the rules made both under the act and the land assignment act a preferential claim over others for getting kuthakapattom or assignment of the property in their possession.
several issues were framed but it is not necessary to refer to them except to say that the suit was decreed only for rs 3000 being the value of the appellant 's bungalow taken possession of by the respondent.
the respondent state contended that the appellant encroached on the suit lands that proceedings were taken against him in l c case.
112 of 1100 m e and the appellant was therefore not entitled to claim any value for improvements as it was his duty to remove any building before he was evicted.
the respondent also averred that it had not taken possession of any crops or movables as stated in the plaint and that the movables found in the building were attached for the realisation of arrears of fine etc.
no doubt one of the meanings given in the black 's law dictionary does say that in a more restricted sense the word is synonymous with fructus industrials.
but the meaning to be ascribed to that word is that it connotes in its larger signification products of the soil that are grown and raised yearly and are gathered during a single season.
in this sense the term includes fructus industrials and having regard to the etymology of the word it has been held to mean only products after they have been severed from the soil.
the same dictionary gives the meaning of the word product as follows product with reference to property proceeds.
the products of a farm may include the increase of cattle on the premises.
but the learned advocate for the appellant submits that it was not his case nor is it under the general law necessary for a person who trespassed on the land to trespass with a claim of bona fide title.
this finding is fortified by section 5 of the act which provides that from and after the commencement of the act it shall not be lawful for any person to occupy land which is the property of the government whether poramboke or not without the permission from the government or such officer of the government as may be empowered in that behalf.
it is stated before us that at the time when the appellant was evicted the transfer of property act was not in force.
this vicarious and altruistic exhibition of good intention may even cause damage to the land of an owner who may not want improvements of such a kind as tree plantation.
it is true that the maxim of the english law quicquid plantatur solo solo cedit i e whatever is affixed to the soil belongs to the soil is.
not applicable in india but that is not to say that a wrongful trespasser can plant trees on someone else 's land and claim a right to those trees after he is evicted.
this case does not support the contention that a mere trespasser who has deliberately and wrongfully contrary to the provisions of section 5 of the act entered upon another 's land which makes such an act even punishable under section 6 thereof is entitled to compensation for the trees planted by him on the land.
these averments in the above paragraph do not clearly allege that he was not evicted without notice nor has any allegation been made that he was forcibly evicted from the lands with the help of the police etc.
on the other hand what the plaintiff appellant stated shows that no opportunity was given to him to remove the movable improvements such as cultivation cattle machines utensils houses stocked crops ripe crops etc.
the issues that had been famed by the trial court also do not refer to this aspect.
p w 4 the manager was asked in cross examination whether he had been given any priorinformation or notice about eviction and this witness also said that there was no prior information or notice.
this view of ours is supported by the case of clark and another v gaskarth 8 taunt 431.
at the time of the distress the sum of pound 281 6 section was due from the plaintiffs to the defendant for rent in respect of the nursery ground.
it was contended that the defendant 's action was justified under the statute ii g 2 c 19 section 8 which after enumerating certain crops empowered the landlord to seize as a distress any other product whatsoever which shall be growing on any part of the estate demised and therefore the trees and shrubs in question came within that description.
the case of vallabdas narainji v development officer bandra a i r 1929.
p c 163 1929 indlaw pc 11 which was cited by the learned counsel for the appellant does not assist him for the privy council did not think it necessary to give a decision on what it termed to be a far reaching contention.
on these findings it was observed that the government were in a position by law at any rate to regularize their possession by such a notification a fact which becomes material when it has to be considered what the nature of the trespass is.
both the assistant judge and the high court negatived the claim of the appellant.
in the view we have taken the appeal has no substance and is accordingly dismissed with no order as to costs but the court fee will be recovered from the appellant.
