this appeal by special leave is from the judgment and order of the high court of andhra pradesh dated 15th april1986.
on or about th of april 1948 sail nawaz jung the then ruler of mukkalla state south yeman in arabia settled some of the properties with which the appeal is concerned by a registered tamleeknama in favour of his son sultan awaz and his grandson galib bin awaz.
in 1954there was wakfnama by the said sail nawaz jung.
on or about 23rd of august1963.
the military estate officer secunderabad of.
andhra pradesh requested for the requisition of the property named as sail gulshan with a vast extent of land and palaces with roads and surrounded by a compound wail measuring 19 acres and 10 guntas situated in the heart of hyderabad city near sarojini devi hospital.
the property in question was taken possession of on or about 12th of september1963.
he had claimed rights as a tenant during the requisition.
his claim for compensation for requisition was settled by sharing the rent in or about 1969 the appellant is one of the owners of the property in question deriving their title and right from the said sail nawaz jung.
on or about 3rd february1970 the collector issued notice for acquisition of the property u s 71 of the requisitioning and acquisition of immovable property act1952 being act 30 of 1952.
hereinafter called the central act the gazette notification for the acquisition was issued on 12th march1970 the controversy in this case relates to the question whether abdul khader was a protected tenant under the andhra pradesh telangana area.
tenancy and agricultural lands act1950 being.
act no xxi of 1950.
the purpose of the said act as the preamble states was inter alia to enable the land holders to prevent the excessive sub division of agricultural holdings and empower government to assume in certain circumstances the management of agricultural lands to provide for the registration of co operative farms and to make further provision for matters incidental thereto.
i suspect that somebody has tampered the register and entered the name of sri mohd abdul khader.
separate enquiry in this connection is going on in this office to know under what circumstances such entry has been made and copy also issued without knowledge of the tahsildar.
hence i suspect the entry and order to cancel the copy of the tenancy issued in favour of sri modh.
1the learned single judge vaidya j held inter alia as follows whether the petitioner abdul khader is a protected tenant or whether he has any prima facie interest in the suit property are matters entirely within the sole jurisdiction of the arbitrator who has to be appointed under s 8 of the central act.
on or about 19th of april1972.
he held further that khasra pahani which is the basic record of occupancy period after spot inspections does not find the name of abdul khader and further held that all entries except this entry in the protected tenancy register prepared under section 37a of the andhra pradesh act was supported by an enquiry.
in civil revision petition no 1006 of 1972 which was filed by abdul khader as against others justice r ramachandra raju of the andhra pradesh high court on or about 19th august1974 held that abdul khader was not a protected tenant and directed deletion of entry made in the final record of tenancies as a spurious one.
in the meantime abdul khader filed an application on or about 21st of october1984 for adducing additional evidence to mark kaulnama dated 2nd of december1950 for the first time and oubuliatnama dated 2nd december1950 as exhibits in deciding the protected tenancy rights.
appointed advocate commissioner to record additional evidence.
on or about 22nd of april1985.
we agree with his submission.
the remaining 60 per cent shall be disbursed in accordance with the directions to be given by the high court after hearing all the parties concerned.
other c m ps were filed for clarification of the second part of the order dated 19th august1985 and this court on 29th november1985 in cmps.
the high court further modified a portion of the order in view of the decision of this court in bhag singh v union territory of chandigarh.
a i r 1985 s c 1576 1985 indlaw sc 246 on the question of solarium and interest on the amount awarded.
the high court discussed 18 documents out of which two are challans and other depositions.
kowlnama executed in favour of shaik hussain was not filed.
abdul khader on december 31950 was filed and was marked as exhibit c 1 the document recited permitted to utilise garden fruits flowers and mango.
the tenant was permitted to raise flower trees at his own expenses.
the question was whether on enforcement of the said act abdul khader respondent herein was a protected tenant.
s 2r states that the expression protected means a person who is deemed to be a protected tenant under the provisions of the said act.
chapter iv of the andhra pradesh act deals with protected tenants and s 34 of the said act provides who is to be considered as a protected tenant and uses the expression that a person shall subject to the provisions of sub ss 2 and 3be deemed to be a protected tenant in respect of the land if he has fulfilled the conditions mentioned in clauses a and b of sub s 1 of s 34 of the said act.
sub s 2 of s 34 of the said act also deals with to be deemed to be a protected tenant in respect of any landfor certain purposes.
s 36 of the said act deals with the recovery of possession by protected tenant.
s 38 of the said act deals with right of protected tenant to purchase land.
s 40 of the said act makes rights of protected tenant heritable.
sub s 2 of s 40 of the said act indicates who are the heirs who would be entitled to hold the tenancy on the death of the protected tenant and on what terms.
sub s 3 of s 40 of the said act provides that if a protected tenant dies without leaving any heirs all his rights shall be so extinguished.
the explanation to sub s 3 of s 40 of the said act provides who should be deemed to be the heirs of a protected tenant.
it is necessary also to note the provisions of s 99 of the act.
it is as follows 99 bar of jurisdiction 1.
save as provided in this act.
s 102 of the said act stipulates that the act shall not apply to certain lands and areas and provides inter alia as follows 102 nothing in this act shall apply to lands leased granted alienated or acquired in favour of or by the central government or the state government a local authority or a cooperative society.
s 3 of the said act gave power to requisition immovable property.
s 4 of the said act empowers taking possession of requisitioned property.
s 8 deals with principles and method of determining compensation either for requisitioning or acquisition of the property and inter alia provides for appointment of an arbitrator in certain contingencies in case there was no agreement for determining compensation.
we are not concerned with the challenge to this aspect in this appeal.
the arbitrator therefore exceeded his jurisdiction and the high court was in error.
in the background of the totality of circumstances as manifest in the different orders it appeared to the arbitrator and the court that the entry which was made in favour of abdul khader as the protected tenant was of doubtful validity.
that in any event what was the interest of abdul khader had to be determined in determining the question of payment of compensation to him and in so determining the facts and circumstances and the proceedings before the revenue authorities and entries and subsequent deletions had to be taken into consideration by the arbitrator.
this court by the two orders referred to hereinbefore had also affirmed this position.
the matter was brought to this court by a special leave application and this court in special leave petition civil no 10 of 1975 on or about 30th january 1975 held that since the question whether the petitioner in that case namely abdul khader was a protected tenant had been left open by the high court to be decided by the arbitrator u s 8 of the central act special leave petition was rejected with those observations.
thereafter there was an order appointing arbitrator on 29th of march1975.
u s 81b of the central act.
claim petition was filed by the appellant before the arbitrator claim petition was also filed by abdul khader claiming 60 of compensation as a protected tenant.
in the aforesaid view of the matter this appeal must fail and is accordingly dismissed with costs.
in this appeal we are concerned with the question whether the high court was right in upholding the award of the arbitrator so far as it has held in favour of abdul khader and his rights to get 60 of the compensation.
the high court dealt with the value of the land.
shri shanker ghosh learned counsel for the appellant urged that under the said andhra pradesh act it was mandatory under s 99 read with s 102 of the said act in conjunction with the definition of s 2r of the act for the revenue authorities to decide whether abdul khader was a protected tenant or not.
shri a k sen on behalf of the respondents on the other hand contended that the compensation payable in respect of the requisitioning and acquisition must be determined under the central act and the arbitrator was the authority to decide that question.
the question of abdul khader 's right to compensation had to be decided in accordance with law.
he had claimed rights of a protected tenant.
reference may be made to the decision in the case of archi appalareddi and another v special tahsildar land acquisition visakhapatnam municipality and mother1979 andhra weekly reporter vol 1 p 101where the court observed in the context of the land acquisition act that a tenant was a person interested as defined in clause b of s 3 of the land acquisition act.
he has a right to object to the acquisition andor the quantum of compensation.
