we have heard learned counsel on both sides.
the admitted facts are that the respondents through their agents had registered trade mark raleigh and other trade marks 12 marks under the indian merchandise marks act1889 4 of 1989 and the trade marks act1940 5 of 1940 the trade and merchandise marks act1958 43 of 1958 for short the act which came into force with effect from october 31958 has repealed the predecessor act and now the act is in operation.
the respondents entered into an agreement with sudhir kumar sen on november 31948 to render technical know how to the indian company to be formed which would manufacture bicycles and market them under raleigh 's indian trade marks.
pursuant thereto a company called sen raleigh limited came into existence which manufactured cycles with technical assistance by the respondents raleigh industries of u k and marketed the bicycles with a brand name and trade marks belonging to the respondents.
raleigh was recorded as permitted users of the trade marks.
by agreement dated december 291962sen raleigh and the respondents agreed that sen raleigh was registered user for further period up to 1976 sen raleigh was taken over by the government of india on september 81975 under the idr act and the government took over the management of sen raleigh limited.
the agreement dated december 291962 was modified and the respondents were given option to terminate the agreement.
an agreement dated december 201976 was entered into between the appellant as registered user and the respondent in respect of 12 trade marks for a period of 5 years.
on october 241980sen raleigh was nationalized and got vested in the appellant corporation by publication of the notification under idr act.
on march 51982the respondent wrote a letter to the appellant that in the absence of a new agreement they were instructing their advocate to prevent the appellant by restraint proceedings to use the trade mark effective from april 11982.
having regard to the extended nature of non user of the concerned trade mark after november 11976any further use of the said trade marks by the respondents was likely to deceive and cause confusion to the trade and public alike in india etc.
by proceedings dated june 131984the registrar of trade marks informed the appellant that the registered user 's applications were abandoned since the appellant failed to comply with the statutory requirements.
the learned single judge dismissed the application by his judgment dated september 131990 holding inter alia that any proprietor mentioned in s 461b of the act extends to bona fide user other than registered users.
after termination of the collaboration and user agreement between the appellant and the respondents it was likely to cause confusion and deception amongst the trade and public.
though the collaboration and registered user agreements stood expired from october 311981no agreement came to be executes nor continued to use the specifications on technical know how.
there is no specific bar for an unregistered lincesee to use registered trade mark so long as there is a connection in the course of trade between the licenser and the lincesee.
the appellant was unable to prove that there had been no such user of the trade mark for a continuous period of 61 months or longer and the lack of bona fide intention the expression by any registered proprietors in s 461b should not be restricted to user by proprietor or registered user who should also include bona fide or authorized users the legislature did not intend to register proprietor to be deprived of their property at the instance of user whose use is unregistered.
non registration of the user agreement by sen raleigh and the appellant was due to the default of the latter.
the appellant had not taken any steps to withdraw registered user applications and as such should not be permitted to take such a contradictory stand of applying for rectification at the same time.
the power u s 46 is discretionary.
in view of the appellant 's conduct it was taking advantage of its own wrong.
the discretion therefore was not to be extended in favour of the appellant.
thus this appeal by special leave.
shri raju ramchandran learned senior counsel for the appellant raised three fold contentions.
the respondents admittedly did not use the same.
the harmonious construction should be put up in such a way that s 482 and s 466 by of the act could be permitted to have their full play in their operational structure.
the construction put up by the high court renders sub s 2 of s 48 otiose or surplus age which interpretation is impermissible.
it is contended that the registered user must be understood to be the user by the proprietor or authorized user registered under section 48 the period of 5 years should be computed from that date of expiry of registered user.
the division bench therefore was wrong in its conclusion that the appellant has failed to establish it.
on the other hand it is for the respondent to prove the same.
for over a long period the trade mark was not used by the respondents as its registered proprietor.
the respondents did not prove that they were prevented to use the same for 5 years or more preceding the date of the application.
the burden is on tile respondents to prove that non user was due to special circumstance of the trade and not due to some other cause which would have operated whether special circumstances had arisen or not since the respondents were not using the trade mark since april 201954the plea of special circumstances is not available to the respondents.
in the absence of such a findings the high court was wrong in law in refusing to rectify the trade mark and striking it off the register.
the court while exercising its discretion u s 46 should look into not only commercial interest of the parties but also public interest.
in normal circumstances when it is established that the trade mark was not used either by the registered proprietor or the permitted user the public interest of supply of the quality of the goods marketed by the appellant should be taken into factual consideration for removal of the trade mark from the register.
shri ashok desai learned senior counsel for respondents resisted the contentions.
the appellant was using the same as an agent.
in view of the prohibition to import bicycles the respondent was prevented to use the trade mark but by collaboration agreement it was continuing to use the trade mark by the permitted user.
the special circumstance is that the appellant filed an application for registration u s 481 and continued it till it was abandoned.
it would also be considered as a special circumstance for non user.
the discretion exercised by the court must be judged in the light of the facts and circumstances the appellant having used the trade mark it does not lie in the mouth of the appellant to contend that he is not a permitted user or a bona fide user of the trade mark.
in view of the diverse contentions the question arises whether the high court was right in refusing to rectify and strike off the trade marks of the respondents from the register of trade marks.
the question therefore is whether the appellant must be deemed to be bona fide user of the trade mark though there was no agreement nor was it registered as permitted user u s 481.
s 461b reads as under.
46 removal from register and imposition of limitations on ground of non use  1.
it is true as held by this court that to get a trade mark registered without any intention to use it in relation to any goods but merely to make money out of it by selling it to others the right to use it as a commodity would be trafficking in that trade mark.
it is a question of fact in every case.
the benefit of s 46 would be available during the period for which the agreement registered and user continued in furtherance thereof.
it must therefore be held that though the deemed presumption under sub s 2 of s 48 is referable to the permitted user or the registered user and it does not extend to unregistered permitted user the connecting link of passing off the goods between the licensor 's trade mark and the lincesee should bona fide be with the permission or consent which may be express or implied by long course of dealings.
suffice it to hold that subs 3 of s 46.
it is true that while exercising discretion the court u s 46 of the act should take into consideration not only commercial interest of the parties but also public interest in para 21 82 at page 386 of the law of trade marks and passing off by p narayanan 4th ed it is stated that the court or the registrar has discretion in granting or refusing an application for rectification.
the high court in our view declined for good reasons to rectify the trade mark under section act b of the act.
this question was considered by this court in american home products corporation vs mac laboratories pvt ltd and anr 1985 indlaw sc 464 and they need no reiteration.
in k r beri and co vs.
co pvt limited and anr.
we have given anxious consideration to the reasoning therein.
it is true that the burden flies on the registered proprietor of the trade mark to establish the exceptions provided under s 463 equally the applicant for rectification also prima facie shows non user for the relevant period.
the appeal is accordingly dismissed but in the circumstances without costs.
