the accused appellant has been held guily of of fences punishable under section 302 and section 3762f of indian penal code.
while the learned additional sessions judge made a reference to the high court for confirmation of death sentence under section 366 cr.
p c the appellant preferred an appeal putting in issue his conviction and sentence.
the criminal reference and the criminal appeal were heard by a division bench of rajasthan high court.
the two learned judges constituting the division bench differed in their opinion.
in view of the difference of opinion the learned acting chief justice assigned the case for hearing by a third judge under section 392 of cr.
kumari s a young child aged about 5 years was last seen at about 4 p m on 18th march 1991 and thereafter she did not return home.
at about 7 a m on 19th march 1991 kishori lal pw4 informed bd pw2 the unfortunate father of s that dead body of a girl was lying near mohalla basera on the outskirts of village kotputli.
bd rushed to the place only to find that the dead body was of none else than his own daughter section blood was oozing out from her mouth and private parts.
a noose was also found around her neck.
at 7 25 a m on 19 3 1991 first information report was lodged by bd at police station kotputli.
the dead body was sent for post mortem examination which was performed at 9 30 a m on the same day by a medical board of three doctors.
according to the medical opinion the probable cause of death of s was shock produced due to vaginal trauma and rupture of post fornix along with asphyxia due to ligature around the neck.
the vaginal injuries clotted blood and injuries to post fornix were indica tive of rape having been committed on the victim.
slides of vaginal swab were prepared for cyto chemical analysis for blood and seminal stains.
he was a grown up male of 21 years and capable of performing sexual intercourse.
the clothes so recovered were sent to forensic science laboratory.
the prosecution examined 21 witnesses in all.
we would proceed to examine each of the pieces of incriminating circumstantial evidence so as to find out if each one of the circumstantial evidence is proved individually and whether collectively it forges such a chain of incriminating circumstances as would fasten the guilt on the accused beyond by shadow of reasonable doubt.
in dhananjoy chatterjee v state of west bengal 1994 2 scc 220 1994 indlaw sc 1743 wherein one of us dr a s anand j as his lordship then was spoke for the bench.
in dhananjoy chatterjee 's case 1994 indlaw sc 1743 supra the decision of this court in sharad birdhichand sarda v state of maharashtra 1984 4 scc 116 1984 indlaw sc 432 was relied on.
she stated that accompanied by phukla another young girl a cousin of hers and s the deceased she had gone to purchase balloon from the shop of goma.
from the evi dence of shalu pw7 such an inference can not be drawn.
the statement of shahu was recorded during investigation on 25 3 1991 i e about six days after the date of incident.
the fact remains that the testimony of shalu pw 7 aged 4 years even if taken at its face value does not constitute such a circumstance as to draw an incriminating inference against the accused and connect him with the crime.
the accused was told by the witness that the punishment could be 20 or even 40 years of imprisonment or imprisonment for life.
thereafter the wit nesses went to see movie in the cinema hall.
santosh pw9 did not support the version of kalu ram and was declared hostile.
the police appears to have embarked upon a search akin to a combing operation and in that process several suspected characters were called and interrogated.
harish chand sharma pw21 stated that between 19th and 25th march 1991 the accused subhash was called at the police station several times for making enquiries.
any person even if innocent and not connected in any way with a gruesome crime which had recently occurred and was talk of the town if called by police and interrogated as a suspect would be scared and be apprehensive of the likelihood of his being implicated in the crime.
placed in such situation if a villager unaware of the law happens to ask a person who he feels knows the things better than what he himself does as to what would be the period of incarceration to be suffered by any person for such an offence the impulse for inquiry may be outcome of a feeling of nervousness or mere inquisitiveness such an enquiry is not necessarily suggestive of the working of a criminal mind.
insofar as baniyan is concerned it has no stains of any type on it and therefore its discovery and seizure is meaningless and irrelevant.
so far as the underwear is concerned the investigation suffers from another infirmity also.
blood sam ple of the accused was not collected and therefore not grouped.
the number and extent of spread of stains is also not known.
the accused appears to have been engaged as a causal not regular gate keeper at hira moti a local talkies.
p c and in reply he stated galat hai not correct.
the purpose of asking questions during examination under section 313 cr.
the accused may or may not avail the opportunity for offering his explanation.
literal meaning of alibi is elsewhere.
the plea of alibi postulates the physical impossibility of the presence of the accused at the scene of offence by reason of his presence at another place.
see law lexicon p ramnath iyer second edition p 87.
denial by an accused of an assertion made by his employer that the accused was on leave of absence from duty on the date of offence does not by any stretch of reasoning or logic amount to pleading alibi.
according to harish chand sharma the accused was arrested on 3 4 1991 vide exbt.
p21 at behror which is a place situated at a distance of about 30 35 kms.
in shankarlal gyarasilal dixit 's case 1980 indlaw sc 47 supra this court cautioned human nature is too willing when faced with brutal crimes to spin stories out of strong suspicions.
before parting with the case we would like to place on record an observation of ours touching an aspect of the case.
a vigilant investigating officer well versed with the techniques of the job is in a position to collect the threads of evidence finding out the path which leads to the culprit.
the ends which the administration of cirminal justice serves are not achieved merely by catching hold of the culprit.
the evidence of investigating officer given in the court should have a rhythm explaining step by step how the investigation proceeded leading to detection of the offender and collection of evidence against him.
shri sushil kumar jain the learned counsel for the accused appellant has placed reliance on shankarlal gyarasilal dixit v state of maharashtra air 1981.
sc 765 1980 indlaw sc 47.
therein a charge under sections 376 and 302 ipc was sought to be substantiated on circumstanctial evidence.
this court held that the presence of blood stain of b group measuring 0 5 cm.
b group is not uncommon group of blood and no effort was made to exclude the possibility that the blood of the accused belonged to the same group.
as regards the dried stain of semen on the appellant 's under pant the court observed that the accused was a grown up man of 30 years and no compelling inference could arise that the stain was caused during the course of the sexual assault committed by him on the victim girl.
in the present case the age of the accused was about 21 years at the time of the incident.
on his arrest he was subjected to medical examination and found to be a potent and capable person.
conviction of the accused appellant under sections 302 and 3762f of indian penal code is set aside.
he is acquitted of the charges framed against him.
he shall be set at liberty forthwith if not required to be detained in connection with any other offence.
