aggrieved by the decision of customs excise and gold control appellate tribunal cegat dated 11 4 2000the appellants assessee have come by way of civil appeals under section 35l of the central excise act1944.
appellants were engaged in the manufacture of biscuits classifiable under sub heading 1905 11 of the central excise tariff.
the biscuits were sold under the brand name meghraj.
the above show cause notices were issued by the department demanding differential duty for the period april 1994 to june 1994 amounting to rs 374948 plus short paid duty for the period april 1995 to may 1995 amounting to rs 92992 the said demand was based on an agreement detected by the department.
that agreement was between madan verma director of a company known as m s.
ltd ghaziabad and m s rich food products p ltd noida.
under the said agreement m s kay aar biscuits p ltd was.
party no 1 under the agreement.
under the agreement there was a recital under which it was stated that m s.
the said agreement m s kay aar biscuits p ltd gave permission to m s rich food products pvt.
ltd to use its trade mark for the manufacture of wafers alone.
the said agreement was valid for three years commencing from 22 11 1989.
the assistant commissioner ghaziabad examined the printed wrappers.
according to the commissioner athe appellants used the trade name meghraj in the form of a logo which was printed on the wrapper.
by order dated 8 12 2000cegat rejected the above rectification application made by the appellants.
the object of the notification therefore was to help the ssi units and thereby increased industrial production.
the same is quoted hereinbelow.
applying the ratio of the above judgment to the present case it is clear that grant of registration certificate under the trade marks act will not automatically provide benefit of exemption to the ssi unit.
applying the above test to the facts of the present case madan verma is a common director in the two companies.
he has filed an affidavit enclosing the registration certificate dated 30 6 2000.
this argument is based on the concept of abandonment.
discontinuation of business in respect of a product does not necessarily amount to abandonment.
in the circumstances the department was right in rejecting the above contention.
these are considerations which are relevant in disputes arising under the trade marks act.
the trade marks act1999 has been enacted to amend and consolidate the law relating to trade marks to provide for registration and better protection of trade marks and for prevention of the use of fraudulent marks.
u s 28 of the trade marks act1999registration gives to the registered proprietor of the trade mark the exclusive right to the use of the trade mark in relation to the goods in respect of which the trade mark is registered and to obtain relief in respect of infringement of the trade mark in the manner provided by the trade marks act.
it is correct to say that the registrar trade marks can issue registration certificate u s 28 of the trade marks act with retrospective effect.
on reading the above quoted paragraphs from the above judgment with which we agree it is clear that the effect of making the registration certificate applicable from retrospective date is based on the principle of deemed equivalence to public user of such mark.
it is confined to the provisions of the trade marks act.
the respondent company is described as the sole distributors on the label.
the reasonable inference that could be drawn from this description surely is that the goods were the property of kipre and co and so also the mark.
in the circumstances the judgment of this court in the case of bigen industries 2006 indlaw sc 546 supra has no application.
for the aforestated reasons we do not find any merit in these civil appeals.
before concluding we may point out that we do not wish to express any opinion on the subsequent events which have taken place in this case.
at this stage it may be noted that the appellants herein claim to have started manufacture of biscuits in 1991 the biscuits were sold in wrapper mentioning the name of the appellantsm s.
the appellants claimed that it has been using the wrapper since beginning and since 1991 the use of the trade name or brand name meghraj has never been challenged.
before the commissioner ait was argued in the alternative that the logo belonged to m s.
this aspect is important since one of the arguments advanced by the appellants herein before the commissioner a was that the trade mark belonged to m s ltd which was registered ssi unit lying closed since 1 3 1993.
on behalf of the appellants it has been vehemently argued that m s kay aar biscuits p ltd was never the registered owner of the trade mark meghraj.
it was urged that merely because an agreement stood entered into on 22 11 89 between m s ltd.
it was urged that a false declaration was made by m s kay aar biscuits p ltd under the above agreement on 22 11 89.
it was next contended by mr shavaksha that the respondent company had itself shown kipre and co private ltd.
the proprietors of the mark on the labels bearing the mark monarch on the different kinds of its food products and therefore the respondent company had no right to apply for registration in its favours as if it was the proprietor thereof.
mr shah however contended that by an agreement exhibit f made between the respondent company and kipre and co private ltd in 1951.
explanation ix brand name or trade name shall mean a brand name or trade name whether registered or not that is to say a name or a mark such as symbol monogram label signature or invented word or writing which is used in relation to such specified goods for the purpose of indicating or so as to indicate a connection in the course of trade between such specified goods and some person using such name or mark with or without any indication of the identity of that person.
applying the principle of deemed equivalence we may clarify that if the ssi unit wrongly affixes a trade mark of another person be it registered or not or if it uses the trade mark of an ineligible person then such default would not be eliminated by the above principle of deemed equivalence embodied in s 28 of the trade marks act1999 as that principle is based on a deeming fiction which fiction is confined only to the provisions of the trade marks act.
in the case of pahwa chemicals pvt.
commissioner of central excise delhi 2005 189.
elt 257 2005 indlaw sc 799sc.
these are considerations which are relevant in disputes arising out of infringement passing of actions under the trade marks act.
in the case of commissioner of central excise chandigarh v bhalla enterprises 2004.
elt 225 2004 indlaw sc 996scthis court held that the assessee will not be entitled to the benefit of exemption if it uses on goods in question same similar brand name with intention of indicating a connection with the goods of the assessee and such other person or uses the name in such manner that it would indicate such connection.
this question has been decided by the bombay high court in the case of sunder parmanand lalwani and others v caltex india ltd air 1969 bombay 24 1965 indlaw mum 1419 in which it has been held vide paras 32 and 38 as follows a proprietary right in a mark can be obtained in a number of ways.
he could do the latter after complying with the other requirements of the act including the filing of a declaration of his intention to use such mark.
see observations of llyod jacob j in 1956 rpc 1 in the matter of vitamins ltd 's application for trade mark at p 12and.
the particular mode of acquisition of proprietorship relied upon by the applicant in this case is of his user for the first time in india in connection with watches and allied goods mentioned by him of the mark caltexwhich at the material time was a foreign mark belonging to degoumois co of switzerland and used by them in respect of watches in switzerland.
before the deputy registrar and before mr justice shah proprietorship was claimed on the basis that the applicant was entitled to it as an importer 's mark.
we have already reached a conclusion that so far as this country is concerned degoumois co have totally disclaimed any interest in the proprietorship of that mark for watches etc.
the applicant was the originator of that mark so far as that class of goods is concerned and so far as this country is concerned.
in the case of consolidated foods corporation v brandon and co.
the latter type of mark would evidently refer to a distinctive mark a mark which does not directly describe the nature or quality of the goods to which it is attached.
even so far as this country is concerned the trade marks act of 1940 does not seem to have made any change in the legal rights of the owner of a trade mark as established by the courts of chancery in england.
in in re century spinning and manufacturing co ltd.
305 2006 indlaw sc 546 in that matter a show cause notice was issued calling upon the assessee to show cause why the exemption be not denied to the assessee.
in para 19 of the show cause notice the authority accepted the existence of a deed of assignment.
however the show cause notice denied the exemption on the ground that notification no 14083 ce did not make any distinction between a brand name owned by a person in india or abroad.
the question before us is what is the effect of issuance of registration certificate with retrospective effect.
as regards the question whether there could be any property in a trade mark the learned judge further observed on the same page as follows again turning to s 54 of the specific relief act which deals with cases when a perpetual injunction may be granted the explanation to that section lays down that for the purpose of that section a trade mark is property.
therefore if a person invaded or threatened to invade the other 's right to or enjoyment of property the court u s 54 had the discretion to grant a perpetual injunction and trade mark was as much property for the purpose of s 54 as any other kind of property.
i therefore agree with the learned advocate general that all that the trade marks act has done is to facilitate the mode of proof.
instead of compelling the holder of a trade mark in every case to prove his proprietary right before he could ask the court to grant him an injunction the trade marks act provides a procedure whereby by registering his trade mark the owner gets certain facilities in the mode of proving his title.
for instance under s 23 of the trade marks act registration is to be prima facie evidence of the validity of the trade mark.
this was precisely the view which was expressed by lord justice romer in 1905 1 k b 592 to which i have already referred in the earlier part of the judgment.
to summarise therefore a trader acquires a right of property in a distinctive mark merely by using it upon or in connection with his goods irrespective of the length of such user and the extent of his trade.
the trader who adopts such a mark is entitled to protection directly the article having assumed a vendible character is launched upon the market.
as between two competitors who are each desirous of adopting such a markit is to use familiar language entirely a question of who gets there first.
gaw kan lye v saw kyone saing air 1939.
fb registration under the statute does not confer any new right to the mark claimed or any greater right than what already existed at common law and at equity without registration.
it does however facilitate a remedy which may be enforced and obtained throughout the state and it established the record of facts affecting the right to the mark.
registration itself does not create a trade mark.
the trade mark exists independently of the registration which merely affords further protection under the statute.
common law rights are left wholly unaffected.
priority in adoption and use of a trade mark is superior to priority in registration.
accordingly the civil appeals stand dismissed with no order as to costs.
