interpretation of the provisions of s 461b of the trade and merchandise marks act1958 hereinafter called and referred to for the sake of brevity as the said act is involved herein.
the factual matrix of the matter which is not much in dispute is as under.
an ex parte order of injunction was passed on 19 12 1985 against the defendant appellant herein to the following effect.
the plaintiff shall comply with the requirements of order 39 rule 4 of the code of civil procedure.
indisputably during the proceedings in the above suit m s.
jain industries by a deed of assignment assigned the said trade mark along with its goodwill in favour of the appellant.
it claimed user of the said mark since 1963 and sought for rectification of the register by expunging the expression circulation and centrifugal pumps from the specification of goods.
may1965 in class 7 in respect of flour mills circulating and centrifugal pumps coupling for machines pulleys included in class 7and valves parts of machines in the name of pooran chand jain and kailash chand jain trading as jain industries1166phatak.
that pursuant to a request on form tm 23 dated 17th june1986 and order thereon dated 24th october1986.
ganga ram anil kumar hufsunil kumar and sumitra rani trading as thukral mechanical works railway road sirhind punjab are registered as subsequent proprietors of this mark as from 30th may1986 by virtue of agreement dated 30th may1986 and.
the learned judge directed recording of statements of the learned counsel in this behalf pursuant whereto the same were recorded which reads as under c o 9 of 1986.
statement of shri k l aggarwal counsel for petitioner without oath.
i have no objection if the petitioner is permitted to withdraw this petition with permission to file a fresh petition on this very cause of action.
against m s jain industries and the dy.
the petition is accordingly filed as withdrawn leaving the parties to bear their own costs.
the said order of the division bench is under challenge in this appeal.
for the purpose of appreciation of the rival contentions we may notice the findings of the board as also the high court.
the meantime as a result of the ex parte ad interim injunction granted on 19th december 1985 by this court in suit no 2408 of 1985there was no question of thukral using the trademark field marshal till the injunction was vacated on 19th january1988.
appellant 's counsel appeared on that date and inter alia contended that presently it was the registered owner of the trade mark which was sought to be cancelled.
in view of that statement a submission was made on behalf of the first respondent that it may be permitted to withdraw the petition with liberty to file a fresh petition on the same cause of action.
correctness or otherwise of the said order has not been questioned.
indisputably the scope of the provisions for removal from register in terms of s 46 and 56 of the act stand on different footings.
whereas s 46 had a limited application s 56 of the act is wider in nature.
it is in the aforementioned situation we are called upon to determine the meaning of the words for the time being occurring in s 461b of the act.
the same is an assignable right in terms of s 36 of the act whereas an unregistered trade mark is not.
indisputably it would be the registered proprietor.
it provides for civil or evil consequences.
allegation of trafficking is a serious one.
renewal of registration in a sense also is not automatic.
if the assignee has obtained assignment for bona fide use he may not be fastened with any liability owing to non user on the part of his predecessor.
whether s 461b read with s 48 of the act would bring within its purview not only a registered proprietor but also the proprietor who had otherwise acquired a right would depend upon the facts and circumstances of each case.
prima facie therefore appellant has been held to be the registered owner of the trade mark.
we may at this stage notice that in law of trade marks by mr k c kailasam while commenting on s 47 of the trade marks act1999 to which our attention has been drawn by mr sudhir chandra it is stated.
consequential amendments have been made to cover services cl 47 of the bill.
such an application may be maintainable in terms of s 56 of the act but strictly not in terms of s 461b thereof and that too in the absence of the original registered proprietor.
we are not satisfied with the explanation offered by the first respondent that it gave up the case of non use of the registered trade mark against m s jain industries on the basis of statement made by the learned counsel for the appellant firstly because consent does not confer jurisdiction secondly because want andor lack of jurisdiction on the part of the tribunal can not be waived as if any order is passed without jurisdiction the same would be a nullity and thirdly because the cause of action even according to the first respondent in his application before the high court was different.
it only consented for grant of liberty in favour of the first respondent for filing of an application for the self same cause of action.
the cause of action which permitted the first respondent to file an application for rectification against m s jain industries was non user thereof by it.
its non user and rectification of the register could not in the aforementioned situation have been tagged with the cause of action if any against the appellant.
the board could not while exercising its jurisdiction under s 461bof the act proceeded on the basis of such presumption.
it is not correct that no cause of action survived against jain industries.
in the suit only the competing right of the first respondent qua the appellant can be determined and not a right against m s such a right can not be determined in a proceeding under s 461b of the act which is restricted to non user of the registered trade mark.
as it takes away somebody 's right it deserves strict construction.
it does not provide for a sun set law.
the principle of purchaser of a property has a duty to make enquiriestherefore cannot apply in a case of this nature.
in the case of american home products corporation v mac laboratories pvt ltd.
if that be so any registered proprietor could easily defeat an application for rectification by assigning the mark to some other person to have a fresh period of 5 years from the date of assignment and thus effectively frustrate the very object of the provision in s 471a and b further it is to be noted that an assignment is subject to the provisions of the act and any rights vested in any other person see.
we do not think that the approach of the learned author is entirely correct.
section 56 power to cancel or vary registration and to rectify the register  1.
on application made in the prescribed manner to a high court or to the registrar by any person aggrieved the tribunal may make such order as it may think fit for cancelling or varying the registration of a trade mark on the ground of any contravention or failure to observe a condition entered on the register in relation thereto.
it may mean the moment or existing position as was held by this court in the case of jivendra nath kaul v collector district magistrate and anr 1992.
3 scc 576 1992 indlaw sc 1107 or in the context of cl 22 of art 366 of the constitution as has been held in h h maharajadhiraja.
madhav rao jivaji rao scindia bahadur of gwalior h h maharajadhiraja.
maharana shri bhagwat singhji bahadur of udaipur v union of india and anr air 1971.
sc 530 1970 indlaw sc 300 para 88 to mean by the use of the expression for the time being in cl 22 of art 366.
in kabushiki kaisha toshiba v tosiba appliances co ors 2008 8 scale 354 2008 indlaw sc 1395this court held we do not find any force in the aforementioned submission.
cls a and b operate in different fileds.
had the intention of the parliament been that sub s 3 covers cases falling under cl b and clause ahaving regard to the similarity of the expressions used there was no reason as to why it could not be stated so explicitly.
such non user for a temporary period may be due to any exigency including a bar under a statute or a policy decision of the government or any action taken against the registrant.
v addisons paint chemicals ltd 2003 11 scc 92 2003 indlaw sc 756 in our opinion the phrase person aggrieved for the purposes of removal on the ground of non use under s 46 has a different connotation from the phrase used in s 56 for canceling or expunging or varying an entry wrongly made or remaining in the register.
for the views we have taken we are of the opinion that the impugned judgment can not be sustained.
it is set aside accordingly.
the board shall however proceed to determine afresh the application filed by the first in the light of the legal principles explained above.
the appeal is allowed with costs.
counsel 's fee assessed at rs 100000.
