the present appeal arises out of the judgment and order dated 01 07 2002 passed by the high court of bombay at goa in criminal appeal No 6 of 2000 convicting the accused appellant section 302 of the indian penal code for short the the ipc and sentencing him to undergo life imprisonment for the offence by setting aside the order of acquittal passed by the trial court.
on 19 04 1988 between 8 30 p m and 8 45 p m satish narayan sawant the appellant accused No 1 along with two other accused persons and also with two delinquent children allegedly formed an unlawful assembly and that in furtherance of the said common object stabbed one rauji dulba sawant the deceased and also assaulted baby dulba sawant pw 1 ashok dulba sawant pw 2 kunda rauji sawant pw 8 and laxmi dulba sawant pw 18 who are the sister brother wife and mother respectively of the deceased.
it is also the case of the prosecution that as a result of the aforesaid stab injuries given to the deceased he expired on the same day i e on 19 04 1988.
p s joaquim dias pw 21 who was attached to the ponda police station as p s i received a phone call at about 10 45 p m from p s i k k desai of the panaji police station that a person named rauji dulba sawant had been brought in police jeep by police constable jaisingrao rane and that while he was being taken to the goa medical college he expired.
on receipt of the aforesaid message pw 21 along with asi tabit mamlekar went to the scene of offence.
they reached the scene of offence at about 11 30 p m but found the entire place plunged into darkness and with the help of torch light pw 21 surveyed the scene of offence.
during the survey made at the place of occurrence pw 21 noticed some blood stains in the front courtyard of the house and a pipe of length of about 1 foot or slightly less lying in the courtyard having blood stains.
on enquiring from her pw 21 learnt that her name was yeshoda who was later on arrayed as accused No 3.
two juvenile girls named sarita and sharmila who are the sisters of the appellant were found in the house.
not finding the appellant and accused no 2 in the house dy.
s p shri raikar and p i shri alan osa were sent in their search.
religious ceremony was performed by installing the statue of lord ganesh in the house and.
while the said religious ceremony was being performed accused No 2 started uttering insults while standing in the kitchen.
accused No 3 told the appellant not to do anything in the ceremony and insulted the family members of rauji.
on his return he went to take bath and after having bath he went and switched off the light of the room.
thereupon the appellant went and removed the fuse of the said light.
accused No 3 had then lit a kerosene lamp and brought the same in the hall.
there was already an oil lamp burning which was attached to the ceiling by a brass chain.
according to pw 1 in order to avoid the assault by all of them they went to bulcao balcony.
it was also alleged that when pw 8 tried to intervene the other three accused started assaulting her with fists and slaps.
in the meanwhile residents of the locality had gathered in the courtyard and told the accused persons not to assault rauji.
pw 1 however intervened and removed the said piece of cement block from the hand of accused No 3 but.
pw 18 rushed to the rescue of deceased rauji.
after completion of the arguments the trial court reserved the verdict.
2 8 18 and the complainant herself pw 1.
he in his deposition specifically stated that he found that the back door as well as the front door of the house were latched from inside and in front of the house there was a road where there was an electricity pole and there was a street tube light by which the house could be visible and even the lights of the vehicles were flashed at the house.
he stated that although the house had electricity connection but was not having the electricity supply.
he gave instructions to his subordinate and also to the people around that nobody should touch any article lying at the scene of occurrence.
but at a later stage they came there.
the ratio of the decision in bhagwant kishore joshi 1963 indlaw sc 268 supra is applicable to the facts of the present case as the police officer merely visited the spot and place of occurrence and made some survey which can not be regarded as investigation.
blood was found by the police on the wall of the verandah and in the courtyard.
reference in this regard may be made to the decision of this court in state of u p v krishna gopal 1988 4 scc 302 1988 indlaw sc 76 anwar v state of haryana 1997 9 scc 766 1997 indlaw sc 2447 ravi kumar v state of punjab 2005 9 scc 315 2005 indlaw sc 170 munivel v state of t n 2006 9 scc 394 2006 indlaw sc 118.
the place of occurrence is a residence inhabited by both the parties and there is no evidence on record that the deceased was armed with any weapon.
there is therefore provocation and the incident happened at the spur of the moment.
mr r sundaravardhan learned senior counsel appearing for the appellant very forcefully submitted that the high court was not justified in setting aside the order of acquittal passed in respect of the present appellant.
a scuffle started between the nephew and the uncle in which the accused persons also received injuries and therefore the right of private defence of the appellant was available and in that view of the matter the order of conviction and sentence is liable to be set aside.
he also submitted that if two views are possible and if there are lacunae in the case of the prosecution the benefit must go to the accused.
he submitted that since there was violation of the provisions of section 162 of the crpc the accused appellant is liable to be acquitted.
ms a subhashini learned counsel appearing for the respondent state however strenuously submitted that none of the aforesaid submissions could be accepted by this court as it is a foolproof case of conviction of the appellant section.
she has drawn our attention to the findings recorded by the high court while setting aside the order of acquittal observing that the evidence of eye witnesses namely pws.
counsel for the respondent has therefore taken us through the evidence of pws.
1 2 8 and 18 and on the basis thereof submitted that their evidence clearly prove and establish the role of the appellant herein in stabbing the deceased with the knife which he had brought from the other room with the intention of killing the deceased and therefore it is a clear case of conviction.
learned counsel appearing for the appellant was critical of the manner in which pw 21 initiated the investigation without recording any g d entry and without getting any fir recorded.
p c he next submitted that no evidence having been led by the prosecution about the time when the fir reached the magistrate therefore there is also violation of the provisions of section 157 of the cr.
the issue with regard to the initiation of the investigation without recording the fir was succinctly addressed by this court in the case of state of u p v bhagwant kishore joshi 1964 3 scr 71 1963 indlaw sc 268 observed as follows 17.
what is investigation is not defined in the code of criminal procedure but in h n rishbud and inder singh v state of delhi 1954 indlaw sc 14 this court has described the procedure for investigation as follows thus under the code investigation consists generally of the following steps 1 proceeding to the spot 2 ascertainment of the facts and circumstances of the case 3 discovery and arrest of the suspected offender 4 collection of evidence relating to the commission of the offence which may consist of a the examination of various persons including the accused and the reduction of their statements into writing if the officer thinks fit b the search of places of seizure of things considered necessary for the investigation and to be produced at the trial and 5 formation of the opinion as to whether on the material collected there is a case to place the accused before a magistrate for trial and if so taking the necessary steps for the same by the filing of a charge sheet section this court however has not said that if a police officer takes merely one or two of the steps indicated by it what he has done must necessarily be regarded as investigation.
investigation in substance means collection of evidence relating to the commission of the offence.
no doubt section 5 a of the prevention of corruption act was enacted for preventing harassment to a government servant and with this object in view investigation except with the previous permission of a magistrate is not permitted to be made by an officer below the rank of deputy superintendent of police.
where however a police officer makes some preliminary enquiries does not arrest or even question an accused or question any witnesses but merely makes a few discreet enquiries or looks at some documents without making any notes it is difficult to visualise how any possible harassment or even embarrassment would result therefrom to the suspect or the accused person.
since no irregularity was committed by him there is no occasion to invoke the aid of the curative provisions of the code.
in animireddy venkata ramana and others v public prosecutor high court of andhra pradesh 2008 5 scc 368 2008 indlaw sc 354 this court while considering a similar case observed as follows 10.
immediately after the incident hearing cries of passengers the driver of the bus stopped the bus.
in any event the destination of the bus was the said village and they were bound to take the bus thereat.
the conductor of the bus sent an information to the depot manager of the state road transport corporation at tuni.
a report to that effect might have been noted in the general diary but the same could not have been treated to be an fir.
this court has observed as follows in the case of dinesh kumar v state of rajasthan 2008 8 scc 270 2008 indlaw sc 2034 11.
in law testimony of an injured witness is given importance.
the truth or otherwise of the evidence has to be weighed pragmatically.
but if after careful analysis and scrutiny of their evidence the version given by the witnesses appears to be clear cogent and credible there is no reason to discard the same.
in the case of state of a p v rayavarapu punnayya 1976 4 scc 382 1976 indlaw sc 192 this court observed as follows at page 386 12.
in the scheme of the penal code culpable homicides is genus and murder its specie.
all murder is culpable homicide but not vice versa.
for the purpose of fixing punishment proportionate to the gravity of this generic offence the code practically recognises three degrees of culpable homicide.
placing strong reliance on the aforesaid decision this court in the case of abdul waheed khan v state of a p 2002 7 scc 175 2002 indlaw sc 1777 observed as follows at page 184 13.
b of section 299 corresponds with cls 2 and 3 of section 300.
instances of cases falling u cl 2 of section 300 can be where the assailant causes death by a fist blow intentionally given knowing that the victim is suffering from an enlarged liver or enlarged spleen or diseased heart and such blow is likely to cause death of that particular person as a result of the rupture of the liver or spleen or the failure of the heart as the case may be.
b of section 299 the words sufficient in the ordinary course of nature have been used.
the distinction is fine but real and if overlooked may result in miscarriage of justice.
b of section 299 conveys the sense of probable as distinguished from a mere possibility.
in virsa singh v state of punjab4.
1958 indlaw sc 82 vivian bose j speaking for the court explained the meaning and scope of cl.
the ingredients of clause thirdly of section 300 ipc were brought out by the illustrious judge in his terse language as follows 12.
these observations of vivian bose j have become locus classicus.
the test laid down by virsa singh case4 for the applicability of clause thirdly is now ingrained in our legal system and has become part of the rule of law.
illustration c appended to section 300 clearly brings out this point.
the above are only broad guidelines and not cast iron imperatives.
in most cases their observance will facilitate the task of the court.
reference in this regard may be made to the decision of this court in ruli ram v state of haryana 2002 7 scc 691 2002 indlaw sc 1927 augustine saldanha v state of karnataka 2003 10 scc 472 2003 indlaw sc 674 state of u p v virendra prasad 2004 9 scc 37 2004 indlaw sc 60 chacko v state of kerala 2004 12 scc 269 2004 indlaw sc 20 section n bhadolkar v state of maharasthra 2005 9 scc 71 2004 indlaw sc 268 and jagriti devi v state of h p jt 2009 8 sc 648.
section 299 and section 300 ipc deals with the definition of culpable homicide and murder respectively.
the bare reading of the section makes it crystal clear that the first and the second clause of the section refer to intention apart from the knowledge and the third clause refers to knowledge alone and not intention.
both the expression intent and knowledge postulate the existence of a positive mental attitude which is of different degrees.
the mental element in culpable homicide i e mental attitude towards the consequences of conduct is one of intention and knowledge.
accordingly we convict the appellant under section 304 part ii of ipc and sentence him to undergo imprisonment for a period of 7 years.
his bail bonds shall stand cancelled and the appellant shall surrender immediately to serve out the remaining period of sentence.
if however the appellant does not surrender by himself the state shall take necessary steps to rearrest him to undergo the remaining part of sentence.
the appeal stands disposed of in terms of aforesaid order.
