these three appeals by special leave are directed against the order dated september 92004 passed by intellectual property appellate board for shortipab whereby it ordered the removal of appellant 's mark infosys from the register of trade marks in respect of computer stationery computer manuals printed matter for computer instructional and teaching materials computer hardware and peripherals and machine and machine tools.
the appellant is infosys technologies limited.
it was incorporated and registered under the companies act1956 on july 21981 in the name of infosys consultants private limited.
on april 211992the name of the company infosys consultants pvt.
limited was changed to infosys technologies pvt.
ltd and thereafter on june 21992the name was changed to the present name i e.
the first respondent is jupiter infosys limited.
the first respondent was incorporated and registered in september 1978 under the name of jupiter agencies pvt.
the name of the first respondent was changed to jupiter infosys p limited in august1995 and now since july2003the name is changed to jupiter international limited.
the ad interim order was confirmed on november 291996.
on september 132000the calcutta high court restrained the department of company affairs and registrar of companies from incorporating any company bearing the name infosys without the permission of the appellant.
in january 2001the appellant filed yet another suit before the high court of judicature at madras for permanent injunction restraining the first respondent from offering shares to the public as claimed in the initial public offer ipo using infosys.
the said order was confirmed on may 222001 to remain operative till disposal of suit.
the first respondent then filed three separate applications before the madras high court inter alia under sections 46 and 56 of the trade and merchandise marks act1958.
cwhether the mark registered in favour of the respondent is a service mark.
dwhether there is a non use of registered trade mark by the respondent for a period of over 5 years and 1 month.
perused the averments made in the suit and application which are duly supported by documents on record.
i am of the opinion that in case ex parte ad interim orders are not granted the relief claimed itself may be rendered infructuous.
accordingly it is directed that pending further consideration of the matter after notice for the next date of hearing the defendants are restrained by themselves their directors employees agents andor others acting on its behalf from using the trade mark corporate name infosys or any other mark name deceptively similar trade mark or colourable imitation thereof as a mark andor corporate name or as part of a mark andor business name in respect of goods andor services for publicity on propaganda on websites and or in domain names in any way whatsoever thereby causing infringement of the registered trade mark infosys of the plaintiff in isolation or in combination with words letters numbers their advertisements as part of their corporate name either in isolation or in goods and services or in or by way of any advertisement publicity campaigns etc.
compliance of order xxxix rule 3 cpc within three days.
the said suit was transferred to the court of the additional district judge tis hazari court delhi.
in the counter affidavit a very vague objection in the following terms was raised that the present petition apart from being false and misconceived lacks the necessary jurisdiction hence deserves outright rejection.
learned counsel heavily relied upon two decisions of this court 1 hardie trading ltd anr v.
addisons paint chemicals ltd 2003 11 scc 92 2003 indlaw sc 756 and 2 kabushiki kaisha toshiba v tosiba appliances company ors 2008 10 scc 766 2008 indlaw sc 1395.
assailing the finding of the ipab as regards non use by the appellant during the relevant period learned counsel for the appellant argued that the said finding was erroneous on legal as well as factual premise.
according to him the ipab sought to rely upon computer programming which is a service enumerated in class 42without considering the distinction between a computer programme and computer programming and without noticing the entry computer under class 9 which falls within goods.
akhil sibal learned counsel also argued that the ipab failed to have regard to the proviso to section 461in terms of which it is open to the registered proprietor to rely upon use of the registered trade mark during the relevant period in relation to goods of the same descriptionin order to resist an application for rectification.
in this regard he relied upon m s eagle potteries.
m s eagle flask industries pvt.
ltd air 1993 bombay 185 1992 indlaw mum 6327 lever brothers port sunlight ld v.
sunniwite products ld 1949 66 rpc 84.
the ritz hotel v charles of the ritz 1989.
rpc 333 and australian wine importers trade mark.
learned counsel for the appellant also submitted that in any view of the matter the ipab erred in exercising its discretion under section 46 of the 1958 act without taking into consideration the aspect of public interest.
he argued that the ipab ought to have considered whether use of mark infosys by the first respondent on computer hardware would create confusion in the mind of the consumers that they might be led to believe that the said hardware is manufactured by the appellant.
learned counsel thus submitted that the impugned order is unsustainable and liable to be set aside.
on the other hand an objection is raised in the written submissions on behalf of the first respondent and reference was made in support of the objection to seven judge bench decision of this court in l chandrakumar v union of india ors 1997 3 scc 261 1997 indlaw sc 2816 that challenge to the order of ipab directly in the appeal before this court under article 136 of the constitution is barred.
in reply to the arguments of learned counsel for the appellant mr vaibhav gaggar learned counsel for the first respondent strenuously urged that the plea of aggrieved person is a new plea and raised substantially for the first time before this court.
in this regard he relied upon a decision of the madras high court in agha hyder hussain anr v.
omar khayyam wineries pvt ltd anr air 1977 mad 166.
he also placed reliance upon some more decisions viz ritz hotel ltd 1989.
rpc 333philosophy di alberta ferretti 2003 r p c 15.
keystone knitting mills trade mark1929 1 ch.
d 92 and motor terms company pty limited v.
it was contended by mr vaibhav gaggar that even otherwise in view of the fraud perpetrated by the appellant qua the registrations in question the issue as to whether the first respondent had a dispute with the trade mark or not pales into insignificance as the primary duty of the court is to maintain the purity of the register.
he argued that in a case such as the present one since the allegations against the appellant relate to trafficking squatting and non user the scope of person aggrieved has to be enlarged.
learned counsel submitted that the fact that the appellant continues to allege and that stance has not changed in the pleadings in slp as well that the first respondent is an infringer pilfriger defrauder someone who wants to ride on the goodwill of the appellant or someone who wants to mislead the public at large there is no question of the first respondent ceasing to be a person aggrieved at any stage.
vaibhav gaggar learned counsel for the first respondent contended that the appellant is registered as a manufacturer and trader under classes 79 and 16 even though it is a company engaged in software only.
moreover there is nothing on record to indicate linkage with the manufacturing or marketing of the goods for which the appellant is holding registration of subject trade marks.
he vehemently contended that goods in classes 79 and 16 for which the appellant obtained registration were never used in the manner contemplated by the 1958 act for almost 30 years and that would show the mala fide intention of the appellant in having the same registered for the purpose of squatting and trafficking.
in this regard he relied upon a decision of the madras high court in nestle 's products india.
in any case learned counsel would submit that the expression infosys is not descriptive expression.
a likelihood of some injury or damage to the applicant by such trade mark remaining on the register may meet the test of locus standi.
but if the ground for rectification is merely based on non user i e under section 46 of the act that is not really on account of any public mischief by way of an incorrect entry.
all cases of this kind where the original registration is not illegal or improper ought to be considered as questions of common sense to a certain extent at any rate and i think the applicants ought to show something approaching a sufficient or proper reason for applying to have the trade mark expunged.
in the case of hardie trading ltd 2003 indlaw sc 756 1this court approved the test applied by romer j in the royal baking powder company v wright crossley and co 1898.
15 rpc 677which has been reproduced in the report.
hardie trading ltd 2003 indlaw sc 756 1 has been followed by this court in a recent decision in the case of kabushiki kaisha toshiba 2008 10 scc 766 2008 indlaw sc 1395.
secondly and more importantly during the pendency of the applications certain events had taken place which had some bearing on the question of locus standi of the first respondent insofar as invocation of section 46 1 of the 1958 act is concerned.
this is so because the pre requisite for exercise of power under section 461 is that the applicant is a person aggrieved.
we concur with the above statement.
sections 46 and 56 read as follows s 46 removal from register and imposition of limitations on ground of non use   1 subject to the provisions of section.
the tribunal may in any proceeding under this section decide any question that may be necessary or expedient to decide in connection with the rectification of the register.
in hardie trading ltd 2003 indlaw sc 756 2003 11 scc 92this court stated as follows the phrase person aggrieved is a common enough statutory precondition for a valid complaint or appeal.
the situations covered by this section include a the contravention or failure to observe a condition for registration b the absence of an entry c an entry made without sufficient cause d a wrong entry and e any error or defect in the entry.
persons aggrieved may also apply for cancellation or varying an entry in the register relating to a certification trade mark to the central government in certain circumstances.
in view of the above these appeals are allowed in part and the impugned order dated september 92004 is set aside.
the applications being tra nos 25 to 27 of 2003 op nos 764 to 766 of 2001 are restored to the file of intellectual property appellate board chennai for hearing and disposal afresh in accordance with law.
the parties shall bear their own costs.
