These four appeals arise out of four certi ficates granted by the High Court of Rajasthan and raise a common question.
We therefore, propose to set out facts in one of the present appeals (No. 887), as the facts in other appeals are similar, except that the commodity involved was different and so was the amount in dispute.
The suit out 'of which appeal No. 887 has arisen was filed by the respondent against the State of Rajasthan.
These second appeals were heard along with the first appeal in the High Court.
The High Court permitted the point to be raised as it was a pure question of law.
180 all laws in all Covenanting States were repealed and the laws in force in the State of Patiala were to apply mutatis mutandis to the entire territories of the new State.
Otherwise we see no sense or purpose in continuing the old laws till they are altered or repeated if the intention was that the obligations and liabilities flowing from the continuance of the old laws would notwithstanding the Covenant not be assumed by the new State.
But whereas in the present case the old laws were to continue till they were repealed or altered it follows in our opinion that the rights arising under the old laws in the subjects of the merging States would continue and these subjects would have the same rights against the new State as they would have under the old laws against the merging State.
Thus by continuing the old laws, till they are repealed, altered or modified, the new State in effect undertook the liability which might arise against it by virtue of the continuance of the old laws, Even if there was some doubt about the new State undertaking the liabilities of the old State in view of the continuance of the old laws, we can in accordance with the decision in the Daltia Dadri Cement Co. 's case(1) look to article VI of the Covenant to come to the conclusion that on continuing the old laws, until they were altered, repealed or modified, the (1) [1959] S.C.R. 729.
182 new State intended to affirm the rights of the subjects which they had against the merging State and to assume itself the liability if any arising against the merging State.
This is the basic difference between the Dalmia Dadri Cement Company case(1) and the present case, for in that case the old laws were repealed and thus repudiated in areas other than Patiala State while in the present case the old laws were continued till they were repealed or altered; and in view of that basic difference between that case and the present case we can legitimately call in aid article VI of the Covenant and similar provisions which were always made throughout this process of merger in Rajasthan and treat them as evidence from which to come to the conclusion that the new State, by continuing the old laws, without change till they were repealed or altered, recognised that it was liable in the same way as would have been the merging State if there was any liability on the merging State.
