Appeal No. 251 of 1963.
Appeal by special leave from the judgment and order dated March 20, 1957, of the Patna High Court in Civil Revision No. 40 of 1956.
M. C. Setalvad, and R. C. Prasad, for the appellants.
The respondent did not appear.
This question has to be answered in the light of the definition prescribed by section 2(vi) before it was amended in 1958.
The subsequent amendment expressly provides by section 2(vi) (a) that any remuneration payable under any award or settlement between the parties or order of a Court, would be included in the main definition under section 2(vi).
The point which we have to decide in the present appeal is whether the remuneration payable under an award was not already included in the definition of wages before the said definition was amended.
It is common ground that between the appellant, Sasamusa Sugar Works Ltd., and its workmen, the respondents, an award had been made by an Industrial Tribunal fixing the pay of the employees at Rs. 2/2/ per day, and in pursuance of the said award, the management of the appellant had entered into an agreement with the respondents that effect would be given to the wage structure, prescribed by the said award.
This agreement was subsequently published in the Bihar Gazette as a part of the award.
In spite of the award and the agreement, the appellant paid its employees only As.
/ 10 / per day and that led to the present claim made by the respondents under section 15 of the Act.
The respondents contended before the payment of wages authority that the refusal of the appellant to pay to them wages at the rate awarded, in substance, amounted to an illegal deduction from their wages and on that basis, they asked for an order from the authority directing the appellant to pay to the respondents the said prescribed wages.
The appellant raised two pleas against the respondents ' claim.
It urged that section 15 of the Act was inapplicable, because the rates of wages fixed by the award did not fall within the definition of wages prescribed by section 2(vi) and it also argue,, that the claim of the respondents was barred by limitation.
421 The authority has found that section 2(vi) includes wages prescribed by the Industrial Tribunal, and so, it has rejected the appellants ' contention that the applications made by the respondents were incompetent under section 15 of the Act.
In regard to the question of 'limitation, the authority did not decide the said question as a preliminary question, because it held, and, in our opinion, rightly, that it was a mixed question of fact and law, and so, it had to be tried after recording evidence.
