ivil Appeal No. 325 of 1965.
Appeal by special leave from the Award dated September 20, 1963 of the Central Government Industrial Tribunal, Bombay in Reference CG IT 25 of 1962.
section V. Gupte, Solicitor General, M. Rajagopalan and K. R. Choudhuri, for the appellants.
C. B. Agarwala, J. B. Dadachanji, O. C. Mathur and Ravinder Narain, for the respondents.
The Judgment of the Court was delivered by Hidayatullah J.
This is an appeal by special leave against an award dated September 20, 1963 made by the Presiding Officer of the Central Government Industrial Tribunal, Bombay in a reference made by the Government of India under section 10(2) of the .
The appellants are the workmen of the Bombay Port Trust, who are and have been represented in this dispute by the Bombay Port Trust Employees ' Union.
The respondents to this appeal are the trustees of the Port of Bombay.
The reference was made on a joint application of the parties.
and the matter in dispute was stated to be : "Whether the existing system of work of the shore crew of the Prince 's and Victoria Docks under which each shift consists of 8 hours ' normal duty, 2 hours ' variable recess and 12 hours ' overtime needs any modification? The Tribunal, by the award impugned here, held that the Union was not able to establish that the existing system of work needed any modification.
The Port Trust had under its control several docks.
Reference in this judgment will be made to the Prince 's and Victoria Docks, the Alexandra Docks, Butcher Island and the Flotilla Crew.
These represent different areas of work where different groups of workmen were employed.
From the facts appearing on the record it appears that the Trustees first introduced a two shift system of work in the Alexandra Docks on June 30, 1953 and the same system was extended to the Prince 's and Victoria Docks on December 15, 1953.
Previously, the shore crew at all these places worked in a single shift and were liable to be called out at 634 any hour of the day or night.
When the two shift system began, each shift of 12 hours was broken up into 8 hours ' duty, 2 hours ' variable recess and 2 hours ' overtime.
The hours of rest were kept variable as they depended on the tides.
In 1956 the workmen, who were then represented by the Port Trust General Workers ' Union, made a demand for a fixed recess of two hours.
The Trustees apprehended that this was a device to get 4 hours ' overtime and rejected the demand.
The General Workers Union was informed that if the demand was pressed a three shift system would be introduced.
The workmen then retraced their steps and accepted a 2 hours ' variable recess but requested that it should be as near the middle of the shift as possible.
The Trustees agreed to accept the hours of rest at fixed hours in the Alexandra Docks but at the Prince 's and Victoria Docks they kept it variable agreeing to fix it as near the middle of the duty hours as possible.
