Appeal No. 381 of 1966.
Appeal by special leave from the judgment and order dated October 7, 1965 of the Punjab High Court (Circuit Bench) at Delhi in Civil Writ No. 1626 C of 1965.
M. C. Setalvad, R. K. Garg and section C. Agarwala, for the appellants.
C. K. Daphtary, Attorney General, B. R. L. Iyengar, R. K. P. Shankardass and R. H. Dhebar, for respondents Nos. 1 and 3 to 7.
section Mohan Kumaramangalam, C. Ramakrishna and A. V. V. Nair, for respondent No. 2.
The dissenting Opinion Of SARKAR, C.J. and MUDHOLKAR.
, J. was delivered by MUDHOLKAR, J HIDAYATULLAH.
delivered separate judgments allowing the Appeal.
On May 19, 1965 Mr. D. section Dang, Secretary of the Company Law Board issued an order on behalf of the Company Law Board made under section 237 (b) of the appointing 4 persons as Inspectors for investigating the affairs of the Barium Chemicals Ltd., appellant No. I before us, since its incorporation in the year 1961 and to report to the Company Law Board inter alia "all the irregularities and contravention in respect of the provisions of the or of any other law for the time being in force and the person or persons responsible for such irregularities and contravention.
" The order was made by the Chairman of the Board, Mr. R. C. Dutt on behalf of the Board by virtue of the powers conferred on him by certain rules to which we shall refer later.
On June 4, 1965 the Company preferred a writ petition under article 226 of the Constitution in the Punjab High Court for the issue of a writ of mandamus or other appropriate writ, direction or order quashing the order of the Board dated May 19, 1965.
The Managing Director, Mr. Balasubramanian joined in the petition as petitioner No. 2.
The writ petition is directed against 7 respondents, the first of which is the 318 Company Law Board.
The second respondent is Mr. T. T. Krishnamachari, who was at that time Minister for Finance in the Government of India.
The Inspectors: appointed are respondents 3 to 6 and Mr. Dang is the 7th respondent.
Apart from the relief of quashing the order of May 19, 1965 the appellants sought the ' issue of a writ restraining the Company Law Board and the Inspectors from giving effect to the order dated May 19, 1965 and also sought some other incidental reliefs.
The order of the Board was challenged on 5 grounds which are briefly as follows: (1) that the order was made mala fide; (2) that in making the order the Board had acted on material extraneous to the matters mentioned in section 237(b) of the ; (3) that the order having in fact been made at the instance of the shareholders is invalid and on a true construction of section 237 this could not be done; (4) that the order was invalid because it was made by the Chairman of the Board and not by the Board; and (5) that the provisions of section 237(b) are void as offending articles 14 and 19(1) (g) of the Constitution.
The allegations of mala fides were denied on behalf of the respondents.
They disputed the validity of all the other grounds raised by the petitioners.
Appellant No. 2 was appointed Managing Director of the Company from December 5, 1961 and his appointment and remuneration were approved by the Central Government on July 30, 1962.
The erection of the plant was undertaken by M/s. L. A. Mitchell Ltd., of Manchester in pursuance of a collaboration agreement between it and the company entered in October, 1961 and approved by the Central Government in November of that year.
Thereafter a permit for importing the requisite machinery was granted to the Company.
The issued capital of the Company was Rs. 50, 00,000 and the public was invited to subscribe for shares in the Company.
It is said that the issue was oversubscribed by March 12, 1962.
319 It would see that soon after the collaboration agreement was entered into M/s. L. A. Mitchell Ltd., was taken over by a financial group (M/s. Pearwn, & Co. Ltd.), to which a. person named Lord Poole belonged.
It would appear that as the work of setting up of the plant was being delayed the Company sent a notice to M/s Mitchell Ltd. , on April 2, 1965 in which the Company stated that if the plant was not completely installed and got into running order by June 1, 1965 the Company will have to make alternative arrangements and that it would hold M/s. L. A. Mitchell Ltd., liable to pay damages to the Company for the loss suffered by it.
As a result of the notice Lord Poole visited India in April/May, 1965.
In his opinion the design of the plant was defective.
Certain negotiations took place between the Company and Lord Poole in the course of which an undertaking was given by Lord Poole on at behalf of the collaborators that the work would be completed with necessary alterations and modifications in accordance with the report of M/s. Humphrey & Co., and that the collaborators would spend an additional amount upto pound 250,000 as may be required for the purpose.
It is said that the plaint was producing at that time only 25 per cent of its installed capacity but that according to the assurance given by Lord Poole it would yield full production by April, 1966.
According to the appellants, before entering into a collaboration agreement with M/s. L. A. Mitchell Ltd., the appellant No. 2 Balasubramanian was negotiating with a German firm named Kali Chemie A. G. of Hanover for obtaining their collaboration.
It is said that the firm of M/s. T. T. Krishnamachari & Sons were and still are the sole agents in India for some of the products of Kali Chemie.
The firm of T. T. Krishnamachari & Sons approached appellant No. 2 for the grant of sole selling, agency of the products of the plant to be established in collaboration with Kali Chemie.
Appellant No. 2 did not agree to this with the result that the company 's negotiations with Kali Chemie broke down.
The appellants also say that T. T. Krishnamachari & Sonswere later a so granted a licence to set up a plant for manufacturing barium chemicals but that on appellant No. 2 bringing certainfacts: to the notice of Mr. Nehru the licence in favour of T. T. Krishnamachari & Sons was revoked.
The relevance of these facts is in connection with the plea of mala fides.
On this part of the case the appellant 's contention is that the Chairman of the Company Law Board Mr. R. C. Dutt made the order for investigation into the affairs of appellant No. 1 at the instance of Mr. T. T. Krishnamachari, the then Finance Minister and also because of his bias against appellant No. 2.
The suggestion is that as the licence of M/s. T. T. Krishnamachari & Sons was revoked and as they were not even given sole selling agency for the sale of the products of barium chemicals Mr. T. T. Krishnaniachari wanted action to be taken under this provision either for penalising appellant No. 1 or putting pressure on it.
320 A lengthy argument was addressed before us by Mr. Setalvad bearing on the question of mala fides in the course of which he referred us to certain documents.
He also wanted us to bear in mind the sequence in which certain events occurred and said that these would indicate that the former Finance Minister must have been instrumental in having an order under section 237(b) made by the Chairman of the Board.
We were, however, not impressed by this argument.
Our learned brother Shelat has dealt with this aspect of the matter fully in his judgment and as we agree with him it is not necessary to say much on the point.
We would, however, like to refer to and deal with one aspect of the argument bearing on the question of mala fides.
Mr. Setalvad points out that the Company Law Board had decided in December 1964 to take action against appellant No. I under section 237(b) and had actually obtained approval of Mr. T. T. Krishnamachari to the proposed action.
Therefore, according to him the real order is of Mr. Krishnamachari even though the order is expressed in the name of the Board.
We find no substance in the argument.
The decision to take action was already taken by the Chairman and there is nothing to indicate that in arriving at that decision he was influenced by the Finance Minister.
If the decision arrived at by the Chairman was an independent one it cannot be said to have been rendered mala fide because it was later approved by Mr. Krishnamachari whose sons undoubtedly constitute the partnership firm of M/s. T. T. Krishnamachari & Sons.
It is also suggested by Mr. Setalvad that the action approved of in December, 1964 was delayed till May, 1965 because in the interval some negotiations with Kali Chemie had been started and had they ended fruitfully M/s. T.T. Krishnamachari & Sons would have got the sole selling agency of the products of barium chemicals.
Now it does seem from ,certain material brought to our notice that negotiations with Kali Chemie were revived by appellant No. 2 because of the difficulties which were being experienced in the working of the collaboration agreement with M/s. L. A. Mitchell Ltd. No material, however, is placed before us from which it could be reasonably inferred that had the negotiations with Kali Chemie fructified M/s. T. T. Krishnamachari & Sons would have secured the sole monopoly for sale of the products of barium chemicals.
One more point was urged in connection with this aspect of the argument and it is that the appellants were not given an opportunity to cross examine Mr. T. T. Krishnamachari and Mr. Dutt.
In our opinion, in a proceedingunder article 226 of the Constitution the normal rule is, as pointedout by this Court in The State of Bombay vs Purshottam Jog Naik to decide disputed questions on the basis of affidavits and that it is within the discretion of the High Court whether to allow a person who has sworn an affidavit before it as indeed Mr. Krishnamachari and Mr. Dutt have to be cross examined or not to permit it.
Mr. Setalvad said that as the appellants had made out a prima facie case of mala fides in their affidavits, and as these allegations had been denied by the respondents, the High Court was in error in refusing permission to the appellants to cross examine the persons who swore the affidavits on the side of the respondents.
We are not aware of the rule on which Mr. Setalvad bases himself.
There is nothing to show that the High Court thought that a prima facie case of mala fides had been made out.
Here Mr. Dutt has stated that it was not competent to the Court to go into the question of adequacy or otherwise of the material on the basis of which orders under section 237(b) are passed by the Board.
Then he stated: 'However, if in spite of what has been stated and contrary to the submissions above, this Han 'ble Court still holds that it is necessary for the Court to examine the relevant material in (1)[1961] I S.C.R. 417.
324 order to do justice, then the Board would have no objection to producing the same for the Court 's perusal provided it is not shown to the petitioners.
" It may be mentioned that the Court did not call for this material at all nor did the appellants seek its production.
In paragraph 9 Mr. Dutt has categorically stated that the order of May 19, 1965 was passed after careful and independent examination of the material by the Chairman and that it was issued in proper exercise of the powers conferred upon it.
He has specifically denied that it was issued at the instance of the second respondent.
In paragraph 10 Mr. Dutt has taken the plea that the petition was liable to be dismissed as it had not been made bona fide but for extraneous reasons and to create prejudice with a view to thwart statutory investigation.
Then he has set out the circumstances upon which his contention is based.
In paragraph 13 he has stated that without prejudice to his submissions in the earlier paragraphs he would reply to allegations contained in the various paragraphs of the writ petition.
Then follows paragraph 14 upon which Mr. Setalvad has founded an argument that the grounds disclosed therein being extraneous the order is invalid.
In this paragraph Mr. Dutt has admitted some of the facts stated in paragraphs 1 to 19.
He has also said that the Board was aware of the fact that the company had entered into collaboration with M/s. L. A. Mitchell Ltd. He has then added:. . but it has no information of any of the other matters and/or negotiations with M/s. L. A. Mitchell Ltd., Manchester.
However, from the Memoranda received by the Board referred to in paragraph 5 and other examination it appeared inter alia that: (i) that there had been delay, bungling and faulty planning of this project, resulting in double expenditure.
for which the 'collaborators had put the responsibility upon the Managing Director, Petitioner No. 2: (ii) Since its flotation the company has been continuously showing losses and nearly 1/3rd of its share capital has been wiped off; (iii)that the shares of the company which to start with were at a premium were being quoted on the Stock Exchange at half their face value; and (iv)some eminent persons who had initially accepted seats on the Board of Directors of the company had subsequently severed their connections with it due to differences with Petitioner No. 2 on account of the manner in which the affairs of the company were being conducted.
" In paragraph 5 it may be recalled Mr. Dutt has set out the grounds on which the writ petition deserved to be summarily 325 rejected.
It will thus be clear that what are characterised by Mr. Setalvad as the grounds upon which the order of the Board is based are nothing more than certain conclusions drawn by the Boar& from some of the material which it had before it.
Moreover the expression "inter alia" used by Mr. Dutt would show that the conclusions set out by him specifically are not the only ones which could be drawn from the material referred to by, him in paragraph 5 of his affidavit.
Turning to paragraph 16 of the affidavit we find that Mr. Dutt has clearly reiterated that there was ample material before the Board on which it could and did form the opinion that there were circumstances suggesting that as stated in the order of May, 19, 1965, the business of the company was being conducted with intent to defraud creditors, members and other persons and further that the persons concerned in the management of the affairs of the company had in connection therewith been guilty of fraud, misfeasance and other misconduct towards the company and its members.
This paragraph is in answer to paragraph 21 of the writ petition.
It is in that paragraph alone that the appellants had specifically raised the contention that the recital in the order as to the existence of material is not correct and that in point of fact there was no material before the Board to form the said opinion.
In this state of pleadings it would not be right to construe the affidavit of Mr. Dutt to mean that the only conclusions emerging from the material before the Board are those that are set out in paragraph 14 of his affidavit.
Apart from this we do not think that the conclusions set out in paragraph 14 are extraneous to the matters indicated in the order of May 19, 1965.
What is said therein is that there are circumstances suggesting that the business of the appellants is being conducted with intent to defraud its creditors, members and others, and that.
the persons concerned with the management of the affairs of the company have been guilty of fraud, misfeasance and other misconduct towards the company and its members.
it has to be borne in mind that what the Board is to be satisfied about is whether the circumstances suggest any of these things and not whether they establish any of these things.
Now, the first of its conclusion is to the effect that the materials show that there was delay , bungling, faulty planning of the project and that this resulted in double expenditure for which the collaborators had put the responsibility upon the Managing Director, that is, appellant No. 2.
Would it be farfetched to say that these circumstances could reasonably suggest to the Board that these happenings were not just pieces of careless conduct but were deliberate acts or omissions of appellant No. 2 done with the ulterior motive of earning profit for himself ? Similarly could not the fact that the company was continuously showing losses since its flotation and that 1/ 3rd of its 326 share : capital had ,been wiped out could have been suggestive of fraud to the Board.
In 'this connection, we think it right to point out that the spirit of the section must be kept in mind in determining its interpretation.
The section was enacted to prevent the Management of a company from acting in a manner prejudicial to the interests of the shareholders for whom it was difficult,to get together and take steps for the protection of their interests jointly.
It was this difculty of the shareholders which is a reality which had led to the enactment of the section.
There is no doubt that few share holders have the means or ability to act against the Management.
It would furthermore be difficult for the shareholders to find out the facts leading to the poor financial condition of a company.
The Government thought it right to take power to step in where there was reason to suspect that the Management may not have been acting in the interests of the shareholders who would not be able to take the steps against a powerful body like the Managementand to take steps for protection of such interests.
As we have said, the section gives the exploratory power only.
Its object is to find out the facts.
, a suspicion having been entertained that all was not well with the company.
The powers are exercised for ascertaining facts and, therefore, before they are finally known, all that is necessary for the exercise of the powers is the opinion ,of the Board that there are circumstances which suggest to it that fraud and other kinds of mismanagement mentioned in sub cls.
(i) to (iii) of cl.
(b) of the section may have been committed.
If the facts do reasonably suggest any of these things to the Board, the power can be exercised,though another.
individual might think that : the ;facts suggest otherwise It cannot be said that from a huge loss incurred by a company and the working of the company in a disorganised and un businegslike way, the only conclusion possible is that it was due to lack of capability.
It is reasonably ,conceivable that the result had been produced by fraud and other varieties of dishonesty or misfeasance.
The order does not amount to a finding of fraud.
It is to find out what kind of wrong ,action has led to,the company 's ill fate that the powers under the sectional given.
The enquiry may reveal that.the renovation or other similar kind of malfeasance.
It would be destroying the beneficial effective use of the powers given by the section to say that the Board must first show that a fraud can clearly be said to have.been committed.
It is enough that the facts show that it can be reasonably thought that the company 's unfortunate position might have been caused by fraud and other species of dishonest action.
In our opinion, therefore, the argument of Mr. Setalvad about the circumstances being extraneous cannot be accepted.
Coming to the third point of Mr. Setalvad pointed out that four ex Directors of the Company who had resigned submitted a 327 memorandum to Mr. T. T. Krishnamachari while he was holding the office of Finance Minister in which grave allegations were made concerning the affairs of the Company and the management of the Company by the second appellant.
The investigation, according to Mr. Setalvad.
was the outcome of this memorandum and that by ordering it the Board has in effect enabled the ex Directors who continue to be shareholders to circumvent the provisions of sections 235 and 236 of the .
Section 235 deals with "Investigation of affairs of company on application by members or report by Registrar".
Clause (a) of this section provides that in the case of a company having a share capital the investigation can be ordered either on the application of not less than 200 members or of members holding not less than one tenth of the total voting power therein.
We are not concerned with cls.
Apparently the four ex Directors were not holding 10% of the voting power of the Company.
At any rate the case was argued on this footing.
Section 236 provides that such application has to be supported by such evidence as the Board (reading 'Board ' for 'Central Government ') may require.
It also empowers the Board to require the applicants to furnish security for such amount, not exceeding one thousand rupees as it may think fit, for the payment of the costs of the investigation.
The contention is that though the Board acted upon the memorandum submitted by four ex Directors it did not even require them to comply with the provisions of section 236.
The contention is that the order of the Board appointing Inspectors is invalid.
In other words the argument amounts to this that the provisions of section 237(b) have been utilised by the Board as a cloak for taking action under the provisions of section 235.
In other words this is an argument that the order was made mala fide.
It is true that a memorandum was presented to Mr. Krishna machari by four ex Directors containing grave allegations against the two appellants.
But it was not solely on the basis of this memorandum that action was taken by the Board.
It is clear from the counter affidavit of Mr. Dutt and particularly from paragraph 5 thereof that the Board had before it not only two sets of memoranda dated May 30, 1964 and July 9, 1964 respectively from four ex Directors of the Company alleging serious irregularities and illegalities in the conduct of the affairs of the Company but also other materials.
