ivil Appeals No. 625630 of 1967.
Appeals by special leave from the judgment and order dated ' March 6, 1967 of the Orissa High Court in O.J.C. Nos.
495 and 496 of 1966, and 3, 4, 27 and 28 of 1967 respectively.
C.K. Daphtary, Attorney General, N.S. Bindra, G. Rath and R.N. Sachthey, for the appellant (in all the appeals).
625 and 629 of 1967) and respondents Nos. 20 to 22 (in C.A. No. 627 of 1967).
156 The Judgment of the Court was delivered by Hegde, J.
These cases are the outcome of an unfortunate conflict between the High Court and the government of Orissa.
Neither the High Court as such nor the Governor has any hand in his appointment.
The power to appoint the secretaries to the government is that of the Governor.
Under the Government of India Act 1935, the power to transfer a district judge from one post to another was that of the Governor though that power was always exercised in consultation with the High Court and by and large on the recommendation of the High Court.
In Orissa, as in most of the other States, that practice continued till the decision of tiffs Court in the State of Assam vs Ranga Mahammad and others(1).
Obviously when the Governor promulgated the Orissa Superior Judicial Service Rules 1963, he proceeded on the basis that the power to transfer the district judges and addl.
district judges, from one post to another whether as a judge or to one of the posts in the secretariat was in his hands.
It appears that for some time past there were differences between the High Court and the government about the posting of some of the judicial officers.
The High Court was anxious that a judicial officer occupying one of the administrative posts enumerated above, should not, in the interest of judicial work, continue in that post for an unduly long time.
The High Court insisted that ordinarily judicial officers should: not hold those posts for more than three years.
district judges as the case may be, after they had held those posts for three years or more.
But those requests were not respected.
On that account, there appears to have been some friction between the High Court and the gov ernment for some years past.
judges, was posted as superintendent and legal remembrancer in March 1962 Shri K.K. Bose, addl.
district and sessions judge, was posted as joint secretary in the law department in the same month.
He worked in that capacity till February 1965.
Thereafter, he was, posted as superintendent and legal remembrancer.
a district and sessions judge, was posted as member sales tax tribunal on 31 1 62.
That was a non cadre post.
In February 1965, the High Court took a policy decision to the effect that as a general rule, judicial officers working in special posts whether cadre or non cadre, outside their regular line, should be recalled to the regular line after the completion of three years.
in the interest of the service as well as the officers, so that "Officers may not deteriorate by remaining out of touch from regular judicial work for continuously long periods and the service will not suffer by being deprived of the services of senior and experienced officers in manning the posts in the regular judicial line.
But when it came to the question of implementing that policy, the government was reluctant.
But at that stage the High Court felt helpless as it was under the impression that under law the Governor was the sole authority to effect the. necessary transfers.
On September 21 1966, this Court rendered its decision in Ranga Mahammad 's(1) case.
The order of the High Court consists of two parts, namely, (1) holding that Shri B.K. Patro, Shri K.K. Bose and Shri P.C. Dey had no authority to act as law secretary, superintendent and legal remembrancer and member sales tax tribunal, respectively, on and after October 10, 1966, and (2) commanding the State of Orissa, the Chief Secretary to the government of Orissa, the Home Secretary to the government of Orissa, Shri P.C. Dey, Shri K.K. Bose and Shri Patro to implement the transfers ordered by the High Court on October 10, 1966.
It was not the case of the contesting respondents that Shri P.C. Dey, Shri K.K. Bose and Shri B.K. Patro had not the necessary qualifications to hold the posts they were holding.
It was also not disputed that they had been validly appointed to those posts.
In these circumstances we fail to see how the High Court could have held that they had no authority to hold the posts in question.
Shri Sarjoo Prasad learned counsel for the High Court of Orissa at the very commencement of his arguments conceded that the order of the High Court holding that those officers had no authority to hold the posts in question is unsustainable.
In view of that concession it is unnecessary for us to go into that question further.
As mentioned earlier, member, sales tax tribunal, was an ex cadre post.
