ases Nos. 297 and 298 of 1951.
Appeals under article 132 (1) of the Constitution from the judgment and order dated 28th August, 1951, of the High Court of Judicature at Calcutta (Harries C.J., Chakravarthi, Das, Banerjee and S.R. Das Gupta JJ.) in Civil Revision Cases Nos. 942 and 1113 of 1951.
The facts of the case and the argument of Counsel appear fully in the judgment.
M.C. Setalvad, Attorney General for India (B. Sen, with him) for the appellant in Case No. 297.
Jitendra Nath Ghose (R. P. Bagchi, with him) for the respondent in Case No. 297.
A.A. Peerbhoy and J.B. Dadachanji for Habib Mohammad (Intervener).
V. Rajaram Iyer, Advocate General of Hyderabad (R. Ganapathy Iyer, with him) for the State of Hyderabad.
A.R. Sornanatha Iyer, Advocate General of Mysore (K. Ramaseshayya Choudhry, with him) for the State of Mysore.
B. Sen, for the appellant in Case No. 298.
N.C. Chatterjee (section K. Kapur, with him) for the respond ent in Case No. 298. 1952.
The following judgments were deliv ered.
This is an appeal by the State of West Bengal from a judgment of a Full Bench of the High Court of Judicature at Calcutta quashing the conviction of the respondent by the Special Court established under sec tion 3 of the West Bengal Special Courts Ordinance, 1949, (Ordinance No. 3 of 1949) which was replaced in March, 1950, by the West Bengal Special Courts Act, 1950, (West Bengal Act X of 1950) (hereinafter referred to as "the Act").
The respondent and 49 other persons were charged with various offences alleged to have been committed by them in the course of their raid as an armed gang on a certain factory known as the Jessop Factory at Dum Dum, and they were convicted and sentenced to varying terms of imprison ment by the Special Court to which the case was sent for trial by the Governor of West Bengal by a notification dated 26th January, 1950, in exercise of the powers conferred by section 5 (1) of the Act.
Thereupon the respondent applied to the High Court under article 226 of the Constitution for the issue of a writ of certiorari quashing the conviction and sentence on the ground that the Special Court had no jurisdiction to try the case inasmuch as section 5 (1), under which it was sent to that Court for trial, was uncon stitutional and void under article 13 (2)as it denied to the respondent the equal protection of the laws enjoined by article 14.
The High Court by a Full Bench consisting of the Chief Justice and four other Judges quashed the conviction and directed the trial of the respondent and the other accused persons according to law.
The Act is intituled "An Act to provide for the speedier trial of certain offences ", and the preamble declares that "it is expedient to provide for the speedier trial of cer tain offences ".
Section 3 empowers the State Government by notification in the official gazette to constitute Special Courts, and section 4 provides for the appointment of spe cial judges to preside over such courts.
Section 5, whose constitutionality is impugned, runs thus: 290 "5(1) A Special Court shall try such offences or classes of cases, as the classes of offences or cases State Government may by general or special order in writing, direct.
(2) No.direction shall be made under sub section (1) for the trial of an offence for which an accused person was being tried at the commencement of this Act before any court but, save as aforesaid, such direction may be made in re spect of an offence, whether such ' offence was committed before or after the commencement of this Act.
" Sections 6 to 15 prescribe the special procedure which the court has to follow in the trial of the cases referred to it.
The main features of such procedure which mark a departure from the established procedure for criminal trials under the Code of Criminal Procedure are the elimination of the committal procedure in sessions cases and the substitu tion of the procedure laid down in the Code for trial of warrant cases by the Magistrate, trial without jury or assessors, restriction of the court 's power in granting adjournments, special powers to deal with refractory accused and dispensation of de novo trial on transfer of a case from one special court to another.
While some of these departures from the normal procedure might, in practice, operate in some respects to the disadvantage of persons tried before the Special Court, it cannot be said that they derogate from the essential requirements of a fair and impartial trial, so as to give rise, from their very nature, to an inference of a discriminatory design.
In other words, it cannot be said that the special procedure provided in the Act is, on its face, calculated to prejudice the fair trial of persons subjected to it.
The departure in each case is plainly calculated to shorten the trial and thus to attain the declared objective of the statute.
Harries C.J. who delivered the leading judgment, which Das and Banerjee JJ.
concurred, applied the test of what may be called "reasonable classification" and held that, although the need for a speedier trial than what is possible under the procedure prescribed 291 by the Code of Criminal Procedure might form the basis of a reasonable classification and section 5 (1) could not be regarded as discriminatory in so far as it authorises the State Government to direct that certain offences or classes of offences or classes of cases should be tried by a special court, the provision was discriminatory and violative of article 14 of the Constitution in so far as it purported to vest in the State Government an absolute and arbitrary power to refer to a special court for trial "any cases ", which must include an individual case, "whether the duration of such a case is likely to be long or not ".
The learned Chief Justice rejected the argument that the word "cases" in the sub section should, in view of the title and preamble of the Act.
be construed as meaning cases requiring speedier trial." He found it" impossible to cut down the plain meaning of the word 'cases ' as used in the section".
He realised that "the powers under the sub section could be so exercised as not to involve discrimination, but they also could, in my view, be exercised in a manner involving dis crimination.
When an Act gives power which may and can offend against a provision or provisions of the Constitution such an Act is ultra vires though it could be administered so as not to offend against the Constitution", and he relied in support of this view on certain observations in the judgment of the majority in the Crossroads case(1).
delivered separate judgments agreeing with the conclusion of the Chief Justice, Das Gupta J,, however, going further and holding that section 5 (1) was unconstitutional in its entirety inasmuch as "the clas sification sought to be made on the expediency of speedier trial is not a well defined classification.
It is too indef inite and there can hardly be any definite objective test to determine it.
" Before considering whether section 5(1) infringes, to any and what extent, the constitutional prohibition under article 14, it is necessary to ascertain the true scope and intendment of the impugned provision.
292 purports to provide for the matters to be tried by a special court and does not, in form, seek to define the kind or class of offences or cases which the State Government is empowered under the Act to assign to such a court for trial.
In other words, the purpose of section 5 (1) is to define the jurisdiction of a special court appointed under the Act and not the scope of the power conferred on the State Gov ernment to refer cases to such court.
As the very object of the Act was to provide for speedier trials by instituting a system of special courts with a simplified and shortened procedure, it is reasonable to conclude that, so far as the legislature was concerned, its intention was that courts constituted under the Act and applying such procedure should deal only with cases requiring speedier trial and that, accordingly, the State Government should refer to such courts only cases of that description.
The principle of construction applicable here is perhaps nowhere better stated than by Lord Tenterden C.J. in Halton vs Cove(1): "It is very true, as was argued for the plaintiff, that the enacting words of an Act of Parliament are not always to be limited by the words of the preamble, but must in many cases go beyond it.
"The object of the law, we assume, until the lower Court shall decide otherwise, is single to keep up competition and the general language is to be restricted by the specific provi sions and to the particular end.
" The title and the preamble as well as the other specific provisions of the Act here in question show unmistakably that the whole object and purpose of the legislation was to devise machinery for "speedier trial of certain offences", (which must mean trial of cases involving the commission of certain (1) (1830) I B. & Ad.
Its exercise must involve bona fide consideration of special features or circumstances which call for a comparatively prompt disposal of the case or cases proposed to be referred.
In other words, section 5 (1) must, in my opinion, be read as empowering the State Government to direct a special court to try such offences or classes of offences or cases or classes of cases as, in its judgment, require speedier trial.
The question next arises as to whether the provision, thus understood, violates the prohibition under article 14 of the Constitution.
The first part of the article, which appears to have been adopted from the Irish Constitution, is a declaration of equality of the civil rights of all persons within the territories of India and thus enshrines what American Judges regard as the "basic principle of republi canism" [cf.
The second part which is a corollary of the first and is based on the last clause of the first section of the Fourteenth Amendment of the Ameri can Constitution, enjoins that equal protection shall be secured to all such persons in the enjoyment of their rights and liberties without discrimination or favouritism, or as an American Judge put it "it is a (1) 17 Am.
294 pledge of the protection of equal laws" [Yick Wo vs Hopkins (1)], that is, Jaws that operate alike on all persons under like circumstances.
And as the prohibition under the article is directed against the State, which is defined in article 12 as including not only the legislatures but also the Governments in the country, article 14 secures all persons within the territories of India against arbitrary laws as well as arbitrary application of laws.
