Appeal No. 647 of 1966.
Appeal by special leave from the judgment and decree dated June 19, 24, 1963 of the Gujarat High Court in Appeal No. 704 of 1960 from Appellate Decree.
P. K. Chatterjee and section P. Nayar, for the appellant.
I. N. Shroff, for respondent No. 1.
section K. Dholakia and Vineet Kumar, for respondent No. 2.
The plaintiff failed before the Civil Judge, Rajkot, but on appeal succeeded before the District Judge, Central Saurashtra, inasmuch as he declared order dated February 2/4, 1955, illegal and void.
The plaintiff appealed to the High Court claiming arrears of salary and the State of Bombay filed cross objections praying that the suit be dismissed.
The second appeal was heard by the High Court of Gujarat (Miabhoy, J.) who directed that the decree passed by the lower appellate court "be varied so as to show that the appellant (plaintiff) continued to be in Government service till the date of the suit only and there will be a decree for Rs. 2,690 919 being arrears of pay due to the appellant (plaintiff) upto the date of the suit.
There will be a further provision in the decree that the liability arising out of the declaration that the appellant is in Government service is the liability of the State of Gujarat and that the liability for the payment of the arrears of pay is the liability of the State of Maharashtra".
In the result the appeal fails and is dismissed with costs to the respondent, Baishankar Avalram Joshi.
The State ' of Gujarat will bear its own costs in this appeal.
This appeal by special leave arises out of the suit filed by Bhaishankar Avalram Joshi, hereinafter referred to as the plaintiff, for a declaration that the order of dismissal, dated February 2/4, 1955, passed by the Inspector General of Prisons, Saurashtra, was illegal and void on the ground that it contravened the provisions of article 311 (2) of the Constitution.
The plaintiff also prayed for a decree for Rs. 2,690 being arrears of his pay from April 1, 1954 to May 7, 1956.
The Gondal State merged with the United States of Saurashtra.
On March 6, 1953, the plaintiff was appointed senior jailor, Surendranagar District Jail.
On March 25, 1954, he was suspended, and at that time he was acting as Accountant at Rajkot Central Jail.
On March 7, 1954, he was served with a charge sheet.
In substance the charges were that while he was serving at Surendranagar he had committed certain acts of mis appropriation of food stuffs meant for prisoners, maltreatment of prisoners and acceptance of illegal gratification from them.
The plaintiff filed a written statement on September 4, 1954, and an enquiry was held by Mr. Gangopadhyay.
The plaintiff appeared before that officer and cross examined witnesses.
He also examined himself and some witnesses.
He was also allowed to appear through an Advocate in the enquiry proceedings.
The Enquiry Officer made a report and on or about January 7, 1955, the following notice was issued to him calling upon him to show cause why he should not be dismissed from service "To Shri Bhaishanker A. Joshi, Accountant, Rajkot Central Prison (Under suspension) Charges framed against you under this office No. C/ 14 dated 27 3 54 and in particular the charges of having accepted illegal gratification from prisoner Ratilal Jivan have been established to the satisfaction of Government.
You are hereby asked to show cause why the punishment of dismissal from service should not be inflicted upon You.
920 You should please submit your reply to this office, through the Superintendent, Rajkot Central Prison,, within a week from the date of receipt of this letter without fail.
