Appeal No. 1311 of 1967.
Appeal by special leave from the judgment and order dated January 17, 1967 of the Patna High Court in C.W.J.C. No. 952 of 1966.
M. C. Chagla, N. D. Karkhanis, section P. Chowdhury, Bhuvanesh Kumari, for the appellant.
This is an assessee 's, appeal by special leave against the judgment of the High Court of Patna dismissing in limini its writ petition under Arts 226 and 227 of the Constitution of India.
It is a partnership firm.
For the assessment year 1960 61, relevant to the accounting year 1959 60, after the assessee submitted its income tax return, it was asked by the Income tax Officer during the income tax assessment proceedings to produce before him its books of account and the other relevant papers.
The assessee also produced before him a statement showing various creditors from whom it had borrowed on Hundis during the accounting year in question.
In that statement it gave the lull names and address of the alleged creditors.
Income Tax Officer, Muzaffarpur Dated, the 3 6 1966.
TO M/s. Chugamal Rajpal, Muzaffarpur.
" The assessee challenged the validity of that notice as well as proceedings taken on the strength of that notice on various grounds.
As we are accepting the contention of the assessee that the impugned notice is invalid inasmuch as it did not comply with the requirements of section 151(2) of the Act, we have not thought it necessary to examine the other contentions advanced on behalf of the assessee.
Section 151 (2) of the Act reads "No notice shall be issued under Section 148 after the expiry of four years from the end of the relevant assessment year, unless the Commissioner is satisfied on the reasons recorded by the Income tax Officer that it is a fit case for the issue of such notice." Section 148 prescribes : "(1) Before making the assessment, re assessment or re computation under Section 147, the Income tax Officer shall serve on the assesee a notice containing all or any of the requirements which may be included in a notice under sub section (2) of Section 139 and 445 the provisions of this Act shall, so far as may be, apply accordingly as if the notice were a notice issued under that sub section.
(2) The Income tax Officer shall, before issuing any notice under this section, record his reasons for doing so.
" Section 147 deals with income escaping assessment.
At this stage we need not refer to that section : We shall refer to that provision at a later stage.
