Appeal No. 1604 of 1967.
From the judgment and order dated the 8th February, 1967 of Le Delhi High Court in Civil Writ No. 531 D of 1964.
P.P. Rao and R. N. Sachthey, for the appellants.
G.P. Pai, P. C. Bhartari and O. C. Mathur, for respondents nos.
The Judgment of the Court was delivered by SARKARIA J.
Whether the Federation of Indian Chambers of Commerce and Industry, New Delhi (Respondent 1) is a "commercial establishment" within the meaning of s.2(5) of the Delhi Shops ,and Establishments Act, 1954 (for short the Act) is the sale question that falls for determination in this appeal by certificate directed against the judgment dated February 8, 1967 of the High Court of Delhi.
The facts bearing on this question may now be stated: Respondent 1 (hereinafter referred to as the Federation) is a Company registered under section 26 of the Indian Companies Act, 1913.
The primary objects of the Federation as given in the Memorandum of Association are "(a) To promote Indian business in matters of inland and foreign trade, transport, industry and manufactures, finance and all other economic subjects and to encourage Indian banking, shipping and insurance.
(d) To collect and disseminate statistical and other information and to make effort for the spread of commercial and economic knowledge.
(f)To provide for arbitration in respect of disputes arising, in the course of trade, industry or transport or other business matters, and to secure the services 350 of expert technical and other men to that end if necessary or desirable.
(g) To conduct, undertake the conduct of and participate in national and international exhibitions.
(h) To set up museums or show rooms, to exhibit the products of India and other countries and to participate in such activities.
(1) To secure the interests and well being of the Indian business communities abroad.
(k) To attain those advantages by united action which each member may not be able to accomplish in its separate capacity.
(m) To help in the Organisation of Chambers of Commerce or Commercial Associations in different commercial centres of the country.
(n) (O) (p) (q) (r) (s) (t) (u) (v) (x) (y) To sell or dispose of the undertaking of the Federation or any part thereof for such consideration as the Federation may think fit and in particular for shares, debentures, or securities of any other association or company having objects altogether or in similar to those of the Federation.
(z) To take or otherwise acquire and hold shares in any other association or company having objects altogether or in part similar to those of the Federation.
(zl) To establish a Trust or Trusts and/or appoint Trustees thereof from time to time and vest the funds or the surplus income or any property of the Federation in the Trustees who shall hold and deal with the funds, surplus income or property in such manner as the Committee may decide.
(z2) 351 (z3)To draw, make, accept, discount, execute and issue bills of exchange, promissory notes, bills of lading, warrants, debentures and other negotible instruments or securities.
(z4) (4) The income and property of the Federation, whencesoever derived, shall be applied solely towards the promotion of the objects of the Federation as set forth in the Memorandum of Association; and no portion thereof shall be paid or transferred directly or indirectly, by way of dividend, bonus, or otherwise by way of profit to the members of the Federation.
