Civil Appeal No. 159 of 1974.
From the Judgment and Order dated 4 4 1973 of the Punjab and Haryana High Court at Chandigarh in R.S.A. No. 1482 of 1961.
488 N. N. Goswamy and Arvind Minocha, for the appellant.
Kapil Sibbal and D. Probir Mitra, for respondents.
This is an appeal by special leave against a decree passed by the High Court of Punjab and Haryana holding that the appeal filed by the plaintiff appellant has abated and dismissing his suit.
The appellant brought the suit on the allegation that there was one Shiromani Nirankari Dera at Patiala, that this institution had two branches one at Landeke in Moga Tehsil and the other at Nanga Kheri in the erstwhile Patiala State, and that he, as mahant in charge of the Shiromani Dera at Patiala had the right to manage the properties attached to the Dera at Landeke.
The prayer in the plaint was for recovery of possession of the Dera and the properties attached to it.
Som Dass, the defendant, contended that the Dera at Landeke was an independent Dera and that he was in possession of the properties of the Dera as its lawfully appointed mahant.
The trial court decreed the suit.
In appeal by the defendant the decree was reversed.
Against that decree, an appeal was preferred by the appellant to the High Court.
While the appeal was pending in the High Court, Som Dass, the defendant, died on 13 10 1970.
No application was made by the appellant to bring on record his legal representatives within the period prescribed.
The trial Court, after taking evidence, found that Som Dass died on 13 10 1970.
Thereafter the appellant prayed before the High Court that his application dated 1 2 1971 might be treated as an application for setting aside the abatement of the appeal and the ground for setting aside the abatement was that the appellant did not know about the death of Som Dass at the time he died.
The suit was filed on the basis that the appellant as the lawfully appointed mahant was entitled to manage the properties of the Dera at Landeke, that the defendant was unlawfully claiming to be the mahant of the Dera and entitled to manage the properties of the Dera, and that the appellant was entitled to be in possession of the properties.
As already stated the contention of the defendant was that though the properties belonged to the Dera, he was its lawfully appointed mahant and that the appellant had no right to recover possession of the property of the Dera.
" This rule is based on the principle that trial of a suit cannot be brought to an end merely because the interest of a party in the subject matter of the suit has devolved upon another during the pendency of the suit but that suit may be continued against the person acquiring the interest with the leave of the Court.
When a suit is brought by or against a person in a representative capacity and there is a devolution of the interest of the representative, the rule that has to be applied is Order 22, rule 10 and not rule 3 or 4, whether the devolution takes place as a consequence of death or for any other reason.
