N: Criminal Appeal No. 332 of 1977.
Appeal by Special Leave from the Judgment and order dated 20 10 75 of the Bombay High Court in Criminal Application No. 1 379/75.
77 M. C. Bhandare, A. N. Karkhanis, Miss Malini Panduval and Mrs. section Bhandare for the Appellant.
G. L. Sanghi and A. K. Verma for Respondent No. 1.
M. N. Shroff for Respondent No. 2.
The Judgment of the Court was delivered by A Prefatory statement KRISHNA IYER, J.
In this appeal, by special leave, we are called upon to interpret a benign provision enacted to ameliorate the economic condition of neglected wives and discarded divorcees, namely.
P.C. Welfare laws must be so read as to be effective delivery systems of the salutary objects sought to be served by the Legislature and when the beneficiaries are the weaker sections, like destitute women, this spirit of article 15(3) of the Constitution must belight the meaning of the Section.
The Constitution is a pervasive omnipresence brooding over the meaning and transforming the values of every measure.
So, section 125 and sister clauses must receive a compassionate expansion of sense that the words used permit.
The Brief Facts The respondent (husband) married the appellant (wife) as a second wife, way back in 1956, and a few years later had a son by her.
15 The initial warmth vanished and the jealousies of a triangular situation erupted, marring mutual affection.
The respondent divorced the appellant around July 1962.
For instance, it recited that this respondent had transferred the suit premises, namely, a flat in Bombay, to the appellant and also the shares of the Cooperative Housing Society which built the flat concerned.
There was a reference to mehar money (Rs. 5,000/ and 'iddat ' money, Rs. 180/ ) which was also stated to have been adjusted by the compromise terms.
There was a clause in the compromise: G "The plaintiff declares that she has now no claim or right whatsoever against the defendant or against the estate and the properties of the defendant.
" And another term in the settlement was that the appellant had by virtue of the compromise become the absolute owner of the flat and various deposits in respect of the said flat made with the cooperative housing society.
78 For some time there was flickering improvement in the relations between the quondum husband and the quondum wife and they lived together.
Thereafter, again they separated, became entranged.
The appellant, finding herself in financial straits and unable to maintain herself, moved the magistrate under section 125 of the Criminal Procedure Code, 1973, for a monthly allowance for the maintenance of herself and her child.
She proceeded on the footing that she was still a wife while the respondent rejected this status and asserted that she was a divorce and therefore ineligible for maintenance.
The Magistrate who tried the petition for maintenance held that the appellant was a subsisting wife and awarded monthly maintenance of Rs. 300/ for the son and Rs. 400/ for the mother for their subsistence, taking due note of the fact that the cost of living in Bombay, where the parties lived, was high, and that the respondent had provided residential accommodation to the appellant.
This order was challenged before the sessions Judge by the aggrieved husband, who on a strange view of the law that the court, under section 125, had no jurisdication to consider whether the applicant was a wife, dismissed the petition in allowance of the appeal.
The High Court deigned to bestow little attention on the matter and summarily dismissed a revision petition.
This protracted and fluctuating litigation misfortune has leu to the appeal, by special leave, before this Court.
The Questions Mooted Shri Bhandare appearing for the appellant contended that the Courts below had surprisingly forgotten the plain provision in the Explanation (b) to section 125(1) of the Code, which reads: "wife ' includes a woman who has been divorced by.
or has obtained a divorce from, her husband and has not remarried.
On this foundation, he urged that accepting the contention of the respondent that the appellant was a divorcee? his client was still entitled to an allowance.
This is obviously beyond dispute or.
a simple reading of the sub section and it is curious how this innovative and sensitive provision with a benignant disposition towards destitute divorcees has been overlooked by all the courts below.
We hold that every divorce otherwise eligible, is entitled to the benefit of maintenance allowance and the dissolution of the marriage makes no difference to this right under the current Code.
79 However, Shri Sanghi, appearing for the respondent, sought sustain the order in his favour on three grounds They arc of pubic importance since the affected party in such a fact situation is the neglected divorcee.
(ii) in any other case, from the date of expiry of the period, if any, for which maintenance has been actually paid by the husband to the woman; We must state, however, that there was no specific plea, based upon the latter provision, set up anywhere in the courts below or urged before us.
But if one were to locate a legal ground to raise The contention That the liability to pay maintenance had ceased on account of the payment of mehar, it is section 127(3) of the Code.
So we must deal with the dual sub heads of the third ground.
The meaning of meanings is! derived from values in a given society and its legal system.
Art.15(3) has compelling, compassionate relevance in the context of section 125 and the benefit of doubt.
If any in statutory interpretation belongs to the ill used wife and the derelict divorcee.
