: Criminal Appeal No 133 of 1975.
Appeal from the Judgment and order dated 3 2 1978 of the Andhra Pradesh High Court in Crl.
R. Nagarathnam for the Appellant.
P. Parmeswara Rao and G. N. Rao for the Respondent.
The Judgment of the Court was delivered by CHINNAPPA REDDY, J.
The acquittal was reversed by the High Court of Andhra Pradesh and the appellant was convicted under Section 302 Indian Penal Code and sentenced to suffer imprisonment for life.
The stab injury had gone through the third intercostal space and through the upper lobe of the left lung in an upward and medial direction.
The upper lobe of the left lung had been cut through and through,, and had collapsed.
P. W. 13 the Medical officer who examined the accused found several abrasions and contusions on the person of the accused.
below the arm pit on the left side.
According to the accused the deceased received the injury when she placed herself between P. W. 1 and himself.
We do not think that an injury of the nature received by the deceased could have been caused in the manner suggested by the accused.
The injury must have been caused in the manner suggested by the prosecution that 368 is, when the deceased was lying on her right side.
It is true that the accused did not have any deep motive to kill the deceased.
It is obvious that he must have been upset by the persistent refusal of the brother and mother of the deceased to send her with him to his house.
We may also refer here to the comment of the learned Counsel for the appellant that realizing that the motive would assume considerable importance if the case was one based on circumstantial evidence, the prosecution tried to make P. W. 3 depose as if she had witnessed occurrence.
We do not think that the comment is justified.
P.W. 3, an old woman of 69 years, stated in her evidence that she saw the accused who was sitting by the side of the deceased on the cot make a gesture as if he was stabbing the deceased and that the deceased cried out 'Amma. ' In cross examination she stated that she did not remember if she had told the Police that the accused made a gesture as if he was stabbing the deceased.
The Inspector of Police P. W. 15, however, stated that P. W. 3 did not state before him that she saw the accused making a gesture as if he was stabbing the deceased.
We do not think that we will be justified in rejecting the evidence of all the prosecution witnesses on the basis of this statement of P. W. 3.
At the worst the so called improvement made by her may be rejected but no more.
We are unable to discover any good reason to reject the evidence of P. Ws. 1 to 3 or the evidence of P. Ws. 4 and 5.
We are afraid the learned Sessions Judge allowed himself to be assailed by airy and fanciful doubts.
We are satisfied that the High Court was justified in interfering with the order of acquittal.
The learned Counsel for the appellant advanced the usual argument submitted in all cases where an order of acquittal is reversed, namely, that where two views of the evidence are possible, the accused is entitled to the benefit of the doubt arising from the two views and that where the Trial Court has taken a possible view and acquitted the accused, the High Court should not interfere with the order of acquittal merely because another view is also possible.
The principles are now well settled.
At one time it was thou ht that an order of acquittal could be set aside for "substantial and compelling reasons" only and Courts used to launch on a search to discover those "substantial and compelling reasons".
However, the 'formulae ' of "substantial and compelling reasons", "good and sufficiently cogent reasons" and "strong reasons" and the search for them were abandoned as a result of the pronouncement of this Court in Sanwat Singh & Ors.
In Sanwat Singh 's case, this Court harked (1) A.l.
R. 369 back to the principles enunciated by the Privy Council in Sheo Swarup vs Emperor(1) and re affirmed those principles.
