Civil Appeals Nos. 2299 and 2300 of 1979.
Appeal by Special Leave from the Award dated 20 12 1978 of the Industrial Tribunal Maharashtra in Reference (IT) No. 292 of 1975, published in Maharashtra Government Gazette dated 15th February, 1979.
G. B. Pai, Manick K. Gagrat, J. B. Dadachanji, O. C. Mathur and K. J. John for the Appellants in CA No. 2299 and Respondents in CA 2300/79.
V. M. Tarkunde, P. H. Parekh, section R. Deshpande and Miss Manik Tarkunde for the Respondents in CA 2299 and Appellants in CA No. 2300/79.
The following Judgements were delivered: PATHAK, J.
This appeal by special leave has been preferred by Tata Consultancy Engineers against an award dated 20th December, 1978 of the Industrial Tribunal, Maharashtra, Bombay revising the wage scales of certain categories of employees and granting various other benefits.
Tata Consultant Engineers, at its inception, was a partnership firm but subsequently the partnership was dissolved and in 1974 the undertaking became one of the divisions of Tata Sons Limited.
It functions as a consulting organisation and a service industry, and does not manufacture any product or carry on trade.
Its work force consists of engineers and supervisors and different categories of workmen.
Out of 665 employees at Bombay, the draftsmen and the administrative staff number 306.
These workmen are members of the Tata Consultant Employees Union.
They served a Charter of Demands in July, 1974, on the appellant, and as their demands were not accepted and conciliation proceedings proved fruitless, the State Government made a reference of the dispute under section 10(1) (d), Industrial Tribunal, Maharashtra for adjudication.
The Reference was numbered I. T. No. 292 of 1975.
170 The Union filed a statement before the Tribunal claiming an upward revision of the wage scales and dearness allowance and an increase from fifteen years to twenty years in the span for earning annual increments.
It was urged that the Efficiency Bar, as a feature of the wage scales, should be removed.
The dearness allowance, it was claimed, should be granted on a slab system.
The claim of the Union was resisted by the appellant, who maintained that the existing wage scales were fair and reasonable on a region cum industry basis and that it would not be possible for the appellant to bear the additional financial burden if the demands of the Union were accepted.
Reference was made to the political uncertainty in Iran which had placed an appreciable part of the appellant 's business in jeopardy and to various other factors, peculiar to an engineering consultancy business, beyond the appellant 's control.
This in our opinion is 182 elementary and fundamental to the jurisdiction of the Industrial Tribunal in revising wage scales.
In the present case the Industrial Tribunal on a consideration of the material placed before it came to the conclusion that the company was in an undoubted position to bear the additional financial burden.
At the end of paragraph 15 of the Award, the Tribunal stated: "But there can be no doubt that the company can very well bear the additional burden.
The question is what should be the extent of such burden?" At the end of paragraph 18 of the award the Tribunal said: A" mere reading of Exhibit U 15 will immediately dispel the misgivings about the future of the present company.
For some years to come this is likely to be one of the few Consulting Engineers who will be securing major contracts".
Again in Paragraph 19 it was said: "I have no doubt that the present Company would be able to bear the additional burden for the years to come.
This is further borne out from the trading results of the Company for the year 1968 69 to 1977.
The profits have increased all along.
The copy of the letter dated July 23, 1973, alongwith the Annexures from the Company to the Director General, Posts & Telegraphs, Delhi (exhibit C 27) indicates the important projects the Company was handling in India and abroad, and the amount of foreign exchange earned and repatriated.
I will; therefore, proceed on the ground that the present Company can bear the additional financial burden".
Finally at the end of paragraph 21 the Tribunal said : In view of this position, the Company can easily bear some burden that might fall as a result of the upward revision of the wage scales.
The question is to what extent the relief should be given to the employees ?" After expressing himself in categoric terms about the capacity of the company to bear the additional financial burden, the Tribunal went on to say: "I only propose to modify the existing structure of the scales with flat increases in each category".
The Tribunal then considered the question whether Draftsmen should get a higher flat increase and the question whether the existing scheme of Dearness Allowance should be revised.
The Tribunal then observed: ". the flat increase of Rs. 150/ in the category of Draftsmen and Rs. 100/ in the case of the other categories would be fair".
Thereafter various other matters were considered and finally the Tribunal revised the wage scales in the manner already mentioned by my brother Pathak, J.
The question of "Fitment" was then considered in the following manner: 183 "34.
Fitment: If as on 1st January, 1976, an employee is drawing a salary less than the beginning of the respective grade, he should be first stepped up to the beginning of the grade.
If the pay of an employee does not coincide with any step in the revised pay scale, and falls between two steps in the reclassified pay scales, the basic pay of that employee shall be fixed at the step higher in the revised scale.
After fixing the salary of the employees in the scales as above, the employees should be given increments in the new scales as noted below: (i) Employees who have completed 5 years or more as on 1st January, 1976, 3 increments.
(ii) Employees who have completed 4 years of service as on 1st January, 1976, 2 increments.
Now, if, without any flat or ad hoc increase of salary, the workmen were to be fitted into the revised scales of pay, it would obviously result in serious anomalous situations.
In the case of several senior employees, the revised scale would yield but a very small and almost a token increase in the size of the pay packet whereas the junior employees would get a large benefit.
While workmen raising industrial disputes for revision of wage scales are certainly minded about their future prospects in the matter of wages, they, surely would be more concerned with the immediate benefits according to them That was why the Industrial Tribunal thought that an all round flat increase of Rs. 150/ in the case of Draftsmen and Rs. 100/ in the case of other workmen was called for.
It was clearly so intended by the Tribunal as is evident from the reference to "flat increase of Rs. 150/ in the category of Draftsmen and Rs. 100/ in the case of the other categories".
Since there was to be a flat increase of Rs. 150/ and Rs. 100/ in the case of draftsmen and other workmen respectively, the revised wage scale had necessarily to commence with figures Rs. 150/ and Rs. 100/ above the existing wage scales.
Immediately after the award was pronounced, while the iron was still hot as it were, the employees apparently realised that the employer might take advantage of the circumstance that it was not clearly mentioned in the award that all the employees were to get additional pay of Rs. 150/ and Rs. 100/ respectively and might contend that the Tribunal had only revised the wage scales by increasing the salary on entry into the service and res 184 tructuring the scale of pay and never granted any ad hoc increase of salary to all employees.
Therefore, they filed an application before the Tribunal for correcting the award so as to bring out what was intended.
As it has now turned out what the employees apparently suspected the employer might contend, is precisely what the employer is not contending, though the employer did not choose to so contend before the Industrial Tribunal itself when the employees filed the application for rectification.
The application before the Tribunal was filed under Rule 31 of the Bombay Industrial Disputes Rules 1957, which is as follows: "A Board, Court, Labour Court, Tribunal or Arbitrator may, at any time, suo moto or on an application made by any of the parties concerned, may correct any clerical mistake or error arising from an accidental slip or omission in any proceedings, report, award or as the case may be, decision".
The omission of the words to each employee first after the figure Rs. 150/ and again after the figure Rs. 100/ was clearly an accidental slip or omission which the Tribunal was entitled to correct.
We are unable to see how it can be held to be otherwise.
We, therefore, see no ground for quashing the order dated December 22, 1978 of the Tribunal.
The result of the foregoing discussion is that Civil Appeal No. 2299 of 1979 has to be dismissed in its entirety.
We have already indicated that we agree with our brother Pathak, J., that the appeal (Civil Appeal No. 2300 of 1979) filed by the workmen should also be dismissed.
While we find lot of force in the submission of Shri V. M. Tarkunde, learned counsel for the workmen that Dearness Allowance linked to cost of living index is ordinarily the best and the most scientific method of computing dearness allowance, it cannot always be said that an illegality warranting interference under Article 136 is committed if some other method is adopted.
The Tribunal has given satisfactory reason for adopting a different mode and we are not disposed to interfere with the award of the Tribunal.
In the result both the appeals are dismissed without any order as to costs.
ORDER In view of the opinion of the majority both the appeals are dismissed and there is no order as to costs.
There was fierce competition also, it was asserted, from other similar organisations.
