Civil Appeal No. 598 of 1980.
Appeal by Special leave from the judgment and order dated the 9th November, 1979 of the Delhi High Court in CWP No.885 of 1974.
Hardayal Hardy, Girish Chandra and R.N. Poddar for the Respondents.
The Judgment of the Court was delivered by SEN, J.
This appeal by special leave from a judgment and order of the Delhi High Court dated January 9, 1979 raises a question of some complexity.
The question is whether a Specialist Grade II in a teaching hospital belonging to the Central Health Service is eligible for appointment or promotion as a Professor or Associate Professor of the concerned speciality.
The appeal turns on a construction of sub rs.
(2) and (2A) of r.8 and paragraphs 2(b) and 3 of Annexure I to the Second Schedule of the Central Health Service (Amendment) Rules, 1966.
The Central Health Service was formed more than two decades ago and was intended to replace the Indian Medical Service, but the recruitment rules were not framed till the year 1963.
The Service was constituted for providing doctors for manning the medical, public health and medical research and teaching posts in the Central Government hospitals, dispensaries scientific research institutions and institutions of higher education.
The members of this Service are also meant to man posts in the Union Territories and the various autonomous bodies.
In exercise of the powers conferred by the proviso to Art.309 of the Constitution, the President on May 1, 1963 made the Central Health Service Rules, 1963 which came into force 18 on May 5, 1963.
R.3 provided for the constitution of the Central Health Service.
Under r.4 the Service was divided into two classes viz. Class I and Class II.
The rules envisaged categorization of personnel manning the service into five different categories viz. Categories 'A ' to 'E '.
Rule 5 provided for the authorized permanent and temporary strength of the Service.
Under r.5 (3), the controlling authority had the power to interchange any post included in the junior scale with any post included in the senior scale without altering the authorized strength in each category.
R.8 provided for the future maintenance of the Service.
80% of the vacancies in Category 'B ' of the supertime scale were to be filled by promotion through Departmental Promotion Committee of officers holding the post in the senior scale who had rendered not less than six years of service in that scale and 20% of the vacancies thereof were to be filled by direct recruitment in the manner prescribed in the Second Schedule.
By a notification dated January 1, 1965 the initial appointments were notified.
The essential pre condition for the inclusion of a post in the Central Health Service was that a medical qualification recognized under the Indian Medical Council should be prescribed for it.
By the Central Heath Service (Amendment) Rules, 1966, the Central Health Service was reorganized with effect from September 9, 1966 and the concept of General Duty officers and Specialist Grade Officers was introduced for the first time.
R.3 provides that there shall be a Service constituted to be known as the "Central Health Service" consisting of (a) persons appointed to the Service under r.7 or r.7A, and (b) persons appointed to the Service under r.8.
" Such being the infra structure of the Central Health Service, the question is as to the promotional prospect of a Specialist Grade II in a teaching hospital to Specialists Grade I.
The whole controversy turns on the question whether such a person is eligible for appointment as a Professor or Associate Professor of the concerned speciality, and that depends on whether for purposes of sub rs.
(2) and (2A) of r. 8 and paragraphs 2 (b) and 3 of Annexure I to the Second Schedule, the condition prerequisite is actual teaching experience of the Specialist or the capacity in which such teaching experience is gained.
It is common ground that the appellant has the requisite essential qualifications for appointment as a Professor or an Associate Professor of Radiology.
After obtaining his M.B.B.S. degree from Calcutta University in the year 1955, the appellant went for further studies to the United Kingdom.
There he studied Radiotherapy for two years at the Liverpool Radium Institute and obtained the Diploma in Medical Radiology & Therapy (D.M.R.T.) from the University of Liverpool in 1958.
On his return to India, the appellant worked as Junior Lecturer and Clinical Assistant in the Department of Radiology at the Christian Medical College & Hospital, Vellore from February 6, 1959 to December 26, 1960.
The certificate of the renowned Neuro Surgeon Dr. Jacob Chandy, Medical College & Hospital, Vellore pays high encomiums to the services rendered by the appellant and records that his work there was well appreciated by colleagues and teachers both as a surgeon and as a teacher.
During this period as a Lecturer in the Medical College, Calcutta, he had the privilege of teaching post graduate classes in Diploma in Medical Radiology & Electrology (D.M.R.E.).
The State Government of West Bengal were pleased to depute him for the task and he apparently performed and fulfilled his duties to the entire satisfaction of the authorities.
By Letter dated April 6, 1965, the Delhi Administration informed the Principal, Maulana Azad Medical College in answer to a communication made by him, that consequent upon the appointment of the appellant in Category `C ' of the Central Health Service, the Administration had no objection to designating him as Associate Professor of Radiology (ex officio) in the Maulana Azad Medical 25 College provided it was not detrimental to his normal duties as a Radiologist and no financial implications were involved.
