Civil Appeals No. 2611 and 2611 A of 1981.
From the Judgment and order dated the 1st July, 1981 of the High Court of Jammu and Kashmir in L.P.A. No. 1 of 1981 and C.M.P. No. 454 of 1981.
A. K Sen and G. L. Sanghi, Vineet Kumar and Devinder Gupta for the Appellant.
578 D.D. Thakur, S.N. Kacker and R.P. Bhatt, for respondent in 2611/81.
J. Sorabjee, K. K. Venugopal and R. P. Bhatt, for respondent in 2611 A/81.
E. C. Agarwala, section P. Gupta, R. Satish, V.K. Pandita and R.P. Sethi for respondent in 2611 2611 A. L. N. Sinha, Attn.
Altaf Ahmad and Irfan Ahmad for respondent No. 2.
section Ghosh and A. K. Nag for the intervener.
The Judgment of the Court was delivered by BALAKRISHNA ERADI, J.
When the hearing of these appeals was concluded on November 11, 1982, after elaborate arguments had been addressed by learned counsel appearing on both sides, we announced our decision allowing the appeal (C.A.No 2611 of 1981) by passing the following order: "The appeal is allowed.
The Judgment and order of the Division Bench of the High Court presided over by learned Acting Chief Justice is set aside and one by learned Single Judge, Dr. A. section Anand, is restored and consequently the Writ Petition No. 436 of 1980 filed by Respondents in the High Court of Jammu and Kashmir stands dismissed.
No order as to costs of hearing in this Court.
" We now proceed to state in this judgment the reasons in support of our aforesaid conclusion 579 In July, 1966, the appellant Ved Gupta decided to embark upon a venture to construct and operate an air conditioned Cinema in a plot of land which he proposed to take on lease in Gandhi Nagar, Jammu, in Collaboration with two osher persons, namely, Todar Mal and Kishan Kumar.
Accordingly, on July 22, 1966, Ved Gupta purporting to act on behalf of a partnership consisting of himself and the two persons aforementioned (as a matter of fact, no partnership had been constituted at all by that date), applied to the District Magistrate, Jammu, under section 3 of the Jammu and Kashmir (Cinematograph) Act, 1989 (1933 A.D.) (herein after referred to as the Act) for permission to construct a modern Cinema Hall at the proposed site, a detailed description of which was furnished in the plan annexed to the application.
Shri Ved Gupta was informed by the District Magistrate, Jammu by his Memo (Annexure B) that the Government had approved the construction of a Cinema Hall at the proposed site and had granted the requisite permission in his favour as per letter dated September 11, 1967, issued by the Secretary to Government, General Department.
From Annexure B, it would appear that the permission so granted was in favour of Ved Ved Gupta in his individual capacity and not as the representative of any firm.
In the meantime, by a deed dated December 7, 1966, which was registered on December 24, 1966, the plot in question was taken on lease jointly by Ved Gupta, Todar Mal and Krishan Kumar for a period of 40 years on the terms and conditions set out therein.
Thereafter, under a deed dated July 15, 1969, the aforesaid three persons entered into a partnership along with 11 others under the name and style "Metro Theatres" for carrying on the business of constructing and running a modern air conditioned Cinema in the site covered by the permission granted by the Government.
Clause 15 of the said deed provided that the site for construction of a Cinema which had been obtained on lease by Ved Gupta, Todar Mal and Krishan Kumar in their own names shall not be their personal property, but shall be the property of the partnership, and that the permission which Ved Gupta had obtained from the Government for construction of the Theatre in the said plot shall be treated as the property of the partnership.
By a subsequent agreement executed by the 14 partners on February 22, 1969, the name of the Cinema business was changed from 'Metro Theatre ' to 'Apsara Theatre.
" The construction of the Cinema Theatre appears to have been, completed by the middle of June 1969.
On June 17, 1969, Ved Gupta submitted an application to the District Magistrate, Jammu, reporting that the construction of the theatre and the installation of the cinema 580 tograph machinery and equipment had all been completed pursuant to the permission granted by the Government and requesting that the requisite licence for running the Cinema Theatre may be issued to him under the Act and the Rules.
Annexure C is a copy of the said application and it shows that it was filed by Ved Gupta in his personal capacity without any mention whatever therein of the partnership.
On July 22, 1969, a licence was issued by the District Magistrate to Ved Gupta under Section 3 of the Act to give public exhibition of cinematograph films at the Apsara Theatre situated at Gandhi Nagar, Jammu.
Annexure D is a copy of the said licence and it is expressly stated therein that the said licence has been granted to Shri Ved Gupta and that it shall remain in force until March 31, 1970, provided that Shri Ved Gupta or any person to whom, with the consent of the licensing authority, the licence is transferred, continues to own or manage the cinematographs used ill the said Apsara Theatre.
A Schedule of conditions imposing various duties and obligations on the licensee is also appended to the said licence.
The right to operate the Cinema licence shall be the property of this partnership and changes in the constitution shall make no difference in this respect.
" Soon thereafter, on December 3, 1975, Todar Mall who had retired from the firm and Krishan Kumar who continued to be a partner jointly issued a notice to the District Magistrate, Jammu, claiming that their names should also be included in the licence issued to Ved Gupta in respect of the Apsara Theatre.
Consequently, it became impossible for the Letters Patent Appeal being heard by a third Judge designated by the Chief Justice, as contemplated by Rule 23 (2).
The learned Judges took the view that Rule 23 of the Jammu and Kashmir High Court Rules, 1975, squarely covered the situation that had arisen before them.
Rule 23 is in the following terms: "23 (1) In the event of a difference of opinion among the judges composing any bench of the court, the decision shall be in accordance with the opinion of the majority of the Judges.
(2) If the judges composing the bench are equally divided on any point, they shall state the point upon which they differ and the case shall then be heard upon that point by one or more of the other Judges designated for the purpose by the Chief Justice and such point shall be decided according to the opinion of the majority (if any) of the judges who have heard the case (including those who first heard it).
(3) If there is no such majority, then the decision shall be in accordance with the decision of the senior Judge except in the case of an appeal from a decree where such decree shall be confirmed" 586 In the opinion of the Division Bench, the present case was governed by sub rule (3) of Rule 23, and, consequently, the decision in the case had to be in accordance with the opinion of the senior Judge.
Accordingly the Division Bench passed orders in C.M.P. No. 454 of 1981 that the Letters Patent Appeal will stand allowed in conformity with the view taken by the Acting Chief Justice in his judgment.
This has resulted in the highly anomalous situation that as against the view concurrently taken by the two Judges of the High Court, viz. Anand, J. and Mir, J. the opinion of the Acting Chief Justice which was really the minority view has been allowed to prevail on the basis of the reasoning that the case was governed by sub rule (3) of Rule 23.
Aggrieved by the decision of the High Court, Ved Gupta has filed these appeals after obtaining special leave from this Court.
Civil Appeal No. 2611 of 1981 is directed against the judgment of the learned Acting Chief Justice which has been treated as the final judgment in the Letters Patent Appeal and Civil Appeal No. 2611 A of 1981 has been preferred against the order passed by the Division Bench C.M.P. No. 454 of 1981.
