From the Judgment and Order dated 26.12.69 of the High Court of Andhra Pradesh at Hyderabad in W.P. Nos. 3956, 3971, 3983, 3899, 4421, 4474, 4537, 4544, 4570, 4825 and 4933/68.
In these 11 appeals only that part of the judgment of the Andhra Pradesh High Court is assailed by the Union of India where the challenge to the validity of section 28 of the Gold Control Act, 1968 has succeeded.
The challenge to the other provisions of the Act at the instance of persons engaged in gold trade, i.e, manufacturers, shroffs and dealers in gold was rejected by the High Court.
Section 28 of the Act runs thus: "28.
Money lending business not to be carried on in licensed premises No licensed dealer shall unless authorised by the Administrator so to do, (a) carry on business as a money lender or banker on the security of any article, or ornament, or both, (b) permit any other person to carry on money lending, banking or any other business, in the same premises in which he carried on business as such dealer.
" The High Court has struck down the aforesaid provision only on the ground that it suffers from the vice of excessive delegation of legislative power inasmuch as no criteria or guide lines have been 954 provided by reference to which the power conferred on the Administrator to refuse permission or grant permission should be exercised and that the section confers an arbitrary, uncanalised power upon the Administrator with the result that the licensed dealer is at his mercy while seeking permission to carry on money lending or banking business on the security of any article, ornament or both in the same premises in which he carried on business as such dealer.
The High Court 's reasoning in this behalf is to be found in its judgment at page 87 of the paper book and it runs thus: "The Administrator as is evident from this provision, is given unlimited authority or power to refuse permission or to grant permission.
No rules have been framed prescribing the conditions or circumstances under which the Administrator could refuse permission or grant permission.
A dealer is at the mercy of the Administrator and is help less against the arbitrary exercise of the power by the Administrator when he chooses to negative the request.
It is clear that Section 28 confers an arbitrary and uncanalised power without any criteria for guiding the discretion of the Administrator.
Further, the section does not provide nor is any rule brought to our notice which enjoins upon the Administrator to give a hearing to dealer who seeks permission under this Section and give reasons in case he decides to refuse the permission.
" Incidentally the High Court also proceeded to draw analogy from the reasoning adopted by this Court in its decision in Harakchand Ratanchand Banthias vs Asst.
28 is part and parcel of the entire scheme of Gold Control as envisaged by the Act and the object of the enactment and the scheme affords sufficient guidance to the Administrator in the matter of exercising his discretion under that section.
" In Harakchand Banthria 's case (supra) this Court has further pointed out that even though import of gold into India had been banned considerable quantities of contraband gold were finding their way into the country through illegal channels affecting the national economy and hampering the country 's economic stability and progress, that the Customs Department was not in a position to effectively combat the smuggling over the long borders and coast line, that therefore anti smuggling measures had to be supplemented by a detailed system of control over internal transactions and that the Gold (Control) Act, 1968 was passed for this purpose.
In other words, the several restrictions that have been put on the activities of the traders doing business in gold will have to be viewed from the aforesaid perspective.
It is also clear that the restrictions which have been imposed in sec.
28 are meant to prevent the circumvention of other provisions of the Act.
Therefore, in our view the objective, the policy and the Scheme of the Act together with the necessity to ensure prevention of circumvention of the other provisions of the Act afford more than sufficient guidance to the Administrator in the matter of exercising the power of discretion conferred on him under sec.
5(1 of the Act requires that the Administrator should have regard to the policy and purposes of the Act in making his orders.
Moreover against his order under that section a revision lies to Central Government which implies that he will have to make judicious use of his power or discretion and any improper exercise is liable to be corrected by a higher authority.
If that be so it cannot be said that unfettered or uncanalised or arbitrary power has been conferred upon the Administration under sec.
Moreover, regard must be had to be the nature of the restrictions imposed by the Section.
It does not impose any blanket or 956 absolute prohibition upon a dealer from carrying on money lending, banking or any other business in the same premises in which he carries on business as a dealer but he is prevented only from carrying on business as money lender or banker on the security of any article, ornament or both unless authorised by the administrator.
