Tax Reference Cases Nos. 3 to 5 of 1975 Tax Reference under Section 257 of the Income tax Act, 1961 made by the Income tax Appellate Tribunal, Cuttack Bench, Cuttack P.A. Francis, Champat Rai and Miss A. Subhashini for the Appellant.
C.S.S. Rao for the Respondent.
The Judgment of the Court was delivered by 308 PATHAK, J.
: These references under s.27(1) of the have been made by the Income Tax Appellate tribunal, Cuttack Bench at the instance of the Commissioner of Wealth Tax, Orissa for the opinion of this Court on the following question of law: "Whether on the facts and in the circumstances of the case, the Wealth Tax Officer was in law justified in including in the net wealth of the assessee interest due on accrual basis (though not realised) on the outstandings of the money lending business, the accounts of the assessee being maintained on cash basis ?" The respondent assessee was assessed to wealth tax for the assessment years 1965 66, 1966 67 and 1967 68 (the respective valuation dates being March 31, 1965, March 31, 1966 and March 31, 1967), in the status of a 'Hindu Undivided Family.
In each of the assessments, the Wealth Tax Officer included a sum of Rs. 1,50,000 estimated as the accrued interest on the assessee 's money lending investments.
The assessee appealed to the Appellate Assistant Commissioner and urged that as it maintained its books of account in accordance with the cash system of accounting the accrued interest on the money lending investments could not be included in the wealth tax assessments.
The contention found favour with the Appellate Assistant Commissioner, and accordingly he deleted the additions of Rs. 1,50,000 representing accrued interest.
In doing so the Appellate Assistant Commissioner followed "Commissioner of Wealth tax Bihar and Orissa vs Vysyaraju Badreenarayana Moorthy Raju (Orissa)(1), The Wealth Tax Officer appealed to the Appellate Tribunal and contended that accrued interest was liable to be included in the wealth tax assessments of the assessee.
The Wealth Tax Officer sought support from a judgment of the Andhra Pradesh High Court in Vedreva Venkappa Rao vs Commissioner of Wealth tax(2) A.P.
The Appellate Tribunal observed that the judgment of the Orissa High Court was binding on it, and accordingly by a consolidated order dated April 3, 1972, it dismissed the appeals.
The Commissioner of Wealth Tax applied under sub section
(1) of section 27 of the Wealth (1) (2) 309 Tax Act for a reference of the cases to this Court in view of the conflict of opinion between the Orissa High Court and the Andhra Pradesh High Court, and so these references have been made.
The question can be disposed of shortly.
Under section 3 of the Wealth Tax Act, wealth tax is charged for every assessment year in respect of the net wealth of the assessee on the corresponding valuation date.
The expression "net wealth" is defined by cl.
(m) of s.2 of the Act as "the amount by which the aggregate value . .
Of all the assets, wherever located, belonging to the assessee on the valuation date. is in excess of the aggregate value of all the debts owed by the assessee on the valuation date. " According to the scheme of the Wealth Tax Act, the net wealth of an assessee has to be determined as it obtains on a particular date.
That is the "valuation date".
