Civil Appeal No. 1377 of 1982.
From the Judgment and Order dated 17.11.1980 of the Bombay High Court in Special Civil Appeal No. 251 of 1977.
F.R. Nariman, E.K. Jose, P.H. Parekh and Miss Sunita Sharma for the Appellant.
Y.H. Muchhala, B.R. Aggarwala and Miss. section Manchanda for the Respondent.
The Judgment of the Court was delivered by SABYASACHI MUKHARJI, J.
It was observed that the finding of the High Court that the respondent was in occupation of the premises under a subsisting licence was wholly wrong and suffered from serious infirmities of law and fact and deserved to be set aside.
The High Court disallowed the special civil application under Article 227 of the Constitution on 17th of November, 1980 and that is the judgment impugned in this appeal.
The High Court in the judgment under appeal noted that if it was held that the document created a lease rather than a licence than the tenant would be entitled to protection.
The Bombay High Court in Miss Mani J. Desai vs M/s. Gayson & Co. Pvt. Ltd., 73 Bombay Law Reporter 394 had held that the Court of Small Causes would have no jurisdiction to proceed with the application filed under section 41 of the .
The High Court affirmed the decision of this Court and upheld the order of the Court of Small Causes and ordered eviction.
In support of this appeal Sree R.F. Nariman very laboriously took us through the documents.
This appeal by special leave arises from the judgment and order of the High Court of Bombay dated 17th of November, 1980.
The main question involved in this appeal is whether the appellant was a licensee or a tenant and also incidentally the question whether the Court of Small Causes, Bombay had jurisdiction to deal with the eviction petition in this case.
The premises in question belongs to the Bombay City Weavers Cooperative Limited.
They filed ejectment proceedings against one 1060 Sugrabhai Mohammed Husain, their tenant and obtained a decree.
It is stated that the appellant was a monthly tenant of the suit premises since about 2nd February, 1965.
On or about 9th of February, 1965 a fresh document of that date, was executed and it is alleged that the appellant continued by virtue of that agreement.
It is alleged that this agreement was entered into between the parties since the respondent wanted to charge more rent or mesne profits.
This agreement is in writing and this was for a period of five years, i.e., from 1st September, 1965 to 31st of August, 1970.
The main contention involved in this appeal is whether the appellant was a tenant or a licensee? The answer would be dependent upon the construction of the aforesaid document.
It is necessary, therefore, to refer to the said agreement in little detail.
The agreement is described as an agreement of 'leave and licence ' entered into between the respondent on the one hand and the appellant on the other wherein the respondent had been described as the 'licensor and the appellant had been described as the licensee ' and the recitals therein recite that the licensor was seized and possessed of and was otherwise well entitled as the monthly tenant of the workshop premises situated at 231, Ripon Road, Cooperative Building, Bombay, being the premises in dispute, and whereas the licensee had approached the licensor to allow him to occupy and use the said premises for the purpose of carrying out his business of workshop for a period of five years and whereas the licensor had agreed to allow the licensee to use the premises under the said leave and licence of the licensor for a period of five years from 1st of September, 1965 till 31st of August, 1970, that agreement was being executed.
it was stated that the licensor gave and granted his 'leave and licence ' to the licensee to use and occupy the said premises for the period of five years.
Clause 2 of the said agreement recites that the licensee had agreed to use the premises as above and merely for the purpose of workshop business.
It further goes on to state that the "licensee shall not under any circumstances be allowed to use the premises for the residential purposes or any other purpose save and except specified therein".
The period of leave and licence was to commence from 1st of September, 1965 to 31st of August, 1970 and it was further submitted that the licensee and the licensor shall not terminate the said agreement earlier save and except on the ground of breach of any of the terms and conditions written therein.
