M.K. Ramamurthy and A.K. Sanghi for the Appellant.
Dr. Y.S. Chitale, P.H. Parekh, R.K. Dhillon, Ms. Sunita Sharma and Dr. D. Chandrachud for the Respondents.
The only question which remains to be 782 considered is whether they contain public news or comments on public news.
Entry 39 of List III of the Seventh Schedule to the Constitution reads thus: "Newspapers, books and printing presses.
" Newspapers and books are no doubt shown as separate items but the distinction between them sometimes becomes very thin or totally vanishes.
In this connection it is necessary to reproduce a passage from the Report of the Royal Commission on the Press (1947 49) appointed by the British Government and presided over by Sir William David Ross.
It reads thus: "The newspaper and periodical Press of Great Britain consists of over 4,000 publications ranging from newspapers famous throughout the world to the journals of obscure societies.
Its limits are ill defined, for there is no definition of either `newspaper ' or `periodical ' which enables each to be infallibly distinguished from the other and from publications which are properly speaking neither.
Those decisions also carry persuasive value before courts which are not situated within its territory.
It may be that the decisions contained in these law reports may cease to be items of news after some time but when they are received by the subscribers they do possess the character of works containing news.
784 Strong reliance was placed on behalf of the Ist respondent on the decision of the High Court of Orissa in P.S.V. Iyer vs Commissioner of Sales Tax, Orissa, AIR 1960 Orissa 221 in which the question that arose for consideration was whether a law journal Cuttack Law Times, which was a non official monthly journal containing the decisions of the Orissa High Court, the Orissa Board of Revenue and also of the Supreme Court was a newspaper and if it was a newspaper whether it was competent for the Legislature of the State of Orissa to levy sales tax on the sale of the said journal.
The said question arose in that form in view of the language of Entry 54 of List II of the Seventh Schedule to the Constitution which read as follows: "54.
Taxes on the sale or purchase of goods other than newspapers, subject to Entry 92 A of List I." The language of Entry 92 of List I of the Seventh Schedule to the Constitution which conferred on Parliament alone the power to tax sale or purchase of newspapers was in the following terms: "92.
Tax on the sale or purchase of newspapers and on advertisements published therein.
" After referring to the definition of the expression `newspaper ' in the Press and Registration of Books Act, 1867, the Indian Post Offices Act, 1898, the Parliamentary Proceedings (Protection of Publication) Act, 1956, the Delivery of Books and Newspapers Act, 1956 the , etc.
the High Court of Orissa held that the Cuttack Law Times was not a newspaper because according to it the necessary pre requisite of a periodical in order to make it a newspaper was that it should contain mainly publicnews or comments on public news and that books containing authoritative reports for future reference could, by no means, be said to contain news so as to become newspaper.
Accordingly, the High Court of Orissa held that the sale of Cuttack Law Times, which according to it was not a newspaper, could be taxed by the State Legislature under Entry 54 of List II of the Seventh Schedule to the Constitution of India.
Every law report contains the editorial note at the commencement of the decisions printed therein and also comments on some of the recent decisions.
Law reports also contain, newly enacts Acts, Rules and Regulations, book reviews and advertisements relating to law books handwriting and finger print experts etc.
The question which arises for consideration in this case is whether the law reports namely, All India Reporter, Criminal Law Journal, Labour and Industrial Cases, Taxation Law Reports, Allahabad Law Journal and U.P. Law Tribune published by the 1st respondent, All India Reporter Limited, are newspapers as defined in the Working Journalists and Other Newspaper Employees (Conditions of Service) and Miscellaneous Provisions Act, 1955 (Act No. 45 of 1955) (hereinafter referred to as 'the Act ') and whether the employees of the 1st respondent engaged in the production or publication of the said law reports are entitled to the benefits conferred upon the employees of newspaper establishments by the Act.
The Act was enacted on 20th December, 1955 with the object of regulating certain conditions of service of working journalists and other employees employed in the newspaper establishments.
The expression "newspaper" is defined by section 2(b) of the Act as follows: " "Newspaper" means any printed periodical work containing public news or comments on public news and includes such other class of printed periodical work as may, from time to time, be notified in this behalf by the Central Government in the Official Gazette." 779 A "newspaper employee" is defined by section 2(c) of the Act as any working journalist, and includes any other person employed to do any work in, or in relation to, any newspaper establishment.
"Newspaper establishment" is defined by section 2(d) of the Act as an establishment under the control of any person or body of persons, whether incorporated or not, for the production or publication of one or more newspapers or for conducting any news agency or syndicate.
The expression "working journalist" is defined by section 2(f) of the Act as a person whose principal avocation is that of a journalist and who is employed as such, either whole time or part time, in or in relation to, one or more newspaper establishments and includes an editor, a leader writer, news editor, sub editor, feature writer, copy tester, reporter, correspondent, cartoonist, news photographer and proof reader, but does not include any such person who is employed mainly in a managerial or administrative capacity, or being employed in a supervisory capacity, performs, either by the nature of the duties attached to his office or by reason of the powers vested in him, functions mainly of a managerial nature.
A "non journalist newspaper employee" means any person employed to do any work in, or in relation to, any newspaper establishment, but does not include any such person who is a working journalist, or is employed mainly in a managerial or administrative capacity or being employed in a supervisory capacity, performs, either by the nature of the duties attached to his office or by reason of the powers vested in him, functions mainly of a managerial nature as stated in section 2(dd) of the Act.
Chapter II of the Act deals with certain conditions of service of the working journalists.
Those provisions relate to the retrenchment, payment of gratuity, hours of work, leave, fixation or revision of wages etc.
