Civil Appeal No. 1709 of 1988.
From the Judgment and Order dated 9.10.1987 of t he Central Administrative Tribunal Chandigarh in Appln.
WITH (SLP (Civil) No. 6998 of 1988) V.C. Mahajan, Mrs. Indu Goswami, C.V. Subba Rao, P. Parmeshwaran for the Appellant in C.A. No. 1709 of 1988.
M.K.D. Namboodary for the Petitioner in SLP (Civil) N o. 6998 of 1988.
S.M. Ashri and Mahabir Singh for the Respondents.
The Judgment of the Court was delivered by K. JAGANNATHA SHETTY, J.
The civil appeal, by speci al leave, and the connected SLP raise an important issue as to the power of the Central Administration Tribun al ("Tribunal") to examine the adequacy of penalty awarded by the competent authority to a Government servant in discipl i nary proceedings.
Short factual background is this: Parmanand Respondent in the appeal was a Time Keeper in Beas Sutlej Link Project, Sundernagar.
He was incharge of preparing the pay bills and other bills of the work charg ed employees of the project.
It was alleged that he maSte r minded and prepared the pay roll pertaining to 'T ' Token of Central Survey Division, Sundernagar for the month of M ay 1969 and entered the name of one Shri Ashok Kumar, Token N o. 59 T at serial No. 10 on page 2 of the relevant pay roll.
He made this entry with ulterior motive to withdraw the pay of Ashok Kumar for the month of May 1969, even though Ash ok Kumar was not working in that Division.
A bogus identi ty card in the name of Ashok Kumar T.No.
59 T with the sign a tures of the issuing officer was also prepared by the r e spondent although it was not his duty to prepare the ident i ty card.
The said fictitious identity card was used by o ne Suraj Singh, cleaner T. No. 210 K of Beggi Tunnelling Div i sion for the purpose of withdrawing the pay of Ashok Kuma r.
While Suraj Singh by impersonation was receiving the pay of Ashok Kumar, he was recognised by the Cashier since he kn ew him personally.
There then started an enquiry followed by departmental proceedings against three persons includi ng the respondent herein.
The Personnel Officer of the 23 BSL Project was appointed as Inquiry Officer.
The enqui ry was conducted under the Punjab Government Servants Condu ct Rules, 1966.
The Inquiry Officer framed charge against the responde nt in the following terms: "That the said Shri Parma Nand, while working as Time Keeper in Time Keeping Sub Division of Beas Sutlej Li nk Project, Sundernagar during the month of May 1969 failed to maintain absolute integrity and devotion to duty in as mu ch as he falsely marked the attendance of Shri Ashok Kuma r, Token No. 59 T in the Pay Roll of Control Survey Divisi on for the month of May 1969, which resulted in fictitio us drawal of Rs.238 90 as pay of the said Shri Ashok Kumar.
He also prepared a bogus identity card in the name of the abo ve Shri Ashok Kumar and initiated it below the signatures of issuing officer and this identity card Was used by Sh ri Suraj Singh, Cleaner (Token No. 210 K), Boggi Tunnelli ng Division, at the time of attempting to receive the pay of Shri Ashok Kumar from the Cashier.
" After a detailed enquiry against the respondent and t wo others, the Inquiry Officer found all the three guilty of the charge framed against each of them.
Consequentl y, the said writ petition stood transferred to the Tribunal by operation of section 29 of that Act.
The Tribunal upon consideration of the matter agre ed with the findings recorded by the Inquiry Officer that t he respondent was the master mind behind the scheme to defra ud the project.
The Tribunal observed: "Since the applicant had.
access to the records which 24 were fabricated at the relevant time the Inquiry Officer h ad come to the conclusion that the applicant was the mast er mind behind the scheme to defraud the Project.
In view of the foregoing, it cannot be termed th at the finding returned by the Inquiry Officer is without a ny evidence.
" It was also observed that there was no denial of a reasonable opportunity for the respondent to set up prop er defence.
After reaching this conclusion, the Tribunal pr o ceeded to examine the adequacy of penalty awarded to t he respondent.
In the intere st of 25 justice, it is necessary to modify the punishment awarded to the applicant.
We, therefore, direct that the punishment of dismissal awarded to the applicant be reduced to that of stopping of his five increments which he had earned for a period of five years, in terms of clause (iv) of Rule 11 of the Central Civil Services (Classification, Control a nd Appeal) Rules, 1965.
There will be no order as to costs.
T he respondents shah comply with this order within four mont hs from its receipt and pay all consequential benefits to t he applicant.
" The Tribunal seems to suggest that the respondent w as not the only master mind to commit the fraudulent act a nd there were others too, and as such, he should not be mea s ured with a different yardstick.
The Tribunal however, h as held that the respondent was guilty of entering the name of Ashok Kumar in the pay roll of May 4969.
Yet it modified t he punishment to fall in line with that of others whose pa rt inthe fraudulent act was evidently not similar in nature.
Being aggrieved by the reduction of penalty, the Uni on of India has preferred the Civil Appeal No. 1709 of 198 8.
Parma Nanda seeking a complete exoneration from the char ge has preferred the SLP No. 6998 of 1988.
The question which has to be decided, therefore, is whether the Tribunal has power to modify the penalty award ed to the respondent when the findings recorded as to h is misdemeanour is supported by legal evidence.
