it case for initiating any procee d ings for contempt against the respondents.
[109F] & ORIGINAL JURISDICTION: Writ Petition (Civil) No. 530 of 1983 etc.
(Under Article 32 of the Constitution of India).
V.A. Bobde, Shyam Mudaliar, V.M. Tarkunde, G.L. Sangh i, A.K. Sanghi, Mrs. R. Karanjawala, Mrs. Meenakshi Karanjawa la N.M. Popli and V.J. Francis for the Petitioners.
Ms. A. Subhashini, D.N. Dwivedi, Girish Chandra, C.V. section Rao, M.C. Dhingra and N.K. Sharma for the Respondents.
The Judgment of the Court was delivered by OJHA, J.
The petitioners in the aforementioned wr it petitions claim to have been appointed as Supervisors Gra de 'A ' in various ordnance factories between 1962 to 1966 a nd have filed these writ petitions with the prayer that t he same relief may be granted to them also as was granted by this Court to 75 appellants in Civil Appeal No. 441 of 19 81 vide its order dated 2nd February, 1981.
The three civ il miscellaneous petitions referred to above on the other ha nd have been made by the appellants of Civil Appeal No. 441 of 1981 asserting that the direction given by this Court on 2 nd February, 1981 has not been complied with in the manner as it ought to have been by the respondents and they should be consequently required to comply with the said direction.
T he exact nature of the prayer made in these miscellaneo us applications shall be indicated after referring to t he relief granted on 2nd February, 1981 in Civil Appeal No. 4 41 of 1981.
The 75 appellants of Civil Appeal No. 441 of 1981 fil ed a writ petition in the Allahabad High Court in 1972 asser t ing that they had been appointed as Supervisors Grade 'A ' on various dates in pursuance of a circular dated 6th Novembe r, 1962 issued by the Director General of Ordnance Factorie s, the relevant portion whereof reads as hereunder: "Subject: NON INDUSTRIAL ESTABLISHMENT PROMOTION D.G.O.F. has decided that Diploma holders serving as 97 Supervisor 'A ' (Tech)/Supervisor 'B '/(Tech) and in equiv a lent grades should be treated as follows (i) All those Diploma holders who have been appointed as Supervisor 'B ' (Tech) (and in equivalent grades) should on completion of one year 's satisfactory service in ordnan ce factories be promoted to Supervisor 'A ' (Tech) and in equi v alent grades.) (ii) All those Diploma holders who work satisfactorily as Supervisor 'A ' (Tech) or in equivalent grades for 2 years in Ordnance Factory should be promoted to Chargeman.
for D.G.O.F. Their grievance in the writ petition was that ev en though quite a large number of Supervisors Grade 'A ' h ad been promoted to the post of Chargeman grade II on compl e tion of two years ' satisfactory work they had been discrim i nated against and had not been so promoted immediately on the expiry of two years ' in pursuance of the aforesa id circular even though their work was satisfactory.
The reli ef prayed for in the said writ petition was for the issue of a writ of mandamus directing the Union of India through t he Director General of Ordnance Factories to promote the appe l lants to the post of Chargeman II.
The writ petition w as contested by the respondents thereto inter alia on t he ground that under the rules of promotion from Supervisor ' A ' to Chargeman II first Departmental Promotion Commit.tee at the factory level and then a Departmental Committee at t he Central level screens the service record of each of t he Supervisors 'A ' who comes within the range of eligibili ty and then finally the Director General of Ordnance Factori es draws up a list and sanctions promotions.
It was furth er asserted that in accordance with the said rule the cases of all the appellants were screened by the Promotion Committ ee at the factory level and then at the Central level and th ey not having been found fit were not promoted.
It appears th at the criterion of promotion is seniority cum merit.
T he learned Single Judge, however, did not go into the merits of the controversy and dismissed the writ petition on t he ground of unexplained laches and also on the ground that a previous petition for similar relief had not been presse d. Against the 98 judgment of the learned Single Judge the appellants pr e ferred a special appeal before a Division Bench of th at Court.
The learned Judges who decided the special appeal d id not consider it appropriate to uphold the dismissal of t he writ petition on the technical ground which found favo ur with the learned Single Judge and they went into the meri ts of the respective contentions of the parties.
They, howeve r, did not find any substance in the submission made on beha lf of the appellants and accordingly dismissed the speci al appeal on 8th February, 1977.
The learned Judges pointed o ut that it was admitted that the conditions of service applic a ble to the case of the appellants were governed by t he Indian Ordnance Factories (Recruitment and Conditions of Service of Class III Personnel) Rules, 1956 (hereinaft er referred to as the Rules) framed by the President of Ind ia under Article 309 of the Constitution.
The Gover n ment now appears to insist that in so far as the appellan ts are concerned they cannot be considered for promotion unle ss they complete three years of service.
We see no justific a tion for any such differential treatment being given to t he appellants.
If a large number of other persons similar ly situated have been promoted as Chargeman Grade II aft er completing two years of service, there is no reason why t he appellants should also not be similarly promoted aft er completing the same period of service.
We are not suggesti ng that the appellants are entitled to be promoted to t he aforesaid posts even if they are found unfit to be promote d.
We Therefore direct that the concerned authoriti es will consider the cases of the appellants for promotion as Chargeman Grade II and promote them to the said posts unle ss they are found to be unfit.
If the appellants are promote d, they will naturally have to be promoted with effect from t he date on which they ought to have been promoted.
This order will dispose of the appeal.
There will be no order as to costs.
" As already pointed above the petitioners in the writ pet i tions refer 100 red to above have prayed for the same relief which w as granted in Civil Appeal No. 441 of 1981.
Now we shall rev rt to the exact prayers made in the three miscellaneous pet i tions aforesaid.
The prayer made in Civil Miscellaneo us Petition No. 3325 of 1987 is for the issue of an inter im order restraining the respondents from making any furth er promotions during the pendency and final heating of t he miscellaneous petition and for initiating contempt procee d ings.
Almost analogous prayer had been made in Miscellaneo us Petition No. 9357 of 1983 also namely that the responden ts may be restrained from promoting officers to the next high er posts on the basis of recommendations of certain Departme n tal Promotion Committees without complying with the dire c tions of this Court in its order dated 2nd February, 198 1.
The reliefs prayed for in the above two civil miscellaneo us petitions are thus of an interim nature.
The main relie fs which have been prayed for apart from for initiating pr o ceedings for contempt for disobedience of the order of th is Court dated 2nd February, 1981 are reliefs (i), (ii) a nd (iii) contained in Civil Miscellaneous Petition No. 9356 of 1983.
They are as hereunder: "(i) pass appropriate orders directing the respondents to implement in true letter and spirit, the judgment of th is Hon 'ble Court dated 2.2.1981 in Civil Appeal No. 441 of 1 98 1; (ii) issue appropriate directions commanding the responden ts to promote the appellants to the next higher posts of Chargeman Grade I, Assistant Foreman, and Foreman, wi th effect from the date they are entitled to, after giving th em the benefit of the directions of this Hon 'ble Court dat ed 2.2.1981; (iii) issue appropriate directions to the respondents to give all consequential benefits to the appellants, includi ng payment of arrears.
" The aforesaid writ petitions came up for hearing befo re a bench of two learned Judges of this Court on 9th Septe m ber, 1987.
On the view that the judgment of this Court dat ed 2nd February, 1981 in Civil Appeal No. 441 of 1981 in t he case of Virendra Kumar and Others vs Union of India & Ors ., [1981] 3 SCC Page 30 may require reconsideration, the pet i tions were directed to be placed before a three Judge Ben ch "where inter alia the correctness of the judgment could be looked into and the nature of relief available to the pet i tioners on the 101 facts now stated would also be considered.
