(Civil) No. 548 of 1987.
(Under Article 32 of the Constitution of India).
M.C. Dhingra for the Petitioners.
They are termed as daily rated employees.
In this petition under Article 32 of the Constitution, they are seeking enforcement of their fundamental right to have "equal pay for equal work".
They demand payment in terms paid to their counterparts in regular services.
They want the same pay of the regular employees as carpenters or in the alternative, the minimum wages prescribed by the Deputy Commissioner for like categories of workmen.
They also seek regularisation of their services with the benefits of pen sion, gratuity etc.
Kapil Sibal, K.G. Bhagat, A.K. Ganguli, Ms. Kamini Jaiswal, 664 Ms. Aruna Mathur, A. Mariarputham, Harminder Lal and Naresh K. Sharma for the Respondents.
The Judgment of the Court was delivered by K. JAGANNATHA SHETTY, J.
The petitioners are carpenters 1st and 2nd grade employed at the Wood Working Centre of the Himachal Pradesh State Handicrafts Corporation (the "Corpo ration").
The Corporation has resisted the petitioners ' claim.
The case of the Corporation is that the unit where the petition ers are working is a factory registered under the Factories Act.
The petitioners are treated as industrial workmen and .are given all benefits due to them under the various labour legislations.
The Government has not fixed the mini mum wages payable to the petitioners engaged in the Corpora tion or other like industries, but the Corporation has adopted the minimum wages payable for similar work in the construction industry.
They are being paid the same wages as are payable to carpenters, painters and carpenters ' helpers engaged in the construction industry.
They are given bonus under the Bonus Act and provident fund benefits under the Employees ' Provident Fund Act.
It is also stated that the petitioners are supplied with the necessary tools for carry ing out their work and also working uniforms like aprons and overalls.
The Corporation has clearly stated that there are no regular employees of the petitioners ' categories in its establishment and, as such, the question of payment to the petitioners, the pay admissible to regular employees does not arise.
A little more information about the purpose and object of the Corporation would be useful for proper understanding of the case.
The Corporation is a company which has been incorporated under the .
The main object of the Corporation as seen from the Memorandum of Associa tion is to preserve the traditional arts and crafts and also to popularise handicrafts and handloom items 665 in the State of Himachal Pradesh and other parts of the country and abroad.
In order to achieve this primary objec tive, the Corporation gives training to artisans, weavers and craftsmen in various traditional arts and crafts.
During the period of training, the trainees are paid a stipend by the Corporation.
Upto 31st March, 1987, the Corporation has imparted training to as many as 1662 persons in different areas like carpet weaving, handloom weaving, painting, metal crafts, wood carving, etc.
Apart from giving training, the Corporation also ensures marketing support to the artisans and craftsmen by purchasing their products at remunerative prices and sell them through the marketing network of the Corporation.
It is thus a service oriented organisation helping the village artisans and craftsmen to produce and market their products on remunerative prices.
