4339 41/86 & 4176 77 of 1984.
From the Judgment and Order dated 4.7.85 & 21.6.84 of the Customs Excise and Gold (Control) Appellate Tribunal, New Delhi in Appeal Nos.
ED(SB)(T) A. Nos. 513 514, & 544 of 1985(A) & ED(SB) 329 & 324/84 A in Order Nos.
For the purposes of this sub clause, the amount of the duty of excise payable on any excisable goods shall be the sum total of (a) the effective duty of excise payable on such goods under this Act; and (b) the aggregate of the effective duties of excise payable under other Central Acts, if any, providing for the levy of duties of excise on such goods , and the effective duty of excise on such goods under each Act referred to in clause (a) or clause (b) shall be, (i) in a case where a notification or order providing for any exemption (not being an exemption for giving credit with respect to, for reduction or duty of excise under such Act on such goods equal to, any duty of excise under such Act, or the additional duty under Section 3 of the (51 of 1975), already paid] on the raw material or component parts used in the production or manufacture of such goods) from the duty of excise under such Act is for the time being in force, the duty of excise computed with refer ence to the rate specified in such Act in respect of such goods as reduced so as to give full and complete effect to such exemption; and (ii) in any other case, the duty of excise computed with reference to the rate specified in such Act in respect of such goods.
" The expression "place of removal" has been defined under section 4(4)(b) of the Act to mean a factory or any other place or premises of production or manufacture of the excisable goods; or a warehouse or any other place or prem ises wherein the excisable goods have been permitted to be deposited without payment of duty, from where such goods are removed.
These were in the storage tanks of the assessee and were as such marketable.
In this connection, it is necessary to refer to the observations of this Court in Collector of Central Excise vs Indian Oxygen Ltd., (supra).
The respondent supplied these gases in cylinders at their factory gate.
987 For taking delivery of these gases, some consumers/customers used to bring their own cylinders and take the delivery, while others used to have the delivery in the cylinders supplied by the respondent.
For the purpose of such supply of cylinders, certain rentals were charged by the respondent and also to ensure that these cylinders were returned prop erly, certain amounts of deposit used to be taken from the customers.
On these deposits, notional interest @ 18% p.a. was calculated.
The two amounts with which this Court was concerned were rentals of the cylinders and the notional interest earned on the deposit of cylinders whether these two amounts were includible in the value under section 4 of the Act was the question.
On the other hand, there was evidence that in the wholesale trade, these goods were delivered directly in tankers and deliverable as such.
But as a matter of fact, delivery in drums was only to facilitate their transport in small quantities.
The manufac ture of the goods was complete before these were placed in drums.
The completely manufactured product was stored in tanks.
From these tanks the goods were removed directly and placed in vehicles for their movement for 90% of the sales, the vehicle of removal was tankers and 10% of the sales, the vehicle of removals was drums.
In the premises, the value of the drums with regard to the fusel oil/styrene monomer irrespective of whether these were supplied by the assessee or not, are not includible in the assessable value of the Styrene Monomer.
The manufacture of the monomer was complete when it was stored in tanks.
450 452/85 A, 473 & 474/84 A. Harish Salve, Ravinder Narain, P.K. Ram and D.N. Mishra for the Appellant.
K. Parasaran, Attorney General, A.K. Ganguli, and P. Parmeshwaran for the Respondents.
The Judgment of the Court was delivered by SABYASACHI MUKHARJI, J.
These appeals under Section 35L(b) of the Central Excises & Salt Act, 1944 (hereinafter called 'the 979 Act ') are against the order Nos.
450 452 of 1985A dated 4th July, 1985, 473/184A and 474/84A both dated 21st June, 1984 passed by the Customs, Excise & Gold (Control) Appellate Tribunal (hereinafter referred to as 'the Tribunal ').
The appellant is a division of McDowell & Co. Ltd. It has its factory at, inter alia, Visakhapatnam.
There it manufactures and sells fusel oil/Styrene Monomer falling under Tariff Item No. 68 of the Ist Schedule to the Act.
The case of the appellant is that the said fusel oil is a com pletely manufactured article and after completion of its manufacture, it is stored in storage tanks duly approved for this purpose.
It is at this stage that the quantity of fusel oil/Styrene Monomer manufactured, according to the appel lant, is entered in the RG 1 Register maintained for goods manufactured by the appellant.
It is also the case of the appellant that the said fusel oil/Styrene Monomer manufac tured by it is sold in bulk and delivered to the customers at the appellant 's factory.
The fusel oil/Styrene Monomer is also capable of being supplied in road tankers to customers.
The appellant had filed its price lists in respect of the same.
In the said price lists, which were duly approved by the Asstt.
Collector, the appellant had shown the value of fusel oil/Styrene Monomer at the rate at which those were sold in wholesale as "naked Ex Works and in bulk".
According to the appellant, the manufacture of fusel oil is complete and it is the fully manufactured fusel oil/Styrene Monomer which is stored in the storage tank.
On 2nd July, 1983, a notice in respect of a consignment was issued to show cause as to why value of the drums should not be included in the value of the goods.
There the drums had been supplied by the buyer.
Another show cause notice as to why value of the drums should not be included in the assessable value of the goods, was issued to the appellant on the 5th April, 1983 pertaining to Gate Pass No. 773 whereunder the appellant had cleared 2.4 KI of fusel oil in drums supplied by the buyer.
Replies were duly filed to the said show cause notices by the appellant contending, inter alia, that as the drums were supplied by the buyer, value thereof could not be included in the assessable value.
On the 11th August, 1983, two orders were passed by the Assist ant Collector one in relation to each of the aforesaid show cause notices.
The Assistant Collector included the value of the drums in the assessable value of the said fusel oil/Styrene Monomer.
There was a further appeal to the Tribunal.
The Tribunal held that at the time of removal the goods were delivered from the factory in packed condition and the containers were not returnable by the buyer, there fore, the value had to be included in the assessable value.
4339 41 of 1986) the value of such drums/containers would also have to be included on a correct interpretation of charging sections, namely, sec tions 3 and 4 of the Act.
It was submitted that while deter mining the scope and nature of levy, as contemplated under section 3 of the Act, of central excise and the measure of such levy as provided in section 4 of the Act the principles laid .down in Union of India vs Bombay Tyre International Ltd., (supra), should be followed and reliance was placed on the several decisions of this Court which we will refer to later.
Learned Attorney General emphasised that it is a well settled principle of construction that in taxing statutes one has only to look merely at what is clearly stated.
There is no room, he contended, for any intendment.
There is no equity about a tax, it was submitted.
There is no presump tion as to tax.
Reliance was placed for this proposition by the learned Attorney General on the observations of this Court in Gur Sahai Sehgal vs Commissioner of Income Tax, Punjab, ; at 898.
Learned Attorney General also drew attention to the decision of this Court in A.K. Roy vs Voltas Ltd., and also to Atic Industries Ltd. vs H.H. Dave, Assistant Collector of Central Excise, ; at 568 to emphasise the point that percentages of sales do not in any manner affect determination of the assessable value of the excisable goods.
In this connection, it may be rele vant to mention that in C.A. 4339 41/86, in respect of which show notice was issued as to why value of drums should not be included in the assessable value of fusel oil and Styrene Monomer, 90% of Styrene Mono 982 mer had been sold directly in tanks and only 10% of Styrene Monomer had been sold in drums and the show cause notice on 20th October, 1983 had been issued relating to clearance of fusel oil in 45 drums but the said drums had been supplied by the buyer.
Collector in those appeals had included the costs of such drums in the value of styrene monomer.
Relying on the two decisions referred to hereinbe fore, learned Attorney General emphasised that percentages of sales would not in any manner affect determination of the assessable value of the excisable goods.
In A.K. Roy 's case (supra), it was held by this Court that though in that case that the fact that the assessee had effected sales to whole sale dealers only to the extent of 5 to 10% of its produc tion and that 90 95% of its production were only retail sales would not affect the question of determination of the assessable value of the excisable goods with reference to its value in the wholesale market.
Therefore, the learned Attorney General submitted, the mere fact that the assessee in C.A. No. 4339 of 1986 sold only 10% of the excisable goods to its buyer where drums were supplied by the buyers themselves and that 90% of the sales were through tankers belonging to the customers would not in any manner affect the question or determination of the assessable value of the excisable goods inasmuch as the 10% of its sales to whole sale buyers were in drums supplied by the buyers at the time of removal.
According to the learned Attorney General, the fact that 90% of the goods were supplied in tankers and not in containers had no relevance at all and the 10% represent ed the entire quantity of excisable goods delivered in packed condition.
Learned Attorney General contended that the decision of Indian Oxygen Ltd. 's case (supra) cannot be relied on in view of the facts of this case.
