ivil Appeal No 1514 of 1979.
From the Judgment and Order dated 17.6.1977 of the Madras High Court in O.S.A. 62 of 1973.
T.S. Krishnamurthy lyer, M.J. Paul and Kailash Vasudev for the Appellant.
K. Parasaran, P.D. Sharma, T.K. Seshadri and K. Swami for the Respondents.
549 The Judgment of the Court was delivered by RANGANATHAN, J.
A very interesting question comes up for consideration in this appeal.
The question to be ultimately decided falls within a very narrow compass but it is neces sary to set out the facts leading to the present appeal at some length.
The property, which is the subject matter of the present dispute, originally formed part of an extent of land situat ed on Mount Road, Madras, bearing door Nos. 2 and 3 and measuring 41 grounds and 2005 sq.
It belonged to several co owners.
These co owners had leased out the properties under two lease deeds in favour of M/s. India Automobiles, which was then the sole proprietary concern of one of them selves, Ganshyamdas Girdhardas (G.G.), but was converted subsequently, in 1961, into a partnership concern of G.G. and his four sons.
The firm and its partners arc hereinafter compendiously referred to as 'the tenants '.
1947 and related to Door No. 2 (Item No.1 in Schedule A to the plaint).
1947 relating to Door No. 3 (Item 2 in Schedule A to the plaint) covered an area of 8700 sq.
vs Dossibai N.B. Jeejeebhoy, ; , the appellant had ob tained lease of an open land for construction of buildings.
After putting up the buildings, he applied for determination of standard rent under the Bombay Rents, Hotel and Lodging House Rates Control Act, 1947.
The application was rejected holding that the provisions of the Act did not apply to open land let for construction.
Relying upon this judgment, the appellant filed a fresh application for determining the standard rent.
The trial Judge rejected the application holding that question of the applicability of the Act was res judicata since it had been finally decid ed by the High Court between the same parties in respect of the same land in the earlier proceeding for fixation of standard rent.
We have al ready referred to the effect of the provisions of section 10 (2)(vii) read with the proviso to section 10(1) and pointed out how jurisdiction to decide questions of title is denied to the Rent Controller.
In our opinion, on a proper construction of the Rent Control Act, the question on which the jurisdiction of the civil court is excluded is only the determination as to the fair rent of the premises.
If the civil court in this case had come to the conclusion that there is a relationship of a landlord and a tenant and that the LIC was entitled to recover the rent from the tenants, it will have to pass a decree in favour of the LIC on the basis of the fair rent fixed by the Rent Controller.
571 For the reasons mentioned above, we are of the opinion that the High Court reached the correct conclusion and that this appeal has to fail.
The appeal is therefore, dismissed.
In the circumstances, however, we make no order as to costs.
P 1) was dated 22.9.
This was a property comprising of an area of 4 grounds and 151 square feet with certain buildings thereon.
The rent for the premises was Rs. 150 per month.
The second lease deed (Ext.
The fair rent claimed was computed at Rs.2,399.03 per month in respect of item No. 1 as against the rent of Rs. 150 p.m. fixed under the lease deed.
In respect of item 2 the fair rent claimed was Rs.3266.50 as against Rs.200 p.m. payable under the lease deed.
The defendants (G.G. and his sons) filed their objections to the above applications.
They claimed that, under both the lease deeds, what had been leased out to them was only a vacant land and that the superstructure had been built by them.
They claimed, there fore, that they were entitled to relief under the Madras 550 City Tenants ' Protection Act and that the Rent Controller Court had no jurisdiction to fix a fair rent.
The Rent Controller accepted the .above argument so far as item was concerned.
So far as item 2 was concerned, it appears that, at the time of the hearing, it was conceded before the Rent Controller that the respondents were tenants of the entire properties covered by the lease deed and that they had not constructed any of the premises thereupon.
In view of this the Rent Controller dismissed H.R.C. 3310/ 65 relating to item No. 1 and, in H.R.C. 3311/65, fixed the fair rent in respect of item No. 2 at Rs. 1451 p.m.
The order of the Rent Controller was dated 9.3.
There were appeals to the Court of Small Causes.
The fair rent fixed by the Rent Controller at Rs.994 p.m. was upheld.
It may be mentioned here that, even in certain earlier proceedings for fixation of fair rent and eviction (H.R.C. 867/73 and H.R.C. 2557/64), it had been held by the Rent Controller that item No. 1 (door No. 2) belonged to the LIC but his order of eviction had been set aside by the appellate court on some other ground.
This was on 19th April, 1967.
The tenants filed revision petitions against the order of the Court of Small Causes but these were dismissed on 20.11.1968.
It may be mentioned here that the tenant filed C.S. 87 of 1972 claiming protection under the Madras City Tenants ' Protection Act but this suit and further appeals therefrom have been dismissed.
Turn 551 ing now to C.S. No. 54 of 1969 (which was disposed of along with C.S. No. 87 of 72 by a common judgment dated 23.10.1972), the contention urged on behalf of the tenants was that, since the subject matter of the lease under exhibit P 1 was only a vacant site, the Rent Controller had no juris diction to fix the fair rent in respect thereof and that, therefore, the claim in the suit for arrears of rent, based on the Rent Controller 's order in respect of the premises covered by exhibit P 1 had to fail.
The Court addressed itself to this question.
It came to the conclusion that exhibit P 1 did not, in law, create a valid lease between the co owners and the tenants.
After referring to the terms of the sale deed (exhibit P 3), the superstructure constructed on the land was held to have been conveyed to the vendee under the sale deed dated 30 7. 1953 and to have thus vested in the LIC.
The Rent Controller was, therefore, held to have had juris diction to fix the fair rent in respect of the premises.
It was, therefore, held that the plantiff 's claim in the suit should succeed.
The suit was decreed accordingly.
The tenants filed an appeal being O.S.A. No. 62 of 1973.
The Appellate Bench confirmed the decree in respect of item No. 2 subject to certain modifications which are not here relevant.
However, so far as item No. 1 was concerned, the Appellate Bench vacated the decree passed by the trial court.
It held that there was a valid tease between the quondam owners and the tenants under Exts.
P 1 & P 2.
Having regard to the express recitals in exhibit P 3, the Appellate Bench held that it was impossible to hold that the build ings, which admittedly belonged to the defendants and had been constructed by them on the vacant land taken on lease under exhibit P 1, ever were or could be the subject matter of the sale under exhibit p 3.
In view of this finding, it was held that the Rent Controller had no jurisdiction to entertain the application for fixation of fair rent in respect of the property which was only a vacant piece of land.
In conse quence, it was held, the LIC could not maintain the suit for recovery of rent based on the order made by the statutory tribunal under the Rent Control Act and claim the difference between the so called fair rent and the contract rent.
The claim of the LIC for recovery of Rs.39,224.71, as arrears of rent, in respect of item 1 was thus held to be not maintain able.
O.S.A. 62 of 1973 was, therefore, allowed to that extent.
The present appeal, by Special Leave granted on 3.7.
1979, is from the order of the Division Bench rejecting the appellant 's claim for arrears of rent in respect of item No. 1 of the property set out in Schedule A to the plaint based on the difference between the fair rent fixed by the Rent Controller and the rent payable therefore under exhibit P 1.
552 The questions to be decided in this appeal, on the above facts, boil down to these: (1) Was the LIC the vendee only of a vacant piece of land with no title to the buildings standing on the site in item 17 (2) It is open for the tenants to contend that the order of the Court of Small Causes in the earlier rent control proceedings deciding to the contrary and fixing the fair rent of item 1 at Rs.994 p.m. should be completely ignored as an order passed totally without jurisdiction, although it has become final as be tween the parties? Two interesting aspects may be pointed out in regard to these two questions.
The first is that if either question is answered in the negative, the other will not arise for consideration and the appeal will have to be allowed.
But an affirmative answer to either question will necessitate an answer to the other.
