Raja Ram Aggarwal, Arvind Minocha, H.K. Singh, S.K. Bagga, S.C. Patel and S.K. Gambhir for the Appellants.
The 1990 Act also inserted an Explanation 6 to the clause w.e.f. 31.3.
It also omitted the proviso to the said clause.
Kapil Sibal, Additional Solicitor General, S.P. Goel, A. Subba Rao, C.V.S. Rao, Mahabir Singh, Bishambher Lal and K.C. Dua for the Respondents.
Counsel state that the facts in all these appeals are identical and that the only facts neces sary (or, atleast, on record before us), on the basis of which the issue us is to be decided, are these: Each of the appellants/ petitioners (hereinafter referred to compendi ously as 'assessees '), is a registered dealer in the State of Haryana.
He purchased certain raw materials in the State without paying tax thereon, in view of the provision con tained in section 24 of the Act.
He then manufactured certain goods in the State with the aid of said raw materials.
He then sold the manufactured goods to dealers who, in turn, exported those goods out of India.
On these facts, it is claimed, the assessee is not liable to pay the purchase tax on the raw materials imposed under section 9(1) of the Act.
This claim has been rejected by the taxing authorities and the High Court and hence these appeals.
The writ petitions have been filed directly in this Court in view of a learned single Judge of the High Court having decided the issue against the assessees as early as 25.11.
1980 in C.W.P. 1227/80, which was also affirmed by a Division Bench later 2.
The Act is a much amended one and Some of its provi sions have been recently amended with retrospective effect from 27th May, 1971 a point of time when actually a prede cessor Act (the Punjab General Sales Tax Act, 1948) had been in force.
The provisions of the statute, relevant for our purpose, and their relevant amendments may be noticed first: 347 1.
Section 2(e) (a) Originally section 2(e) defined 'export ' to mean "the taking out of goods from the State to any place outside it otherwise than by way of sale in the course of inter State trade or commerce.
" (b) Act 44 of 1976, added, at the end of the above definition, the following words w.e.f.
1.4.1976: "or in the course of export out of the territory of India.
Section 2(p) (a) section 2(p) defined the expression 'turnover ' as includ ing "the aggregate of the amounts of the sales and purchases . . made by any dealer" in any capacity during a given period.
Explanation 2 to the second defini tion provided: "(2) The proceeds of the sale of any goods on the purchase of which tax is leviable under this Act or the purchase value of any goods on the sales of which tax is leviable under this Act, shall not be included in the turnover, but the purchase value of the goods liable to tax under section 9 shall be included.
" (b) Act 13 of 1989 amended the Explanation by inserting, in it, after the words "section 9", the words "or section 24".
(c) Act 1 of 1990 has amended the above Explanation retrospectively to say that the words "but the purchase value of the goods liable to tax under section 9 or section 24 shall be included" shall be omitted and shall be deemed always to have been omitted with effect from 27.5.
So we have to proceed on the basis that the underlined words never were there in el.
Incidence of taxation (1) Subject to other provisions of this Act, every dealer whose gross turnover during the year immediately preceding the commencement of this Act exceeded the taxable quantum, Defined in section 7, shall be liable to pay tax under this Act on all sales and purchases effected after the coming into force of this Act.
Provided that this section shall not apply to a dealer who deals exclusively in goods specified in Schedule B. Goods on which no tax is leviable: section 6 read with section 15.
(2) Every dealer to whom sub section (1) does not apply shall, subject to other provisions of this Act, be liable to pay tax under this Act on the expiry of thirty days after the date on which his gross turnover during any year first exceeds the taxable quantum; Provided that this sub section shall not apply to a dealer who deals exclusively in goods specified in Schedule B. Provided further that . .
XXX XXX XXX Explanation For the purposes of sub section (1) and (2) "purchased" shall mean the purchase of declared (As defined in section 2(c) of the ) goods speci fied in Schedule C and goods falling under section 9.
(b) section 6 was amended by Act I of 1990 to read as follows with retrospective effect from 27.5.
1971: "section 6 Incidence of taxation (1) Every dealer whose gross turnover during the year immediately preceding the coming into force of the provisions of this section exceeded the taxable quantum shall be liable to pay tax on all sales and purchases effected after the coming into force of the provi sions of this section.
349 Provided that this sub section shall not apply to a dealer who deals exclusively in goods specified in Schedule B. (2) Every dealer to whom sub section (1) does not apply shall be liable to pay tax on all sales and purchases effected on the expiry of thirty days after the date on which his gross turnover during any year first exceeds the taxable quantum.
XXX XXX XXX The earlier Explanation, however, is omitted with the same retrospective effect.
Section 9 (a) section 9(1) has undergone several amendments: by Act 44 of of of of of 1986 and Act 1 of of 1990 has also an impact, as we shall indicate later.
The section originally read thus: "section 9 Liability to pay purchase tax Where a dealer pur chases goods other than those specified in the Schedule B from any source in the State and (a) uses them in the State in the manufacture of (i) goods specified in Schedule B; or (ii) any other goods and disposes of the manufac tured goods in any manner otherwise than by way of sale whether within the State or in the course of inter State trade or commerce or in the course of export out of the territory of India; 350 (b) exports them in the circumstances in which no tax is payable under any other provision of this Act, there shall be levied, subject to the provisions of section 17, a tax on the purchase of such goods at such rate as may be notified under section 15.
" (b) Act 44 of 1976 made two amendments to this sub section.
The first amendment was to insert, after the open ing words, "where a dealer", the words "liable to pay tax under this Act".
