Petition No. 15001 of 1989.
Admittedly, the transfers are pendente lite.
In fact, if the compromise is valid and binding the alienor respondent No. 2 had no interest in the property to part with in view of the stipulation in the compromise that on receipt of Rs. 1 lakh he relinquished his entire interest in the property.
AND I.A. No. 1 of 1989 in S.L.P. No. 12288 of 1984.
From the Judgment and Order dated 20.4.1984 of the Andhra Pradesh High Court Appeal No. 472 of 1976.
K. Mahadeva Reddy, Ms. Manjul Gupta, T.V.S.N. Chari and A. Subba Rao for the Petitioner.
K. Ram Kumar, S.A. Ahmed, Tanweer Abdul and Mohan Pandey for the Respondents.
The following Order of the Court was delivered: 540 The special leave petition under Article 136 of the Constitution is directed against the affirming judgment of the Andhra Pradesh High Court in a suit for title and injunction.
In view of the fact that a petition of compromise in respect of the entire subject matter of litigation has been filed in this Court it is unnecessary to refer to the facts leading to the litigation.
We shall, therefore, confine the discussion to matters pertinent to the compromise.
Subbamma adopted one K.V Seshiah.
Through the first wife he had a son born to him by name Sudarshan Gupta and through the second another son by name Anand Babu.
In February, 1985, during the pendency of the special leave petition the adoptive mother died.
The terms of the compromise stipulated payment of Rs. 1 lakh by the father to each of his two sons in lieu of relinquishment of their interest.
When the matter was listed before the Court for recording of the compromise, Sudarshan Gupta, second respondent herein, maintained that he had not been paid Rs.1 lakh as stipulated and he had no intention to accept the compromise.
One of the stipulation in the compromise deed which has admittedly been signed by the father and his two sons stipulates: "The petitioner has given to the second and third respondents (the two sons) an amount of Rs. 1 lakh each and the second and third respondents have received the same." In the face of such a statement in the compromise deed signed by the parties the second respondent had disputed the fact of payment and has, in the meantime, alienated about 81 acres of property which constitutes the subject matter of dispute to third parties.
The alienees 541 have now been brought on record unders order of this Court.
We have heard counsel for the original parties as also the alienees.
The alienations are for about a purported consideration of Rs. 4 lakhs.
