S.R. Bhat for the Petitioners.
R.N. Narasimha Murthy, K.H. Nobin Singh, M. Veerappa and S.N. Bhatt for the Respondents.
Curiously enough, there is no reference in the Special Leave Petitions to any to the stay orders and we came to know about these orders only when the respondents appeared in response to the notice and filed their counter affidavit.
We accordingly dismiss the Special Leave Petitions.
There will be no order as to costs of these petitions.
From the Judgement and Order dated 6.10.1989 of the Karnataka High Court W.A. Nos.
321 & 322 of 1989.
The following Order of the Court was delivered: A few facts are necessary for the disposal of these petitions.
The petitioners were the owners of certain lands which were acquired by the respondents under the provisions of Sections 17 and 19 of the Bangalore Development Act, 1976 (hereinafter referred to as "the Bangalore Act").
Under the provisions of Section 36 of the Bangalore Act, where the acquisitions, otherwise than by agreement, it will be regulated by the provisions , as far they are applicable, of the Land Acquisition Act, 1894 (hereinafter referred to as "the Land Acquisition Act").
Section 11 A of the Land Acquisition Act, which section was included in the said Act in 1984 as set out hereinafter, very briefly states, provides that the Collector must make his award within two years from the date of the publication of the declaration and that if no award is made within that period, the entire proceedings for acqui 565 sition of the land shall lapse.
Under the Explanation to the first proviso to Section 11 A,"the period during which any action or proceeding to be taken in pursuance of the said declaration is stayed by an order of a Court shall be excluded".
It was, inter alia contended by the petitioners that as the awards in these cases has not been made within two years of the notification making the declaration under Section 4 of the Land Acquisition Act, the entire acquisition proceedings had lapsed.
That contention was repelled along with certain other contentions in the judgment of the High Court which is sought to be impugned before us.
The relevant dates which have to be borne in mind in this connection, are as follows: The notification making the declaration under Section 4 of the Land Acquisition Act in respect of the lands in question was made on September 20, 1977.
On September 20, 1984 Section 11 A which introduced into the Land, Acquisition Act by the Land Acquisition (Amendment) Act, 1984, was brought into force.
