(C) No. 677 of 1988.
(Under Article 32 of the Constitution of India).
P.N. Duda, N. Safaya, P.K. Choudhary and Ms. Rekha Pandey for the Petitioners.
Kapil Sibal, Additional Solicitor General, Ms. A. Subha shini and K. Swamy for the Respondents.
The Judgment of the Court was delivered by V. RAMASWAMI, J.
In this petition under Article 32 of the Constitution, the petitioners have questioned the con stitutional validity of Section 5 of the (12 of 1919) (hereinafter called 'the Act ').
The grounds on which the vires of the provisions is attacked are that the section gives an unguided, unchanelised and arbitrary power to the State Government to include any substance as poison for the purpose of restriction to be imposed on the posses sion for sale and sale of the same.
The object of the enactment is to regulate the posses sion for sale and the sale, whether wholesale or retail of poisons and the importation of the same.
In other words, it is intended to control over the traffic in poisons.
Though the original enactment, the Poisons Act, 1904 was restrict ed, it was applicable to white arsenic, the expanded its provisions and enabled State Government to declare any substance as poison for the purposes of the Act by a notification under the Act or the rules made under the Act.
In exercise of this power by the Notification No. F. 10/44/72 fin.
In fact the learned counsel argued the petition on the basis that the petition ers are a manufacturer of 'thinner ' within Rule 2(x)(2) which has been declared as poison for purposes of the Act.
Originally the Act contained a schedule in which the list of substances declared as poisons were listed.
Later when Delhi Poisons Rules, 1926 were made in exercise of the powers under the Act those list of substances were included in the list enumerated in Rule 2 thereof.
Rule 2 was amended as already stated including 'thinner ' of the description mentioned therein as poison.
Section 5 of the Act the con stitutional validity of which is questioned reads as fol lows: "5.
Presumption as to specified poisons: Any substance specified as a poison in a rule made or notification issued under this Act shall be deemed to be a poison for the purpose of this Act.
" It was a law in force in the territory of India before the commencement of the Constitution and as such continued in force.
The Act is intended to regulate the importation, possession and sale of poisons.
Some substances were includ ed in the Rules made in 1926 as poisons and that is not in dispute.
Section 5 of the Act deals with presumption and states that any substance specified as a poison in a Rule or noti fication issued under the Act shall be deemed to be a 'po ison ' for purposes of the Act.
Rules of 1926 were made in exercise of the rule making power under Section 3 of the Act.
It is those substances which the Govern ment consider its possession for sale or sale to be regulat ed in the interest of health and safety of the society.
This limitation is inherent in the scheme of the Act itself.
It has become a notorious fact, which we can even take judicial notice of, that the substance known as 'thinner ' as it is or mixing with some other substances are taken as intoxicating spirits endangering the life.
In many cases deaths have also occurred due to drinking such substance.
