ivil Appeals Nos. 259 and 260 of 1958.
Appeals by special leave from the judgment and orders dated August 5, 1955, of the former Travancore Cochin High Court in Income tax Reference Appeals Nos. 6 of 1953 and 21 of 1954.
In Appeal No. 260/ 58 a further question arose whether in the case of 259 that assessee the year ending June 30, 1949, was the previous year for the assessment year 1950 51 with the result that it should be assessed under the Indian Income tax Act of 1922.
But this question was not answered by the High Court which confined itself to answering the first question which was common to both the appeals.
The appellant before us in both the appeals is the Commissioner of Income tax and the respondents are the two assessees, in one case a Bank and the other a private limited company.
The main argument has been confined to the question of applicability of section 32(1) and the first proviso to that section of the Travancore Income tax Act (hereinafter called the Travancore Act).
In C. A. No. 259/58 the assessee is a public limited company incorporated in the State of Cochin with branches in that State as well as in what was British India and in Travancore State.
It filed its incometax return showing an income of Rs. 11,872 for the assessment year 1948 49, its accounting year being the previous calendar year.
The Income tax Officer determined its assessable income to be Rs. 90,947 representing only the profit it made in Travancore State and under section 32(1) proviso (1) of the Travancore Act he refused a deduction of Rs. 79,275 shown as loss from branches situate outside the State of Travancore, in British India and other Indian States.
The assessee 's appeal to the Income tax Commissioner was unsuccessful but the Appellate Tribunal held that the banking business of the assessee being one and indivisible for the purpose of determining the amount assessable to income tax it was entitled to deduct the losses incurred outside Travancore State from the profits accruing and arising in that State.
At the instance of the Commissioner of Income tax the following question was referred to the High Court of Travancore Cochin: Is the aforesaid sum of Rs. 79,275 a loss of the assessee arising outside the Travancore State for purpose of the first proviso to section 32(1) of the Travancore Income tax Act ? " This question was slightly modified by the High Court 260 which after referring to several decided cases answered the question in favour of the assessee.
In C. A. 260/58 the assessee is a private limited company with its registered office in the former Cochin State.
It was carrying on business at its head office in Cochin State and it also carried on business in Travancore State.
The assessment was made under the Travancore Act and relates to the previous year ending June 30, 1949, the assessment year being 1950 51.
The assesse made a profit in Travancore State and incurred a loss in the State of Cochin and sought to deduct this loss from the profit of Travancore State thus showing a net profit of Rs. 2,643.
This was not allowed by the Income tax Officer and on appeal this order was confirmed by the Appellate Assistant Commissioner.
The Appellate Tribunal also did not accept the submissions of the assessee and upheld the order of assessment.
On an application of the assessee the following question was referred to the High Court of Travancore Cochin: " Whether on the facts and in the circumstances of the case the loss of Rs. 27,709 arising in Cochin State could be set off against the profit of Rs. 38,998 arising in Travancore State ? " and was answered in favour of the assessee.
The Commissioner has come up in appeal pursuant to special leave against both these judgments.
It may be stated that the relevant sections of the Travancore Act which govern the two appeals are identically worded with those of the Indian Incometax Act of 1922 (to be called the Indian Act).
Application of the Act 4 4 Head of income charge able to income tax 9 6 Business 13 10 Exemptions of a gene ral nature 18 14 Set off of loss in com puting aggregate in come 32 24 261 It is only necessary to set out section 32(1) of the Travancore Act and the proviso which correspond to section 24(1) and proviso (i) of the Indian Act and which are necessary for the decision of the appeals before us: S.32(1) " Where any assessee sustains a loss of profits or gains in any year under any of the heads mentioned in Section 9 (Section 6) he shall be entitled to have the amount of loss set off against this income, profits or gains under any other head in that year: Provided that where the loss sustained is a loss of profits or gains which would but for the loss have accrued or arisen within British India or in an Indian State and would under the provisions of clause (e) of sub section (2) of Section 18 (Section 14(2)(c) ), have been exempted from tax, such loss shall not be set off except against profits or gains accruing or arising within British India or in an Indian State and exempt from tax under the said provisions ".
(Sections in brackets are the corresponding sections of the Indian Act).
So the only difference between the two sections is that in the proviso to section 24(1) of the Indian Act instead of the words "an Indian State" the words "British India or in an Indian State " have to be substituted.
The question for decision is as to how this proviso is to be construed.
Ordinarily the effect of an excepting or a qualifying proviso is to carve something out of the preceding enactment or to qualify something enacted therein which but for the proviso would be in it and such a proviso cannot be construed as enlarging the scope of an enactment when it can be fairly and properly construed without attributing to it that effect.
Corporation of the City of Toronto vs Attorney General for Canada (1).
