Appeal No. 1695 of 1993.
From the Judgment and Order dated 5.4.1991 of the Bombay High Court in S.C.A. Nos. 27 and 31 of 1988.
The Judgment of Court was delivered by AHMADI, J. Special leave granted.
The appellants are the legal representatives of the deceased plaintiff Inacio Martins who died pendente lite.
He had on October 26, 1968 instituted a suit No. 157 of 1968 for a declaration and an injunction to restrain the defendants from dispossessing him from the property known as 'Palmar Oiteral do Predio Aivao ' comprising seven lots of coconut grove situated at Caranzalem belonging to defendant No. 2.
The said suit was dismissed on Match 28, 1974 on the ground that the plaintiff was no more in possession of the suit property and, therefore, a suit for a mere declaration simpliciter could not lie.
On the dismissal of the said suit the original plaintiff filed another suit No. 114/74 on May 6, 1974 for restoration of possession on the ground that he was the lawful tenant of the said property and since he had not been dispossessed,in accordance with law the defen dants who were mere trespassers were liable to be evicted.
The plaintiffs case in the plaint was that he was the lessee in respect of seven lots on an annual rent of Rs. 3600 payable in advance in three instalments; that he had paid the rent upto the end of December, 1967 and the first installment of 1968 but the owner, defendant No. 2, in collusion with defendant No. 1 executed a deed of lease in favour of the latter effective from January 1, 1968 on the strength whereof defendant No. 1 claimed to have assumed possession of the property sometime in the second week of June, 1968 without his tenancy having been lawfully terminated.
The plaintiff, therefore, contended that defendant No. 1 was a trespasser in the property and was liable to be evicted therefrom.
He, therefore, sought possession of the property in respect of which he claimed to be a lessee.
1020 The defendants, besides contending that the suit was barred on the principle of res judicata and/or constructive res judicata as found in Order 2 Rule 2(3) of the Code of Civil Procedure, averred that on the expiry of the lease at the end of December, 1967 the lease stood terminated by efflux of time and defendant No. 2 was, therefore, entitled to let out the property to defendant No. 1 and hence the latter was in lawful possession of the said property The plaintiffs allegation that he was forcibly dispossessed was denied.
The defendants, therefore, contended that the suit was not maintainable and deserved to be dismissed.
The Trial Court upheld the plaintiffs contention that the property was demised to him and he was the lawful tenant thereof till his possession came to be disturbed sometime in June, 1968.
The Trial Court also found that the plaintiff had paid a sum of Rs. 1200 to defendant No.2 through his employee Dattu Kenkro by way of advance rent for the year commencing from January 1, 1968.
The Trial Court, therefore, held that the plaintiff was wrongly dispossessed by defendant No. 1 in collusion with defendant No.2 and decreed the suit for eviction on September 25, 1985.
Against the said decree both the defendants preferred an appeal No. 82/85.
The First Appellate Court concurred with the findings recorded by the Trial Court and dismissed the appeal on March 25, 1986.
Feeling aggrieved by the order of dismissal of the appeal, the defendants preferred separate Second Appeals Nos.
27/88 and 31/88 which came to be allowed on April 5, 1991.
Interfering with the concurrent findings recorded by the two courts below the High Court came to the conclusion that the courts below had applied the wrong test and had based their findings on the question of tenancy and dispossession on mere conjectures.
It, therefore, held that the findings were perverse and it was open to the High Court in Second Appeal to interfere with the said findings.
It also held that the suit was barred by res judicata as well as Order 2 Rule 2(3) of the Code of Civil Procedure.
Lastly it noticed that during the pendency of the suit the Goa, Daman & Diu Agricultural Tenancy Act, 1964 (hereinafter called 'the Act ') was amended by Act 17 of 1976 dated October 14,1976 known as the Fifth Amendment which was brought into effect from April 20, 1976 by which the definition of 'agriculture ' was changed and the expressions 'garden ' and 'garden produce ' were defined by the insertion of sub sections (7A).
& (7B) to suction 2 which rendered the Civil Court without jurisdiction.
The High Court, therefore, held that the decree passed by the Civil Court was unsustainable.
On these findings the High Court allowed the appeals and 1021 reversed the decree of the Trial Court with no order as to costs.
It is against this order of the High Court that the present appeal by special leave is preferred.
Before we deal with the impact of the Act as amended by Act 17 of 1976 we may first deal with the two technical grounds on which the High Court has dismissed the suit.
The first ground on which the High Court dismissed the suit is that the suit was barred by the principle of res judicata in view of the dismissal of the former suit No. 157/68.
That suit was for a declaration that the plaintiff was a lessee and for an injunction to restrain the defendants from interfering with his possession of the suit property.
The foundation for that suit was that the plaintiff who claimed to be a lessee in respect of the demised property apprehended his forcible dispossession therefrom.
With a view to preventing any such action on the part of the defendants he instituted the suit for an injunction to restrain them from so doing.
That suit, however, came to be dismissed as the Trial Court came to the conclusion that the plaintiff was no more in possession of the property in respect of which he claimed to be a lessee.
It was only thereafter that the plaintiff filed the suit for restoration of his possession.
In the subsequent suit the plaintiff contended that he had been forcibly dispossessed sometime in the second week of June, 1968 contrary to law even though his tenancy was subsisting and he had paid the first installment of rent for the year 1968.
He, therefore, contended that the lease stated to have been created in favour of defendant No. 1 by defendant No. 2 was a sham and bogus document set up with a view to supporting their illegal action in dispossessing him.
The High Court, in the backdrop of these facts, came to the conclusion that the subject matter of the second suit was directly and substantially in issue in the previous suit between the same parties and hence regardless of the relief claimed the second suit was clearly barred by res judicata.
This finding of the High Court is difficult to sustain.
Section 11 of the Code of Civil Procedure provides that 'no court shall try any suit or issue in which the matter directly and substantially in issue in a former suit between the same parties, or between parties under whom they or any of them claim, litigating under the same title, in a court competent to try such subsequent suit or the suit in which such issue has been subsequently raised, and has been heard and finally decided by such court '.
It is not the finding of the High Court that in the previous suit the question regarding the tenancy of the plaintiff was determined against the plaintiff.
The court came to the conclusion that a mere declaration of his status as a tenant could not be granted unless the consequential relief for possession was prayed.
It was for this technical reason that the suit was dismissed.
It is, therefore, difficult to comprehend how the High Court came to the conclusion that the subject matter of the second suit was directly and substantially in issue in the previous suit.
