N: Criminal Appeal No. 8 of 1951.
Appeal from an Order of the High Court of Bombay (Bavdekar and Chainani JJ.) dated 20th February, 1950, in Criminal Appeal No. 106 of 1950 arising out of an order dated 9th January, 1950, of the Presidency Magistrate, 19th Court, Esplanade, Bombay, in Case No. 10879/P of 1949.
The facts are stated in the judgment.
Iswarlal C. Dalai and R.B. Dalai, for the appellant.
C.K. Daphtary, Solicitor General for India (G. N. Joshi, with him) for the Republic of India (respondent No. 1).Jindra Lal for the respondent No. 2. 1952.
The consent of the landlord to an assignment is not necessary, in the absence of a contract or local usage to the contrary.
But in the case of relinquishment, it cannot be a unilateral transaction; it can only be in favour of the lessor by mutual agreement between them.
The relin quishment of possession must be to the lessor or one who holds his interest.
In fact, a surrender or relinquishment terminates the lessee 's rights and lets in the lessor.
It is no doubt true that the word "relinquishment" does not occur in the Transfer of Property Act but it is found in many of the Tenancy Acts in various provinces where there are Sec tions which deal with the 55 424 relinquishment of their holdings by tenants in favour of the landlord by notice given to him in writing.
The section in question, it should be further noted, does not speak of relinquishment or giving up of possession,in general terms.
The words are "the relinquishment of his tenancy of any premises".
The relinquishment of a tenancy is equivalent to surrender by the lessee or tenant of his rights as such.
As in our view, there has been no "relinquishment" within the meaning of section 19, sub clause (1), the conviction under sub clause (2) cannot be sustained.
Agent for respondent No. 1: P.A. Mehta.
The Judgment of the Court was deliv ered by CHANDRASEKHARA AIYAR J.
The facts out of which this Crimi nal Appeal has arisen are not long.
The appellant, W.H. King, who is carrying on a business in Bombay under the name and style of Associated Commercial Enterprises, was the tenant of a flat on the second floor of a building called "Ganga Vihar", Marine Drive, Bombay, which belongs to a lady named Durgeshwari Devi.
