the respondent No.
i was tried before the court of sessions visakhapatnam for offences under section 120 b indian penal code section 409 section 477 a and section 471 read with section 467 i p c while respondent No 2 was tried for an offence under section 120 b and for offences under sections 409 read with section 109 477 a and 471 read with section 467 i p c each of the respondents was convicted of the first two offences but.
the respondent No i alone was convicted of the other two offences.
various sentences were passed against them by the additional sessions judge visakhapatnam who presided over the court.
the respondents preferred appeals before the high court challenging their convictions and sentences.
the state on the other hand preferred an application for revision under section 439 cr.
p c for the enhancement of the sentences passed on the respondents.
the high court allowed the two appeals acquitted the respondents and dismissed the application for revision preferred by the state.
the state of andhra pradesh has come up before this court in appeal by obtaining special leave under article 136 of the constitution.
the prosecution case in so far as it is material for the decision of this appeal is as follows.
in the year 1929 the andhra engineering co which was originally a partnership firm formed by one d l n raju was converted into a private limited company with its headquarters at visakhapatnam.
we shall refer to this company throughout as the aeco.
it obtained licences from the government under the electricity act for supply of electrical energy to visakhapatnam anakapalli and some other places.
as the aeco did not have the necessary capital to undertake the work raju floated in the year 1933 a public limited company called visakhapatnam electric supply corporation ltd and another in the year 1936 called the anakapalli electric supply corporation ltd the aeco transferred its licences for the supply of electrical energy to the consumers of visakhapatnam to vesco and similarly transferred to aeco the licence to supply electrical energy to consumers at anakapalli.
the aeco was appointed managing agent for each of these corporations under separate agreements.
some time later other industrial concerns the andhra cements ltd vi jayawada and the east coast ceremics.
rajahmurthy were started apparently by raju himself and the aeco was appointed the managing agent of each of these concerns.
the original managing agency agreement in favour of aeco with respect to vesco was for a period of 15 years i e from 1933 to 1948 and was later renewed for the remaining term of the currency of the licence granted by the government under the electricity act.
a mention may be made of the fact that in june 1952 the vesco undertaking was acquired by the government under the provisions of the electricity undertaking acquisition act but nothing turns on it.
the vesco had its own board of directors while the aeco had also its own separate board of directors.
the vesco had no managing director but at each meeting of its board of directors one of the directors used to be elected chairman.
the same practice was followed at the meeting of the general body of the shareholders.
the aeco on the other band always had a managing director first of whom was d l n raju.
he died in the year 1939 and was succeeded by r k n g raju an advocate of rajahmundry.
eventually many of those ventures failed.
according to the prosecution the second raju was not bestowing sufficient care and attention on the affairs of vesco.
the aeco as managing agents of vesco had appointed in the year 1939 one d v appala raju a trusted employee as its representative and as the secretary of vesco.
in 1944 this person resigned from his appointments and started his own business in radio and electrical goods in the name of d brothers.
ganeswara rao was also an old employee of aeco having been appointed a stenotypist in the year 1923 on an initial salary of rs p m eventually he became the head clerk therein.
all this is not disputed.
the accounts maintained by the vesco used to be explained by him not only to the directors but also to the shareholders.
the explanations of the managing agents and the directors of vesco with respect to the items mentioned in the orders of the board used also to be placed by him before the shareholders.
there were no complaints about the management of the affairs of vesco or the aeco till the end of 1946 or the beginning of 1947.
one significant fact however which occurred prior to 1946 is referred to by the prosecution.
this person was auditor for greenlands hotel at visakhapatnam.
of which the respondent No i was a director.
i secured the promotion of the approver k v ramana who was originally accounts clerk to the post of senior accountant.
srinivasa rao originally a stores boy.
laksbminarayana rao was appointed the cashier.
the term of the managing agency was renewed in 1943 and aeco con tinued to be managing agents until the vesco was taken over by the government in 1952.
i continued to be the secretary of vesco and resident representative of the managing agents throughout the period of conspiracy.
this amount was however paid by the aeco from the funds of vesco.
eventually their choice fell on g v subba raju p w 25 a resident of manchili who held a large number of shares in the aeco and who was besides related to r k n g raju by marriage.
he agreed and was elected managing director of aeco in the middle of 1948.
upon this understanding he accepted the position offered to him.
the vesco used to receive large amounts of money from high tension power consumers such as the railways k g hospital the port administration the andhra university etc.
the respondent No 2 was asked by the respondent No i to maintain a private note book.
on the basis of the entries in the handover book the final accounts were written up.
it may be mentioned that subba raju used to visit visakhapatnam twice a month and check up the account books.
a lakh of rupees passed through that account.
amounts which were misappropriated used to find their way in this account.
he however was unable to obtain any information.
the shareholders felt that the report had been received but was being suppressed or deliberately withheld.
however the meeting was postponed and eventually held on december 9 1951.
according to the prosecution the report is a forged document.
that report showed that during the period 1948 49 rs 33 271 10 0 shown as paid to the andhra power system were in fact not paid.
in fact in april 1952 the collector attached vesco properties for realising this amount.
he was given time for doing so but he failed to pay it.
od september 13 1954 ramana offered to make a full confession to the additional district magistrate independent who was empowered to grant pardon under section 337 of i he code of criminal procedure.
he however directed ramana to make his confession before a submagistrate.
the high court set aside the conviction of the respondents on a number of grounds.
in the first place according to the high court joint trial of two or more persons in respect of different offences cornmitted by each of them is illegal and that here as they were charged with having committed offences under section 120 b section 409 section 477 a and section 476467 i p c they could not be tried jointly.
according to it the provisions of section 239 were of no avail.
then according to the high court offences under.
section 409 and section 471467 are of different kinds and are not capable of joint commission.
therefore they could not be jointly tried.
further according to the high court where a conspiracy has yielded its fruits the conspirators can be charged with the actual offences committed and not with conspiracy to commit those offences.
in so far as the respondent No 2 is concerned the high court has held that since he was charged with a specific offence under s 409 i p c he could not be convicted of mere abetment of an offence.
the high court has also held that his evidence is unreliable and further that the additional sessions judge was in error in allowing him to refresh his memory by referring to various documents in a manner not permitted by section 159 of the evidence act.
the high court has further stated that inadmissible evidence was taken on record by the additional sessions judge namely account books of billimoria brothers maintained in gujrati and further that the additional sessions judge was in error in allowing the prosecution to use those account books for establishing absence of entries with regard to certain payments alleged in the vesco books to have been made to them.
finally the high court held that the examination of the respondent under section 342 of the code was unfair for a number of reasons and that the additional sessions judge had failed to perform an important duty in that he did not call the attention of the respondents to the provisions of section 342 which enable an accused person to give evidence in his own behalf.
the procedure adopted in the investiga tion and committal stages was irregular.
4 that the court abused its powers under s 342 cr.
p c while conducting the examination of the respondents.
the evidence of the approver was inadmissible because the pardon granted to him was illegal that in any case it is unreliable was so found even by the sessions judge and must therefore be rejected.
if the evidence of the approver is left out the remaining evidence would be inadequate to sustain the prosecution case.
the first question for consideration is whether there was a misjoinder of parties and of persons.
the first charge is in respect of the conspiracy alleged to have been entered into by the two respondents k v ramana the approver and others known and unknown to commit criminal breach of trust of the funds of vesco and in order to screen its detection to falsify the accounts of vesco and to use forged documents as genuine.
on the face of it this is a valid charge.
the second charge is for an offence of criminal breach of trust punishable under section 409 and the accusation therein is that the two respondents along with ramana misappropriated 69 items aggregating to a little over rs 3 20 000.
it is thus apparent that offences committed within a space of 12 months were tried along with offences committed beyond that period.
unless therefore the provisions of section 239 are applicable it would follow that there was a misjoinder of charges.
the third charge is that the two respondents along with the approver.
ramana made false entries on seven different dates in the account books between september 19 1947 and march 18 1952 and thus committed an offence under section 477 a i p c the fourth charge is that the two respondents along with the approver.
mr bhimasankaram supports the reason given by the high court for coming to the conclusion that there was a misjoinder of charges.
221 to 223 deal with the framing and content of charge.
now if the respondent No 1 were alone tried upon the second third and the fourth charges the provisions of section 2351 could have been pressed in aid if the allegations were that the offences were so connected together as to form one and the same transaction and the validity of the trial would not have been open to any attack.
if the intention of the legislature was that the provisions of these clauses should be available only alternatively it would have used the word or and not and which has the opposite effect.
obviously section 233 does not override the provisions of section 239.
c of section 239.
c of section 239 is subject to the provisions of section 234.
the expression same transaction occurring in cls.
looking at the matter in that way it is pointless to inquire further whether the provisions of section 239 are subject to those of section 2361.
but it would be open to the court to resort to those provisions even in the case of a joint trial of several persons permissible under section 239 s 236.
is also an enabling provision to be availed of in case of doubt and it is meaningless to say that section 239 is subject to section 236.
bearing in mind the fact that the provisions in the former part of chapter xix are applicable to charges made with the aid of section 239 only so far as may be it would not be right to construe section 239 as being subject to the provisions of sections 233 to 236.
we can not however give the expression such a restricted meaning.
for it is a rule of construction that all the provisions of a statute are to be read together and given effect to and that it is therefore the duty of the court to construe a statute harmoniously.
thus while it is clear that the sections preceding section 239 have no overriding effect on that section the courts are not to ignore them but apply such of them as can be applied without detracting from the provisions of s 239.
indeed the very expression so far as may be empha sises the fact that while the earlier provisions have to be borne in mind by the court while applying section 239 it is not those provisions but the latter which is to have an overriding effect.
apart from this the question whether the provisions of sections 233 to 236 have or have no overriding effect on section 239.
is not strictly germane to the question considered by the high court that is clubbing together all the provisions of the various clauses of section 239.
whether they can or can not be read cumulatively must be determined by consideration of the language used in those clauses.
on a plain construction of the provisions of section 239 therefore it is open to the court to avail itself cumulatively of the provisions of the different clauses of section 239 for the purpose of framing charges and charges so framed by it will not be in violation of the law the provisions of sections 233 234 and 235 notwithstanding.
the decision of the allahabad high court in t r mukherji s case il is directly in point and is clearly to the effect that the different clauses of section 239 are mutually exclusive in the sense that it is not possible to combine the provisions of two or more clauses in any one case and to try jointly several persons partly by applying the provisions of one clause and partly by applying those of another or other clauses.
no corresponding advantage can be gained by the accused persons by following the procedure of separate trials.
we entirely agree with the high court that joint trial should be founded on some principle.
let us consider whether there is anything intrinsically incompatible in combining two clauses of section 239.
the offences are of the same kind and must be deemed to have been committed in the course of the same transaction because of association and mutual connection.
a and c can not be combined.
a of section 239.
d yet the transaction in which the offences were committed is the same and there is a close association amongst the persons who have committed the different offences.
a and d of section 239.
a so also a b and c could be jointly tried together for an offences under section 302.
the same offence committed by all of them is that under section 147 and all of them can be tried jointly in respect of that offence under cl.
d by itself all of them can be tried jointly for the different offences committed by each of them in the course of the same transaction and if cl.
a is unavailable they could not be tried for the offence under section 147 at the same trial.
this means that the trial for an offence under section 147 will have to be separated from the trial for the different offences committed by them.
to repeat the object of the legislature in enacting section 239 cr.
p c clearly was to prevent multiplicity of trials and not only would that object be defeated but an extraordinary result will ensue if the various clauses of section 239 are read disjunctively.
in that case the question was whether a person who was first tried for an offence under section 380 i p c for stealing a blank second class railway ticket from the booking office tried for it and acquitted could not be tried subsequently for the offence of forgery by making entries in that ticket and using it.
the high court however held that to be a kind of case which fell under section 2351 of the code and that since that was so the provisions of section 236 were excluded.
on the other band there is the decision of this court in the state of andhra pradesh v kandinmlla subbaiah which is to the effect that where several persons had committed offences in the course of the same transactions they could jointly be tried in respect of all those offences under section 239 of the code of criminal procedure and the limitation placed by section 234 of the code could not come into operation.
two of the accused persons preferred a revision application before the high court of andhra pradesh in which they challenged the charges framed against them.
the high court allowed the revision application.
no doubt the offence mentioned in charge No i is alleged to have been committed not by just one person but by all the accused and the question is whether all these persons can be jointly tried in respect of all these offences.
239 would apply.
clearly therefore all the accused persons could be tried together in respect of all the offences now comprised in charge No 1.
this court has thus clearly read the provisions of the various clauses cumulatively and we see no reason to read them differently.
there remains the decision of this court in k v krishna murthy iyer v the state of madras in on which mr bhimasankaram strongly relied.
in that case this court upheld the order of the high court of madras in quashing the charges in the exercise of its inherent powers even before the conclusion of the trial.
this is quite clear from the provisions of section 537 of the code as amended by act 26 of 1955.
in willie william slaney v the state of madhya pradesh all the learned judges were in agreement on the point that this section and section 535 cover every case in which there is departure from the rules set out in ch.
the whole question has again been examined by this court recently in birichh bhuian v the state of bihar subba rao j who delivered the judgment of the court has stated the position thus even if we were to assume that there has been a misjoinder of charges in violation of the provisions of sections 233 to 239 of the code the high court was incompetent to set aside the conviction of the respondents without coming to the definite conclusion that misjoinder had occasioned failure of justice.
a similar view was expressed by the same high court in the case which was reversed by this court in the state of andhra pradesh v kandinalla subbaiah 1962 2 scr 194 and it was held that conspiracy to commit an offence being itself an offence a person can be separately charged with respect to such a conspiracy.
then this court has observed.
this decision is sufficient to dispose of the point under consideration.
in swamirathnam s case 1 which is a decision of this court certain persons were tried for the offence of the conspiracy to cheat the members of the public and for specific offences of cheating in pursuance of that conspiracy.
no doubt there is no discussion there as to the question whether the various clauses of section 239 could be combined or as to the impact of the provisions of section 233 to 236 on those of section 239.
mody v the state of bombay.
a No iii of 1959 decided on january 19 1961.
the offence of conspiracy is an entirely independent offence and though other offences are committed in pursuance of the conspiracy the liability of the conspirators for the conspiracy itself can not disappear.
as we are remanding the appeal to the high court for a fresh decision after full consideration of the evidence adduced in the case it would be open to it to consider this matter particularly while judging the credibility of the evidence of the approver.
be said to vitiate the charge.
the object in saying what has been set out in the first charge was only to give notice to the respondents as to the ambit of the conspiracy to which they will have to answer and nothing more.
the entries in the account books of vesco show that certain sums of money were paid to various parties crompton engineering co lumin electric co d brothers radio and electrical madras vizagapatam municipality p v ramanayya bros and andhra power system.
the argument before the high court was and before us is that the absence of an entry can not of electricity duty to government.
the prosecution be established by reference to section 34 of the indian evidence act which reads thus.
section 34 does not go beyond that.
we therefore agree with the high court that the account books of the various concerns to whom payments are said to have been made by the respondents are not by themselves evidence of the fact that no payments were received by them.
the decision in queen empress v grees chunder banerjee 1884 i l r 10.
cal 1024 upon which reliance is placed by the high court in support of its view is also to that effect.
similarly in ram prashad singh v lakhpati koer 1902 i l r 30.
cal 231 247.
there is section ii of the evidence act which provides that facts not otherwise relevant are relevant if they are inconsistent with any fact in issue or relevant fact.
absence of entries in their account books would be inconsistent with the receipt of the accounts and would thus be a relevant fact which can be proved under section 11.
similarly there is section 5 of the evidence act which reads thus it is the case of the prosecution that the alleged payments were never made by vesco to the various firms.
both the sets of facts are relevant that is non receipt of the amounts by the firms and non existence of entries in their account books pertaining to those amounts.
it is permissible therefore for the prosecution to lead evidence to drove both these facts.
it is under these provisions that the account books of the firms must be held to be relevant.
in coming to this conclusion it has relied upon the provisions of section 356 2a of the code of criminal procedure.
further according to him the evidence of the approver was found by the additional sessions judge to be unreliable and therefore the first condition referred to in sarwan singh v the state of punjab was not satisfied.
for all these reasons the evidence of the approver must be left out of account.
the first reason is that none of the offences alleged to have been committed falls within section 337 of the code of criminal procedure and the second reason is that the pardon was granted by an authority not empowered to grant it.
for the pardon granted in this case can be regarded as being within the ambit of section 337 1 for another reason.
it will be noticed that transportation for life was not the only punishment provided for an offence under section 409 of the indian penal code even before the amendment made to the indian penal code by section 117 of the act 26 of 1955 the other alternative being imprisonment up to 10 years.
the reason why two alternative maximum sentences are given in col 7 that is transportation for life now imprisonment for life and imprisonment not exceeding 10 years appears to be that the offence is not exclusively triable by a court of session and could also be tried by a magistrate who except when empowered under section 30 would be incompetent to try offences punishable with transportation for life now imprisonment for life and the further reason that it should be open to the court of session instead of awarding the sentence of transportation for life to a convicted person to award him imprisonment in a jail in india itself for a period not execeeding 10 years.
be that as it may there is no substance in the first ground.
what we have said about pardon in respect of an offence under section 409 would apply equally to that for one under section 120 b because the punishment for it is the same as that for the offence under section 409.
the offence under section 467 read with section 471 is punishable with imprisonment for life or imprisonment of either description for a period of 10 years but it is exclusively triable by a court of session and therefore in so far as such offence is concerned the argument of mr bhimasankaram would not even have been available.
it is true that the respondent No i alone was convicted by the additional sessions judge of this offence and the offence under section 467 read with section 471 but the validity of a pardon is to be determined with reference to the offence alleged against the approver alone and not with reference to the offence or offences for which his associates were ultimately convicted.
he contends that section 337 1 speaks of the district magistrate which expression does not include an additional district magistrate.
no doubt under entry 9 a in part iii of sch.
iii to the code a magistrate first class has the power to grant pardon under section 337 but it is limited by the proviso thereto to certain classes of cases.
a case under enquiry or trial before another magistrate does not fall in any of these classes.
therefore a pardon granted by him in such a case would be illegal.
the magistrate before whom the enquiry or trial is proceeding or the district magistrate would be the only authorities competent to grant a pardon in such a case.
para 4 of the instructions provides.
this body of magistrates was made subordinate to the high court.
consequent on the separation.
iii to the code of criminal procedure the power to grant pardon will continue to have that power and therefore a pardon granted by a judicial magistrate in contravention of the government order will not be rendered invalid.
his point is that the proviso to section 3371 confers the power on the district magistrate to grant pardon in a case pending before another magistrate and not on a district magistrate and therefore his power to grant pardon in such cases can not be conferred under sub s 2 of section 10 on an additional district magistrate.
according to him under that section only the powers of a district magistrate meaning thereby only the powers under entry 7 a in part v of sch.
as distinguished from the power under the proviso to section 337 1 can be conferred upon an additional district magistrate.
the power conferred by sub s 1 of section 337 on the different clauses of magistrates is of the same character.
the power to grant pardon in a case pending before another magistrate is no doubt conferred by the proviso only on the district magistrate.
but entry 7 a in part v of sch.
iii when it refers to the power of a district magistrate under section 337 1 does not exclude the power under the proviso.
there is therefore no warrant for drawing a distinction between the powers of the district magistrate and the powers of a district magistrate.
in re the appellant i l r 1957 mad 715 and the cases referred to therein in particular the decision in winson v queen 1866 l r i q b what has been held in all these cases is that where the trial of a person who was charged with having committed an offence or offences jointly with several persons is separated from the trial of those persons he would be a competent witness against them though of course there will always be the question as to what weight should be attached to his evidence.
that in our opinion is not the correct legal position.
the section itself shows that the motivating factor for an approver to turn what in england is called king s evidence is the hope of pardon and not any noble sentiment like contrition at the evil in which he has participated.
whether the evidence of the approver should in any given case be accepted or not will have to be determined by applying the usual tests such as the probability of the truth of what he has deposed to the circumstances in which he has come to give evidence whether he has made a full and complete disclosure whether his evidence is merely self exculpatory and so on and so forth.
the court has in addition to ascertain whether his evidence has been corroborated sufficiently in material particulars.
the better course would be for us to set aside the acquittal of the respondents and send back the appeal to the high court or being decided on merits.
what it must now do is to consider the entire evidence and decide for itself whether it is sufficient to bring home all or any of the offences to the respondents.
of course the view taken by the additional sessions judge is not binding on the high court.
the decision in sarwan singh v the state of punjab 1957 b c r 953 on which reliance has been placed by the high court has been explained by this court in the case of maj e g barsay v the state of bombay.
this court has pointed out in the latter decision that while it must be shown that the approver is a witness of truth the evidence adduced in a case can not be considered in compartments and that even for judging the credibility of the approver the evidence led to corroborate him in material particulars would be relevant for consideration.
the high court should bear this in mind for deciding whether the evidence of the approver should be acted upon or not.
it would be necessary for it to consider for itself the evidence adduced by the prosecution on the specific charges and then to conclude whether those charges have been established or not.
with these observations we set aside the acquittal of the respondents and remit the appeal to the high court for decision on merits in the light of our observations.
