twelve accused persons were tried for offences under section 302307149324147148 and section 3 of terrorist and disruptive activites.
prevention act1987 hereinafter referred to as tada by the learned designated judge pune.
out of the said twelve accused6 accused were acquitted of all the charges while the five appellants herein namely bonkya alias bharat shivaji mane a 5mandu baliba dombe a 8ashok baloba dombe a 9ranjar bhausaheb dombe a 10 and kaka alias pandurang baloba dombe a 11 were convicted for offences under section 302307149 ipc and section 3 of tada and sentenced to suffer life imprisonment and to pay a fine of rs 5000 each for the offence under section 302149 ipc.
the substantive sentences of imprisonment were however directed to run concurrently.
one accused died during the pendency of the trial.
through this appeal under section 19 of tada the appellants have called in question their conviction and sentence.
for the sake of convenience the accused shall be referred to hereinafter by the number assigned to them in the trial court judgment as accused i e a 5a 8a 10 etc.
the accused a 6a 10 and a 11 alongwith one other person were also present at the video parlour.
pw both the prosecution witnesses as well as.
the accused party left the video parlour threatening each other.
on the arrival of accused party anna shetty ran away.
he ran away to conceal himself.
all the injured persons were admitted to the hospital.
while receiving the treatment popat succumbed to his injuries.
on receipt of information asstt.
on the basis of the said report an fir for offences under section 302307149147148 ipc was registered vide cr no 101 of 1990 at about 6 00 p m the inquest on the dead body of popat was conducted and the body was sent for post mortem examination.
they were subsequently arrested on different dates.
a 10 also made a disclosure statement under section 27 of the evidence act to the effect that he had buried a sword behind yamai tukai temple and could get it recovered.
samples of blood of the accused were collected for ascertaining their blood groups and sent for chemical analysis.
the blood samples of bajrang pw 14 and baban karpe pw 9 were similarly collected.
during the pendency of the two charge sheets the addl.
so far as the first incident is concerned that merely provided the motive for the assault near the jagdamba hotel and the math.
public prosecutor with the permission of the court.
out of the remaining witnesses mentioned above pw 9 and pw 14 are the injured witnesses.
baban karpe pw 9himself an injured witness failed to identify a 10 at the time of the identification parade held by pw 32though he identified a 10 later on in the court during the trial.
in view of the improvement made by the prosecution witnesses at the trial from their earlier statements and the infirmities already noticed we are of the opinion that it can not be said with any amount of certainty that the participation of a 10 in the assault or even his presence in the unlawful assembly at the time of the assault near jagdamba hotel or the math has been substantiated.
the prosecution has not been able to establish the case against a 10 beyond a reasonable doubt and is our opinion he is entitled to the benefit of the doubt.
in so far as the remaining appellants are concerned the evidence of the eye witnesses and particularly of pw 3 and pws 9 to 14 unmistakably connects them with the assault on the complainant party near the jagdamba hotel and at the math resulting in the death of popat and injuries being caused to pw9 and pw14 despite searching cross examination nothing has been brought out in their cross examination from which any doubt may arise about the participation of a 1a 5a 8a 9 and a 11 in the assault or discredit the testimony of any of these witnesses.
the appellants other than a10 were as already noticed identified by various prosecution witnesses at the identification parade held by pw 32the executive magistrate also.
that takes us now to consider the nature of the offence committed by a 5a 8a 9 and a 11.
the designated court as already noticed found all of them guilty and convicted them for the offences under section 3 tada302149307149 and 323149 ipc.
the designated court after considering the evidence of the first incident and the manner of assault on the deceased and pw 9 and pw 14came to the conclusion that the appellants alongwith some others had intended to create terror in a section of the people wadar community and with that intention had assaulted pw 14the deceased and pw9 by lethal weapons and were therefore guilty of committing an offence under section 3 tada.
in our opinion the designated court fell in error in holding that an offence under section 3 of tada had been committed by the accused appellants in the established facts and circumstances of this case.
merely because the deceased and the two injured witnesses belong to wadar community no inference could be drawn that the attack by the appellants on them was intended to strike terror in a section of the society namely the wadar community.
there is no basis for such an assumption.
it appears to be a mere coincidence that pw9pw14 and the deceased all belong to the wadar community.
it was not proper for the designated court to draw an inference of intention from the mere consequence i e the victims belonging to the particular community.
the learned trial court appears to have ignored to take into consideration the essential requirements for establishing an offence under section 3 of tada.
in hitendra vishnu thakur and others vs.
state of maharashtra.
and others 1994 4 scc602.
thus unless the act complained of falls strictly within the letter and spirit of section 31 of tada and is committed with the intention as envisaged by that section by means of the weapons etc as are enumerated therein with the motive as postulated thereby an accused can not be tried or convicted for an offence under section 31 of tada.
likewise if it is only as a consequence of the criminal act that fear terror or and panic is caused but the intention of committing the particular crime can not be said to be the one strictly envisaged by section 31it would be impermissible to try or convict and punish an accused under tada the commission of the crime with the intention to achieve the result as envisaged by the section and not merely where the consequence of the crime committed by the accused create that result would attract the provisions of section 31 of tada.
thus keeping in view the background in which the occurrence took place namely the altercation at the video parlour which has a great relevance to determine the applicability of section 3 tada we are of the opinion that the finding of the designated court that the appellants have committed an offence punishable under section 3 tada is clearly erroneous.
supp scale 1 1994 indlaw sc 525 and hitendra vishnu thakur s case 1994 indlaw sc 1706 supra no offence under section 3 of tada could be said to have been committed by the appellants.
the conviction and sentence of the appellants for the offence under section 3 tada can not therefore be sustained and is hereby set aside.
appellants no 1 a 52 a 83 a 9 and.
the designated court therefore rightly found the said appellants guilty of the offences under section 302149307149 and section 324149.
ipc the conviction and sentence of appellants no 1 a 52 a 83 a 9 and 5 a 11 for the said offences as recorded by the learned designated court are well merited and calls for no interference.
in the result the appeal succeeds insofar as a 10 appellant no 4 is concerned.
he is given the benefit of doubt and acquitted of all the charges against him.
before we part with the judgment we would also like to deal with a submission made on behalf of the appellants by their learned counsel that since the offence under section 3 of tada is not made out the criminal appeal filed in this court may be transferred to the high court for its disposal in exercise of our jurisdiction under article 142 of the constitution of india for the reason that a first appeal against conviction and sentence recorded for various offences under the indian penal code by the sessions court lies to the high court.
the argument is fallacious and runs in the teeth of the express provisions of section 19 of tada.
section 19 1 and 2 of tada read as follows.
in the face of this express provision there is no scope to urge that the appeal may be transferred to the high court because of the acquittal of the appellants for the offence punishable under section 3 tada by us.
in a case where the designated court finds that no offence under tada is made out it is open to the said court to transfer the case to the regular criminal court under section 18 tada but once the charge is framed and the case is tried by the designated court an appeal against conviction sentence or acquittal lies only to the supreme court and to no other court.
under section 12 of tada the designated court has the jurisdiction not only to try the cases under tada but also to try offences under the indian penal code if the offence under tada is connected with such other offences.
the amplitude of powers available to this court under article 142 of the constitution of india is normally speaking not conditioned by any statutory provision but it can not be lost sight of that this court exercises jurisdiction under article 142 of the constitution with a view to do justice between the parties but not in disregard of the relevant statutory provisions.
the transfer of the appeal to the high court after hearing the appeal on merits and finding that section 3 of tada on the basis of the evidence led by the prosecution was not made out is neither desirable nor proper nor permissible let alone justified.
there can not be piece meal hearing of an appeal on merits first by this court to determine if an offence under tada is made out or not and then by the high court.
