the appellant is a trust which wanted to establish a self financing engineering college and submitted an application during 1994 95 to the university of kerala as well as to all india council for technical education hereinafter called the aicte.
there was an inspection by a team of professors of the university and it recommended favourably when it stated that the facilities provided by the appellant would be sufficient for establish ing an engineering college.
the aicte sent a communication on 30 4 1995 stating that on the basis of the observations made by the expert committee and the recommendations made by the central regional committee state level committee and central task force as per the provisions of the aicte regulation dated 30 1 1994the aicte was granting conditional approval for establishing an engineering and technical college.
the abovesaid approval was subject to the fulfilment of specific conditions mentioned in annexure i and the general conditions mentioned in annexure ii to the said letter.
in the event of contravention of the conditions guidelines norms and regula tions of the aicte the aicte could withdraw the approval at any time.
under the impression that the state govt was to grant permission the appellant requested the state government by letter dated 24 6 1995 for permission to start the college.
the appellant sent a reminder to the government on 26 8 1995 for permission for starting the college for the academic year 1995 96 and ultimately the government refused permission by informing the appellant by a letter dated 16 8 1996 as follows.
in inviting your attention to the reference cited i am to inform you that government regret their inability to comply with your request.
thereafter the appellant filed writ petition o p no 4612 of 1996 for quashing the said order and for a direction to sanction and establish an engineering college.
the learned single judge of the high court by his judgment dated 14 1 1997 allowed the writ petition quashed the above said order of the government dated 16 8 1996 and directed the mahatama gandhi university to consider the appellant s application for permanent affiliation without reference to the above letter of the government and pass appropriate order within 8 weeks from the date of the receipt of a copy of the judgment.
the direction to pass a fresh order of affiliation was issued in view of the fact that the university contended before the learned single judge that unless the government granted approval permanent affiliation could not be granted.
against the said judgment of the learned single judge the commis sioner and secretary of the government higher education department filed writ appeal no 1024 of 1997 the division bench of the high court allowed the appeal and set aside the order of the government and dismissed the writ petition.
the division bench however observed that the appellant was at liberty to make a fresh application to the government of kerala for according sanction for setting up the engineering college or to request the government to consider the earlier application for a future academic year.
iyer contended that the division bench erred in reversing the well considered judgment of the learned single judge and according to him after the coming into force of the aicte act1987the statutes conferring power on the state or university to the extent they were inconsistent with the central act were void.
the aicte had consulted the state of kerala as well as the mahatama gandhi university.
according to the learned senior counsel it was indeed not necessary for the appellant to have applied to the state government for any further sanction to establish the college.
it might be that under the relevant statutes of the university the university was required to obtain the views of the state government but that did not amount to requiring any approval of the state government and indeed if any such statute required the approval of the state government it would be void in view of what was stated by this court in state of tamil nadu.
another v adhiyaman educational research institute.
sri t l viswanatha iyer also contended that though the state government stated in its counter affidavit filed in the high court that the policy of the government was not to grant approval to self financing engineering colleges to be established such a policy could not come in the way of the appellant in view of what this court has stated in similar circumstances in thirumuruga kirupan variyar thavathiru sundara swamigal medical education charitable trust v state of tamil nadu others1996 3 scc 15 1996 indlaw sc 858.
even though the appellant trust was not seeking aid from the government and even assuming that it was financially self sufficient it would not be in the interests of the students employment to permit new engineering colleges to be established.
thus the government policy was not to grant fresh approvals.
if more approvals were granted it might lead to commercialisation of education.
whether in view of the judgment of this court in state of tamil nadu another v adhiyaman educational research institute others1995 4 scc 104 1995 indlaw sc 1631the provisions of the aicte act1987 occupied the field and it was not necessary to obtain the further approval of the government or other authority.
whether any statute in the state of kerala if it required such approval would be void.
but in the context of s 10k regarding approval for starting a technical institution certain aspects of the judgment need to be highlighted.
before we refer to the abovesaid judgment it will be necessary to refer to certain provisions of the aicte act and the relevant regulations.
the tamil nadu case.
as stated earlier the above provisions of the aicte act came up for consideration in state of tamil nadu v adhiyaman educational research institute1995 4 scc 104 1995 indlaw sc 1631.
at that time in 1984the aicte act was not on the statute book.
the learned single judge and the division bench held in favour of the trust and quashed and orders of the government and the university.
thus the state law under entry 23 of list iii would be repugnant to any law made by the parliament under entry 66 of list i to the extent of inconsistency.
the tamil nadu act was of 1976 and the university act was of 1923 and were laws referable to the list.
hence on the subjects covered by the statute the state could not make a law under entry 25 of list iii after the forty second amendment.
granting approval for starting new technical institution.
inspection of technical institution which are matters covered by the central act.
statutory powers of the state of kerala and the m g university.
the question is as to how far the judgment in the tamil nadu case is to be applied in the state of kerala.
the reference to the commission in the above cl 97 is to the commission of inspection appointed by the university.
as held in the tamil nadu case the central act of 1987 and in particular s 10k occupied the field relating the grant of approvals for establishing technical institutions and the provisions of the central act alone were to be complied with.
so far as the provisions of the mahatma gandhi university act or its statutes were concerned and in particular statute 97they merely required the university to obtain the views of the state government.
that could not be characterised as requiring the approval of the state government.
the state level committee and the central regional committees contained various experts and state representatives.
the university could not therefore in any event have sought for approval of the state government.
thus we hold in the present case that there was no statutory require ment for obtaining the approval of the state government and even if there was one it would have been repugnant to the aicte act.
the university statute 97 merely required that the views of the state government be obtained before granting affiliation and this did not amount to obtaining approval.
state government was directed by the aicte to announce admission in accordance with regulation notified on 20 5 94 and based on the judgment of the supreme court in unnikrishnan v state of andhra pradesh1993 1 scc.
there is no power vested in the state under any state law to grant approval and even if it was so vested it would have been void in view of tamil nadu case.
this ground of repugnancy alone would be sufficient to quash the state government s letter dated 16 8 1996 refusing to give their approval.
the director of technical education of the state was a member of the state level committee as per regulation 94 of the aicte regulations.
the secretary technical education of the state of kerala was also a member of that committee.
regulation 84 of aicte only required calling for the com ments recommendations of the state government and of the university.
in case there was difference between the state government university or the regional committee the central task force was to make a final recommen dation under regulation.
the so called policy of the state as mentioned in the counter affidavit filed in the high court was not a ground for refusing approval.
in thirwnuruga kirupan and variyar thavathiru sundara swamigal medical education charitable trust v state of tamil nadu others1996 3 scc 15 1996 indlaw sc 858which was a case relating to medical education and which also related to the effect of a central law upon a law made by the state under entry 25 list iii it was held that the essentiality certificate can not be withheld by the state government on any policy consideration because the policy in the matter of establishment of a new medical college now vests with the central government alone.
admittedly the university s inspection report was in favour of the appellant.
this is clear from the appellant s letter dated 31 5 95 to the state government.
the only requirement as per the statute 97 was for the university to obtain the views of the state government.
procedure and conditions for affiliation could not be inconsistent with the provisions of the central act in particular s 10k of the regulation and the university could not seek approval of government.
for the aforesaid reasons we set aside the judgment of the division bench of the high court and uphold the reasoning of the learned single judge in his judgment in op 461296 dated 14 1 1997 we hold that the approval of the aicte was sufficient we do not also think that it was necessary for the learned single judge to direct the state government to reconsider its decision.
the learned single judge s order quashing the letter of the state government dated 16 8 96 is upheld.
the direction to the mahatama gandhi university to consider the application of the appellant for final affiliation or continuance of affiliation is confirmed and this is to be done on the basis of the approval granted by the aicte dated 30 4 95or any other relevant factors in the university act or its statutes which are not inconsistent with the aicte act or its regulations.
m jagannadha rao j.
the petitioner was not a party in the high court of kerala and this special leave petition was filed with leave of this court.
we find that the petitioner has already filed a writ petition in the delhi high court namely cwp no 952 of 1998 and the same is pending.
it will be for the petitioner to have the said matter disposed of by the high court of delhi.
