these two appeals involve identical questions and therefore are disposed of by this common judgment after noticing the factual position so far as they are relevant.
the appellants question correctness of the judgment rendered by a division bench of the madras high court which held that the withdrawal of benefits extended to the appellants as subsidy was in order.
the appellants questioned legality or the g o ms No 989 dated 1 9 1988 directing discontinuance of purchase tax exemption in case of mills which exceeded the ceiling of rs 300 lakes during the period of five years and government letter dated 28 12 1988 which made the aforesaid g o ms No 989 of 1 9 1988 operative retrospectively from 1 4 1988.
initially the writ petitions were filed before the high court but after constitution of the tamil nadu taxation special tribunal hereinafter referred to as the tribunal the writ petitions were transferred to the tribunal which held that on application of the principles of promissory estoppel and legitimate expectation the withdrawal of benefit was not sustainable in law.
the state questioned correctness of the judgment before the high court which as noted above held the g o ms and the govt.
letter to be valid reversing the conclusions arrived at by the tribunal.
the judgment forms subject matter of challenge in these appeals.
in support of the appeals the primary stands raised by the appellants are.
the doctrines of promissory estoppel and legitimate expectation were applicable to the facts of the case.
there was no material to show existence of any overriding public interest to rule out application of the aforesaid doctrine there was no scope for retrospective withdrawal.
in any event before withdrawal of the benefits no opportunity of hearing was granted.
the high court erroneously came to hold that the state government had not filed any counter.
the materials which were produced before the high court and on the basis of which it is decided that the decision of the government is in order were not even pleaded in the pleadings and during arguments.
the appellants were taken by surprise by production of materials which were not even disclosed to the appellants.
the contents of the files which were produced before the high court and on which reliance was placed to hold against the appellants are not known to the appellants.
in other words there was clear violation of the principles of natural justice.
in any event the retrospective withdrawal of the benefit on the basis of an executive decision is impermissible.
in fact the government of tamil nadu vide g o ms.
No 1294 dated 24 10 1975 granted exemption from purchase tax on sugarcane in favour of sugar mills established in co operative and public sectors in the form of annual subsidy equivalent to purchase tax on sugarcane.
the commercial productions were started in case of appellants in c a No 86062002 i e ponni sugars erode ltd v govt.
of tamil nadu ors on 27 1 1984 and in c a 86052002 i e bannari amman sugars ltd v commercial tax officer.
the high court recorded the following findings on the factual aspects.
no inducement was made in the government orders to establish the units.
the respondents have not acted on the basis of the government orders for establishing the units.
the order granting subsidy can be withdrawn in public interest.
the government has exercised their right to modify the scheme in the interest of public revenue.
the stand taken by the present appellants before the tribunal and the high court was rejected.
estoppel is a rule of equity which has gained new dismensions in recent years.
a new class of estoppel has come to be recognized by the courts in this country as well as in england.
the leading case on the subject is central london property trust ltd v high trees house ltd 1947 1 k b 130.
the principle enunciated in the high trees case supra was also recognized by the house of lords in tool metal manufacturing co ltd v tungsten electric co ltd 1955.
all e r 657 1955 1 w l r 761.
that principle was adopted by this court in union of india v indo afghan agencies ltd air 1968.
sc 718 1967 indlaw sc 411 and turner morrison and co ltd v hungerford investment trust ltd 1972 1 scc 857 1972 indlaw sc 190.
see century spinning co v ulhasnagar municipal council air 1971.
sc 1021 1970 indlaw sc 341 radhakrishna v state of bihar air 1977.
it is nether in the realm of contract nor in the realm of estoppel.
in kasinka trading and anr v union of india and anr.
the doctrine of legitimate expectation has an important place in the developing law of judicial review.
see union of india and others.
v hindustan development corporation and others air 1994.
the wide sweep of article 14 and the requirement of every state action qualifying for its validity on this touchstone irrespective of the field of activity of the state is an accepted tenet.
the basic requirement of article 14 is fairness in action by the state and non arbitrariness in essence and substance is the heart beat of fair play.
a question whether the impugned action is arbitrary or not is to be ultimately answered on the facts and circumstances of a given case.
where a particular mode is prescribed for doing an act and there is no impediment in adopting the procedure the deviation to act in different manner which does not disclose any discernible principle which is reasonable itself small be labelled as arbitrary.
this court s observations in g b mahajan v jalgaon municipal council air 1991 sc 1153 1990 indlaw sc 438 are kept out of lush field of administrative policy except where policy is inconsistent with the express or implied provision of a statute which creates the power to which the policy relates or where a decision made in purported exercise of power is such that a repository of the power acting reasonably and in good faith could not have made it.
but there has to be a word of caution.
that is and ought to be a difficult onus for an applicant to discharge.
the courts are not very good at formulating or evaluating policy.
sometimes when the courts have intervened on policy grounds the court s view of the range of policies open under the statute or of what is unreasonable policy has not got public acceptance.
on the contrary curial views of policy have been subjected to stringent criticism.
the reasonableness in administrative law must therefore distinguish between proper course and improper abuse of power.
if it is a question of policy even by ways of change of old policy the courts can not intervene with the decision.
as was observed in punjab communications ltd v union of india of others air 1999 sc 1801 1999 indlaw sc 1548 the change in policy can defeat a substantive legitimate expectation if it can be justified on wednesbury reasonableness.
it is therefore clear that the choice of police is for the decision maker and not the court.
how significant is the statement that today is tomorrows yesterday.
the present is as we experience it the past is a present memory and future is a present expectation.
reasonableness of restriction is to be determined in an objective manner and from the standpoint of interest of the general public and not from the standpoint of the interests of persons upon whom the restrictions have been imposed or upon abstract consideration.
a restriction can not be said to be unreasonable merely because in a given case it operates harshly.
in determining whether there is any unfairness involved the nature of the right alleged to have taken infringed the underlying purpose of the restriction imposed the extent and urgency of the evil sought to be remedied thereby the disproportion of the imposition the prevailing condition at the relevant time enter into judicial verdict the reasonableness of the legitimate expectation has to be determined with respect to the circumstances relating to the trade or business in question.
canalisation of a particular business in favour of even a specified individual is reasonable where the interests of the country are concerned or where the business affects the economy of the country.
see parbhani transport co operative society ltd v regional transport authority aurangabad and others air 1960.
sc 9011960 indlaw sc 472 shree meenakshi mills ltd v union of india air 1974.
sc 3651973 indlaw sc 291 hari chand sarda v mizo district council and another air 1967 sc 829 1966 indlaw sc 125 krishnan kakkanth v government of kerala and others air 1997.
sc 128 1996 indlaw sc 1845 and union of india and another v international trading co and another 2003 5 scc 437 2003 indlaw sc 472.
article 166 of the constitution deals with the conduct of government business.
the said provision reads as follows 166.
conduct of business of the government of a state 1 all executive action of the government of a state shall be expressed to be taken in the name of the governor.
further is no particular formula of words required for compliance with article 1661.
a constitution bench in r chitralekha etc.
v state of mysore and ors.
while clause 1 is in relation to the mode of expression clause 2 lays down the ways in which the order is to be authenticated.
v u p state electricity board and others air 1997.
v shree durga oil mills and anr.
as the correctness of factual basis justifying withdrawal is in issue fair play certainly warranted grant of opportunity to the appellants to present its side of the picture.
another point which was specifically raised before the high court but has not been dealt by it is the legality of the action in directing retrospective withdrawal of the benefit by a letter of the government.
whether the same is permissible in law has to be decided by the high court.
to the aforesaid limited extent the matter is remitted to the high court for fresh consideration.
