interpretation of the provisions of s 461b of the trade and merchandise marks act1958 hereinafter called and referred to for the sake of brevity as the said act is involved herein.
the factual matrix of the matter which is not much in dispute is as under.
first respondent is the registered proprietor of a trade mark field marshal for diesel engines since 1964 bearing no 228867 one m s jain industries got the trade mark field marshal registered under clause 7inter alia for flour mills centrifugal pumps couplings for machines pulleys included in class 7 and valves parts of machines the said registration was renewed for the periods 13 5 1972 and 12 5 1979 13 5 1979 and 12 7 1986 and 13 7 1986 and 12 7 1993 appellant is said to have commenced its business of manufacturing and selling centrifugal pumps also under the mark field marshall.
allegedly on the premise that the first respondent is the proprietor of the said mark by reason of long user and thus acquired a reputation in that behalf a legal notice was issued upon it questioning its right to use the said mark in respect of centrifugal pumps by the appellant laying a claim that it had been using the said mark since 1963.
respondent no 1 thereafter filed a suit in the delhi high court for grant of a decree of permanent injunction being suit no 2408 of 1985 alleging infringement of the said mark andor claiming right of passing off in respect thereof.
an ex parte order of injunction was passed on 19 12 1985 against the defendant appellant herein to the following effect.
notice for april 81986 meanwhile a temporary ex parte injunction is issued against the defendants restraining them from manufacturing or selling either themselves or through any dealer or representative diesel oil engines or parts thereof with the trade mark field marshal andor any other trade mark identical therewith and all goods falling in cl 7 of the trade and merchandise mark rules.
the plaintiff shall comply with the requirements of order 39 rule 4 of the code of civil procedure.
indisputably during the proceedings in the above suit m s.
jain industries by a deed of assignment assigned the said trade mark along with its goodwill in favour of the appellant.
one of the stipulations contained therein reads as under that the party of the second part has satisfied the party of the first part of having used the mark field marshal in respect of centrifugal pumps and valves since 1973.
indisputably first respondent filed an application under section 4656 and 107 of the act marked as c o no 9 of 1986contending that m s jain industries having not used the trade mark in respect of centrifugal pumps for a period more than five years and one month the mark should be taken off the register.
it claimed user of the said mark since 1963 and sought for rectification of the register by expunging the expression circulation and centrifugal pumps from the specification of goods.
that pursuant to a request on form tm 23 dated 17th june1986 and order thereon dated 24th october1986.
may1986 and may be renewed at the expiration of that period and of each succeeding period of a seven years.
in the said c o no 9 of 1986 filed by the first respondent against m s jain industries despite service of notice nobody appeared on behalf of the defendant 16 1 1987 was the date fixed in the said suit.
let the statement of learned counsel for the petitioner be recorded.
statement of shri k l aggarwal counsel for petitioner without oath.
against m s jain industries and the dy.
trade mark no 228867 in.
the request is not opposed on behalf of m s thakural mechanical works.
a fresh application was filed by the first respondent.
the said m s jain industries however was not impleaded as a party therein.
the cause of action is continuous from day to day till the impugned registration is cancelled rectified.
the injunction matter in suit no 2408 of 1985 came up for hearing before a learned single judge of the high court.
correctness or otherwise of the said order has not been questioned.
the second rectification application filed by the first respondent however was transferred to the intellectual property appellate board.
a writ petition was filed there against by the first respondent.
indisputably the scope of the provisions for removal from register in terms of s 46 and 56 of the act stand on different footings.
concededly cl a of sub s 1 of s 46 is not attracted in the case.
for the purpose of appreciation of the rival contentions we may notice the findings of the board as also the high court.
if thukral did then it can not be said that there was no bona fide use thereof by its proprietor.
the act was enacted to provide for the registration and better protection of trademarks and for the prevention of the use of fraudulent marks of merchandise.
first respondent withdrew the application against m s jain industries.
the words for the time being would mean differently in different situations.
it may mean the moment or existing position as was held by this court in the case of jivendra nath kaul v collector district magistrate and anr 1992.
madhav rao jivaji rao scindia bahadur of gwalior h h maharajadhiraja.
maharana shri bhagwat singhji bahadur of udaipur v union of india and anr air 1971.
there can not be any doubt or dispute that the registration of a trade mark confers a very valuable right.
it confers an exclusive right of use of the trade mark in relation to the goods in which the trade mark is registered.
the same is an assignable right in terms of s 36 of the act whereas an unregistered trade mark is not.
however such an application can be filed only by a person aggrieved.
when the applicant before the board establishes the fact in regard to non user of the mark for a period of more than five years on the part of the registered owner the latter may show that his case falls within the purview of sub s 3 of s 46.
the question which therefore arises is as to who can prove that he had the bona fide intention to use the trade mark on the date of application for registration.
indisputably it would be the registered proprietor.
s 46 is a penal provision.
while we say so we are not oblivious of the fact that trafficking in trade mark is to be discouraged.
a registered proprietor of a trade mark should not be permitted to circumvent the law of user of the trade mark for a long time by assigning the same from time to time.
but then such a case has to be made out.
allegation of trafficking is a serious one.
it must be proved in presence of the person against whom such allegations are made.
at the time of grant of original registration advertisements are issued and objections are called for.
in other words the mistake of the predecessor should not be visited with non use of the present registered owner.
in kabushiki kaisha toshiba v tosiba appliances co ors 2008 8 scale 354 2008 indlaw sc 1395this court held we do not find any force in the aforementioned submission.
cls a and b operate in different fileds.
it was observed that in cases of intermittent use also cl b shall apply.
in kabushiki kaisha toshiba this court relied upon hardie trading ltd anr.
v addisons paint chemicals ltd 2003 11 scc 92 2003 indlaw sc 756 in our opinion the phrase person aggrieved for the purposes of removal on the ground of non use under s 46 has a different connotation from the phrase used in s 56 for canceling or expunging or varying an entry wrongly made or remaining in the register.
the submission of mr sudhir chandra.
if appellant infringed the right of m s jain industries it was for it to take action there for.
it did not.
first respondent itself accepts that at least immediately prior to the institution of the suit appellant had been using the same.
it obtained an or of injunction.
the order of injunction was vacated.
for one reason or the other the said order attained finality.
prima facie therefore appellant has been held to be the registered owner of the trade mark.
notes on clauses.
consequential amendments have been made to cover services cl 47 of the bill.
the court while construing a statute takes into consideration the parliamentary intent in amending the provisions thereof.
it only consented for grant of liberty in favour of the first respondent for filing of an application for the self same cause of action.
the second contention of mr that the appellant was an infringer of the trade mark is again a question of fact.
the right of the first respondent as a proprietor of the trade mark by reason of a long user is required to be determined vis  vis m s jain industries as also the appellant in the suit filed by it which is pending.
the board could not while exercising its jurisdiction under s 461bof the act proceeded on the basis of such presumption.
it is not correct that no cause of action survived against jain industries.
in the suit only the competing right of the first respondent qua the appellant can be determined and not a right against m s such a right can not be determined in a proceeding under s 461b of the act which is restricted to non user of the registered trade mark.
while interpreting the same however certain basic principles of construction of statute must be kept in mind.
as it takes away somebody s right it deserves strict construction.
jurisdiction of the board being dependent on determination of the foundational facts the same was required to be established on the basis of the averments made in the application and not otherwise.
the right of a registered trade mark is not lost automatically on the expiry of five years and one month.
it does not provide for a sun set law.
it has to be adjudicated upon.
the principle of purchaser of a property has a duty to make enquiriestherefore cannot apply in a case of this nature.
so long as the right to assign a registered trade mark remains valid once the same is validly assigned the assignee derives the same right as that of the assignor in terms of the statute.
a title to a trade mark derived on assignment as provided for under the act can not be equated with a defective title acquired in any other property as admittedly on the date of assignment the right of the registered trade mark was not extinguished.
in the case of american home products corporation v mac laboratories pvt ltd.
if that be so any registered proprietor could easily defeat an application for rectification by assigning the mark to some other person to have a fresh period of 5 years from the date of assignment and thus effectively frustrate the very object of the provision in s 471a and b further it is to be noted that an assignment is subject to the provisions of the act and any rights vested in any other person see.
an assigner can transfer only such right which he possesses.
for the views we have taken we are of the opinion that the impugned judgment can not be sustained.
it is set aside accordingly.
counsel s fee assessed at rs 100000.
