in our view although the high court had set aside the concurrent findings of fact arrived at by the tribunals below under the karnataka land reforms.
act1974 in shortthe act in the exercise of its revisional jurisdiction under section 121a of the act even then this is not a fit case where this court in the exercise of its power u art 136 of the constitution would interfere with such an order of the high court.
the appellants in this appeal claiming to be the tenants of agricultural land bearing survey no 1251measuring 3 acres 11 gunthas.
right holders relying inter alia on the entries under the rtc record.
the case of the appellants as made out was disputed by the respondent no 4 the case of respondent no 4 was that the scheduled land was mortgaged to the 3rd respondent rajashankar in the year 1968 and after the expiry of the said mortgage the mortgagee was liable to deliver possession of the same.
the case of tenancy as made out by the appellants or their father was denied.
it was alleged by the respondent no 4 that since the respondent no 3 was a film actor and had settled in madras now chennaiwith the consent of the respondent no 3the scheduled land was given to the father of the appellants and the father of the appellants was cultivating the same from the year 1968 but not as a tenant.
accordingly they prayed for rejection of the application filed by the father of the appellants claiming occupancy rights under the act.
initially the land tribunal allowed the application of the father of the appellants and feeling aggrieved a writ petition was filed against the said order.
the high court had set aside the order of the land tribunal and remanded the case back to the tribunal for a fresh decision.
the land tribunal after remand relying on the entries in the rtc record and some other materials on record granted occupancy rights in favour of the appellants.
a revision petition thereafter was moved before the high court and the high court by the impugned judgment had set aside the concurrent findings of fact and rejected the application filed by the father since deceased of the appellants holding inter alia that the appellants or their father had failed to prove the tenancy in respect of the scheduled land.
a special leave petition was filed against the judgment of the high court setting aside the concurrent orders allowing the application in respect of which leave has already been granted.
it is true that the high court while exercising its revisional power under section 121a of the act had set aside the concurrent findings of fact of the land tribunal as well as of the appellate authority even then examining the findings of the high court and considering the power conferred on it in the revisional jurisdiction under section 121a of the act we do not find any reason to interfere with the impugned order of the high court in the exercise of our power u art 136 of the constitution.
while setting aside the findings of the tribunal the high court at paragraph 7 of the impugned judgment made the following findings it is an undisputed fact that the revision petitioner has mortgaged the land in dispute in favour of the 5th respondent rajashankar in the year 1968 and after the expiry of the mortgage period since the 5th respondent failed to deliver back the possession of the land in dispute to him he filed the suit for redemption and obtained a decree for redemption.
but it is significant to note that the nature of cultivation of the land is not shown as that of a tenant in the said r t c extracts.
so the only question which arises for consideration is whether the said cultivation of the land in dispute by the father of the respondents 3 and 4 during the years 1968 to 1974 can be presumed to be that of a tenant under the provisions of s 4 of the karnataka land reforms act.
s 4 of the act makes it clear that a member of the owner s family can not be considered as a deemed tenant even if he is lawfully cultivating the land belonging to owner.
it would also be clear from a plain reading of section 121a of the act that the high court is also entitled to interfere with the orders of the tribunals below when the material evidence on record was ignored or a finding was such that no court would come to such conclusion or that the decision of the tribunals below was manifestly unjust.
reading the aforesaid provisions viz.
therefore under section 121a of the act in the presence of any of the abovementioned circumstances the high court is empowered to look into the legality of the orders impugned in deciding the question whether the appellants could be held to be the tenants under the respondent nos 3 or 4.
keeping the aforesaid principles in mind as to when the high court would be justified in the exercise of its power under section 121a of the act to examine the legality of the orders of the tribunals below in an appropriate case let us now examine the findings of the high court while setting aside the concurrent findings of fact of the tribunals below.
in our view on a careful examination of the findings of the high court which were based on consideration of the material evidence on record it is difficult for us to hold that the high court was not justified in setting aside the concurrent findings of fact of the tribunals below in the exercise of its jurisdiction under section 121a of the act.
we have already noted the findings made by the high court in the impugned judgment on the question whether the appellants could be held to be the tenants on the evidence and materials on record.
while doing so in our view the high court was justified in coming to the conclusion that the evidence and material on record would clearly establish that the appellants were not able to prove that they were the tenants in respect of the scheduled land under the respondents.
considering the above aspect of the matter and after considering the scope of section 121a of the act we are therefore unable to agree with the learned counsel for the appellants that in the exercise of revisional jurisdiction under section 121a of the act the high court was not entitled to set aside the concurrent findings of fact arrived at by the appellate authority and the land tribunal.
such being the position we do not find any reason to interfere with the judgment of the high court although the high court in the exercise of its power under section 121a of the act had set aside the concurrent orders of the appellate authority as well as the land tribunal.
in support of his contention he had relied on a decision of this court in the case of dahya lal ors vs.
rasul mohammed abdul rahim 1963 3 scr 1 1962 indlaw sc 366.
krishnoji bhaurao hundre dead.
in that decision it has been made clear that the high court was entitled to interfere with the orders of the appellate authority only on question of law or irregularity in procedure and on no other aspect.
in our view we have already held that the high court was entitled to interfere with the concurrent orders of the tribunals below as material evidence on record was not considered at all and non consideration of the material evidence on record is a question of law and therefore the high court was entitled to interfere.
accordingly this decision is of no help to the appellants.
lastly in our view in view of the discussion made herein above the decision relied on by the learned counsel for the appellant in the case of dahya lal ors vs.
in union of india ors vs.
considering the concurrent orders of the appellate authority and the land tribunal and the impugned order of the high court we are in agreement with the high court because the view taken by it was plausible and therefore the question of interference by us u art 136 of the constitution is not warranted.
again in jai mangal oraon vs mira nayak smt ors 2000 5 scc 141.
finally in taherakhatoon d by lrs.
appeal dismissed.
