Appeal No 513 of 1963.
Appeal by special leave from the Award dated December 1961 of the Maharashtra Industrial Tribunal in Reference IT No 48 of 1961.
425 M C Setalvad N V Phadke J B Dadachanji O C Mathur and Ravinder Narain for the respondent No 1.
The Head Office of the Company is at Calcutta.
In September 1959 an agreement was entered into between the Company and its employees at Calcutta under which the age of retirement was extended to 58 years subject to the employees passing a medical examination on reaching the age of 55.
Before the Tribunal the Company resisted the workmen s claim but submitted that it was agreeable to introduce for its Bombay employees provisions similar to those which had been introduced by agreement for the Calcutta employees retirement at the age of 58 subject to the employee passing a medical examination on reaching the age of 55.
It is against this decision that the present appeal has been filed by the workmen.
As the Pay Commission Report pointed out This is particularly remarkable considering that the countries differ widely in demographic constitution levels of economic development and climatic and social condition and it indicates a virtual unanimity of competent opinion that balancing the various factors physiological economic and social that are relevant the normal working life should continue up to the age of 60 and may well go on up to 65 years.
It is undoubtedly more useful however and indeed essential for our present purpose to examine the trends in this matter in our own country and specially in the region in which the present dispute has arisen.
In the delicate task of adjust ing needs of the employees to the interests of the employers and what is even more important to the general interests of the country at large industrial adjudication has to pay special attention to the prevailing practice in the industrial region concerned.
If in any particular region employees have been successful in their claim for fixing the age of retirement at 60 this very success is bound to raise in others in the region similar expectations.
In support of their demand for fixing the age of retirement at 60 the workmen tried to show that in recent years at least the tendency in comparable concerns in Bombay region has been to fix the retirement age at 60.
Reliance was placed for this purpose on the Chart exhibit Cl.
At first sight therefore it appears to afford impressive 1  2  428 testimony against the workmen s case that the recent trend in Bombay has been to fix the age of retirement at 60.
429 Notice has also to be taken in this connection of the Report of the Norms Committee in which the following opinion was expressed After taking into consideration the views of the earlier Committees and Commissions including those of the Second Pay Commission the report of which has been released recently we feel that the retirement age for workmen in all industries should be fixed at 60.
Appeal allowed.
