2 The Court trying the offence may also order such officer or employee to deliver up or refund within a time F to be fixed by the Court any such property wrongfully obtained or wrongfully withheld or knowingly misapplied or in default to suffer imprisonment for a term which may extend to two years.
 The only question involved in this special leave petition is as to the scope and effect of sub section.
1 of section 630 of the Act.
b thereof and there is a conflict of opinion between the High Courts of Calcutta and Bombay on the question.
1 of section 630 of H 172 the Act the High Court of Calcutta in Amritlal Chum vs Devi Ranjan Jha  Anr held that it refers only to the existing officers and employees of a company.
a viz property of a company wrongfully taken possession of by a present officer or employee of the company.
1 of section 630 must be interpreted to mean not only the present officers and employees of a company but also to include past officers and employees of the company.
1 of section 630 which provide for the launching of a prosecution against an officer or employee of a company for wrongful possession of such property under cls.
a and b of sub section.
1 of section 630 and for the recovery of such property by the issue of process under sub section 2 also extends to past officers and employees of the company and whether the Court trying the offence has the power to issue a process under sub section.
2 against such officer or employee.
At the conclusion of the hearing we had by a short order dismissed the special leave petition and held that the view expressed by the learned Single Judge following the earlier decisions of the High Court in Harkishan Lakhimal Gidwani and reiterated in Govind T Jagtiani was to be preferred to the view to the contrary expressed by the High Court of Calcutta in Amritlal Chum.
As the respondent Shipping Corporation of India a public sector undertakings was in dire need of the flat in question which is situate in a posh locality like the Cuffe Parade in 173 Bombay for the use of its senior executive we could not accede to the request of the learned counsel for the petitioner to refer the case to a bench of three judges and heard learned counsel for the parties at quit some length on August 271987 and dismissed the special leave petition.
At the very threshold it is necessary to set out a few facts.
He was first allotted a service quarter.
After the expiry of the said period of six months the company addressed a letter dated April 26 1985 requesting the petitioner to vacate the premises stating that if he failed to do so he would be liable to pay higher compensation as per the company s rules.
a and although it primarily refers to the existing officers and employees it may also take in past officers and employees.
b contemplates a case where an officer or employee of a company having any property of a company in his possession wrongfully withholds it or knowingly applies it to purposes other than those expressed or directed in the 176 articles and authorised by the Act.
1 of section 630 of the Act.
He further held that the High Court of Bombay was in error in laying down in Govind T Jagtiani s case that for purposes of prosecution cl.
b as taking in the property mentioned in cl.
 In Govind T Jagtiani vs Sirajuddin section Kazi supra Kanade J fol lowed the critical analysis of section 630 made by Kotwal J as above and observed that the entitlement of an officer to the property of the company and the duration of such right would be co terminus with the terms of employment and the right would stand extinguished with the termination to the employment giving rise to an obligation to hand over the property back to the company and observed If the property is held back the retained possession would amount to wrongful withholding of the property of the company.
