Under Article 32 of the Constitution of India.
It reads Heard counsel.
Our attention has been invited by learned counsel for bo th the sides to the relevant rules which govern promotion to the post of Chargeman Grade II.
 As already pointed above the petitioners in the writ pet i tions refer 100 red to above have prayed for the same relief which w as granted in Civil Appeal No 441 of 1981.
Almost analogous prayer had been made in Miscellaneo us Petition No 9357 of 1983 also namely that the responden ts may be restrained from promoting officers to the next high er posts on the basis of recommendations of certain Departme n tal Promotion Committees without complying with the dire c tions of this Court in its order dated 2nd February 198 1.
 The aforesaid writ petitions came up for hearing befo re a bench of two learned Judges of this Court on 9th Septe m ber 1987.
 It is in view of this order that these matters have been listed before us.
According to learn ed counsel the Rules did not prescribe the minimum number of years of service as Supervisors A  which would make th em eligible for promotion as Chargeman II and the circul ar dated 6th November 1962 which was in the nature of an executive instruction prescribed 2 years  service as Supe r visor A  to make him eligible for promotion.
He also brought to our notice a subsequent circular dated 20th January 1966 by the Direct or General of Ordnance Factories who had issued.
62 and 4416ANG dt.
Engineering and Ex apprentices serving as Sup r A  Gr.
Having heard learned counsel for the parties we fi nd substance in the submission made by the learned counsel f or the respondents.
  it was held by a Constitution Bench of this Court in Ramachandra Shankar Deodhar and Ors.
While repelling this submission the Constituti on Bench held All that happened as a result of making promotions to t he posts of Deputy Collectors divisionwise and limiting su ch promotions to 50 per cent of the total number of vacanci es in the posts of Deputy Collector was to reduce the chanc es of promotion available to the petitioners.
A rule which merely affects chances of promoti on cannot be regarded as varying a condition of service.
 It i s therefore clear that neither the Rules of July 30 195 9 nor the procedure for making promotions to the posts of Deputy Collector divisionwise varies the conditions of service of the petitioners to their disadvantage.
 The same view was reiterated in Mohammad Shujat Ali a nd Ors.
Annexure I to the said affidavit gives a break up of the total diplo ma holders recruited in the Department due to acute need of Ordnance Department following the chinese aggression.
Apparently after t he coming into force of the 107 order dated 28th December 1965 and the circular dated 20 th January 1966 promotions could not be made just on compl e tion of 2 years  satisfactory service under the earli er circular dated 6th November 1962 the same having be en superseded by the later circular.
As already noticed earlier certain writ petitions filed in Madhya Pradesh High Court were allowed by that Court on 4 th April 1983 relying on the judgment of this Court dated 2 nd February 1981 in Civil Appeal No 441 of 1981.
At the most they would be entitled to refixation of the ir present salary on the basis of the notional seniority gran t ed to them in different grades so that their present sala ry is not less than those who are immediately below them.
