these two appeals involve identical questions and therefore are disposed of by this common judgment after noticing the factual position so far as they are relevant.
the appellants question correctness of the judgment rendered by a division bench of the madras high court which held that the withdrawal of benefits extended to the appellants as subsidy was in order.
the appellants questioned legality or the g o ms No 989 dated 1 9 1988 directing discontinuance of purchase tax exemption in case of mills which exceeded the ceiling of rs 300 lakes during the period of five years and government letter dated 28 12 1988 which made the aforesaid g o ms No 989 of 1 9 1988 operative retrospectively from 1 4 1988.
initially the writ petitions were filed before the high court but after constitution of the tamil nadu taxation special tribunal hereinafter referred to as the tribunal the writ petitions were transferred to the tribunal which held that on application of the principles of promissory estoppel and legitimate expectation the withdrawal of benefit was not sustainable in law.
the state questioned correctness of the judgment before the high court which as noted above held the g o ms and the govt.
letter to be valid reversing the conclusions arrived at by the tribunal.
the judgment forms subject matter of challenge in these appeals.
in support of the appeals the primary stands raised by the appellants are.
the doctrines of promissory estoppel and legitimate expectation were applicable to the facts of the case.
there was no material to show existence of any overriding public interest to rule out application of the aforesaid doctrine there was no scope for retrospective withdrawal.
in any event before withdrawal of the benefits no opportunity of hearing was granted.
the high court erroneously came to hold that the state government had not filed any counter.
the materials which were produced before the high court and on the basis of which it is decided that the decision of the government is in order were not even pleaded in the pleadings and during arguments.
the appellants were taken by surprise by production of materials which were not even disclosed to the appellants.
the contents of the files which were produced before the high court and on which reliance was placed to hold against the appellants are not known to the appellants.
in other words there was clear violation of the principles of natural justice.
the government s letter dated 28 12 1988 refers to some decision but in the absence of any authentication as required under article 166 of the constitution of india 1950 in short the constitution the same is ineffective.
in any event the retrospective withdrawal of the benefit on the basis of an executive decision is impermissible.
in response learned counsel for the respondent state submitted that the appellants have failed to adduce any evidence or material to show that were in any way induced by any governmental action to set up industries.
in fact the government of tamil nadu vide g o ms.
No 1294 dated 24 10 1975 granted exemption from purchase tax on sugarcane in favour of sugar mills established in co operative and public sectors in the form of annual subsidy equivalent to purchase tax on sugarcane.
there was no scope for any mis understanding that it applied to any private sector participation in the sphere of sugar manufacturing.
of tamil nadu ors on 27 1 1984 and in c a 86052002 i e bannari amman sugars ltd v commercial tax officer.
the appellants only made representation to government subsequently claiming exemption at par with the cooperative and public sector mills.
as there was no inducement or assurance the question of any promissory estoppel did not arise.
so far as legitimate expectation aspect is concerned it is too well known that the benefit extended can be withdrawn and with this knowledge if the units are set up the principle of legitimate expectation does not apply.
the high court recorded the following findings on the factual aspects.
the respondents have established their units prior to the government orders granting the subsidy and they have no vested right to claim exemption.
no inducement was made in the government orders to establish the units.
the respondents have not acted on the basis of the government orders for establishing the units.
the grant of subsidy is a concession and the government has got good reasons for modifying the scheme in public interest.
no prejudice is caused to the respondents since the scheme was interested to make the units viable and the modified scheme provides for safeguards to that extent.
the order granting subsidy can be withdrawn in public interest.
the government has exercised their right to modify the scheme in the interest of public revenue.
the stand taken by the present appellants before the tribunal and the high court was rejected.
estoppel is a rule of equity which has gained new dismensions in recent years.
a new class of estoppel has come to be recognized by the courts in this country as well as in england.
the leading case on the subject is central london property trust ltd v high trees house ltd 1947 1 k b 130.
but that principle does not create any cause of action which did not exist before so that where a promise is made which is not supported by any consideration the promise can not bring an action on the basis of that promise.
the principle enunciated in the high trees case supra was also recognized by the house of lords in tool metal manufacturing co ltd v tungsten electric co ltd 1955.
that principle was adopted by this court in union of india v indo afghan agencies ltd air 1968.
promissory estoppel is defined in black s law distionary as an estoppel which arises when there is a promise which promissor should reasonable expect to induce action or forbearance of a definite and substantial character on the part of promisee and which does include such action or forbearance and such promise is binding if injustice can be avoided only by enforcement of promise.
so far as this court is concerned it invoked the doctrine in indo afghan agencies s case 1967 indlaw sc 411 supra in which is was inter alia laid down that even though the case would not fall within the terms of section 115 of the indian evidence act 1872 in short the evidence act which enacts the rule of estoppel it would still be open to a party who had acted on a representation made by the government to claim that the government should be bound to carry out the promise made by it even though the promise was not recorded in the form of a formal contract as required by article 299 of the constitution.
sc 1021 1970 indlaw sc 341 radhakrishna v state of bihar air 1977.
sc 1496 1977 indlaw sc 282 motilal padampat sugar mills co ltd v state of u p 1979 2 scc 409 1978 indlaw sc 56 union of india v godfrey philips indian ltd 1985 4 scc 369 1985 indlaw sc 275 and dr ashok kumar maheshwari v state of u p another 1998 2 supreme 100 1998 indlaw sc 1376.
this principle has been evolved by equity to avoid injustice.
it was held that the doctrine of promissory estoppel represents a principle evolved by equity to avoid injustice.
actions are amenable in the panorama of judicial review only to the extent that the state must act validity for discernible reasons not whimsically for any ulterior purpose.
in hindustan development corporation s case1993 indlaw sc 1085 supra it was observed that decision taken by the authority must be found to be arbitrary unreasonable and not taken in public interest where the doctrine of legitimate expectation can be applied.
the legitimate substantive expectation merely permits the court to find out if the change of policy which is the cause for defeating the legitimate expectation is irrational or perverse or one which no reasonable person could have made.
a claim based on merely legitimate expectation without anything more can not ipso facto give a right.
for legal purposes expectation is not same as anticipation.
legitimacy of an expectation can be inferred only if it is founded on the sanction of law.
moreover the negotiation of a legitimate expectation falling short of a legal right is too nebulous to form a basis for invalidating the exercise of a power when its exercise otherwise accords with law.
if a denial of legitimate expectation in a given case amounts to denial of right guaranteed or is arbitrary discriminatory unfair or biased gross abuse of power of violation of principles of natural justice the same can be questioned on the well known grounds attracting article 14 but a claim based on mere legitimate expectation without anything more can not ipso facto give a right to invoke these principles.
it depends very much on the facts and the recognised general principles of administrative law applicable to such facts and the concept of legitimate expectation which is the latest recruit to a long list of concepts fashioned by the courts for the review of administrative action must be restricted to the general legal limitations applicable and binding the manner of the future exercise of administrative power in a particular case.
in determining whether there is any unfairness involved the nature of the right alleged to have taken infringed the underlying purpose of the restriction imposed the extent and urgency of the evil sought to be remedied thereby the disproportion of the imposition the prevailing condition at the relevant time enter into judicial verdict the reasonableness of the legitimate expectation has to be determined with respect to the circumstances relating to the trade or business in question.
see parbhani transport co operative society ltd v regional transport authority aurangabad and others air 1960.
conduct of business of the government of a state 1 all executive action of the government of a state shall be expressed to be taken in the name of the governor.
clause 1 requires that all executive action of the state government shall have to be taken in the name of the governor.
air 1964.
in order to invoke the doctrine of promissory estoppel clear sound and positive foundation must be laid in the petition itself by the party invoking and doctrine the bald expressions without any supporting material to the effect that the doctrine is attracted because the party invoking the doctrine has altered its position relying on the assurance of the government would not be sufficient to press into aid the doctrine.
though the appellants were not entitled to any opportunity of hearing before alteration of the benefits flowing from the notifications or withdrawal of any benefit yet when the state has not taken any specific stand justifying the withdrawal and the high court referred to the files to put its seal of proof notwithstanding non requirement for granting any opportunity before the withdrawal principles of natural justice certainly were applicable since the high court with reference to the files recorded findings on the basis thereof.
it is made clear that we have not expressed any opinion on those issues on the facts of the present case.
it is to be noted that no privilege was claimed from production of the file as the files were produced before the high court and in fact the high court referred to the materials on the files to affirm state s action.
we make it clear that we have not expressed any opinion on the factual aspects except indicating the principles underlying legitimate expectation.
another point which was specifically raised before the high court but has not been dealt by it is the legality of the action in directing retrospective withdrawal of the benefit by a letter of the government.
