leave granted.
interpretation of the provisions of s 461b of the trade and merchandise marks act1958 hereinafter called and referred to for the sake of brevity as the said act is involved herein.
the factual matrix of the matter which is not much in dispute is as under.
first respondent is the registered proprietor of a trade mark field marshal for diesel engines since 1964 bearing no 228867 one m s jain industries got the trade mark field marshal registered under clause 7inter alia for flour mills centrifugal pumps couplings for machines pulleys included in class 7 and valves parts of machines the said registration was renewed for the periods 13 5 1972 and 12 5 1979 13 5 1979 and 12 7 1986 and 13 7 1986 and 12 7 1993 appellant is said to have commenced its business of manufacturing and selling centrifugal pumps also under the mark field marshall.
allegedly on the premise that the first respondent is the proprietor of the said mark by reason of long user and thus acquired a reputation in that behalf a legal notice was issued upon it questioning its right to use the said mark in respect of centrifugal pumps by the appellant laying a claim that it had been using the said mark since 1963.
respondent no 1 thereafter filed a suit in the delhi high court for grant of a decree of permanent injunction being suit no 2408 of 1985 alleging infringement of the said mark andor claiming right of passing off in respect thereof.
an ex parte order of injunction was passed on 19 12 1985 against the defendant appellant herein to the following effect.
notice for april 81986 meanwhile a temporary ex parte injunction is issued against the defendants restraining them from manufacturing or selling either themselves or through any dealer or representative diesel oil engines or parts thereof with the trade mark field marshal andor any other trade mark identical therewith and all goods falling in cl 7 of the trade and merchandise mark rules.
the plaintiff shall comply with the requirements of order 39 rule 4 of the code of civil procedure.
jain industries by a deed of assignment assigned the said trade mark along with its goodwill in favour of the appellant.
one of the stipulations contained therein reads as under that the party of the second part has satisfied the party of the first part of having used the mark field marshal in respect of centrifugal pumps and valves since 1973.
indisputably first respondent filed an application under section 4656 and 107 of the act marked as c o no 9 of 1986contending that m s jain industries having not used the trade mark in respect of centrifugal pumps for a period more than five years and one month the mark should be taken off the register.
indisputably appellant filed an application in form tm 24 on 17 6 1986 the assistant registrar trade marks passed an order on 10 11 1986 certifying that the trade mark field marshal brand word per se is registered under no 228867 in part a of the register as of the date 13th.
may1965 in class 7 in respect of flour mills circulating and centrifugal pumps coupling for machines pulleys included in class 7and valves parts of machines in the name of pooran chand jain and kailash chand jain trading as jain industries1166phatak.
suraj bhan belanganj agra.
this view of the matter learned counsel for the petitioner has submitted that he may be permitted to withdraw this petition with permission to file a fresh petition on this very cause of action.
before adverting thereto we may take notice of the relevant statutory provisions ss 461b481482 and 56 read as under section 46 removal from register and imposition of limitations on ground of non use  1 subject to the provisions of section 47a registered trade mark may be taken off the register in respect of any of the goods in respect of which it is registered on application made in the prescribed manner to a high court or to the registrar by any person aggrieved on the ground either a b that up to a date one month before the date of the application a continuous period of five years or longer had elapsed during which the trade mark was registered and during which there was no bona fide use thereof in relation to those goods by any proprietor thereof for the time being provided that except where the applicant has been permitted under sub s 3 of s 12 to register an identical or nearly resembling trade mark in respect of the goods in question or where the tribunal is of opinion that he might properly be permitted so to register such a trade mark the tribunal may refuse an application u cl a or cl b in relation to any goods if it is shown that there has been before the relevent date or during the relevant period as the case may be bona fide use of the trade mark by any proprietor thereof for the time being in relation to goods of the same description being goods in respect of which the trade mark is registered.
section 48 registered users  1 subject to the provisions of section 49a person other than the registered proprietor of a trade mark may be registered as the registered user thereof in respect of any or all of the goods in respect of which the trademark is registered otherwise than as a defensive trade mark but the central government may by rules made in this behalf provide that no application for registration as such shall be enertained unless the agreement between the parties complies with the conditions laid down in the rules for preventing trafficking in trade marks.
any order of the high court rectifying the register shall direct that notice of the rectification shall be served upon the registrar in the prescribed manner who shall upon receipt of such notice rectify the register accordingly.
the board has taken the view that the period of five years and one month will begin to run from the date on which thukral became the proprietor of the trademark that is30th may1986 and therefore the rectification application could have been filed by the appellant only sometime in 1991 opining that an application for rectification against the appellant within a period of seven and a half months from the date of assignment of the trade mark was not maintainable the application was dismissed.
this appears to be the position at least till 30th may1986 in.
prima facie therefore appellant has been held to be the registered owner of the trade mark.
both the appellant and the respondent no 1 were the infringers of the right of m s jain industries as it was the registered proprietor of the trade mark in respect of the goods in question namely centrifugal pumps.
jurisdiction of the board being dependent on determination of the foundational facts the same was required to be established on the basis of the averments made in the application and not otherwise.
appeal allowed.
