interpretation and or application of the provisions of the gujarat town planning and urban development act1976 for short the act and the rules framed thereunder known as the gujarat town planning and urban development rules1979.
for short the rules is in question in this appeal which arises out of a judgment and order dated 27 12 2006 passed by a division bench of the high court of gujarat at ahmedabad in letters patent appeal no 1611 of 2006 arising out of a judgment and order dated 23 11 2006 passed by a learned single judge of the said court in sca no 7092 of 2001.
before embarking upon the issue involved in this appeal we may notice the admitted fact of the matter.
the government of gujarat in exercise of its power conferred upon it u s 65 of the act made a scheme in respect of the town of umra surat on 1 06 1999.
plot nos 177 and 178 were owned by respondent no 4 herein.
appellant was a tenant under the said respondent in respect of plot no 178 admeasuring 1067 sq m.
a road widening project was proposed in terms of the said scheme.
notices therefor were issued both to the appellant as also the respondent No appellant objected thereto.
he however did not pursue his case in regard to the proposal for widening of the road.
for the said public purpose viz widening of the road867 sq m of land was taken over leaving only 200 sq m of land.
with a view to give effect to the provisions of the act and the rules framed thereunder proceedings were initiated for allotment of the said land in terms of the act 20 of the land was taken over without payment of any compensation.
in respect of the proceedings initiated for the purpose of re allotment of the land despite a public notice the appellant did not file any objection.
he did not take any part in the proceedings therefor.
respondent no 4 was allotted a final plot bearing no 157 and the said 200 sq m of land of plot no 178 has merged in final plot no 165 owned by the respondent no 3.
the scheme was notified in the year 1999 respondent no 1 herein which is the statutory agency in terms of the act for the purpose of implementation of the scheme issued a notice u s 67 of the act upon the respondent no 4 on or about 15 01 2000 as he did not respond thereto a notice u s 68 of the act was served on him on 31 03 2000 stating as per the said approved preliminary scheme the plot no 157 is allotted to you.
and its pole demarcations were done by the town planning officer at site.
the said final plot original plot is allotted in lieu of your no 177178 paiki land.
and the said land is now vested in the municipal corporation from 1 7 1999and is of the ownership of the municipal corporation.
thereafter the notice below s 67 for the change in occupation was issued on 15 1 2000 to you.
in spite of this you have not handed over the possession.
therefore as per the gujarat town planning and urban development rules1979 rule 33 the undersigned in exercise of powers conferred below s 681 and 82 of the bombay provincial municipalities act and below the s 68 notice under the gujarat town planning and urban development act this is to inform you that as shown in the sketch on the reverse the premises marked should be vacated within 7 days from receipt of the notice and had over the possession to the surat municipal corporation.
if you fail to do so then on completion of the stipulated time limit as per the rule 33 of the gujarat town planning and urban development rules1979 the said land and the occupation on the same will be summarily evicted and your occupation will be removed and if you obstruct interfere on it after taking away the possession you trespass then as provided under rule 33 of the gujarat town planning and urban development rules1979.
the action as per the s 188 of the indian penal code will be initiated against you before the criminal court pleased take note of the same.
the validity and or legality of the said notice was questioned by the appellant by filing a writ petition in the high court of gujarat inter alia contending that the purported final allotment of plot no 165 in favour of the respondent no 3 and allotment of final plot no 157 in favour of the respondent no 4 were made without issuing any notice as envisaged u ss 52 and 53 of the act.
in the said writ petition it was prayed on the facts and circumstances mentioned herein above the petitioner prays to your lordships that a be pleased to issue writ of mandamus or writ in the nature of mandamus or appropriate writ order or direction quashing and setting aside the impugned action of acquiring and demolishing the structures available on the land in question i e original plot no 17 a r s no 17 p situated at umra surat.
a learned single judge of the high court dismissed the said writ petition inter alia opining that the interest of landlord and tenant being common and in absence of any inter se dispute between them even if any portion of the land which remained in possession of the tenant was included in the scheme the proper remedy would be to claim compensation to that extent holding it appears that in the said decision the apex court while considering the scheme on the touch stone of the mandatory procedure to be followed by the authority under the bombay town planning rules has given directions to provide alternative accommodation based on the earlier decision in case of jaswantsingh mathurasingh and upheld the scheme.
such is not the issue in the present case nor there is any complaint by the tenant that any special notice was not served or that the mandatory procedure for finalization of the scheme is not followed.
further it appears that if the interest of the landlord and of the tenant is common and in absence of any inter se dispute between the landlord and tenant even if any portion of the land which is in possession of the tenant is included in the scheme the proper remedy for the tenant would be to claim for compensation to that extent and if such compensation is not received by him he may resort to proper remedy available for recovery of the compensation to the extent of the area in his occupation.
suffice it to say that the tenant will be at liberty to resort to appropriate proceedings against the landlord for the inter se rights and also for entitlement of the compensation.
but if the area of original plot no 178 is included in the final scheme and in exchange of the original plot held by keshav gramini of 178 and 177the final plot is already allotted and as observed earlier it was even otherwise in the ownership of the original holder and it is only on account of inter se dispute the other persons are lawfully occupying the land the tenant can not insist that his landlord must be allotted the land of final plot no 157 simultaneously when he is to be evicted or deprived of the portion of the land of original plot no 178 therefore in my view considering the peculiar facts and circumstances of the present case the decision of the apex court in case of mansukhlal1991 indlaw sc 975 supra can not be made applicable to the present case.
a division bench of the high court dismissed an intra court appeal preferred thereagainst.
the provisions of ss 52 and 81 being imperative in character no acquisition of land is permissible without service of any notice upon the persons interested which would include a tenant in occupation and carrying on business thereon.
the scheme in terms of sub s 3 of s 65 of the act having become a part of the act validity thereof can not be questioned at this stage as modification of the scheme if any will have to undergo the entire process once over again which is not contemplated under the act.
the act was enacted to consolidate and amend the law relating to the making and execution of development plans and town planning schemes in the state of gujarat.
it is not necessary for us to delve deep into the statutory scheme.
s 52 contemplates issuance of a notice in a prescribed manner and in the prescribed form.
it inter alia provides for giving of a notice by the town planning officer as follows 1 in a preliminary scheme the town planning officer shall.
such notice shall also be posted at the officer of the town planning officer and of the appropriate authority and the substance of such notice shall be pasted at convenient places in the said locality.
for eviction under section 68the appropriate authority shall follow the following procedure viz.
b if the person to be evicted fails to comply with the requirement of the notice the appropriate authority shall depute any officer or servant to remove him.
before embarking upon the rival contentions we may also notice that the provisions of the bombay town planning rules1955.
rule 21 of the bombay rules provides for the procedure to be followed by the town planning officer.
it makes it obligatory on the part of the officer to give notice of the date on which he will commence his duties and shall state therein the time within which the owner of any property or rights which is injuriously affected by the making of the town planning scheme shall be advertised in one or more newspapers published in the regional language and circulating within the jurisdiction of the local authority and shall be posted in prominent places at or near the area comprised in the scheme and at the office of the town planning officer.
in that context it was held the question is whether the tenant or a sub tenant is a person interested and is entitled to notice.
amended rules are in pari materia with rule 26 of the rules.
it is also not in dispute that the appellant filed an objection in regard to the draft scheme but did not eventually pursue the same.
it had also not been contended that the said rule is ultra vires s 52 of the act.
we would consider the effect of sub s 3 of s 65 of the act a little later but we may at this juncture notice that the respondent no 3 in whose favour plot no 165 has been allotted which includes 200 sq m of land purported to be in possession of the appellant had nothing to do with the dispute between the appellant and his landlord the respondent no 4 respondent no 4 was in possession of a contiguous plot.
it was on that legal principle this court in state of gujarat v shantilal mangaldas ors 1969 3 scr 341 1969 indlaw sc.
s 67 of the act provides that all lands required by the appropriate authority shall unless it is otherwise determined in such scheme vest absolutely in the appropriate authority free from all encumbrances with effect from the date on which the preliminary scheme comes into force.
ors v.
i think he is altogether too late.
