the accused appellant has been held guily of of fences punishable under section 302 and section 3762f of indian penal code.
the trial court sentenced the appellant to death under section 302 ipc and to undergo rigorous imprisonment for life and pay a fine of rs 10000 in default of payment to undergo further r i for 3 years under section 3762f ipc.
while the learned additional sessions judge made a reference to the high court for confirmation of death sentence under section 366 cr.
p c the appellant preferred an appeal putting in issue his conviction and sentence.
the criminal reference and the criminal appeal were heard by a division bench of rajasthan high court.
in the opinion of one learned judge the circumstantial evidence on which rests the prosecution case was not sufficient to record a finding of guilty against the appellant on any of the charges framed against him.
in the opinion of the other learned judge the prosecution evidence was sufficient to sustain the conviction as recorded by the trial court though the case was not one of those rarest of rare cases as would warrant death sentence being awarded to the appellant.
in view of the difference of opinion the learned acting chief justice assigned the case for hearing by a third judge under section 392 of cr.
in the result the high court has declined the confirmation of death sentence but upheld the conviction on both the charges found proved and dismissed the appeal laying challenge to the conviction subject to modification in the sentence by substituting sentence of life imprisonment for death sentence under section 302 ipc.
at about 7 a m on 19th march 1991 kishori lal pw4 informed bd pw2 the unfortunate father of s that dead body of a girl was lying near mohalla basera on the outskirts of village kotputli.
bd rushed to the place only to find that the dead body was of none else than his own daughter section blood was oozing out from her mouth and private parts.
a noose was also found around her neck.
at 7 25 a m on 19 3 1991 first information report was lodged by bd at police station kotputli.
according to the medical opinion the probable cause of death of s was shock produced due to vaginal trauma and rupture of post fornix along with asphyxia due to ligature around the neck.
all injuries found on the person of the victim could be around 6 of 24 hours old prior to the time of post mortem examina tion.
according to report exbt.
human semen was detected on underwear.
it is not necessary here to extensively deal with the evidence adduced by the prosecution.
suffice it to observe that there is no direct evidence connecting the accused with the offences charged.
the pieces of circumstantial evidence which have been found proved and held as forging an incriminating chain against the accused are as under i last seen together ii abnormal conduct of the accused iii recovery of underwear and baniyan which was found to be stained with semen and blood group b which is also the blood group of the deceased iv false plea of alibi and v accused absconding since the date of offence.
in dhananjoy chatterjee v state of west bengal 1994 2 scc 220 1994 indlaw sc 1743 wherein one of us dr a s anand j as his lordship then was spoke for the bench.
it needs no reminder that legally estab lished circumstances and not merely indignation of the court can form the basis of conviction and the more serious the crime the greater should be the care taken to scrutinize the evidence lest suspicion takes the place of proof.
in dhananjoy chatterjee s case 1994 indlaw sc 1743 supra the decision of this court in sharad birdhichand sarda v state of maharashtra 1984 4 scc 116 1984 indlaw sc 432 was relied on.
from the evi dence of shalu pw7 such an inference can not be drawn.
goma to whose shop the three girls had gone to buy balloon has not been examined.
harish chand sharma the investigating officer was specifically asked how the name of this witness came to his knowledge during investigation.
abnormal conduct of accused kalu ram pw5 stated that two or three days after the date of dead body of s having been found.
he and santosh.
during cross examination kalu ram stated that the accused was his neighbour previously known to him.
he did not remember and was therefore not in a position to tell how many number of times the accused subhash was called for interrogation or making enquiries.
however the accused was not detained and was sent back.
blood sam ple of the accused was not collected and therefore not grouped.
shri sushil kumar jain the learned counsel for the accused appellant has placed reliance on shankarlal gyarasilal dixit v state of maharashtra air 1981.
another circumstantial evidence relied on was that a stain of semen was found on the under pant of the accused.
in diameter on the appellant s pant and of a dried stain of semen on his under pant were circumstances for too feeble to establish that the appellant raped or murdered the victim.
in the present case the age of the accused was about 21 years at the time of the incident.
false plea of alibi.
what is being treated as the plea of alibi by the trial court and the high court is this.
literal meaning of alibi is elsewhere.
in law this term is used to express that defence in a criminal prosecution where the party accused in order to prove that he could not have committed the crime charged against him offers evidence that he was in a different place at that time.
the plea of alibi postulates the physical impossibility of the presence of the accused at the scene of offence by reason of his presence at another place.
denial by an accused of an assertion made by his employer that the accused was on leave of absence from duty on the date of offence does not by any stretch of reasoning or logic amount to pleading alibi.
v absconding of the accused was the accused absconding at all.
grave injustice has been done to the accused by holding it as a fact that the accused was absconding after the date of the incident and then treating the so called absconding as a piece of incrimi nating circumstantial evidence against the accused.
according to harish chand sharma the accused was arrested on 3 4 1991 vide exbt.
from village kotputli where the incident had taken place.
if the accused was arrested at behror there is no reason why the memo of arrest should not have been prepared at village behror.
at least this fact should have been mentioned in the memo of arrest even if the same was prepared at village kotputli.
in shankarlal gyarasilal dixit s case 1980 indlaw sc 47 supra this court cautioned human nature is too willing when faced with brutal crimes to spin stories out of strong suspicions.
the trial court and the high court have proceeded on an assumption of availability of five pieces forging links in the chain of circumstantial evi dence out of which we have found as stated hereinabove four of the alleged circumstances not to be pieces of incriminating circumstantial evidence at all.
before parting with the case we would like to place on record an observation of ours touching an aspect of the case.
such offences put to test the wits of an investigating officer.
a vigilant investigating officer well versed with the techniques of the job is in a position to collect the threads of evidence finding out the path which leads to the culprit.
the ends which the administration of cirminal justice serves are not achieved merely by catching hold of the culprit.
the accusation has to be proved to hilt in a court of law.
conviction of the accused appellant under sections 302 and 3762f of indian penal code is set aside.
he is acquitted of the charges framed against him.
appeals allowed.
