the appellants question correctness of the judgment rendered by a division bench of the madras high court which held that the withdrawal of benefits extended to the appellants as subsidy was in order.
the appellants questioned legality or the g o ms No 989 dated 1 9 1988 directing discontinuance of purchase tax exemption in case of mills which exceeded the ceiling of rs 300 lakes during the period of five years and government letter dated 28 12 1988 which made the aforesaid g o ms No 989 of 1 9 1988 operative retrospectively from 1 4 1988.
initially the writ petitions were filed before the high court but after constitution of the tamil nadu taxation special tribunal hereinafter referred to as the tribunal the writ petitions were transferred to the tribunal which held that on application of the principles of promissory estoppel and legitimate expectation the withdrawal of benefit was not sustainable in law.
the state questioned correctness of the judgment before the high court which as noted above held the g o ms and the govt.
in support of the appeals the primary stands raised by the appellants are.
the doctrines of promissory estoppel and legitimate expectation were applicable to the facts of the case.
there was no material to show existence of any overriding public interest to rule out application of the aforesaid doctrine there was no scope for retrospective withdrawal.
in any event before withdrawal of the benefits no opportunity of hearing was granted.
the high court erroneously came to hold that the state government had not filed any counter.
the materials which were produced before the high court and on the basis of which it is decided that the decision of the government is in order were not even pleaded in the pleadings and during arguments.
the appellants were taken by surprise by production of materials which were not even disclosed to the appellants.
the contents of the files which were produced before the high court and on which reliance was placed to hold against the appellants are not known to the appellants.
in other words there was clear violation of the principles of natural justice.
in any event the retrospective withdrawal of the benefit on the basis of an executive decision is impermissible.
in fact the government of tamil nadu vide g o ms.
No 1294 dated 24 10 1975 granted exemption from purchase tax on sugarcane in favour of sugar mills established in co operative and public sectors in the form of annual subsidy equivalent to purchase tax on sugarcane.
the commercial productions were started in case of appellants in c a No 86062002 i e ponni sugars erode ltd v govt.
of tamil nadu ors on 27 1 1984 and in c a 86052002 i e bannari amman sugars ltd v commercial tax officer.
on 22 1 1986.
as there was no inducement or assurance the question of any promissory estoppel did not arise.
the order granting subsidy can be withdrawn in public interest.
the government has exercised their right to modify the scheme in the interest of public revenue.
the stand taken by the present appellants before the tribunal and the high court was rejected.
estoppel is a rule of equity which has gained new dismensions in recent years.
a new class of estoppel has come to be recognized by the courts in this country as well as in england.
all e r 657 1955 1 w l r 761.
see century spinning co v ulhasnagar municipal council air 1971.
sc 1021 1970 indlaw sc 341 radhakrishna v state of bihar air 1977.
in the backdrop let us travel a little distance into the past to understand the evolution of the doctrine of promissory estoppel.
if any concession has been given it can be withdrawn at any time and no time limit should be insisted upon before it was withdrawn.
in kasinka trading and anr v union of india and anr.
1995 1 scc 274 1994 indlaw sc 2183.
a person may have a legitimate expectation of being treated in a certain way by an administrative authority even though he has no legal right in private law to receive such treatment.
see union of india and others.
v hindustan development corporation and others air 1994.
a question whether the impugned action is arbitrary or not is to be ultimately answered on the facts and circumstances of a given case.
a basic and obvious test to apply in such cases is to see whether there is any discernible principle emerging from the impugned action and if so does if really satisfy the test of reasonableness.
every state action must be informed by reason and it follows that an act uninformed by reason is per se arbitrary.
but there has to be a word of caution.
that is and ought to be a difficult onus for an applicant to discharge.
as professor wade points out in administrative law by h w r wade 6th edition there is ample room within the legal boundaries for radical differences of opinion in which neither side is unreasonable.
if it is a question of policy even by ways of change of old policy the courts can not intervene with the decision.
in a given case whether there are such facts and circumstances giving rise to legitimate expectation would primarily be a question of fact.
as was observed in punjab communications ltd v union of india of others air 1999 sc 1801 1999 indlaw sc 1548 the change in policy can defeat a substantive legitimate expectation if it can be justified on wednesbury reasonableness.
a claim based on merely legitimate expectation without anything more can not ipso facto give a right.
how significant is the statement that today is tomorrows yesterday.
for legal purposes expectation is not same as anticipation.
as observed in attorney general for new south wale v quinn 1990 64 australian ljr 327 to strike the exercise of administrative power solely on the ground of avoiding the disappointment of the legitimate expectations of an individual would be to set the courts adrift on a featureless sea of pragmatism.
if a denial of legitimate expectation in a given case amounts to denial of right guaranteed or is arbitrary discriminatory unfair or biased gross abuse of power of violation of principles of natural justice the same can be questioned on the well known grounds attracting article 14 but a claim based on mere legitimate expectation without anything more can not ipso facto give a right to invoke these principles.
it is a well meant caution.
if the state acts within the bounds of reasonableness it would be legitimate to take into consideration the national priorities and adopt trade policies.
as noted above the ultimate test is whether on the touchstone of reasonableness the policy decision comes out unscathed.
a restriction can not be said to be unreasonable merely because in a given case it operates harshly.
in determining whether there is any unfairness involved the nature of the right alleged to have taken infringed the underlying purpose of the restriction imposed the extent and urgency of the evil sought to be remedied thereby the disproportion of the imposition the prevailing condition at the relevant time enter into judicial verdict the reasonableness of the legitimate expectation has to be determined with respect to the circumstances relating to the trade or business in question.
canalisation of a particular business in favour of even a specified individual is reasonable where the interests of the country are concerned or where the business affects the economy of the country.
see parbhani transport co operative society ltd v regional transport authority aurangabad and others air 1960.
sc 9011960 indlaw sc 472 shree meenakshi mills ltd v union of india air 1974.
sc 3651973 indlaw sc 291 hari chand sarda v mizo district council and another air 1967 sc 829 1966 indlaw sc 125 krishnan kakkanth v government of kerala and others air 1997.
sc 128 1996 indlaw sc 1845 and union of india and another v international trading co and another 2003 5 scc 437 2003 indlaw sc 472.
article 166 of the constitution deals with the conduct of government business.
conduct of business of the government of a state 1 all executive action of the government of a state shall be expressed to be taken in the name of the governor.
further is no particular formula of words required for compliance with article 1661.
a constitution bench in r chitralekha etc.
v state of mysore and ors.
clause 1 does not prescribe how an executive action of the government is to be performed it only prescribes the mode under which such act is to be expressed.
v u p state electricity board and others air 1997.
v shree durga oil mills and anr.
1999 1 scc 573 1997 indlaw sc 1219 it was further held that the government could change its industrial policy if the situation so warranted and merely because the resolution was announced for a particular period it did not mean that the government could not amend and change the policy under any circumstances.
as noted above no specific grounds or reasons were indicated to justify the withdrawal in the affidavits filed before the tribunal or the high court as the case may be.
as the correctness of factual basis justifying withdrawal is in issue fair play certainly warranted grant of opportunity to the appellants to present its side of the picture.
above being the position decision of the high court by placing reliance on the files to hold that the withdrawal was justified is not tenable in law and in the fitness of things the high court should hear the matter afresh and taken decision on those two issues.
another point which was specifically raised before the high court but has not been dealt by it is the legality of the action in directing retrospective withdrawal of the benefit by a letter of the government.
whether the same is permissible in law has to be decided by the high court.
to the aforesaid limited extent the matter is remitted to the high court for fresh consideration.
appeals disposed of.
