challenge in this appeal is to the order of a division bench of madras high court allowing the appeal filed by the respondent hereinafter referred to as the accused the accused was convicted for offence punishable under section 302 of the indian penal code1860 in short the ipc and sentenced to undergo imprisonment for life and to pay a fine of rs 10000 with default stipulation by principal district judge madurai.
he was also convicted for offences punishable under section 392 read with section 397 ipc and sentence to undergo rigorous imprisonment for 10 years and to pay a fine.
background facts in a nutshell are as follows.
on the basis of the aforesaid f i r investigation was taken up initially by p w 40.
initially p w 40 suspected the role of p w 1his wife p w 2p w 3from whose house certain incriminating material were recovered allegedly on the basis of statement of the accused as well as p w 4who was working as a cleaner in the vehicle of p w 1 subsequently however p w 42who took over investigation from p w 40 filed charge sheet only against the present appellant on the footing that p ws 1 to 4 had no role to play in the crime.
the trial court found the respondent guilty and recorded conviction and imposed sentence as aforestated.
a the death is homicidal b the accused was in need of money to chase mathematics paper and for the aforesaid purpose he has killed the deceased to take away the valuable articles like computer and gold ornaments to sell such articles in the market.
c at the time of occurrence only the accused deceased and pw 9 were available in the premises and there was no other person.
d statement of the accused leading to recovery of incriminating materials such as knife rope clothes wooden log and other valuable articles such as computer gold ornamentsm dollar and the key chain with key belonging to the deceased.
the high court found that the circumstances highlighted were not sufficient to fasten the guilt on the accused and directed acquittal.
learned counsel for the appellant submitted that the high court failed to notice that the circumstances highlighted clearly establish the chain of circumstances which established the prosecution version and the high court was not justified in directing acquittal.
learned counsel for the respondent on the other hand supported the judgment of the high court.
the conviction based on circumstantial evidence has been highlighted by this court in various orders of this court.
it has been consistently laid down by this court that where a case rests squarely on circumstantial evidence the inference of guilt can be justified only when all the incriminating facts and circumstances are found to be incompatible with the innocence of the accused or the guilt of any other person see hukam singh v state of rajasthan air 1977 sc 1063 1977 indlaw sc 433 eradu and ors v.
state of hyderabad air 1956 sc 316 1955 indlaw sc 108 earabhadrappa v state of karnataka air 1983 sc 446 1983 indlaw sc 161 state of u p v.
in bhagat ram v state of punjab air 1954 sc 621 1954 indlaw sc 188it was laid down that where the case depends upon the conclusion drawn from circumstances the cumulative effect of the circumstances must be such as to negative the innocence of the accused and bring the offences home beyond any reasonable doubt.
state of a p 1996 10 scc.
193 1996 indlaw sc 3059wherein.
it has been observed thus.
in a case based on circumstantial evidence the settled law is that the circumstances from which the conclusion of guilt is drawn should be fully proved and such circumstances must be conclusive in nature.
moreover all the circumstances should be complete and there should be no gap left in the chain of evidence.
further the proved circumstances must be consistent only with the hypothesis of the guilt of the accused and totally inconsistent with his innocence.
in padala veera reddy v state of a p and ors air 1990.
in state of u p v.
ashok kumar srivastava1992 crl.
1992 indlaw sc 107it was pointed out that great care must be taken in evaluating circumstantial evidence and if the evidence relied on is reasonably capable of two inferences the one in favour of the accused must be accepted.
it was also pointed out that the circumstances relied upon must be found to have been fully established and the cumulative effect of all the facts so established must be consistent only with the hypothesis of guilt.
in hanumant govind nargundkar and anr.
v state of madhya.
in other words there must be a chain of evidence so far complete as not to leave any reasonable ground for a conclusion consistent with the innocence of the accused and it must be such as to show that within all human probability the act must have been done by the accused.
a reference may be made to a later decision in sharad birdhichand sarda v state of maharashtraair 1984 sc 1622 1984 indlaw sc 432 therein while dealing with circumstantial evidence it has been held that onus was on the prosecution to prove that the chain is complete and the infirmity of lacuna in prosecution can not be cured by false defence or plea.
law is well settled that the prosecution while relying upon the confessional statement leading to discovery of articles under section 27 of the evidence act has to prove through cogent evidence that the statement has been made voluntarily and leads to discovery of the relevant facts.
however in almost all such decisions reference is made to the observation of the privy council in pulukuri kotayya v emperor air 1947 pc 67 1946 indlaw pc 23 it is worthwhile to extract such quoted observation it is fallacious to treat the fact discovered within the section as equivalent to the object produced the fact discovered embraces the place from which the object is produced and the knowledge of the accused as to this and the information given must relate distinctly to this fact.
information as to past user or the past history of the object produced is not related to his discovery in the setting in which it is discovered.
but if to the statement the words be added with which stabbed athese words are inadmissible since they do not related to the discovery of the knife in the house of the informant.
at one time it was held that the expression fact discovered in the section is restricted to a physical or material fact which can be perceived by the senses and that it does not include a mental fact now it is fairly settled that the expression fact discovered includes not only the physical object produced but also the place from which it is produced and the knowledge of the accused as to this as noted in pulukuri kottaya s case 1946 indlaw pc 23 supra.
it must be borne in mind that the provision has nothing to do with the question of relevancy.
he must be in the custody of a police officer.
it is one link in the chain of proof and the other links must be forged in a manner allowed by law.
in rammi alias rameshwar v state of madhya pradesh air 1999 sc 3544 1999 indlaw sc 1512 the scope and ambit of section 27 of the evidence act was analysed in great detail and it was concluded in para 12 as follows true such information is admissible in evidence under section 27 of the evidence act but admissibility alone would not render the evidence pertaining to the above information reliable.
apart from the fact that there is niggling doubt about the so called confession in view of statement under section 164 of the code of p w 22 and the statement of c w 1a further doubt is raised regarding such aspect in view of evidence of c w 1 to the effect that he had seen such computer in the room of the deceased when they had gone to the room after the offence was reported.
it is quite possible that such articles might have been borrowed by the accused from the deceased and not necessarily stolen by the accused from the deceased after killing her.
i did not tell this even to the inspector of police after going to the police station.
i do not tell this even to p w 1.
for the aforesaid aspect the evidence of p ws 1718 and 19 is relevant.
law is well settled that when the prosecution relies upon circumstantial evidence all the links in the chain of circumstances must be complete and should be proved through cogent evidence.
appeal dismissed.
