yakshagana is a form of ballet dance.
he developed a new form of yakshagana.
he was a director of the appellant institute.
karanth expired on 9 12 1997 yakshagana ballet dance as developed by dr karanth was performed in new delhi on or about 18 9 2001 respondent filed a suit for declaration injunction and damages alleging violation of the copyright in respect of the said dance vested in her in terms of the said will stating that dr karanth developed a new distinctive dance drama troop or theatrical system which was named by him as yaksha ranga which in his own words mean creative extension of traditional yakshagana and thus the appellants infringed the copyright thereof by performing the same at new delhi without obtaining her prior permission.
ganga charitha.
ever since 1974 till now in my old age she has been serving me with exemplary devotion and sincerity.
and in this occasion i must also acknowledge with gratitude that she diligently cared and nursed my wife leela karanth during her prolonged illness till her last day.
and she has cared and looked after me also during my illness which at times had been quite serious enfeebling me for long period.
apart from this she has collected and edited all my stray writings from 1924 onwards up to date in eight sumptuous volumes which are being published by mangalore university.
for all these services i hereby declare that after my death copyrights in respect of all my literary works shall vest with smt.
and i have distributed all copper and bronze vessels and utensils among my children while leaving my former home suhasa keeping only bare essential and necessary things and articles.
malini mallya alone.
1000 00 2 directing the defendants to pay to the plaintiff damages of rs 15000 towards infringement of her copyright on account of stating or performing abhimanyu vadha on 18 9 2001 at new delhi.
15000 00 3 directing the defendants to pay to the plaintiff interest on rs 15000 at 15 p a from 18 9 2001 till now which is 95 00.
4 directing the defendants to pay future interest on rs 15000 at 15 p a till payment of the entire amount.
appellants in their written statement however denied and disputed any copyright of the said dance in dr karanth alleging that whatever work he had done was in the capacity of a director of the kendra with the assistance finance and staff provided by the organization of mahatma gandhi memorial college trust in respect whereof a committee was formed under him by the board of trustees.
it was furthermore contended that dr karanth was appointed as the president of the executive committee of yakshagana kendra for a period of three years by the appellant and while holding the said post only he expired.
by reason of a judgment and decree dated 14 11 2003the district judge udupi decreed the said suit declaring the plaintiff respondent as a person having the exclusive copyright in respect of seven prasangas and that she had acquired the same by reason of a will as a residuary legatee and the defendants appellants or their employees or agents were restrained from performing the said seven ballets or prasangas or any parts thereof in any manner as evolved distinctively by dr karanth.
appellants aggrieved thereby and dissatisfied therewith preferred an appeal before the karnataka high court which was marked as r f a no 271 of 2004.
by reason of the impugned judgment and order dated 5 12 2007the said appeal has been dismissed.
appellants are thus before us.
i the copyright in the literary work has been assigned by reason of the said will in favour of the respondent in terms of clause 12 of the will.
the form of injunction granted in favour of the plaintiff respondent is not in terms of the provisions of the copyright act1957 as the appellant as an institution or otherwise is entitled to use the same in terms of clauses ai and l of sub section 1 of section 52 thereof.
22 term of copyright in published literary dramatic musical and artistic works.
except as otherwise hereinafter provided copyright shall subsist in any literary dramatic musical or artistic work other than a photograph published within the life time of the author until fifty years from the beginning of the calendar year following the year in which the author dies.
explanation in this section the reference to the author shall in the case of a work of joint authorship be construed as a reference to the author who dies last.
23 term of copyright in anonymous and pseudonymous works  1.
a where the identity of the authors is disclosed as references to that author.
b where the identity of more authors than one is disclosed as references to the author who dies last from amongst such authors.
for the purposes of this section the identity of an author shall be deemed to have been disclosed if either the identity of the author is disclosed publicly by both the author and the publisher or is otherwise established to the satisfaction of the copyright board by that author.
certain acts not to be infringement of copyright  1.
has the plaintiff became entitled to the said right under the registered will dated 18 06 1994.
but that is not all in the will ex.
neither of the two can be produced without the imaginative skill of the author.
the plaintiff therefore is entitled to copyright even in respect of the dramatic works namely the seven prasangas by virtue of bequest made in her favour in respect of copyrights and books.
broadly speaking a dramatic work may also come within the purview of literary work being a part of dramatic literature.
keeping in view the statutory provisions there can not be any doubt whatsoever that copyright in respect of performance of dance would not come within the purview of the literary work but would come within the purview of the definition of dramatic work.
for the aforementioned reasons we agree with dr dhavan that paragraph 12 of the will namely residuary clause shall apply in the instant case apart from the areas which are otherwise covered by paragraph 11 of the will.
the learned trial judge recognized the equitable interest vested in the plaintiff respondent.
a declaratory decree therefore was passed.
we may notice at this stage that the form of injunction granted both by the learned trial judge as also by the high court in favour of the plaintiff respondent.
the high court however directed iii.
as far as the restraint order passed by the trial court by granting permanent injunction to the plaintiff is concerned the same is modified by ordering that if the appellants desire to stage any of the seven yakshagana prasangas in the manner and form as conceived in all respects viz.
costumes choreography and direction by dr karanth the appellants can do so only in accordance with the provisions of the copyrights act1957 in view of copyright in seven prasangas vesting with the plaintiff.
decree for injunction is an equitable relief.
the court while passing such a decree is obligated to consider the statutory provisions governing the same.
in r g anand vs m s delux films ors 1978.
in such a case the courts should determine whether or not the similarities are on fundamental or substantial aspects of the mode of expression adopted in the copyrighted work.
3 one of the surest and the safest test to determine whether or not there has been a violation of copyright is to see if the reader spectator or the viewer after having read or seen both the works is clearly of the opinion and gets an unmistakable impression that the subsequent work appears to be a copy of the original.
5 where however apart from the similarities appearing in the two works there are also material and broad dissimilarities which negative the intention to copy the original and the coincidences appearing in the two works are clearly incidental.
no infringement of the copyright comes into existence.
a violation of copyright amounts to an act of piracy it must be proved by clear and cogent evidence after applying the various tests laid down by the case law discussed above.
7 where.
however the question is of the violation of the copyright of stage play by a film producer or a director the task of the plaintiff becomes more difficult to prove piracy.
even so if the viewer after seeing the film gets a totality of impression that the film is by and large a copy of the original play violation of the copyright may be said to be proved.
copyright has nothing to do with originality or literary merit.
copyrighted material is that what is created by the author by his own skill labour and investment of capital maybe it is a derivative work which gives a flavour of creativity.
we make it clear that the decision of ours would be confined to the judgments of the courts which are in the public domain as by virtue of section 52 of the act there is no copyright in the original text of the judgments.
section 52 of the act provides for certain acts which would not constitute an infringement of copyright.
yet again if such performance is conducted before a non paying audience by the appellant which is an institution if it comes within the purview of amateur club or society the same would not constitute any violation of the said order of injunction.
appeal dismissed.
