this appeal is preferred against the judgment dated 19 8 2011 passed by the high court of punjab and haryana in criminal appeal no 181 sb of 2000 whereby the high court partly allowed the appeal filed by the appellants thereby confirming the conviction of the appellants with certain modifications.
briefly stated case of the prosecution is that on the fateful day i e 18 11 1994 at about 8 00 a m in the morning the complainant jagdish pw 5 along with his two sons namely sukhbir and mange ram pw 6 were busy in cutting pullas reeds from the dola of their field.
at that time jage ram a 1 and his sons rajbir singh.
raju a 2 rakesh a 3 and madan a 4 armed with jaily pharsi and lathis respectively entered the land where the complainant was working with his sons and asked them not to cut the pullas as it was jointly held by both the parties.
in the fight the accused persons started inflicting injuries to the complainant and his sons rajbir.
additionally madan and rakesh attacked the complainant with lathi blows on shoulder and left elbow respectively and caused several other injuries to the complainant party.
a ct scan disclosed that large extra dural haematoma was found in the frontal region with mass effect and sukhbir needed urgent surgery and he was operated upon and the large extra dural haematoma was removed.
6 mange ram.
aggrieved by the said judgment the accused appellants filed criminal appeal before the high court of punjab and haryana.
the high court vide impugned judgment dated 19 8 2011 modified the judgment of the trial court thereby convicted jage ram a 1 section 325 ipc and sentenced him to undergo rigorous imprisonment for one year convicted second accused rajbir.
in this appeal the appellants assail the correctness of the impugned judgment.
additionally the learned counsel contended that the defence plea of private defence was not considered by the courts below in proper perspective.
it was submitted that the medical evidence sufficiently corroborated the oral evidence and the prosecution has established the intention of the 2nd accused in causing attempt to commit murder of sukhbir and in appreciation of the evidence courts below recorded concurrent findings convicting the second accused section 307 ipc and the same warrants no interference.
as it emerges from the evidence complainant jagdish pw 5 and his two sons sukhbir and mange ram were cutting pullas.
appellants have raised the contention that the prosecution failed to adduce evidence that a 2 rajbir attempted to commit murder of sukhbir.
to justify a conviction section 307 ipc it is not essential that fatal injury capable of causing death should have been caused.
although the nature of injury actually caused may be of assistance in coming to a finding as to the intention of the accused such intention may also be adduced from other circumstances.
in the case of state of m p vs kashiram ors.
it is not essential that bodily injury capable of causing death should have been inflicted.
the section makes a distinction between the act of the accused and its result if any.
the court has to see whether the act irrespective of its result was done with the intention or knowledge and under circumstances mentioned in the section.
therefore an accused charged section 307 ipc can not be acquitted merely because the injuries inflicted on the victim were in the nature of a simple hurt.
this position was highlighted in state of maharashtra v balram bama patil 1983 2 scc 28 1983 indlaw sc 414 girija shanker v state of u p 2004 3 scc 793 2004 indlaw sc 78 and r prakash v state of karnataka 2004 9 scc 27 2004 indlaw sc 117.
it is therefore the duty of every court to award proper sentence having regard to the nature of the offence and the manner in which it was executed or committed etc.
307 ipc is unassailable.
what sentence would meet the ends of justice would depend upon the facts and circumstances of each case and the courts must keep in mind the gravity of the offence motive for the crime nature of the offence and all other attendant circumstances.
vide state of m p vs bablu natt 2009 2 scc 272 2008 indlaw sc 2027 alister anthony pareira vs state of maharashtra 2012 2 scc 648 2012 indlaw sc 12 and soman vs state of kerala 2013 11 scc 382 2012 indlaw sc.
in the light of the above considering the case in hand the occurrence was of the year 1994 when the complainant party was cutting pullas the accused asked them not to cut the pullas which resulted in the wordy altercation.
in the heat of passion the accused have caused injuries to the complainant party.
as noticed above injured sukhbir sustained grievous head injuries and was deeply comatose and was in a state of shock and trauma.
having regard to the nature of injuries sustained by sukhbir and the period of treatment and other circumstances we are of the view that it would be appropriate to direct second appellant accused rajbir.
a 3 and a 4 have also given lathis blows to pw 5 and were convicted section 323 ipc and sentenced to undergo rigorous imprisonment for three months by the high court.
having regard to the fact that the occurrence was of the year 1994 considering the other facts and circumstances of the case the sentence of imprisonment imposed on jage ram a 1 madan a 3 and rakesh a 4 is reduced to the period already undergone by them.
the conviction of a 1 section 325 ipc a 3 and a 4 section 323 ipc is confirmed and the sentence is reduced to the period already undergone by each of them.
appeal allowed.
