In July.
The Head Office of the Company is at Calcutta.
It has Branches in Bombay Delhi and Via Madras.
The general practice of the Company both at the Head Office and the Branch Offices appears to have been to retire its employees at the age of 55 though in certain cases the Company in its discretion permitted an employee to continue beyond that age.
Shortly after this the Company s employees at Bombay raised a dispute regarding their retirement age.
This dispute was ultimately referred to the Industrial Tribunal Maharashtra.
Before the Tribunal the Company resisted the workmen s claim but submitted that it was agreeable to introduce for its Bombay employees provisions similar to those which had been introduced by agreement for the Calcutta employees retirement at the age of 58 subject to the employee passing a medical examination on reaching the age of 55.
The Tribunal has directed that the age of retirement should be 58 but the Company may in its discretion and with the express or implied consent of the employee concerned continue an employee after he attains that age.
It is against this decision that the present appeal has been filed by the workmen.
As has already been noticed there is no dispute that the age of compulsory retirement should not remain at 55.
The dispute is whether it should be fixed at 58 or at 60.
In the delicate task of adjust ing needs of the employees to the interests of the employers and what is even more important to the general interests of the country at large industrial adjudication has to pay special attention to the prevailing practice in the industrial region concerned.
If in any particular region employees have been successful in their claim for fixing the age of retirement at 60 this very success is bound to raise in others in the region similar expectations.
It is the endeavour of industrial adjudication to prevent this.
In support of their demand for fixing the age of retirement at 60 the workmen tried to show that in recent years at least the tendency in comparable concerns in Bombay region has been to fix the retirement age at 60.
The Chart which is marked exhibit U 5 mentions 50 concerns in which the age of retirement is 60.
The workmen claim that these showed clearly a tendency in the Bombay region to fix the age of retirement in comparable concerns at 60.
The Court then took into account the fact that the Tribunal had found that in all the awards in recent times in various concerns in Bombay region the trend had been to fix the age of retire ment at 60 years.
It is important to notice that the correctness of the Tribunal s finding that in all the awards in recent times in the Bombay region the trend had been to fix the retirement age at 60 years was not challenged before this Court In the present case an attempt appears to have been made on behalf of the respondent Company to show that it was not correct to say that the trend in Bombay region had been to fix the age of retirement at 60.
Reliance was placed for this purpose on the Chart exhibit Cl.
This Chart shows the age of retirement for 75 concerns.
This considered opinion of a Committee on which both employers and employees were represented emphasised the fact that in the Bombay region at least there is a general agree ment that the age of retirement should be fixed at 60.
