The letter by which the amount of pension was determined at Rs 363228 is dated 7th of July 1837 and was from H Elliot Esqr the Secretary Sadar Board of Revenue NWP Allahabad to J Thompson Esqr Offg.
Raja Bahadur Karnakhaya Harain Singh1.
As a consideration for relinquishing the right to the land and the revenue thereof the respondent and his ancestors were given an allowance of Rs 30612 13 0.
And rent is not land within the meaning of the definition This Court observed in Mrs Bacha F Guzdar Bombay Commissioner of Income tax Bombay4 as follow Agricultural income as defined in the Act is intended to refer to the revenue received by direct association with the land which is used for agricultural purposes and not by indirectly extending it to cases where that revenue or part thereof changes hands either by way of distribution of dividends or otherwise 1  2 3 16 ITR325 4 705 The same test was adopted by this Court in Maharajadhiraja Sir Kameshwar Singh vs Commissioner of Income tax Bihar and Orissa1 and the Court again looked to the source of the right in order to determine whether income was agricultural income or not.
Shah J observed The appellant has no beneficial interest in the lands which are the subject matter of the trust nor is he given under the trust a right to receive and appropriate to himself the income of the properties or a part thereof in lieu of any beneficial interest in that income.
The source of the right in which a fraction of the net income of the trust is to be appropriated by the appellant as his remuneration is not in the right to receive rent or revenue of agricultural lands but rests in the covenant in the deed to receive remuneration for management of the trust.
The income of the trust appropriated by the appellant as remuneration is not received by him as rent or revenue of land the character of the income appropriated as remuneration due is again not the same as the character in which it was received by the appellant as trustee.
The remuneration not being received as rent or revenue of agricultural lands under a title legal or beneficial in the property from which the income is received it is not income exempt under section 43viii.
He further says that the allowance was in fact a payment of the compensation for relinquishing the title to those lands.
He refers to the following passage from the speech of Viscount Simon in Commissioner of Inland Revenue vs Wesleyan and General Assurance Society1 It may be well to repeat two propositions which are well established in the application of the law relating to Income tax.
First the name given to a transaction by the parties concerned does not necessarily decide the nature of the transaction.
Lord Simon observed Secondly a transaction which on its true construction is of a kind that would escape tax is not taxable on the ground that the same result could be brought about by a transaction in another form which would attract tax.
If the other method is adopted tax will not be payable .
That particular doctrine of substance as distinct from form was I hope finally exploded by the decision of the House of Lords in the case of Duke of Westminster vs Commissioner of Inland Revenue2.
Appeal allowed.
