section V Gupte Solicitor General M Rajagopalan and K R Choudhuri for the appellants.
The Judgment of the Court was delivered by Hidayatullah J.
This is an appeal by special leave against an award dated September 20 1963 made by the Presiding Officer of the Central Government Industrial Tribunal Bombay in a reference made by the Government of India under section 102 of the .
and the matter in dispute was stated to be  Whether the existing system of work of the shore crew of the Prince s and Victoria Docks under which each shift consists of 8 hours  normal duty 2 hours  variable recess and 12 hours  overtime needs any modification The Tribunal by the award impugned here held that the Union was not able to establish that the existing system of work needed any modification.
The Port Trust had under its control several docks.
These represent different areas of work where different groups of workmen were employed.
The workmen then retraced their steps and accepted a 2 hours  variable recess but requested that it should be as near the middle of the shift as possible.
The Union contended that this division of 12 hours  shift into 8 hours  work 2 hours  rest and 2 hours  overtime violated the provisions of the and that the so called period of rest was illusory since being variable it was some times given right at the commencement of the shift and some times at the end depending on the tides or the exigencies of the work.
This claim was opposed by the Trustees.
On behalf of the Union the learned Solicitor General has argued the case almost entirely from the legal stand point and has attempted to establish that the break up of a 12 hours  shift into 8 hours  duty 2 hours  rest and 2 hours  overtime offends the .
He has in addition submitted that the system of variable recess does not satisfy the requirements of rest which is the basis for fixing statutorily the hours of work in relation to wages.
Similarly intervals of rest must punctuate suitably the hours of work and they must also be provided for in a scheme of the work day of a workman.
The makes provision for all these matters either by itself or through Rules.
They provide on the one hand for minimum wages lay down the procedure for fixing or revising them and prescribe the rules in accordance with which the wages must be paid.
 14 Overtime.
2 A register showing overtime payment shall be kept in form IV.
3 Nothing in this rule shall be deemed to affect the provisions of the  The controversy in the present case is a narrow one.
It is whether the fixing of a two hours  rest and two hours  overtime involves a breach of the two sections of the Act and the two rules quoted here  The workmen claim that under a scheme of 12hour shifts with 8 hours  work overtime should be at least 3 hours if not 4 and by fixing only two hours  overtime the Trustee are B guilty of the breach of the Act and the Rules.
Unfortunately the provisions of the and the Minimum Wages 639 Central Rules 1950 are not as clear as the corresponding provisions of the and they have led to long arguments before us.
We shall refer to the provisions of the later because for the present we must consider the provisions of the Act and the Rules without drawing any assistance from the .
Section 13 of the Act does not itself fix the hours of work or rest or overtime.
That is done by the Rules.
Section 13 only authorises Government to fix the number of hours which shall constitute a normal working day inclusive of on .
or more specified intervals.
By interval under section 13 is obviously meant interval of rest and this is clear from Rule 242.
There is no definition of interval either in the Act or the Rules but the provisions of section 13 2 c read with section 13 3 give us an indication of what is meant by an interval of rest.
It means a break in the work during which a workman though present on duty is not called upon to display either physical activity or sustained attention.
But it is not a period of more inaction because there is no work for him.
If it is the latter it is counted as actual work period if the former it is counted as a period of rest provided the period is specified beforehand and the workman is neither called upon to work nor expected to work.
Having thus distinguished between period of work and interval of rest we may now turn to Rule 24 which prescribes the number of hours of work which is to constitute a normal working day.
Sub rule 1 a provides that the number of hours constituting a normal working day for an adult shall be 9.
As the heading of the Rule shows these are the hours of work.
Sub rule 2 then lays down that the working day of an adult shall be so arranged that inclusive of intervals for rest it shall not spread over more than twelve hours on any day.
The distinction between intervals of rest and hours of work is thus made clear.
From this it follows that on any single day the number of hours of work must not exceed 9 and together with the hours of rest the total period of work and rest should not go beyond 12 hours.
It is wrong to contend that the period of 9 hours must always include intervals of rest.
It may or it may not.
There is no provision in the Act and the Rules corresponding to section 55 of the Factories 640 Act to which reference will be made hereafter.
In a 12 hour shift the nine hours of work on any day can be spread over 12 hours and the extra hours will necessarily be hours of rest.
We do not think this is a correct reading either of section 13 or of Rule 24.
A working day of 12 hours is thus made up of hours of work and hours of rest and the number of hours of work which cannot exceed 9 is part of the normal working day which may also include one or more specified intervals of rest.
If work on any day is taken which goes beyond 9 hours the provisions of section 14 apply.
That action speaks of overtime.
Overtime is payable for work in excess of the number of hours constituting a normal working day.
From section 13 read with Rule 24 we know that the number of hours constituting a normal working day is 9.
We shall now read into section 14 this number leaving out those provisions which have no bearing upon the matter.
The section so read lays down  Where an employee   works on any day in excess of 9 hours the employer shall pay him for every hour or for part of an hour so worked in excess at the overtime rate    Under Rule 25 1 b this overtime rate is double the ordinary rate of wages.
Average duration of actual work payable at ordinary rate of wages per day thus comes to 8 hours.
Thus if an employer takes actual work for 8 hours per day on 6 days in a week he complies with all the provisions and need not pay overtime.
Overtime under section 14 is only payable when the workman works in excess of the number of hours constituting a normal working day.
Daily hours.
Intervals for rest.
1 The periods of work of adult workers in a factory each day shall be so fixed that no period shall exceed five hours and that no worker shall work for more than five hours before he has had an interval for rest of at least half an hour.
2    56.
Spread over.
The periods of work of an adult worker in a factory shall be so arranged that inclusive of his intervals for rest under section 55 they shall not spread over more than ten and a half hours in any day Provided that the Chief Inspector may for reasons to be specified in writing increase the spread over to twelve hours.
There is no provision in the which breaks up the hours of work by interposing a compulsory period of rest as is done by the latter part of section 55 of the .
This is achieved by pres cribing that the hours of work in a six day week shall not exceed 48 although on any particular day the hours of work in a day may go up to 9.
In this indirect way one hour of rest is included in a normal working day because the total number of work hours in a six day week cannot go beyond 48.
What has not been done by the Act or the Rules is to specify that the interval for rest shall break up the hours of work.
The Trustees cannot be compelled to break up the hours of work by interposing intervals for rest if owing to the nature of the work there is difficulty in giving the intervals for rest in that manner on any particular day.
They point out that in the former there is 3 hours  overtime and in the latter there is 4 hours of overtime in the 12 hour shifts but at the Prince s and Victoria Docks there is 2 hours  overtime only.
They claim equal treatment.
This is not possible.
Appeal dismissed.
