On December 23 1963 Mahabir submitted an application in the Court of Shri R Singh SDM Deoria alleging that writ petition has been admitted and a stay order has been issued.
It happened that the SDM was absent on December 23 1963 and papers were put up before Shri section K Srivas tava Additional Sub Divisional Magistrate who issued the order Put up with records.
The statements of the complainant and his witnesses Bhabhuti and Damri are recorded.
 This order was signed by three Panchas Phagu Parsad Jagat Dubey and Badri Yadav.
On May 21 1964 Mahabir filed an application under sections 4 and 5 of the  against the five appellants and section K Srivastava ASDM.
 the Nyaya Panchayats proceeded with the case.
Phagu Prasad.
We had also told him to get the affidavit verified before some Tehsil authority.
passed by the High Court.
The High Court held  There was no reasonable ground for the Panchas to have doubted the averments made in the application and affidavit of Mahabir that the High Court had stayed further proceedings before the Panchayat nor is there any thing in the order sheet to show that the Panchas did not believe the contents of the application and affidavit of Mahabir.
However if they wanted to ascertain the matter they should have at best stayed the proceedings for a short while and should have asked the applicant to produce a certified copy of the stay order.
In the alternative they should have verified from the Sub Divi sional Magistrate whether Mahabir had really filed an application and affidavit before him along with the original telegram received from his counsel at Allahabad saying that the High Court had already stayed the proceedings before the Nyaya Panchayat.
The learned counsel for the appellants Mr Chari says that no contempt of court has been established because a Court is entitled not to act on an application which is not accompanied by an affidavit properly sworn to or a certified copy of the order He urges that the Nyaya Panchayats exercised judicial powers and even if the Panchas erred in not staying proceedings before finding them guilty of contempt of court it should be definitely proved that the order was passed deliberately to by pass the order of the High Court.
In order to justify committal for breach of a prohibitive order it is not necessary that the order should have been served upon the party against whom it has been granted if it be proved that he had notice of the order aliunde as by telegram or newspaper report or otherwise and knew that it was intended to be enforced or if he consented to the order or if he was present in Court when the order Was pronounced or hen the motion was made although he left before the order was pronounced.
If a person bona fide comes to the conclusion on the material placed before him that the source of information is not authentic he cannot be held guilty of contempt of court for disobeying the order.
The only material before them was the application dated December 25 1963 which was not supported by any affidavit sworn to before a person authorised to 1 1962 Supp 3 SCR 127138.
121 administer oaths.
it had not been sworn to before any person authorised to administer oaths.
It is true that in certain cases proceedings can be adjourned to enable the parties to file better proof but a judicial officer is not bound to do so and if he bona fide does not in his discretion adjourn proceedings it cannot be said that he has committed contempt of court.
With respect the High Court should not have drawn an adverse inference from the fact that the reasons for not accepting the prayer for stay were not recorded.
Contempt of court is a serious matter and a High Court should be chary of finding a judicial officer guilty of contempt of court for disobeying its orders unless there is unimpeachable evidence that the judicial officer had knowledge of the order of the High Court.
The learned counsel for the State contends that we should not reappreciate the facts but with respects it seems to us that the High Court while dealing with the evidence has not kept in mind the principles which we have mentioned above.
In the result we allow the appeal and set aside the judgment and order of the High Court.
