 352 It was then contended that the activities of the Federation carried on in the premises in question amounted to work in connection with or incidental or ancillary to trade or business in general within the latter part of the definition of commercial establishment.
This contention was also rejected with the observation that since the earlier part of the definition refers to some particular business or trade carried on in a premises the words any work in connection with or incidental or necessary thereto obviously refer to such particular business or trade and not to trade or business in general .
The occasional exhibitions or  museums organised by it are activities which are only incidental or ancillary to the primary charitable object of the Federation.
As regards the preliminary objection it is true that before the High Court it was not argued that the activity of the Federation amounts to the carrying on of any business or trade in the premises in question.
Alternatively it was contended that the case fell within part b of the definition of commercial establishment inasmuch as its activities were connected with trade and business generally.
This point will not require any additional material for its decision.
The question is only of drawing a correct inference about the point in issue from the material already on record.
We therefore overrule the preliminary objection.
therein the Memorandum of Association Articles of Association and the other material placed before the court were closely examined.
It was observed that the object of an Organisation may be charitable but nevertheless its activity may be commercial so as to satisfy the definition of an industry as explained and illustrated by this Court particularly in Safdarjang Hospital s case1 We could therefore envisage an institution having its aims and objects charitable and yet its activities could bring it within the definition of industry.
The very definition of commercial establishment indicates that the activity of a registered society charitable or other trust will not take it out of the definition if the activity carried on by it amounts to a busi 11971 1 SCR 177.
No doubt the effective membership as distinguished from Honorary membership of the Federation is open only to Chambers of Commerce or Commercial Associations of requisite strength and standing but the fact remains that it carries on systematic activities not only to assist its members but also other traders or businessmen members of the constituents of the Federation.
We therefore do not think that R K Mittal s case supra was incorrectly decided and needs reconsideration.
VPS Appeal allowed.
