Appeal by Special Leave from the Judgment and Order dated 14 6 1967 of the Mysore High Court in Writ Petition No 44065.
Mrs Shyamala Pappu and Girish Chandra for the Appellant.
Narayana Nettar for Respondents 4 and 5 3 1338SCI76 828 The Judgment of the Court was delivered by BEG J.
The judgment under appeal after certificate of fitness of the case under Article 1331c of the Constitu tion of India is very short as it purports to follow the ratio decidendi of Union of India vs.
GM Shankariah  Ors.
1 where this Court had held upon a concession by the Attorney General that a list prepared under Section 115 of the  hereinafter referred to as the Act  was provisional.
Therefore it was held that the writ petition was premature as the final list of officers on an integrated seniority list was still to be prepared after hearing objections.
The High Court of Mysore seems to have been under the misapprehension that the case now before us is also governed by what was held by this Court in Shankariah s case supra with reference to an entirely different and provisional list of Forest Officers.
He is a respondent who has not appeared before us and therefore could not be heard by us.
 It is apparent that the petitioner re spondent was claiming relief against the final Inter State seniority list although he was given due opportunity to object to the provi sional list.
Now Shankariah s case supra was con fined to an admission on behalf of the Central Government that the list before the Court was provisional so that the petitioners before the Court on that occasion were to get opportuni ties of puting forward their objections before the final list is prepared.
In the case before us the petitioner admits that the Mysore State Civil Services Integration Rules provided for filing of objections against the preliminary provisional Inter State Seniori ty list.
Presumably he had that opportunity.
1439  1446 of 1967 decided on 16 10 1968.
His grievance seemed to be that he was not heard after the final list was prepared.
We are unable to appreciate.
this line of attack upon the final list.
There the list was provisional.
an opportunity to object to the proposed assign ment of a place to him in the seniority list.
PK Roy  Ors.
As no such opportunity was furnished to the respondents with regard to these two matters 1 202.
We think that any claim to have a say against the final fist prepared on an analogy with the second opportunity which is afforded to a person to be punished after arriving at a decision on the facts of a departmental trial and proposal to inflict a particular punishment upon him is quite inap propriate.
When a provisional seniority fist is prepared there is a possibility of some mistakes occurring about the facts of a case or in the application of those rules.
GR Prabhavalkar  Ors.
VPS Appeal allowed.
