The Minister of State for Revenue and Law Government of Jammu and Kashmir heard counsel on both sides and ultimately dismissed Todar Mal s appeal by a detailed order of which Annexure G is a copy.
On April 19 1979.
On the date of the institution itself the District Judge Jammu issued an order of temporary injunction restraining defendants 1 to 7 from interfering with the possession and the running of the Theatre Apsara by the plaintiffs.
It reads Whereas it has been brought to my notice by Shri Ved Gupta sole licensee Apsara Theatre that the District and Sessions Judge Jammu has issued a temporary injunction against the exhibition of films by him in the above said Theatre And whereas the SP City by his letter No 1Conf.
This has resulted in the highly anomalous situation that as against the view concurrently taken by the two Judges of the High Court viz Anand J and Mir J the opinion of the Acting Chief Justice which was really the minority view has been allowed to prevail on the basis of the reasoning that the case was governed by sub rule 3 of Rule 23.
Aggrieved by the decision of the High Court Ved Gupta has filed these appeals after obtaining special leave from this Court.
Civil Appeal No 2611 of 1981 is directed against the judgment of the learned Acting Chief Justice which has been treated as the final judgment in the Letters Patent Appeal and Civil Appeal No 2611 A of 1981 has been preferred against the order passed by the Division Bench CMP No 454 of 1981.
In the judgment of the learned Acting Chief Justice he has opened the discussion of the merits of the case by an elaborate consideration of the question as to whether the licence in respect of the Apsara Theatre had been granted to Shri Ved Gupta in his individual capacity or as representing the partnership.
Admittedly the licence in respect of the Apsara Theatre was granted by the District Magistrate in the sole name of Ved Gupta and in all the relevant columns of the document of licence Ved Gupta has been shown as the licensee and there is no mention at all of the firm or its partners.
The Appeal preferred by Todar Mal against the order of the District Magistrate was dismissed by the concerned Minister of the State Government on April 26 1978.
That writ petition was dismissed by the High Court on May 9 1978 SLP Civil No 3490 of 1978 filed by Todar Mal against the High Court s order dismissing his writ petition was rejected by this Court on November 13 1978.
Subsequent to the dismissal of the Special Leave Petition by this Court Krishan Kumar made an application to the District Magistrate on April 19 1979 for renewal of the licence in the name of the firm Apsara Theatre.
No steps were taken by Krishan Kumar to challenge the said order passed by the District Magistrate.
It is sufficient to state that these reasons do not appeal to us as correct or tenable.
Under the Rules and the terms and conditions of the licence the grantee thereof is the person answerable to the licensing authority for breach of the obligations and conditions and he is also punishable for contravention of the provisions of the Act and the Rules.
We are of the opinion that on a reading of the provisions contained in the Act and the Rules and the explicit terms of the licence itself it is impossible to sustain the view expressed in the judgment under appeal that the licence is a grant for the premises and constitutes an interest attached to the premises.
The object and purpose of this Section obviously is to empower the licensing authority to revoke the licence in the event of the commission of an offence under Section 6 or Section 6 E of the Act not merely by the licensee but also by any person who may be in actual charge of a cinematography or management of the cinematograph.
This finding is based largely if not wholly on the premise that the firm of partners had derived a right and interest in the licence and that the revocation or suspension of the licence has the potential of seriously affecting the proprietary and business interests of the partnership.
Hence it becomes obvious that the basic premise on which the learned Acting Chief Justice has founded his reasoning cannot be accepted as correct or sound.
The licensee shall not without the permission of the licensing authority assign sublet or otherwise transfer the licence or the licensed place or the cinematograph nor shall the licensee without permission as aforesaid allow any other person during the period of currency of the licence to exhibit the films in the licensed place  Clause 11 of the licence issued to Ved Gupta in Form A prescribed under the Rules incorporates in identical language the provision aforementioned contained in Rule 88v as one of the conditions subject to which the licence was granted.
There was thus a clear 591 prohibition against the licensee from transferring assigning subletting or otherwise transferring the licence without the permission of the licensing authority and also against his allowing any other person to exhibit films in the licensed place without obtaining such permission.
It is now relevant to recall that what has happened in this case is that in a suit filed by Krishan Kumar along with 11 other partners an order of temporary injunction was issued on September 23 1980 restraining Ved Gupta from interfering in any manner with the running of the Theatre by the plaintiffs.
The effect of the order was that Ved Gupta had no longer possession or control over the Theatre premises or the cinematograph apparatus installed therein despite the fact that the was the licensee responsible to the authorities under the statute for the due discharge of the obligations contained in the Rules and in the conditions appended to the licence.
A mere reading of the District Magistrate s order is sufficient to show that what was done thereudder was not to suspend or revoke even temporarily the licence granted in respect of the Theatre.
There was no suspension of the licence issued to Ved Gupta in respect of the Theatre.
If Ved Gupta the licensee bad been expelled from the partnership the proper course to be adopted by the firm and its partners was to move the authorities for the grant of a licence and to run the Theatre only after obtaining such licence.
The impugned order is obviously one passed by him in the discharge of the said function.
They had no legal right whatever to conduct the cinema shows in the Theatre without a licence in contravention of the law.
In the absence of any legal right or legitimate expectation being 593 available to the petitioners there was no obligation on the part of the District Magistrate to afford them a hearing before passing the impugned order.
The impugned order is one obviously passed by the District Magistrate in the exercise of his function of administering the provision of the Act and the Rules and the aforesaid implied power to take all incidental steps necessary for effective enforcement of the statute.
We make it clear that the inter se rights and claims of Shri Ved Gupta on the one hand and the firm and its partners on the other in respect of the Apsara Theatre are left open to be decided in the civil suit that is said to be pending.
HLC Appeal allowed.
