Sharma for the Appellants.
R Pal BR Agarwala and Ms section Manchanda for the Respondent.
It is timeless.
It is worth quoting.
So we will consider your offer to buy our land.
So we will consider your offer to buy our land.
Whatever befalls the earth befalls the sons of the earth.
Whatever befalls the earth befalls the sons of the earth.
On the other hand if relevant considerations are not borne in mind and irrele vant considerations influence the decision the Court may interfere in order to prevent a likelihood of prejudice to the public.
Whenever a problem of ecology is brought before the Court the Court is bound to bear in mind article 48A of the Constitution the Directive Principle which enjoins that The State shall endeavour to protect and improve the envi ronment and to safeguard the forests and wild life of the country and article 51Ag which proclaims it to be the fundamental duty of every citizen of India to protect and improve the natural environment including forests lakes rivers and wild life and to have compassion for living creatures.
The least that the Court may do is to examine whether appropriate consideration are borne in mind and irrelevancies excluded.
The Court may always give necessary directions.
When the question involves the nice balancing of relevant considerations the Court may feel justified in resigning itself to acceptance of the decision of the concerned authority.
We may now proceed to examine the facts of the present case.
In January 1979 the Director General of Tourism Gov ernment of India addressed a letter to the Chief Secretary Government of West Bengal conveying the resolution of the Tourism Conference which was presided over by the Union Minister of Tourism and attended by several State Ministers and requesting that land in good locations may be made available for construction of hotels in a drive to encourage tourism.
Cabinet approval was sought for the offers to be made to the ITDC and to the Taj Group and for the constitution of a suitable Committee to undertake negotiations with the two groups.
The Resolution stated.
