From the Judgment and Order dated 17111980 of the Bombay High Court in Special Civil Appeal No 251 of 1977.
FR Nariman EK Jose PH Parekh and Miss Sunita Sharma for the Appellant.
The Judgment of the Court was delivered by SABYASACHI MUKHARJI J.
The main question involved in this appeal is whether the appellant was a licensee or a tenant and also incidentally the question whether the Court of Small Causes Bombay had jurisdiction to deal with the eviction petition in this case.
They filed ejectment proceedings against one 1060 Sugrabhai Mohammed Husain their tenant and obtained a decree.
It is stated that the appellant was a monthly tenant of the suit premises since about 2nd February 1965.
The main contention involved in this appeal is whether the appellant was a tenant or a licensee The answer would be dependent upon the construction of the aforesaid document.
it was stated that the licensor gave and granted his leave and licence  to the licensee to use and occupy the said premises for the period of five years.
Clause 2 of the said agreement recites that the licensee had agreed to use the premises as above and merely for the purpose of workshop business.
It further goes on to state that the licensee shall not under any circumstances be allowed to use the premises for the residential purposes or any other purpose save and except specified therein.
The licensor was entitled to terminate the agreement earlier notwithstanding the fact that the period of the agreement might not have expired.
The said deposit was to be kept free of interest and the same was to be refunded to the 1061 licensee on the licensee surrendering possession of the said premises by removing himself and his belongings on the expiry of the period of the agreement or sooner termination or determination thereof after deducting all the dues if any for payment of compensation.
It further stipulated that the licensee shall pay to the licensor a monthly compensation of Rs225 per month.
It is further provided that the licensee shall be alone responsible and liable for any breach or contravention of any rule or regulation of the said authorities and he shall indemnify the licensor therefor.
The document further stipulated that the licensee shall be at liberty to construct loft and electric fittings and apparatus and tools and shall be entitled to the ownership thereof and shall be free to carry away such articles and the licensor agreed and undertook that he shall not obstruct the removing of such articles at the time of the delivery of the possession of the said workshop.
The agreement further recited that the licensor shall have the full right to enter upon the premises and inspect the same at any time.
On or about 9th November 1970 the respondent herein filed an ejectment proceeding against the appellant under section 41 of the .
The appellant was contending that he was a direct tenant of the respondent.
The High Court disallowed the special civil application under Article 227 of the Constitution on 17th of November 1980 and that is the judgment impugned in this appeal.
NPV Appeal dismissed.
