K Parasaran Attorney General AK Ganguli and P Parmeshwaran for the Respondents.
The Judgment of the Court was delivered by SABYASACHI MUKHARJI J.
The appellant is a division of McDowell  Co Ltd It has its factory at inter alia Visakhapatnam.
There it manufactures and sells fusel oilStyrene Monomer falling under Tariff Item No 68 of the Ist Schedule to the Act.
The case of the appellant is that the said fusel oil is a com pletely manufactured article and after completion of its manufacture it is stored in storage tanks duly approved for this purpose.
It is at this stage that the quantity of fusel oilStyrene Monomer manufactured according to the appel lant is entered in the RG 1 Register maintained for goods manufactured by the appellant.
It is also the case of the appellant that the said fusel oilStyrene Monomer manufac tured by it is sold in bulk and delivered to the customers at the appellant s factory.
The fusel oilStyrene Monomer is also capable of being supplied in road tankers to customers.
In the said price lists which were duly approved by the Asstt.
Collector the appellant had shown the value of fusel oilStyrene Monomer at the rate at which those were sold in wholesale as naked Ex Works and in bulk.
According to the appellant the manufacture of fusel oil is complete and it is the fully manufactured fusel oilStyrene Monomer which is stored in the storage tank.
On 2nd July 1983 a notice in respect of a consignment was issued to show cause as to why value of the drums should not be included in the value of the goods.
Another show cause notice as to why value of the drums should not be included in the assessable value of the goods was issued to the appellant on the 5th April 1983 pertaining to Gate Pass No 773 whereunder the appellant had cleared 24 KI of fusel oil in drums supplied by the buyer.
Replies were duly filed to the said show cause notices by the appellant contending inter alia that as the drums were supplied by the buyer value thereof could not be included in the assessable value.
On the 11th August 1983 two orders were passed by the Assist ant Collector one in relation to each of the aforesaid show cause notices.
There was a further appeal to the Tribunal.
The Tribunal held that at the time of removal the goods were delivered from the factory in packed condition and the containers were not returnable by the buyer there fore the value had to be included in the assessable value.
Collector.
Learned Attorney General emphasised that it is a well settled principle of construction that in taxing statutes one has only to look merely at what is clearly stated.
Explanation.
 The expression place of removal has been defined under section 44b of the Act to mean a factory or any other place or premises of production or manufacture of the excisable goods or a warehouse or any other place or prem ises wherein the excisable goods have been permitted to be deposited without payment of duty from where such goods are removed.
