Subhash Mallick and SK Jain for the Appellant.
BD Sharma for the Respondents.
This is an appeal against the judgment of the Rajasthan High Court dated 19th July 1979 passed in DB Civil Writ Petition No 681 of 1978 Raghubir Singh vs The Board of Revenue for Rajasthan and others and DB Civil Writ Petition No 769 of 1979 Surendrapal Singh vs The Board of Revenue for Rajasthan and others.
These writ petitions were decided by the aforesaid common judgment.
The first writ petition was filed by the father Raghubir Singh whereas the second writ petition was filed by his minor son Surendrapal Singh through his next friend Shri Jagjit Singh maternal grand father of the minor.
The relief claimed in both the petitions before the High Court was the same namely for setting aside of the order dated 6th August 1977 passed by the Board of Revenue for Rajasthan Ajmer.
The facts of the case briefly are that proceedings under Chapter III B of the Rajasthan Tenancy Act Act No 3 of 1955 hereinafter referred to as the Act of 1955 were commenced for determining the ceiling area for Raghubir Singh.
It was thus held that Raghubir Singh and his son Surendrapal Singh are entitled to retain 124 Bighas and 16 Biswas only and the surplus land measuring 4 Bighas and 6 Biswas may be resumed.
Aggrieved by the order of the Sub Divisional Officer Raghubir Singh filed appeal before the Revenue Appellate Authority Bikaner who by his order dated 6th September 1976 dismissed the same and upheld the order of the Sub Divisional Officer.
Dissatisfied with the order of the Revenue Appellate Authority Raghubir Singh filed a revision application under Section 230 of the Act of 1955 before the Board of Revenue for Rajasthan.
On behalf of raghubir Singh it was urged before the Board that the petitioner was in possession of 112 Bighas only and not 129 Bighas and 3 Biswas as held by the lower courts.
He sought permission to adduce additional evidence in support of his contention.
The application for adducing additional evidence was disallowed.
The Board went on to hold that there is no provision for separate units in Chapter III B of the Act of 1955.
Before the Division Bench of the High Court in the writ petitions it was urged on behalf of Raghubir Singh that no appeal having been filed by the State from the order the Sub Divisional Officer dated 5th May 1976 the said order became final and the Board of Revenue had no jurisdiction to set aside that part of the Sub Divisional Officer s order which had gone against the State and in his favour.
It was submitted that the power of general superintendence and control over all revenue courts vested in the Board could not be exercised to the detriment of the 726 writ petitioners much less by way of suo motu exercise of powers.
Mr Subhagh Mal Jain learned senior counsel appearing on behalf of the appellant submitted that the State having not filed an appeal under section 225 of the Act of 1955 and or revision under Section 230 of the Act of 1955 the Board of the Revenue could not while hearing the revision petition filed by Raghubir Singh set aside the orders of Sub Divisional Officer and the revenue appellate authority under Section 221 of the Act of 1955.
 The contention of learned counsel for the appellant is that the section confers executive powers of superintendence and control on the Board and it does not vest any power of superintendence on the Board on judicial side.
The Division 727 Bench in that case was concerned with the interpretation of Section 9 of the Land Revenue Act.
Section 9 whereof provides as under 9 Subject to the other provisions of this Act the general superintendence and control over all revenue courts and over all revenue officers shall be vested in and all such Courts and Officers shall be subordinate to the Board.
Board of Revenue.
At the same time the power is there and it may be exercised sparingly in extraordinary case where interest of justice requires that the Board should exercise the power.
The appeal consequently fails and is dismissed with costs.
U R Appeal dismissed.
