Appeal No 696 of 1966.
Appeal by special leave from the judgment and order dated September 13 1963 of the Madras High Court in Writ Appeal No IO of 1962.
P Ram Reddy and A V Rangam for the appellant.
R Ganapathy Iyer for the respondent.
The Judgment of the Court was delivered by Ramaswami J.
The respondent purchased by a registered instrument dated October 5 1956 the business carried on by one Purushottam Raju under the name All India Trading Company.
Purushottam Raju was the sole proprietor of the business and had been assessed to sales tax in respect of his turnover for the years 1948 49 and 1949 50.
The respondent appealed to the Commercial Tax Officer as well as to the Board of Revenue but the appeals were dismissed.
The respondent thereafter moved the Madras High Court under article 226 of the Constitution for the issue of a writ in the nature of certiorari to quash the orders of the Commercial Tax Officer and the Board of Revenue.
The Division Bench consisting of section Ramachandra Iyer CJ and Ramakrishnan J reversed the judgment of the Single Judge holding that Rule 21 A of the Sales Tax Rules was illegal and ultra vires and the respondent was not liable to pay the sales tax due from his predecessor in title Purushottam Raju.
This appeal is brought by special leave from the judgment of the Division Bench of the Madras High Court dated September 13 1963 in Writ Appeal No 10 of 1962.
Rule 21 A was framed by the State Government under the rule making power granted to it under section 191 and 2 of the Act.
The trans feree shall also be liable to pay tax under the Act on the sales of goods effected by him with effect from the date of such transfer and shall within thirty days of the transfer apply for registration or licence as the case may be unless he already holds a certificate of registration or licence as the case may be.
The word turnover is defined in section 2i of the Act to mean the aggregate amount for which goods are either bought or sold by a dealer whether for cash or for deferred payment or other valuable consideration .
It is manifest that a person who purchases a business as a dealer  can be assessed to sales tax only in respect of his turnover and under the scheme of the charging provision of the Act the purchaser of the business has nothing to do with the sales effected by the seller of the business.
By the amending Act of 1959 Act 1 of 1959 an express provision was inserted by which the transferee of the business was made liable for the arrears of sales tax due from the transferor.
But there is no such provision in the Act for the period with which we are concerned in the present case.
Section 191 of the Act empowers the State Government to make rules to carry out the purposes of the Act but the section cannot be utilised to enlarge the scope of section 10 regarding recovery and payment of tax from some other person other than a dealer under the Act.
of income.
The liability is definitely created by sections 3 and 4 of the Income tax Act which are the charging sections and the assessment order under section 23 only quantifies the liability which has already been definitely and finally created by the charging sections and the provision in regard to assessment relates only to the machinery of taxation.
In our opinion the principle of these decisions applies to the interpretation of the Act in the present case.
We consider that in the context and background of other sections of the Act the word assessment  used in section 192c does not include the power of recovering tax assessed from a person other than the assessee.
It was then submitted by Mr Ram Reddy that Rule 21 A may be supported by the language of section 101 of the Act which states 10.
Payment and recovery of tax 1 The tax assessed under this Act shall be paid in such manner and in such instalments if any and within such time as may be specified in the notice of assessment not being less than fifteen days from the date of service of the notice.
 This section was amended by section 8 of the Madras General Sales tax 3rd amendment Act 1956 which reads as follows 1 666 Substitution of new section for section 10 in Madras Act IX of 1939.
Payment and recovery of tax 1 The tax assessed under this Act shall be paid in such manner and in such instalments if any and within such time as may be specified in the notice of assessment not being less than fifteen days from the date of service of the notice.
The 3rd Amendment Act 1956 received the assent of the President on October 1 1956 but it was published in the Madras Gazette on October 8 1956.
1 Where any Act to which this Chapter applies is not expressed to come into operation on a particular day then it shall come into operation on the day on which the assent thereto of the Governor the Gover nor General or the President as the case may require is first published in the Official Gazette.
We accordingly reject the argument of the appellants on this aspect of the case and hold that Rule 21 A is ultra vires of the rule making power of the State Government under the Act.
To put it differently it is not open to the State Government to rely on the instrument inter vivos between the transferor and the transferee and to contend that there is any contractual obligation between the transferee and the State Government who is not a party to the instrument.
For these reasons we hold that the judgment of the Division Bench of the High Court dated September 13 1963 is correct and this appeal must be dismissed with costs.
RKPS Appeal dismissed.
