Appeal No 787 of 1964.
AK Sen and D N Mukherjee for the appellant.
In the notice to quit served on the 7th May 1948 the first two persons were described as tenants under the plaintiff and the third as a person who had purported to purchase the structures on the land and the tenancy right therein.
Abdul Gaffur preferred a Second Appeal to the High Court and this was heard and disposed of by a single Judge of that court on July 21 1954 long after the Thika Tenancy Ordinance of 1952 and the Amending Act of 1953 had come into force.
The definition of a thika tenant was modified slightly but the change affected thereby need not be taken account of because the respondent Gaffur s position was not improved thereby.
5 of section 2 the definition of a thika tenant or violation of a condition consistent with the Act by a breach of which he was under the terms of a contract between himself and his landlord liable to be ejected iii refusal to agree to pay rent at such enhanced rate as might be determined under section 25 iv requirement 174 of the land by the landlord for his own occupation or for the purpose of building on the land or otherwise developing the land except during any period limited by a registered lease under which the tenant might be holding v failure on the part of the holding for his own residential manufacturing or business purpose for more than six consecutive months omitting the priviso and vi on the expiry of a registered lease in favour of the tenant.
Under section 27 any person aggrieved by an order of the Controller might present an appeal in writing either to the Chief Judge of the Court of Small Causes in the Presidency town or to 175 the District Judge of a district in which the holding was situate.
Sub section.
No exception was made under section 29 to cases where possession of the holding had been recovered from the thika tenant.
The consequence was that even if the tenant had lost possession but any proceeding even arising from an execution proceeding was pending the provisions of the Act would be attracted.
The only qualification was that even if the suit had been filed before the Act but was riot disposed of by that date the landlord had to establish that be was entitled to possession because of the existence of any of the grounds mentioned in section 3.
He was however not to be bound he could not have done because of the passing of the Act after the filing of his suit.
1 of this section which enatced that Save as provided in sub section 2 the provisions of the said Act as amended by this Ordinance shall apply to all cases pending before a Court or Controller on the date of the commencement of this Ordinance.
Sub section.
Sub section.
Sub section.
1 of section 5 made the Act as amended by the Ordinance applicable to all cases pending before a court or a controller.
Sub section.
2 of section 5 made a special provision for cases where a decree or order for possession had been made between the commencement of the Act and of the Ordinance and delivery of possession had not been given to the decree holder.
Under section 9 any proceedings commenced under sub section.
2 of section 5 of the Calcutta Thika Tenancy Amendment Ordinance were to be continued as if such sub sections.
Sub section.
2 of section 1 made the provisions of the Calcutta Thika Tenancy Act 1949 as amended by the Act of 1953 applicable to all suits appeals and proceedings pending on 21st October before any court or before the controller or before a person deciding an appeal under section 27 of the Act.
This was decided in terms of the Gaming Act 1845 section 18 of which enacted that  no suit shall be brought or maintained for recovering any such sum of money  and the question was whether that enactment was retrospective so as to defeat an action already commenced.
The language of the section leaves no room for doubt as to this.
Section 28 was meant to give relief to a thika tenant in a case where a decree or order for recovery of possession of any holding from a thika tenant had been made before the date of commencement of the Act.
The language of section 5 being closely similar to that used in section 4 that section should also be held to be prospective only.
As Abdul Gaffur came under the definition of a thika tenant by the Amending Act of 1953 we have to proceed on the basis that he was such a tenant in 1949 with the result that he could claim the benefit of section 4 of the Act.
Consequently the absence of a notice under section 4 would not stand in the way of the landlord nor could his suit be rejected on the ground that he had not applied to the controller.
Most of the Rent Control Acts all over India contain similar provisions and courts have always held such provisions applicable to pending proceedings.
Whereas before the enactment of the Calcutta Thika Tenancy Act 1949 it was not necessary for the landlord either to allege any of the grounds specified in section 3 or to prove the existence thereof at the hearing of the suit he had to establish the existence of such a ground when the suit was heard.
All that the section lays down is that ejectment could not be had unless the existence of one of the grounds was proved.
As section 4 of the Act was prospective only it could not apply to this case.
For reasons we cannot speculate upon the legislature limited the applicability of the Act only to suits and appeals pending on 21st October 1952 and not in February 1949 ie the date of the commencement of the Act of 1949.
