The principle for fixation of minimum wages that should ordinarily be adopted was laid down by this Court in the case of French Motor Car Co Limited.
 The Tribunal in giving its decision kept this principle in view but came to the finding of fact that there were no other concerns in the same line of business as the Company in the region which could be compared with the Company.
The Titaghur Paper Mill No 3 started production only in April 1960 while the JK Paper Mills at Rayagada started production in 1961 62.
Having come to this view it is clear that to give full effect to the principle laid down by this Court the case of French Motor Car Co1 the Tribunal should have proceeded to fix the minimum wage in the Company on the basis of the average minimum wage prevailing in these concerns.
necessary that the minimum wage.
673 We may at this stage take notice of the fact that in con sidering the question of minimum wage the Tribunal had in view the total wage packet to be received by each workman and in the opinion of the Tribunal it consisted of three elements.
The nature of work is such that the total number of workmen employed does not exceed 125 which is a very small number as compared  with the number of workmen employed by the Company.
On behalf of the workmen it was urged before the Tribunal that the proportion should be 3 1 1 so that the production bonus and the dearness allowance would both be equal and 13rd of the basic wage.
Learned counsel was however unable to show to us that this Court or any other Tribunal has ever laid down the principle that where the dearness allowance forms a part of the consolidated wage fixed there should be such linking so as to bring in continuous variation of the wage depending on the variation in the Price Index.
It was urged that this would cast a very heavy burden on the Company.
The reference was made by the Government on the 4th October 1962.
The balance sheet and the profit and loss.
Further the Tribunal was expected to decide the dispute only as referred to it and at the time of reference at least there was not and there could possibly not be a claim for higher bonus on the basis of the application of the Full Bench Formula.
that the bonus is worked out on the basis of the total wages paid.
The claim in this respect also fails.
