Petition under article 32 of the Constitution of India for enforcement of fundamental rights.
section V Gupte P A Choudhury and K Rajendra Chaudhuri for the petitioners.
M C Setalvad P Ramachandra Rao Advocate General Andhra Pradesh A Raghubir and A V Rangam for respondent No 1.
Sardar Ali Khan P N Duda and J B Dadachanji for res pondent No 46.
P A Choudhury K Rajendra Chaudhuri and C section Sreenivasa Rao for the interveners.
The Judgment of the Court was delivered by Hidayatullah CJ.
The petitioners are persons employed in the ministerial services of the Andhra Pradesh Government.
All of them were working in various offices located in the cities of Hyderabad and Secunderabad.
On January 19 1969 leaders of all political parties in the Legislature of the Andhra Pradesh State appeared to have met and reached the decision that to Implement what are called Telengana Safeguards  the following measures should be taken  All non domicile persons who have been appointed either directly by promotion or by transfer to posts reserved under the Andhra Pradesh Public Employment Requirement as to Residence Rules 1959 for domiciles of Telengana region will be immediately relieved from service.
The posts so rendered vacant will be filled by qualified candidates possessing domicile qualifications and in cases where such candidates are not available the posts shall be left unfilled till qualified domicile candidates become available Action on the above lines will be taken immediately.
All non domicile employees so relieved shall be provided employment in the Andhra region without break in service and by creating supernumerary posts if necessary.
 117 The Government of Andhra Pradesh then passed an order GOMs 36 GA SR Dept on January 21 1969 relieving before February 28 1969 all non domicile persons appointed on or after November 1 1956 to certain categories of posts reserved for domiciles of Telengana under the Andhra Pradesh Public Employment Requirement as to Residence Rules 1959.
3 of article 16 of the Constitution making special provision for requirement as to residence and brought into force on March 21 1959.
Under section 5 the Rules had a life of 5 years but by subsequent legislation the period was extended to 10 years.
The Rules were made on March 21 1959.
For this reason section 3 of the Act is challenged as ultra vires the Constitution.
The second clause then specifies a prohibition against discrimination only on the grounds of religion race sex descent place of birth residence or any of them.
This clause was amended by the Constitution Seventh Amendment Act 1956.
120 The clause thus enables Parliament to make a law in a special case prescribing any requirement As to residence within a State or Union territory prior to appointment as a condition of employment in the State or Union territory.
Mr section V Gupte for the petitioners points out that the Constitution is speaking of State and Union territory.
more appropriate and specific language could have been used such as any requirement as to residence within that State or Union territory or part of that State or Union territory .
By the second clause there can be no discrimination among other things on the ground of residence.
The claim of Mr Setalvad that Parliament can make a provision regarding residence in any particular part of a State would render the general prohibition lose all its meaning.
L12 Sup Cl69 9 122 For the reasons given above we quash the orders passed and declare section 3 of the Public Employment Requirement as to Residence Act 1957 as also Rule 3 of the Rules ultra vires the Constitution.
