Appeal No 1940 of 1967.
By an agreement dated November 27 1954 between Raval and Faraqui on the one hand and Messrs Filmistan Distributors India Private Ltd hereinafter called Filmistan on the other hand right to exhibit cinematograph films was granted to the latter on certain terms and conditions.
By an order dated December 1 1960 the suit was disposed of as compromised.
CI69 17 438 1955 and further confirmed by document dated December 1 1960 is not a lease 12.
The learned Judge observed that the issues were not purely of law that in any event the case or any part thereof was not likely to be disposed of on these issues and that ordinarily in appealable cases the Court should as far as possible decide all the issues together and that piecemeal trial might result in protracting the litigation.
A revision application against that order was dismissed in limine by the High Court of Gujarat.
The objection to the question raised by Filmistan was not that it related to a matter to be decided by the Court and on which the opinion of witnesses was irrelevant.
The objection was raised as 439 an attempt to reopen the previous decision given by the Trial Judge refusing to try issues Nos 11 12  13 as preliminary issues.
The Trial Judge observed that he had carefully gone through the consent decree and the registered agreement dated December 1 1960 and he found that the consent decree had not decided that the transaction between the parties of the year 1954 was in the nature of a lease that in the plaint in the earlier suit it was not even averred that the rights granted were in the nature of leasehold rights that suit No 149 of 1960 was for declaration of the rights of Filmistan to exhibit motion pictures in the theatre under the agreement dated November 27 1954 and for an injunction restraining the defendants from violating the said rights of Filmistan under the agreement and that the agreement dated December 1 1960 was not plain enough to exclude the oral evidence of the surrounding circumstances and conduct of the parties to explain its terms and language.
Accordingly he held that the question asked in cross examination of the witnesses for Filmistan intended to secure disclosure of the surrounding circumstances and conduct of the parties in order to show in what manner the language of the document was related to the existing facts could not be excluded.
The revision petition was entertained and elaborate arguments were advanced at the Bar.
The High Court referred to a number of authorities and observed that the correctness of the findings of the Trial Court on issues Nos 12 and 13 may not be examined in exercise of the powers under section 115 of the Code of Civil Procedure.
But the only thing that can be said is that so far as the agreement of November 27 1954 is con cerned it must be held in view of the consent decree of December 1 1960 that that document of November 27 1954 created a lease .
By section 115 of the Code of Civil Procedure the High Court is invested with power to call for the record of any case decided by any Court subordinate to such High Court and in which no appeal lies thereo if such subordinate court appears a to have exercised a jurisdiction not vested in it by law or b to have failed to exercise a jurisdiction so vested or c to have acted in the exercise of its jurisdiction illegally or with material irregularity and to make such order in the case as it thinks fit.
Exercise of the power is broadly subject to three important conditions 1 that the decision is of a Court subordinate to the High Court 2 that there is a case which has been decided by the subordinate Court and 3 that the subordinate Court has exercised jurisdiction not vested in it by law or to have failed to exercise a jurisdiction so vested or to have acted in the exercise of its jurisdiction illegally or with material irregularity.
The Court gave no finding expressly or by implication on the issue of res judicata or any other issue.
A matter in contest in a suit may operate as res judicata only if there is an adjudication by the Court  the terms of section II of the Code leave no scope for a contrary view.
Again it was for the Trial Court in the first instance to decide that question and there after the High Court could if the matter were brought before it by way of appeal or in exercise of its revisional jurisdiction have decided that question.
The expression case is not limited in its import to the entirety of the matter in dispute in an action.
442 This Court observed in Major section section Khanna vs Brig.
F J Dillon1 that the expression case is a word of comprehensive import  it includes a civil proceeding and is not restricted by anything contained in section 115 of the Code to the entirety of the proceeding in a civil court.
To interpret the expression case as an entire proceeding only and not a part of the proceeding imposes an unwarranted restriction on the exercise of powers of superintendence and may result in certain cases in denying relief to the aggrieved litigant where it is most needed and may result in the perpetration of gross injustice.
A case may be said to be decided if the Court adjudicates for the purposes of the suit some right or obligation of the parties in controversy every order in the suit cannot be regarded as a case decided within the meaning of section 115 of the Code of Civil Procedure.
The order passed by the High Court is set aside and the Trial Court is directed to proceed and dispose of the suit.
Filmistan will pay the costs of the appeal in this Court and in the High Court.
GC Appeal allowed.
