Upon that finding the plaintiff.
As against that decree defendant 1 filed first appeal No 524 of 1966 in the Bombay High Court while the plaintiff filed cross objections.
Since the view of the High.
LR351.
 The Hindu Succession Act came into force on June 17 1956 Khandappa having died after the commencement of that Act to wit in 1960 and since he had at the time of his death an interest in Mitakshara coparcenary property the pre conditions of section 6 are satisfied and that section is squarely attracted.
By the application of the normal rule prescribed by that section Khandappa s interest in the coparcenary property would devolve by survivorship upon the surviving members of the coparcenary and not in accordance with the provisions of the Act.
Khandappa s interest in the coparcenary property would therefore devolve according to the proviso by intestate succession under the Act and not by survivorshop.
The son daughter and a widow are mentioned as heirs in class I of the Schedule and therefore by reason of the provisions of section 8a read with the 1st clause of section 9 they take simultaneously and to the exclusion of other heirs.
The next step equally important though not equally easy to work out is to find out the share which the deceased had in the coparcenary property because after all the plaintiff has a 16th interest in that share.
Explanation 1 which contains the formula for determining the share of the deceased creates a fiction by providing that the interest of a Hindu Mistakshara coparcener shall be deemed to be the share in the property that would have been allotted to him if a partition of the property had taken place immediately before his death.
see Mulla s Hindu Law Fourteenth Edition page 403 para 315.
Khandappa would have therefore got a 14th share in the coparcenary property on the hypothesis of a partition between himself and his sons Two things are thus clears  One that in a partition of the coparcenary property Khandappa would have obtained a 14th share and 767 two that the share of the plaintiff in the 14th share is 16th that is to say 124th.
The learned trial Judge relying upon the decision in Shiramabai which was later overruled by the Bombay High Court accepted the former contention while the High Court accepted the latter.
The question is which of these two views is to be preferred.
We think that in overlooking that 14th share one unwittingly permits one s imagination to boggle under the oppression of the reality that there was in fact no partition between the plaintiff s husband and his sons.
In our case it is not necessary for the purposes of working out the fiction to assume and supply a missing link which is really what was meant by Lord Asquith in his famous passage in East End Dwellings Co Ltd vs Finsbury Borough Council1 He said if you are bidden to treat an imaginary state of affairs as real you must also imagine as real the consequences and 1 1959 Stipp.
For by doing that alone can one determine the extent of the claimant s share.
The assumption which the statute requires to be made that a partition had in fact taken place must permeate the entire process of ascertainment of the ultimate share of the heirs through all its stages.
All the consequences which flow from a real partition have to be logically worked out which means that the share of the heirs must be ascertained on the basis that they bad separated from one another and had received a share in the partition which had taken place during the life time of the deceased.
