The High Court s reasoning in this behalf is to be found in its judgment at page 87 of the paper book and it runs thus The Administrator as is evident from this provision is given unlimited authority or power to refuse permission or to grant permission.
276 of the Act as it stood prior to its amendment by the Amending Act No 26 of 1969 constitutionally invalid on the ground of conferal of a very wide and vague power upon the Administrator to grant or renew a license to a dealer.
 In Harakchand Banthria s case supra this Court has further pointed out that even though import of gold into India had been banned considerable quantities of contraband gold were finding their way into the country through illegal channels affecting the national economy and hampering the country s economic stability and progress that the Customs Department was not in a position to effectively combat the smuggling over the long borders and coast line that therefore anti smuggling measures had to be supplemented by a detailed system of control over internal transactions and that the Gold Control Act 1968 was passed for this purpose.
51 of the Act requires that the Administrator should have regard to the policy and purposes of the Act in making his orders.
Moreover against his order under that section a revision lies to Central Government which implies that he will have to make judicious use of his power or discretion and any improper exercise is liable to be corrected by a higher authority.
We approve the view taken in those cases As regards the analogy drawn by the High Court from the reasoning adopted by this Court in Harakchand Banthia s case supra while declaring unamended sec.
276 of the Act invalid we would like to point out that while conferring power on the Administrator in the matter of granting or renewing a license to a dealer the unamended sec.
For instance under clause a the Administrator was required to have regard to the number of dealers existing in the region  in which the applicant was intending to carry on business as dealer but the word region  was no where defined in the Act similarly clause b required the Administrator to have regard to the anticipated demand  as estimated by him for the ornaments in that region but the expression anticipated demand  was really vague and incapable of assessment leading to a great deal of uncertainty similarly the expression 1AIR 1971 Patna 240.
e and public interest  in cl.
276 this Court struck down sec.
