1977 by the Life Insurance Corporation of India hereinafter referred to as the Corporation  which pro vides that an employee belonging to Class I or Class II appointed to the service of the Corporation on or after 1st September 1956 shall retire on completion of 58 years of age but the competent authority may if it is of the opinion that it is in the interest of the Corporation to do so direct such employee to retire on completion of 50 years of age and at any time thereafter on giving him three months  notice or salary in lieu thereof.
Prior to January.
1955 there were more than 200 insur ers carrying on life insurance business in India.
As it came to the notice of the Government that the Indian life insur ers with a few exceptions were virtually controlled by few individuals who were utilising the funds of those companies to the detriment of the industry and the policyholders the Government decided to nationalise the life insurance busi ness.
The Ordinance was replaced by the which was published on 21st of March 1956.
The Act howev er came into force on 1st July 1956.
The Act provided for the establishment and incorporation of the Corporation.
The appointed day for the purposes of the Act is therefore September 1 1956.
By virtue of section 7 of the Act on the appointed day all the assets and liabilities appertaining to the controlled business of all insurers the management of which it had been taken over earlier by the Central Govern ment stood transferred to and vested in the Corporation.
It therefore became necessary to transfer the services of the existing employees of the insurers to the Corporation because without the services of those employees it was almost impossible for the Corporation to run the life insur ance business in India which involved management of the various offices situated in different parts of India serv icing of lakhs of insurance policies the administration of the assets taken over from the insurers and several other activities connected with the life insurance business.
The nature of the work of the Corporation was such that it required the services of the employees with sufficient experience and expertise in running the life insurance business.
In order to meet the above need section 11 of the Act came to be enacted.
Explanation The compensation payable to an employ ee under this sub section shall be in addition to and shall not affect any pension gratuity provident fund money or any other benefit to which the employee may be entitled under his contract of service.
Explanation The compensation payable to an employee under this sub section shall be in addition to and shall not affect any pension gratuity provident fund money or any other benefit to which the employee may be entitled under his contract of service.
 Clause 13 of the above Order therefore modified regu lation 21 of the Staff Regulations 1956 to the extent indicated therein with effect from the commencement of the Corporation.
As regards new recruits it was thought that there was no justification to bring down the retirement age from 60 to 55 all of a sudden nor was it considered necessary to maintain any distinction between officers and staff.
All the employees have often represented that the age of retirement should be raised to 60.
All employees appointed to the service of the Corporation on or after 1st September 1956 were required to retire on completion of 58 years of age but the appointing authority was empowered to retire any such employee on completion of 55 years of age or at any time thereafter if his efficiency was found to have been impaired.
The employees of the Corporation were divided lati tudinally into two groups.
The functional focus of section 11 205 of the LIC Act will dispel scope for interpretative exer cises unrelated to the natural setting in which the problem occurs.
 Pathak J as he then was in his judgment in the same case observed at pages 1134 to 1136 thus The first question is whether the new clause 9 of the Standardisation Order succeeds in defeating the claim of the workmen.
Sub section.
Sub section.
2 of section 11 by its first limb confers power on the Central Government to alter the scales of remuneration and other terms and conditions of service applicable to transferred employees.
It empowers the Central Government to reduce the remuneration payable or revise the other terms and conditions of service.
In my opinion it is confined to transferred employees.
Sub section.
If through historical reasons the teachers had remained in two separate catego ries the classification of the provincialised teachers into a separate cadre could not be said to infringe article 14 and article 16.
Accordingly the President of India agreed to release 16 persons from the service of the Government of India to enable the Corporation to appoint them in its service by the Order of the Central Government dated 25th February 1964.
While dealing with this question the Court can take judicial notice of the differ ent ages of retirement prevailing in the several services in India.
Ltd directed the retirement age of the clerical staff of the Refinery Division of respondent 1 to be fixed at 60 years.
In the Workmen case itself this Court did not extend the benefit of super annuation at the age of 60 to all clerical staff but limited the same to that category of employees working in the Refin ery Division Bombay.
This decision has no relevance to the present case although the High Court has relied on it in deciding this case.
The regulations and other provisions as in force immediately before the commencement of the Life Insurance Corporation Amendment Act 1981 with respect to the terms and conditions of service of employees and agents of the Corporation including those who became employees and agents of the Corpo ration on the appointed day under this Act shall be deemed to be rules made under clause cc of sub section 2 and shall subject to the other provisions of this section have effect accordingly underlining by us empha sis supplied Clause cc of section 482 of the Act however has been given retrospective effect from 20th June 1979.
The apparent or inherent intention sought to be achieved by the regulation 19 framed by Corporation was to continue upto age of sixty years the employees of insurers as the age of superannuation in some of the companies was sixty and to derive benefit from expertise and experience of employees who had worked with insurers.
So long employees are in Class III they can be said to constitute two different classes of transferred and direct appointees but once they are promoted they become similarly situated and the dis tinction stands obliterated.
217 In OP No 5295 of 1985 and connected cases on the file of the High Court of Kerala which was decided on 42.
Classification of employees into two categories for purposes of fixing the age of superannuation depending upon their dates of entry into service when the necessity for doing so arises on account of certain historical reasons is not unknown.
Accordingly rule 2046 FR 56 of the Indian Railway Fundamental Rules had to be modified.
That rule was therefore substituted by a new rule on January 11 1967.
 In the above new rule every railway servant whose case did not fall under clause b of that rule was required to retire on the date he attained the age of 58 years.
Clause b however provided that every ministerial railway serv ant who had entered the Government service on or before 31st March 1938 and who satisfied the conditions mentioned either in sub clause i or sub clause ii thereof was entitled to continue in service till he attained the age of 60 years.
The Re spondent A Pitchumani questioned before the High Court of Mysore Karnataka the validity of the note substituted by the Order dated December 23 1967 which took away his right to continue in service till he attained the age of 60 years which he otherwise possessed before the introduction of the said note.
The High Court of Mysore struck down a part of the new note only on the ground that it was discriminatory and directed that the Respondent A Pitchumani should be allowed to continue in the service till he completed the age of 60 years.
AIR 1973 CAL.
Thereafter only one class of employees would be in the service of the Corpo ration namely those appointed subsequent to 1st September 1956 by the Corporation in respect of whom the Corporation has fixed the age of retirement as 58 years which corre sponds to the age of retirement in almost all the public sector establishments the Central Government services and the State Government services.
vs Union of India  Ors etc.
It may be so.
Under Article 32 this Court is the constitutional sentinel not the national ombudsman.
