On the very same day D. M. Mathews, in his turn, granted a lease to one Walji Kheta in respect of the said 96 bighas.
The defendants denied that they had encroached upon the plaintiff , ' coal land and stated that the suit was barred by limitation.
The learned Subordinate Judge held that the defendant had encroached upon the plaintiff ' coal land, that the suit was not barred by limitations and that they would be entitled to the reliefs prayed for.
Learned counsel for the appellant contends that the said boundary should be fixed solely with reference to the boundaries given in the lease of 1894, whereas learned counsel for the respondents contends that no plan has been annexed to the said lease and, therefore, the boundary could more satisfactorily and definitely be fixed with reference to the plans annexed to the subsequent lease deeds executed in favour of the successors in interest of the appellant and the respondents.
On August 2, 1894, Raja Jaimangal Singh executed the lease deed (exhibit 1) in respect of 300 bighas in favour of the respondents ' predecessor in interest.
The plan, exhibit 3(b), annexed to this lease deed shows the boundary line between the two leaseholds.
On June 10, 1901, Jugal Kishore Lal, that is, the predecessor in interest of the appellant demised a plot of 96 bighas carved out from his leasehold to Mathews under a deed exhibit C(1).
Mathews in turn demised under exhibit D the said land of 96 bighas to Walji Khetan representing the appellant.
The argument of learned counsel for the appellant is that the map translated into words indicates that the correct boundary should be a line drawn from the true meeting point of the four villages Pandebera, Jharia Khas, Lodhna and Kujama at a bearing of 82.15 ', whereas the contention of the respondents is that the line actually drawn on the lease map correctly lays down the northern boundary of the respondents ' leasehold.
But a perusal of exhibit I shows that there is no reference in regard to the western boundary to revenue records.
No reliance can be placed upon the recitals in exhibit 1, as it is demonstrated that the extent given in respect of the western boundary is incorrect.
On the aforesaid material both the courts have held that the disputed extent of land is part of the holding of the respondents.
The courts were, therefore, certainly right in accepting the boundaries drawn in the plan without embarking upon an attempt to correct them with reference to revenue records.
The encroachment by the appellant on the respondents ' colliery and the removal of coal therefrom are alleged to have taken place in or about the year 1932.
The respondents in the plaint averred that they came to know of the said encroachment and removal of coal by the appellant after they received the letter dated August 18, 1941, from the Inspector of Mines and before that they had absolutely no knowledge or information whatsoever regarding thereto.
The learned Subordinate Judge found, on the evidence, that the proceedings in 1932 had nothing to do with the delineation of the boundary line between the two holdings.
