Appeal from the Judgment and order dated October 10, 1958, of the Bombay High Court in Income tax Reference No.
H. N. Sanyal,, Additional Solicitor General of India, N. D. Karkhanis and R. N. Sachthey, for the appellant.
The question referred was answered in the negative and against the Commissioner of Income tax who is the appellant in these appeals, the respondents being the heirs and legal representatives of one Amarchand N. Shroff deceased.
Shortly stated the facts of the case are these Amarchand N. Shroff, Mangaldas and Hiralal were partners in a firm of solicitors.
Thereafter the partnership was carried on by Mangaldas and Hiralal up to November 30, 1949, and on December 1, 1949, Ramesh son of Amarchand who had by then qualified as a solicitor joined the firm as the third partner.
The two members of the Tribunal agreed in holding, though for different reasons, that the amounts were not the income of the Hindu undivided family but merely represented inheritance or realisations of the assets of Amarchand.
The matter was not pursued further by the Revenue but sometime later proceedings were started by the Income tax Officer under section 34 in respect of the same income in the hands of "Amarchand N. Shroff by his heirs and legal representatives".
The Commissioner of Income tax took an appeal to the Appellate Tribunal and the Tribunal held that assessment could not be made on Amarchand and that section 24B had no application to the income received after the death of Amarchand and that it was capital receipt and not revenue receipt.
The order of the Appellate Assistant Commissioner was therefore upheld, On the application of the Commissioner of 703 Income tax the following question of law was referred to the High Court : "Whether on the facts and in the circumstances of the case, the sums of Rs.
32,523/ were assessable to income tax in the hands of the assessee "Amarchand N. Shroff by his legal heirs and representatives" in the five respective years under reference ?".
It was argued by counsel for the Commissioner of Income tax that on a correct interpretation of section 24B the amounts which were received by the heirs and legal representatives of Amarchand after his death should be deemed by the fiction incorporated in sub section (1) to be income received by Amarchand and liable to tax under section 24B (1) of the Income tax Act.
In other words the respondents as heirs and legal representatives of the deceased Amarchand were liable to pay out of the estate of the deceased Amarchand on those amounts to the extent of the estate as the estate was liable for tax on the amounts received by the heirs and legal representatives just as the deceased Amarchand would have been had he not died.
The emphasis was on words in section 24B (1) "or any tax which would have been payable by him under this Act if he had not died".
