887), as the facts in other appeals are similar, except that the commodity involved was different and so was the amount in dispute.
Consequently, in June 1947 the respondent applied for and was granted a permit for export of 15,000 maunds of chuni, and in connection therewith he deposited Rs.
It was alleged on behalf of the respondent that the reason why he failed to export the entire 176 quantity of the commodity before December 2, 1947 was due to market conditions and inability to get allotment of railway wagons.
Eventually when the State refused to refund the amount, the suit was filed, out of which appeal No.
Before we refer to the decisions of the courts below with regard to this controversy it would be convenient to clear the ground by indicating the admitted position, which resulted in the inclusion of the former Dholpur State into the Part B State of Rajasthan, which came into existence on January 26, 1950 and which would be bound by article 295(2) of the Constitution.
The former Dholpur State remained a separate entity till March 17, 1948, though it had acceded to the Dominion of India after August 15, 1947 with respect to three subjects, namely, communications, defence and external affairs.
When this merger took place it is not in dispute that the exis ting laws were to continue till they were repealed or altered by the new State.
At this time also article 372 of the Constitution continued the existing laws subject to their being altered or repealed by the new State.
This completes the narration of the political changes that took place till the Constitution came into force on January 26, 1950.
We have already indicated that a number of defences were raised on behalf of the State of Rajasthan and these de fences were negatived by the trial court in three suits.
The High Court permitted the point to be raised as it was a pure question of law.
887 had arisen was also dismissed except that no interest was allowed upto the date of decree and the amount was reduced to the actual excess export duty, which had been deposited in advance and it was ordered to be refunded.
In either case, it was held that there was establishment of new sove reignty over the territory in question and that was an act of State.
Strong reliance is placed on behalf of the appellant on that decision in support of the contention that even if there was any liability of the former State of Dholpur to; refund the amount of tax collected in advance for no export was made, that liability did not devolve on the Part B State of Rajasthan under article 295(2) of the Constitution, as there was no recognition of this liability by the new State at any time and in that respect the present case was on all fours with that decision.
This Court therefore held that if the agreement was treated as a special law, it must be deemed to have been repealed by section 3 of Ordinance No.
It would be noticed that the decision that the new sovereign had not recognised the rights in States other than Patiala was based on the fact that Ordinance No.
