Appeal by special leave from the judgment and order dated March 20, 1957, of the Patna High Court in Civil Revision No.
The short question which arises in this appeal is whether the term "wages" as defined by section 2(vi) of the (No.
4 of 1936) (hereinafter called 'the Act ') includes wages fixed by an award in an industrial dispute between the employer and his employees.
This question has to be answered in the light of the definition prescribed by section 2(vi) before it was amended in 1958.
The subsequent amendment expressly provides by section 2(vi) (a) that any remuneration payable under any award or settlement between the parties or order of a Court, would be included in the main definition under section 2(vi).
It is common ground that between the appellant, Sasamusa Sugar Works Ltd., and its workmen, the respondents, an award had been made by an Industrial Tribunal fixing the pay of the employees at Rs.
/ 10 / per day and that led to the present claim made by the respondents under section 15 of the Act.
It urged that section 15 of the Act was inapplicable, because the rates of wages fixed by the award did not fall within the definition of wages prescribed by section 2(vi) and it also argue,, that the claim of the respondents was barred by limitation.
421 The authority has found that section 2(vi) includes wages prescribed by the Industrial Tribunal, and so, it has rejected the appellants ' contention that the applications made by the respondents were incompetent under section 15 of the Act.
The appellant challenged the correctness of the conclusion of the authority that the applications made by the res pondents were competent under section 15 of the Act before the Patna High Court by filing a petition under article 226 of the Constitution.
The High Court has affirmed the finding of the authority and held that section 15 was applicable to the case, because the wages prescribed by the award did amount to wages as defined by section 2(vi) of the Act.
It is this order which the appellant seeks to challenge before us by its present appeal by special leave.
Section 2(vi) as it stood at the relevant time, provides, inter alia, that wages means all remuneration, capable of being expressed in terms of money, which would, if the terms of the ,contract of employment, express or implied, were fulfilled, be payable.
Mr. Setalvad for the appellant contends that before it is held that the wages prescribed by the award fall under section 2(vi), it must be shown that they constitute part of the terms of the contract of employment, either express or implied.
