Appeal by special leave from the Award dated September 20, 1963 of the Central Government Industrial Tribunal, Bombay in Reference CG IT 25 of 1962. section V. Gupte, Solicitor General, M. Rajagopalan and K. R. Choudhuri, for the appellants.
This is an appeal by special leave against an award dated September 20, 1963 made by the Presiding Officer of the Central Government Industrial Tribunal, Bombay in a reference made by the Government of India under section 10(2) of the .
The Tribunal, by the award impugned here, held that the Union was not able to establish that the existing system of work needed any modification.
From the facts appearing on the record it appears that the Trustees first introduced a two shift system of work in the Alexandra Docks on June 30, 1953 and the same system was extended to the Prince 's and Victoria Docks on December 15, 1953.
Previously, the shore crew at all these places worked in a single shift and were liable to be called out at 634 any hour of the day or night.
In 1956 the workmen, who were then represented by the Port Trust General Workers ' Union, made a demand for a fixed recess of two hours.
The General Workers Union was informed that if the demand was pressed a three shift system would be introduced.
The workmen then retraced their steps and accepted a 2 hours ' variable recess but requested that it should be as near the middle of the shift as possible.
As the lock gates control the depth of water in the Alexandra Docks, fixed hours of rest could be maintained from day to day except in the monsoon months when the, storm gates had some time to be closed.
During these months recess time at the Alexandra Docks was also variable and was made to coincide with the closure of the storm gates.
The claim of the shore crew at the Prince 's and Victoria Docks and Butcher Island for reducing the hours of rest and increasing overtime to three hours was not accepted because the amount of work in the, opinion of the Trustees did not justify the change.
The Tribunal accepted the entire case put forward on behalf of the Trustees and the Union has appealed to this Court.
He, has in addition submitted that the system of variable recess does not satisfy the requirements of rest which is the basis for fixing statutorily the hours of work in relation to wages.
The was enacted to enable Government to fix minimum rates of wages in certain employments.
The hours of work and the payment of overtime are, therefore, governed by the provisions of the and the Minimum Wages (Central) Rules, 1950 and the controversy in this case must be appreciated and resolved in accordance with them.
(2) The provisions of sub section (1) shall, in relation to the following classes of employees, apply only to such extent and subject to such conditions as may be prescribed: (a).
