Appeals by special leave from the orders dated April 1, 1965 of the Central Government Labour Court, Jullundur, in cases Nos.
Solicitor General, K. B. Mehta, V. Sagar, H. L. Anand and B. C. Das Gupta, for the appellants.
These two appeals by special leave raise a common question as to the interpretation of paragraph 5.356 of the National Industrial Tribunal (Bank Disputes) Award of June 1962 (popularly known as the Desai award) and will be dealt with together.
It is sufficient to say that the respondents made applications under section 33 C(2) of the Industrial Disputes Act, No.
14 of 1947, praying for determination and computation of the benefit to which they were entitled under the Desai award as they were not satisfied with the fixation of their pay by the appellant bank under para 5.356.
The Desai award dealt with the method of adjustment in the scales of pay fixed by it from para 5.329 onwards.
The first group consisted of workmen who were drawing basic pay on January 1, 1962 according to scales of pay provided by the ALL India Industrial Tribunal (Bank Disputes) Award, 1953 (popularly known as the Sastry award) as modified by the Labour Appellate Tribunal Decision (Bank Disputes).
The second group 900 consisted of workmen who on January 1, 1962 were employed in banks which were not governed by the provisions of the Sastry award as modified and were not thus drawing basic pay on the footing of scales of pay provided by that award.
In the first case the Desai award provided that the workmen would be fitted in the new scales of pay from January 1, 1962 on stage to stage adjustment basis, i.e., workmen who were drawing basic pay at a particular stage in the time scale of the Sastry award as modified would draw basic pay at the same stage in the new scale applicable to them under the Desai award.
5.356 of the Desai award, and it is this paragraph which calls for interpretation in the present appeals.
We may at this stage mention that a similar question of fit ment was considered by the Sastry award in para.
This paragraph was considered by the Labour Appellate Tribunal in appeal from the Sastry award and certain modifications were made thereunder by paras 164 and 166 of the Labour Appellate Tribunal decision in appeal.
Paragraph 292 as modified by the Labour Appellate Tribunal decision came up for interpretation before this Court in State Bank of India vs Prakash Chand Mehra.
5.356 of the Desai award, we may set out the two paragraphs in parallel columns for comparison: Sastry award as modified by the Labour Appellate decision For workmen who enterd service of the bank before 31st January, 1950 1.
3.In the matter of adjustment all efficiency bars, whether in the previously existing or in the scales fixed by us should be ignored.
[NOTE : Omitted by the Labour Appellate Tribunal in view of change in cl.
After adjustments are made in accordance with clauses (a), (b) and (c) supra two further increments in the new scale will be added thereto for service for the two years 1951 and 1952.
In addition the workman will be entitled to draw his normal increment for 1953on 1st April 1963.
901 (ii) Subject to rule (i), the adjusted basic pay in the scale provided in the Sastry award as modified shall not exceed what point to point adjustment would give him or the maximum in the scale provided by the Sastry award as modified.
(iv)Subject to rules (i) to (iii) a workman 's basic pay in the scale provided by the Sastry award as modified shall be fixed in the following manner (a)A workman shall first be fitted into the scale of pay of Sastry award as modified by placing him at the stage in the Sastry award scale as modified equal to, or next above his basic pay as on 1st January, 1959 in the scale then in force in the bank concerned (hereinafter called the Bank 's scale).
(d) After adjustments are made in, accordance with clauses (a),(b) and (c) supra, two further annual increments.
in the scale provided by the Sastry award as modified will be added thereto for service for the two years of 1960 and 1961.
