The question of law involved in this appeal is whether the purchaser of business carried on by a dealer as defined in the Madras General Sales Tax Act, 1939 (Madras Act No.
IX of 1939), hereinafter called the 'Act ', can be made liable for arrears of sales tax due from the dealer in respect of transactions of sale which took place before the, transfer of the business under Rule 21 A of the Rules framed in exercise of the powers conferred on the State Government by section 19 of the Act.
The respondent purchased, by a registered instrument dated October 5, 1956, the business carried on by one Purushottam Raju under the name All India Trading Company.
Purushottam Raju was the sole proprietor of the business and had been assessed to sales tax in respect of his turnover for the years 1948 49 and 1949 50.
The respondent thereafter moved the Madras High Court under article 226 of the Constitution for the issue of a writ in the nature of certiorari to quash the orders of the Commercial Tax Officer and the Board of Revenue.
The Division Bench consisting of section Ramachandra Iyer, C.J.
and Ramakrishnan, J. reversed the judgment of the Single Judge, holding that Rule 21 A of the Sales Tax Rules was illegal and ultra vires and the respondent was not liable to pay the sales tax due from his predecessor in title, Purushottam Raju.
This appeal is brought, by special leave, from the judgment of the Division Bench of the Madras High Court dated September 13, 1963 in Writ Appeal No.
Rule 21 A reads as follows : "When the ownership of the business of a dealer liable to pay the tax under the Act is entirely transferred, any tax payable in respect of such business and remaining unpaid at the time of the transfer shall be recoverable from the transferor or the transferee as if they were the dealers liable to pay such tax, provided that the recovery from the transferee of the arrears of taxes due prior to the date of the transfer shall be only to the extent of the value of the business he obtained by transfer.
The trans feree shall also be liable to pay tax under the Act on the sales of goods effected by him with effect from the date of such transfer and shall within thirty days of the transfer apply for registration or licence, as the case may be, unless he already holds a certificate of registration or licence, as the case may be. "
(1) The State Government may make rules to carry out the purposes of this Act.
(2) In particular and without prejudice to the generality of the foregoing power, such rules may provide for (c) the assessment to tax under this Act of businesses which are discontinued or the ownership of which has changed;" 664 The first question to be considered in this appeal is whether Rule 21 A is intra vires of the power of the State Government under sections 19(1) and (2) of the Act.
Section 2(b) of the Act defines a "dealer" as "a person who carries on the business of buying, selling .
The word "turnover" is defined in section 2(i) of the Act to mean "the aggregate amount for which goods are either bought or sold by a dealer, whether for cash or for deferred payment or other valuable consideration.
By the amending Act of 1959 (Act 1 of 1959) an express provision was inserted by which the transferee of the business was made liable for the arrears of sales tax due from the transferor.
But there is no such provision in the Act for the period with which we are concerned in the present case.
The question is whether the State Government has authority under its rule making power under section 19 of the Act to create a legal fiction by which the transferee of the business is constituted as the dealer liable to pay the tax in respect of the turnover of the transferor.
On behalf of the appellants Mr. Ram Reddy suggested that the State Government has power under section 19(1) and 19(2) (c) of the Act to frame the impugned rule.
