Appeal from the judgment and order dated October 22, 1965 of the Bombay High Court Nagpur Bench in Special Civil Application No.
The appellant had in this petition prayed for the issue of a writ quashing the resolution dated April 6, 1964, passed by the Standing Committee, Zila Parishad, Nagpur, and for a writ of mandamus directing the Standing Committee not to interfere with the right of the appellant to impose and collect the octroi duty pursuant to its resolution dated February 25, 1963.
The resolution, after reciting the need 215 for levying octroi duty and the relevant statutory provisions, concludes: ".
it passes the resolution to levy minimum octroi tax on the goods coming within its local limits as per the Schedule No.
2, dated 14 7 61, that octroi duty shall be imposed on the goods coming into its local limits, the committee accepts the same.
The matter of levying octroi duty shall be undertaken in accordance with the Panchayat Act and its rules.
Ltd. hereinafter referred to as the Company respondent before us, preferred objections against the proposed levy of octroi.
After setting out the previous resolutions and the publication of the notice by beat of drum, and the various objections received, it concludes: "Having considered all these above objections and suggestions and having given a satisfactory explanation for the same, this Committee unanimously resolves that as per the above resolution octroi should be levied on all the goods coming into the limits of the Panchayat,as per schedule I item 1,and levy the minimum octroi as per the rules in Schedule I item 2.
This decision was communicated to the Company by letter dated September 19, 1963, stating that the appeal "has been rejected by the Samiti as per its resolution dated 4th September, 1963, because the same was not filed within limitation as per the provisions of Bombay Village Panchayat Act and Rule 5 of Taxes and Fees Rules of 1960. "
On April 6, 1964, the Standing Committee allowed the appeal of the Company on two grounds; first, that it was necessary for the Panchayat to have the octroi limits fixed with the approval of the Collector before levying octroi under r. 21; and secondly, that the Company was not importing tea within the limits of the Panchayat for consumption, use or sale.
The High Court did not deal with the question whether the company 's tea was imported into the limits of the Panchayat for consumption, use or sale because it felt that sufficient facts had not been found by the Standing Committee.
Section 124(1) empowers Panchayats to levy all or any of the taxes and fees mentioned therein, and reads as follows: "124(1).
A further appeal against the order of the Panchayat Samiti shall lie to the Standing Committee, whose decision shall be final."
Section 176(1) enables the State Government to make rules for carrying into effect the purposes of the Act.
A Panchayat shall, with the approval of the Collector or of any officer authorised by the Collector not below the rank of Mamlatdar Tehsildar, Naib Tehsildar or Mahalkari, fix octroi limits and the number and location of octroi Nakas within 219 the limits of its jurisdiction.
When we turn to rr.3 and 4, it would be noticed that these rules prescribe the procedure for levying tax or fee and are not confined to octroi duty only.
