Appeals by special leave from the judgment and order dated ' March 6, 1967 of the Orissa High Court in O.J.C.
All these officers are the members of the Orissa '"Judicial Service" within the meaning of that expression in article 236(b) of the Constitution.
Obviously when the Governor promulgated the Orissa Superior Judicial Service Rules 1963, he proceeded on the basis that the power to transfer the district judges and addl.
It appears that for some time past there were differences between the High Court and the government about the posting of some of the judicial officers.
The High Court insisted that ordinarily judicial officers should: not hold those posts for more than three years.
The High Court was repeatedly requesting the government to send back judicial officers working in administrative posts as district judges or as addl.
On that account, there appears to have been some friction between the High Court and the gov ernment for some years past.
district and sessions judge, was posted as joint secretary in the law department in the same month.
In February 1965, the High Court took a policy decision to the effect that as a general rule, judicial officers working in special posts whether cadre or non cadre, outside their regular line, should be recalled to the regular line after the completion of three years.
The government by its letter of April 2, 1965, intimated that it had no objection to adhere to the principle of three years service in an appointment at a particular station against a special post.
Every time the High Court requested the government to release the three officers mentioned above for 'being posted as district and sessions judges or addl.
But at that stage the High Court felt helpless as it was under the impression that under law the Governor was the sole authority to effect the.
Panda who was attached to the commission of enquiry in connection with students ' (1) ; 158 agitation, as law secretary to the government of Orissa, (b) Shri B.K.
Patro, the then law secretary as district and sessions judge of Ganjam Boudh, (c) Shri T. Misra, district and sessions judge, Ganjam Boudh, as superintendent and legal remembrance and ex officio additional law secretary to the government of Orissa, (d) Shri K.K.
Bose, the then superintendent and legal remembrance and additional law secretary as district and sessions judge of Mayurbhanj Keonjhar.
Mohanti, district and sessions judge, Bolangir Kalahandi, as deputy secretary to the law department, a post which was vacant then, and (f) Shri P.C.
Dey, member sales tax tribunal, as district and sessions judge, Bolangir Kalahandi.
It is at this stage the petitions which have given rise to those appeals were filed by some of the advocates practising in one or the other of the sessions divisions mentioned above, praying for a writ of mandamus against the government as well as the concerned officers to implement the transfers ordered by the High Court on October 10, 1966 and also a writ of quo warranto against Shri B.K.
Dey requiring them to show cause under what authority they were holding the posts of the law secretary the superintendent and legal remembrancer and member sales tax tribunal, respectively.
On March 6, 1967 a special Bench of the High Court by majority allowed those petitions and made the rule absolute.
alternative before it, the government implemented the orders in question on March 6 1967, on the very day the decision of the High Court was rendered.
Bose and Shri Patro to implement the transfers ordered by the High Court on October 10, 1966.
In these circumstances we fail to see how the High Court could have held that they had no authority to hold the posts in question.
Shri Sarjoo Prasad learned counsel for the High Court of Orissa at the very commencement of his arguments conceded that the order of the High Court holding that those officers had no authority to hold the posts in question is unsustainable.
Dey it must be assumed that his services were placed by the High Court at the disposal of the government for being posted as member sales tax tribunal.
Before going into the validity of the orders of transfer relating to the other officers, it is necessary to ascertain the law bearing on the subject.
As seen earlier, the cadre of the superior judicial service (senior branch) consisted of not only the posts of district and sessions judges and addl.
But we were told that in view of the decisions of this Court in State of West Bengal vs Nripendra Nath Bagchi(1) and State of Assam vs Ranga Mahammad(2) the High Court must be held to have that right as those posts are included in the cadre of superior judicial service.
Before considering the correctness of that submission it is necessary to notice that this argument breaks down when we come to the question of filling up the post of the Registrar.
In Bagchi 's case,(1), this Court laid down that the word "control" found in article 235 includes disciplinary jurisdiction as well.
