Appeals under article 132 (1) of the Constitution from the judgment and order dated 28th August, 1951, of the High Court of Judicature at Calcutta (Harries C.J., Chakravarthi, Das, Banerjee and S.R.
The respondent and 49 other persons were charged with various offences alleged to have been committed by them in the course of their raid as an armed gang on a certain factory known as the Jessop Factory at Dum Dum, and they were convicted and sentenced to varying terms of imprison ment by the Special Court to which the case was sent for trial by the Governor of West Bengal by a notification dated 26th January, 1950, in exercise of the powers conferred by section 5 (1) of the Act.
The High Court by a Full Bench consisting of the Chief Justice and four other Judges quashed the conviction and directed the trial of the respondent and the other accused persons according to law.
delivered separate judgments agreeing with the conclusion of the Chief Justice, Das Gupta J,, however, going further and holding that section 5 (1) was unconstitutional in its entirety inasmuch as "the clas sification sought to be made on the expediency of speedier trial is not a well defined classification.
Before considering whether section 5(1) infringes, to any and what extent, the constitutional prohibition under article 14, it is necessary to ascertain the true scope and intendment of the impugned provision.
"The object of the law, we assume, until the lower Court shall decide otherwise, is single to keep up competition and the general language is to be restricted by the specific provi sions and to the particular end. "
The first part of the article, which appears to have been adopted from the Irish Constitution, is a declaration of equality of the civil rights of all persons within the territories of India and thus enshrines what American Judges regard as the "basic principle of republi canism" [cf.
The second part which is a corollary of the first and is based on the last clause of the first section of the Fourteenth Amendment of the Ameri can Constitution, enjoins that equal protection shall be secured to all such persons in the enjoyment of their rights and liberties without discrimination or favouritism, or as an American Judge put it "it is a (1) 17 Am.
294 pledge of the protection of equal laws" [Yick Wo vs Hopkins (1)], that is, Jaws that operate alike on all persons under like circumstances.
"It is the essence of a classification" said Mr. Justice Brewer in Atchison, Topeka & Santa Fe R. Co. vs Matthews (3), "that upon the class are cast duties and burdens different from those resting upon the general public.
Thus, the general language of article 14, as of its American counterpart, has been greatly qualified by the recognition of the State 's regulative power to make laws operating differently on different classes of persons in the governance of its subjects, with the result that the princi ple of equality of civil rights and of equal protection of the laws is only given effect to as a safeguard against arbitrary State action.
If the impugned legislation is a special law applicable only to a certain class of persons, the court must further enquire whether the classi fication is founded on a reasonable basis having regard to the object to be attained, or is arbitrary.
Thus, the rea sonableness of classification comes into question only in those cases where special legislation affecting a class of persons is challenged as discriminatory.
In Tigner vs Texas (1), the majority view in Connolly 's case(2) holding that an Illinois anti trust law, which made certain forbidden acts criminal if done by merchants and manufacturers but declared them to be civil wrongs if done by farmers and stockmen, was "manifestly a denial of the equal protection of the laws ") was consid ered to be no longer "controlling ".
By admitting only their relatives and friends (1) ; (4) ; (2) ; (5) ; , (3) 297 to apprenticeship, the members of the board made it impossi ble, with occasional exceptions, for others to be appointed as State pilots.
But it is to be noted that the minority, which included Holmes and Brandeis JJ., expressed the opinion that it was within the power of the State to make such differentiation and the law was perfectly consti tutional.
Dealing with these facts the court observed: "Though the law itself be fair on its face and impartial in appearance, yet if it is applied and administered by public authority with an evil eye and an unequal hand so as to practically make unjust and illegal discrimination between persons in similar circum stances, material to their rights, the denial of equal justice is still within the prohibition of the Constitution."
Such systematic discriminatory administration in practice of the ordinance though impartial on its face, was, evidently, taken to give rise to the inference that it was designed to be so adminis tered.
This Court looked beyond the mere letter of the ordinance to the condition of things as they existed in San Francisco and saw under the guise of regula tion an arbitrary classification was intended and accom plished" (Italics raine).
(2) 299 That is to say, the ordinance was what the Privy Council called a "colourable legislative expedient" which, under the "guise or pretence" of doing what is constitutionally per missible, "in substance and purpose seeks to effect discrim ination": Morgan Proprietary Ltd. vs Deputy Commissioner of Taxation for New South Wales (1).
But the nature and extent of the remedy, if any, for a breach of duty on his part, we think it unnecessary to consider; for the power of the state to make the pursuit of a calling dependent upon obtaining a licence is well established where safety seems to require it."
And Holmes J. added that, although it did not appear from the statute that the action of the Board of Health was intended to be subject to judicial revision as to its rea sonableness, he agreed that it was not hit at by the 14th Amendment.
If the discretion given to the State Government should be exercised improperly or arbitrarily, the administrative action may be challenged as discriminatory, but it cannot affect the constitutionality of the law.
On the contrary, it is to be presumed that a public authority will act honestly and reasonably in the exercise of its statutory powers, and that the State Govern ment in the present case will, before directing a case to be tried by a Special Court, consider whether there are special features and circumstances which might unduly protract its trial under the ordinary procedure and mark it off for speedier trial under the Act.
In Romesh Thapar 's case the constitu tionality of a provincial enactment purporting to authorise the Provincial Government to regulate the circulation of a news sheet in the Province of Madras for the purpose of "securing the public safety or the maintenance of public order" was challenged as being inconsistent with the peti tioner 's fundamental right to freedom of speech and expres sion conferred by article 19(1)(a) of the Constitution.
But the only relevant constitutional limitation on freedom of speech was that the State could make a law directed against the undermining of the security of the State or the over throw of it, and as the impugned enactment covered a wider ground by authorising curtailment of that freedom for the purpose of securing the public safety or the maintenance of public order, this Court held it to be wholly unconstitu tional and void, observing : "Where a law purports to authorise the imposition of restrictions on a fundamental right in language wide enough to cover restrictions both within and without the limits of constitutionally permissible legislative action affecting such right, it is not possible to uphold it even so far as it may be applied within the constitutional limits, as it is not severable.
As already pointed out, wide latitude must be allowed to a legislature in classifying persons and things to be brought under the operation of a special law, and such classification need not be based on an exact or scientific exclusion or inclusion.
I cannot share the view of Das Gupta J. that the expediency of speedier trial is "too vague and indefinite" to be the basis of a "well de fined" classification.
After all, what the Legislature of West Bengal has sought to do by passing this Act is to regulate criminal trials within its territories by instituting a system of special courts with a shortened and simplified procedure, without impairing the requirements of a fair and impartial trial, which is to be made applicable to such cases or classes of cases as, in the opinion of the executive govern ment, require speedier disposal.
In view of these facts it seems to me impossible to say the State Government has acted arbitrarily or with a dis criminatory intention in referring these cases to the Spe cial Court, for there are obviously special features which mark of this group of cases as requiring speedier disposal than would be possible under the ordinary procedure, and the charge of discriminatory treatment must fail.
One is also amazed at the volume of case law which has grown round this provision, which shows the extent to which its wide language can be stretched and the large variety of situations in which it has been invoked.
(4) The meaning and scope of article 14 have been elaborately explained in two earlier decisions of this Court, viz., Chiranjit Lal Chowdhury vs The Union of India and Others (1) and The State of Bombay and Another vs F.N.
(5) There is nothing sacred or sacrosanct about the test of reasonable classification, but it has undoubtedly proved to be a useful basis for meeting attacks on laws and offi cial acts on the ground of infringement of the equality principle.
The impugned Act has completely ignored the principle of classification followed in the Code and it proceeds to lay down a new procedure without making any attempt to particularize or classify the offences or cases to which it is to apply.
In my opinion, the true position is as follows : As a general rule, if the Act is fair and good, the public authority who has to administer it will be protected.
I must confess that I have been trying hard to think how the Act can be saved, and the best argument that came to my mind in support of it was this : The Act should be held to be a good one, because it embodies all the essentials of a fair and proper trial, namely, (1) notice of the charge, (2) right to be heard and the right to test and rebut the prose cution evidence, (3) access to legal aid, and (4)trial by an impartial and experienced court.
By the process of classification the State has the power of determining who should be regarded as a class for pur poses of legislation and in relation to a law enacted on a particular subject.
