Appeal by special leave from the jurisdiction and order dated April 29, 1965 of the Allahabad High Court in Criminal Misc.
A. section R. Chari, M. K. Ramamurthi, Vineet Kumar and Shyamala Pappu, for the appellants.
On September 2, 1963, Yashoda, son of Raj Kumar, filed a complaint before the Nyaya Panchayat, Jokha Khas, against Jagdeo, Mahabir and Laxmi alleging that he had been abused and be laboured and his property worth Rs.
An urgent copy of the order was applied for and obtained on that very day and the counsel sent a telegram in the following words "Allahabad He 20 Baldeopd cashier Trust Sdr GR Mahabir application admitted stay granted Banwarilal. "
117 It is alleged on the side of the applicant, Mahabir, that immediately after the receipt of the telegram an application accompanied by an affidavit and the telegram of his counsel in the High Court was presented before the Nyaya Panchayat with the prayer to stay further proceedings but the Sarpanch refused to take it.
On December 23, 1963, Mahabir submitted an application in the Court of Shri R. Singh, S.D.M., Deoria, alleging that "writ petition has been admitted and a stay order has been issued.
He prayed that the Panchayat Adalat be directed to postpone proceedings pending the receipt of the stay order.
But as the notice against Shri Srivastava has been discharged by the High Court, we need not give any further details about his various orders, On December 25, 1963, the Nyaya Panchayat met and proceeded to hear the case.
Today, the 25th December, 1963, Mahabir has made an applica tion to the Court and signed it before it.
This order was signed by three Panchas, Phagu Parsad, Jagat Dubey and Badri Yadav.
On the same day a final order was made holding the accused guilty and imposing a fine of Rs.
The application of Mahabir, referred to in the order, reads thus: 118 .lm15 Sir, It is submitted that I have filed a writ petition in the above case, in the High Court.
The main allegation, apart from reciting the facts which we have already detailed above, was that "in spite of the knowledge of the interim stay dated 20 12 63 passed by the Hon 'ble High Court the Sarpanch, the Opposite Party No.
"He further added that "the reason why we did not believe theaffidavit of Mahabir was that it did not contain any date of theHigh Court 's stay order."
According to him, the Panchas did not tell Mahabir that his affidavit was not proper; they, however, told him to get it verified in Tehsil and that it should be duly sealed.
