Gokhale, K. Gobind Das, N.C. Shah, Krishna Sen and R. Gopalakrishnan, for the respondent.
workmen of Orient Paper Mills Ltd., Brajrajnagar, have come up in this appeal by special leave against an award of the Industrial Tribunal, Orissa.
The special leave in this Court was sought and granted in respect of two matters covering some of these items.
In the course of the hearing of the appeal, learned counsel appearing on behalf of the workmen further gave up some of the points which were the subject matter of the items mentioned above, so that in this judgment we need deal with only those points which were argued by him in support of the appeal.
The first and the main point argued with regard to wages was that the Tribunal, after holding that there was no identical industry in this region comparable with the Company, came to.
It was also urged in the alternative that, even in adopting the latter course, the Tribunal committed an error inasmuch as, in making the calculation, the Tribunal only tried to neutralise about 36 per cent of the cost of living 9n the basis of the rise in Price Index instead 669 of permitting neutralisation to the extent of at least 90%, which could have been done when fixing the minimum wages for the owest, class of workmen.
The principle for fixation of minimum wages that should ordinarily be adopted was laid down by this Court in the case of French Motor Car Co. Limited.
vs Workmen(1) where it was held : "It is now well settled that the principle of industry cum region has to be applied by an Industrial Court, when it proceeds to consider questions like wage structure, dearness allowance and similar conditions of service.
Further, even in the same line of business, it would not be proper to compare (for example) a small struggling concern with a large flourishing concern. "
The Tribunal found that the Company is an old established business carrying on manufacture of paper on a very large scale.
The strength of their labour force and the annual production were also very mueh lower.
On these facts, the Tribunal held that it would not be proper to compare the wage structure for these Paper Mills with that of the Company.
On this finding, it is clear that the region cure industry principle laid down in the ease of French Motor Car Co. Ltd. (1) could not have been applied by the Tribunal when fixing the wages in the Company.
That situation was envisaged as occurring whenever the particular concern in question happens to be already paying the; highest wages in its particular line of business.
It should also take care to see that such concerns are not so disproportionately large as to afford no proper basis for comparison. "
The Tribunal mentioned that, according to the Coal Award, the minimum wage in the Collieries at the then existing Price Index was Rs.
On the basis of this finding of fact, the Tribunal held that, if the minimum wage in the Company is to be fixed more on the basis of the minimum wage prevailing in other industries in that region which, in its opinion, would be appropriate under the circumstances of the case, then, a revision was really necessary.
We think that the criticism of learned counsel for the workmen that the Tribunal committed an error at this stage in merely holding that the facts found by it justified a revision and in not proceeding to fix minimum wages on the basis of the other industries in the region, is fully justified.
The workmen in their written statement had relied on the wage structure in these concerns obviously on the basis that they were comparable.
In fact, the Tribunal also accepted them as being comparable 'and that is why, in its conclusion, the Tribunal held that, in its opinion, it would be appropriate under the circumstances of the case to fix the minimum wage in the Company on the basis of the minimum wage prevailing in other industries in that region.
Having come to this view, it is clear that, to give full effect to the principle laid down by this Court the case of French Motor Car Co.(1), the Tribunal should have proceeded to fix the minimum wage in the Company on the basis of the average minimum wage prevailing in these concerns.
On their basis, it appears to us that there will be full justification for fixing the minimum wage in the Company at Rs.
In this connection, we may take notice of the fact that, in the written statement of the workmen, the minimum wages prevailing in these concerns were (1) [1963] Supp.
The Tribunal considered the minimum wages in these concerns on the basis of the prevailing Price Index of 441 a ' Sambalpur taking 100 as the basic Price Index for the year 1939 Even when fixing the minimum wage ,for the Company on the basis of the alternative calculation made by the Tribunal, the Tribunal has proceeded on the assumption that the minimum wage is being fixed for the Price Index No.
441 prevailing at the time of the award taking 100 as the basic index for the year 1939 In these circumstances, we think that the minimum wage in the Company should have been fixed by the Tribunalmensera, following the principle laid down by this Court in the case of French Motor Car Co.(1).
The Tribunal should not have proceeded to make the alternative calculation on some other basis so as to arrive at a lower figure of Rs.
Learned counsel for the Company urged before us that the principle of fixation of wages on the basis of Comparison in the region laid down in the French Motor Car Co. 's case(1) is not rigid and, it is not.
in the Company must be fixed at the average level of 'wages in the other comparable industries in the region.
when applying the principle of fixing the minimum wage primarily on the basis of comparison.
Finally, it was argued that other amenities being provided by the Company should also be taken into account when fixing the minimum wage.
673 We may, at this stage, take notice of the fact that, in con sidering the question of minimum wage, the Tribunal had in view the total wage packet to be received by each workman and, in the opinion of the Tribunal, it consisted of three elements.
Thus, the total minimum wage packet which a workman should be entitled to receive was fixed by the Tribunal at Rs.
In the majority of the industries, which are being compared with the Company in the region, consequently, the minimum wage is the total wage packet receivable by the workman and there is no extra amount received as production bonus.
That particular Company, it appears, has some special features which have been brought out in the evidence of the Management 's witness, B.B.
