This appeal by special leave arises out of the suit filed by Bhaishankar Avalram Joshi, hereinafter referred to as the plaintiff, for a declaration that the order of dismissal, dated February 2/4, 1955, passed by the Inspector General of Prisons, Saurashtra, was illegal and void on the ground that it contravened the provisions of article 311 (2) of the Constitution.
The plaintiff failed before the Civil Judge, Rajkot, but on appeal succeeded before the District Judge, Central Saurashtra, inasmuch as he declared order dated February 2/4, 1955, illegal and void.
The plaintiff appealed to the High Court claiming arrears of salary and the State of Bombay filed cross objections praying that the suit be dismissed.
who directed that the decree passed by the lower appellate court "be varied so as to show that the appellant (plaintiff) continued to be in Government service till the date of the suit only and there will be a decree for Rs.
2,690 919 being arrears of pay due to the appellant (plaintiff) upto the date of the suit.
The State of Maharashtra filed as application for leave to appeal under the Letters Patent but this ' was dismissed.
The learned counsel for the appellant the state of Maharashtra , contends ,first, that the High Court erred in holding that there had been a breach of article 311(2) of the Constitution, as, according to him, there was no duty to supply a copy of the report of the enquiry held against the plaintiff.
Secondly, he contends that the High Court erred in fastening the liability in respect of the arrears of pay on the State of Maharashtra.
On March 6, 1953, the plaintiff was appointed senior jailor, Surendranagar District Jail.
On March 25, 1954, he was suspended, and at that time he was acting as Accountant at Rajkot Central Jail.
In substance the charges were that while he was serving at Surendranagar he had committed certain acts of mis appropriation of food stuffs meant for prisoners, maltreatment of prisoners and acceptance of illegal gratification from them.
The plaintiff filed a written statement on September 4, 1954, and an enquiry was held by Mr. Gangopadhyay.
The Enquiry Officer made a report and on or about January 7, 1955, the following notice was issued to him calling upon him to show cause why he should not be dismissed from service "To Shri Bhaishanker A. Joshi, Accountant, Rajkot Central Prison (Under suspension) Charges framed against you under this office No.
C/ 14 dated 27 3 54 and in particular the charges of having accepted illegal gratification from prisoner Ratilal Jivan have been established to the satisfaction of Government.
920 You should please submit your reply to this office, through the Superintendent, Rajkot Central Prison,, within a week from the date of receipt of this letter without fail.
He was dismissed by the Inspector General of Prisons by his order dated February 2/4, 1955.
This order was amended on February 9, 1955, in which it was stated that "the aforesaid order should be read so as to show that the plaintiff was dismissed from service on account of charge of accepting, illegal gratification from prisoner Ratilal Jivan having been conclusively proved against him in the departmental inquiries conducted against him by the Government".
In the plaint the plaintiff alleged that copy of the enquiry report was never supplied to him, and consequently he had not been given reasonable opportunity within the meaning of article 311 of the Constitution.
The High Court held that the failure on the part of the competent authority to provide the plaintiff with a copy of the report of the Enquiry Officer amounted to denial of reasonable opportunity contemplated by article 311(2) of the Constitution.
