Appeal by special leave from the judgment and order dated April 17, 27, 1967 of the Gujarat High Court in Civil Revision Application 328 of 1967. section T. Desai and I. N. Shroff for the appellants.
By insistence upon procedural wrangling in a com paratively simple suit pending in the Court of Small Causes at Ahmedabad the parties have effectively prevented all progress in the suit during the last six years.
A building in the town of Ahmedabad used as a cinematograph theatre belonged originally to Messrs. Popatlal Punjabhai.
estate of the owners and on August 19, 1954, the receivers ,estate of the owners and on August 19, 1954, The receivers granted a lease of the theatre on certain terms and conditions to two persons, Raval and Faraqui.
By an agreement dated November 27, 1954, between Raval and Faraqui on the one hand and Messrs. Filmistan Distributors (India) Private Ltd. hereinafter called "Filmistan on the other hand, right to exhibit cinematograph films was granted to the latter on certain terms and conditions.
149 of 1960 in the Court of the Civil Judge (Senior Division) at Ahmedabad against Raval and Faraqui and two other persons claiming a declaration that it 437 was entitled pursuant to the agreement dated November 27, 1954, to exhibit motion pictures in the theatre.
It was inter alia agreed that Raval and Faraqui were bound and liable to allow Filmistan to exercise its "exhibition rights" in the theatre; that Raval and Faraqui, their servants and agents were not to have any right to exhibit any picture in contravention of the terms and conditions of the agreement dated November 27, 1954; and that Raval and Faraqui shall "execute and register" an agreement in writing incorporating the said agreement with the variation as to rental.
1465 of 1963 in the Court of Small Causes at Ahmedabad, inter alia, for a declaration that as sub lessee or as lessee under law it was entitled to obtain and remain in possession of the theatre and to exhibit cinematograph films and to hold "entertainment performances" etc.
in the theatre, and that one Shabeer Hussain Khan Tejabwala had no right, title or interest in the theatre, that the defendants in the suit be ordered to hand over vacant and peaceful possession of the theatre, and the defendants, their servants and agents be restrained by an injunction from interfering directly or indirectly with its rights to obtain and remain in possession of the theatre or any part thereof and to exercise its right of exhibiting "motion pictures" and entertainment performances etc.
The suit was based on the claim by Filmistan as lessees or sub lessees of the theatre and was exclusively triable by the Court of Small Causes by virtue of section 28 of the Bombay Rents, Hotel and Lodging House Rates Control Act, 1947.
Three sets of written statements were filed against the claim made by Filmistan, but no reference need be made thereto, since at this stage in deciding appeal the merits of the pleas raised by the defendants are not relevant.
After issues were raised on June 20, 1966, the plaint was amended and additional written statements were filed by the Defendants.
Whether in view of the said consent decree, defendants 5 and 6 are estopped from contending and leading any evidence and putting questions in crossexamination of plaintiffs witnesses to show that the said document dated November 27, 1954 as confirmed by their letter dated January 31, 1955 and further confirmed by document dated December 1, 1960 is not a lease ?
In drawing up the additional issues not much care was apparently exercised : whether a party is entitled to lead evidence or to put questions in cross examination of the plaintiff 's witnesses cannot form the subject matter of an issue.
Filmistan then applied to the Court of Small Causes for an order that issues Nos.
He also observed that the issues were not of law going to the root of the case and were on that account not capable of being decided without recording evidence.
A revision application against that order was dismissed in limine by the High Court of Gujarat.
Thereafter elaborate arguments were advanced and the Trial Judge passed an order disallowing the objection.
The objection to the question raised by Filmistan was not that it related to a matter to be decided by the Court and on which the opinion of witnesses was irrelevant.
