Suraj Mall Mohta is also the managing director of another company Messrs. Jute and Gunny Brokers Ltd. A reference had been made by the Central Government under the provisions of section 5(1) of the Act before 58 450 1st September, 1948, of the case of Messrs. Jute and Gunny Brokers Ltd. to the Investigation Commission appointed under Act XXX of 1947.
On the 12th April, 1954, the present petition under article 32 of the Constitution was filed for the issue of appropriate writs restraining the Commission from taking any action against the petitioner under the provisions of Act XXX of 1947, on the ground that the provisions of sections 5(1), 5(4),6,7 and 8 of Act XXX of 1947, had become void, being discriminatory in character after the coming into force of the Constitution of India.
In order to appreciate the respective contentions raised and canvassed before us on behalf of the petitioner company and the State, it is necessary to set out some of the relevant provisions of the Act.
The object of the Act as stated in its Preamble was to ascertain whether the actual incidence of taxation on income in recent years had been in accordance with 451 provisions of law and whether the procedure for assessment and recovery of tax, was adequate to prevent evasion thereof.
Section 3 authorizes the Central Government to constitute a Commission, to be called the Income tax Investigation Commission, it,% duty, being (a) to investigate and report to the Central Government on all matters relating to taxation on income, with particular reference to the extent to which the existing law relating to, and procedure for, the assessment and collection of such taxation is adequate to prevent the evasion thereof; (b) to investigate in accordance with the provisions of this Act any case or points in a case referred to it under section 5.
(2)The Commission shall also have power to administer oaths, and shall have all the powers of a civil court under the Code of Civil Procedure, 1908, for the purposes of taking evidence on oath, enforcing the attendance of witnesses and of persons whose cases are being investigated, compelling the production of documents and issuing commissions for the examination of witnesses.
