721 Appeal by special leave from the judgment and order dated January 24, 1967 of the High Court of Mysore in Criminal Appeal .No.
Shyamala Pappu and section P. Nayar, for the respondent.
, These are 14 appellants who appeal against their conviction under section 395 of the Indian Penal Code and sentences of 5 years ' rigorous imprisonment and fine of Rs.
Originally 20 persons were tried and convicted for the same offence and received a like sentence.
The incident which took place on July 28, 1962 was theft by dacoity of certain cotton pieces from two carts within the limits of Lingsugar Police Station at about 11 30 p.m.
The facts are that two traders in cloth sent their wares in carts for sale.
When the carts reached a Nala called Heri Halla about three miles from Lingsugur at about 11 30 p.m., 20 persons are said to have approached the carts and pelted stones.
The accused were convicted on the sole evidence of having in their possession pieces of cloth which were later identified to belong to the traders.
In these searches cloth which was undoubtedly stolen at the time of the dacoity was found in their houses.
The High Court, and the Court below drew from this the conclusion that the appellants were themselves the dacoits, and convicted them accordingly under section 395 of the Indian Penal Code and sentenced them to ' 5 years ' rigorous imprisonment and fine of Rs.
In this appeal, the only contention raised by Mr. A. section R. Chari is that the presumption that they were dacoits ought not to have been drawn since the circumstances do not admit the drawing of such a presumption in the case, According to Mr. Chari, the presumption to be drawn ought to have been one under section 41 1 722 of Indian Penal Code or at the most tinder section 412 of the Indian Penal Code but not of complicity in the crime of dacoity.
According to him there is no other evidence in the case which points, to the complicity of the 14 appellants in the crime of dacoity and therefore as they cannot be suspected to be dacoits themselves, the only presumption to be drawn is one of receivers of stolen property or as receivers of property which was stolen in a dacoity.
In our opinion, the law advocated by Mr. Chari is not correct.
If there is other evidence, to connect an accused with the crime itself, however small, the finding of the stolen property with him is a piece of evidence which connects him further with the crime.
In what circumstances the one presumption or the other may be drawn, it is not necessary to state categorically in this case.
It all depends upon the circumstances under which the discovery of the fruits of crime are made with a particular accused.
