Appeal by special leave from the judgment and order dated January 17, 1967 of the Patna High Court in C.W.J.C.
M. C. Chagla, N. D. Karkhanis, section P. Chowdhury, Bhuvanesh Kumari, for the appellant.
This is an assessee 's, appeal by special leave against the judgment of the High Court of Patna dismissing in limini its writ petition under Arts 226 and 227 of the Constitution of India.
The assessee also produced before him a statement showing various creditors from whom it had borrowed on Hundis during the accounting year in question.
In that statement it gave the lull names and address of the alleged creditors.
The notice is being issued after obtaining the necessary satisfaction of the Commissioner of IncomeTax, Bihar and Orissa, Patna.
As we are accepting the contention of the assessee that the impugned notice is invalid inasmuch as it did not comply with the requirements of section 151(2) of the Act, we have not thought it necessary to examine the other contentions advanced on behalf of the assessee.
Section 151 (2) of the Act reads "No notice shall be issued under Section 148 after the expiry of four years from the end of the relevant assessment year, unless the Commissioner is satisfied on the reasons recorded by the Income tax Officer that it is a fit case for the issue of such notice."
(2) The Income tax Officer shall, before issuing any notice under this section, record his reasons for doing so. "
Section 139(2) says : "In the case of any person who, in the incometax Officer 's opinion, assessable under this Act, whether on his own total income or, on the total income of any other person during the previous year, the Income tax Officer may, before the end of the relevant assessment year, serve a notice upon him requiring him to furnish, within thirty days from the date of service of the notice, a return of his income or the income of such other person during the previous year, in the prescribed form and verified in the prescribed manner and setting forth such other particulars as may be prescribed."
(proviso is not necessary for our present purpose) When this appeal came up for hearing on the last occasion, as we found the affidavit filed by the Income tax Officer to 'be vague and indefinite, we directed the learned Counsel for the Department to produce before us the records of the Incometax Officer to show that the, Income tax Officer had complied with the requirements of section 148 and section 151(2) of the Act.
The order sheet recording the reasons of the Income tax Officer as required by section 148(2) was not produced.
Hereinbelow we have sent out the report of the Income tax Officer as well as the order of the Commissioner: Report in Connection with the starting of proceeding" under Section 147 of the Income tax Act, 1951.
