Appeal by certificate under Article 134(1)(c) of the Constitution of India from the judgment and order dated 18 3 1969 of the Andhra Pradesh High Court in Criminal Revision Case No.
F. section Nariman, Additional Solicitor General of India and A. V. Rangam, for the appellants.
This is an appeal against the judgment of the Full Bench of the Andhra Pradesh High Court reported in A.I.R.
Admittedly no general body meeting had been held and, therefore, the balance sheet and profit and loss account had not been laid before a general body meeting nor could it be so laid.
The Full Bench speaking through Jaganmohan Reddy, C.J., as our learned brother then was, held that if no balance sheet is laid before a general body, there can be no question of that balance sheet not being adopted nor of complying with the requirements of section 220 and though wilful omission to call a general body meeting and to lay the balance sheet and profit and loss account before it may expose the person responsible to punishment under other provisions of the Act, it certainly does not make him liable under the provisions of section 134(4) of the Companies Act, 1913 or section 220 of the .
view that a person charged with an offence cannot rely on his default as an answer to the charge and so, if he was responsible for not calling the general meeting, he cannot be heard to say in defence to the charges brought against him that because the general meeting had not been called, the balance sheet and profit and loss account could not be laid before it.
In that case the directors of a company were prosecuted under sections 32(5) and 133(3) of the Companies Act, 1913, for breaches of sections 32 and 131 of that Act for having knowingly and wilfully authorized the failure to file the summary of share capital for the year 1953 and being knowingly and wilfully parties to the failure to lay before the company in general meeting the balance sheet and profit and loss account as at March 31, 1953.
The Bombay High Court, however, following its earlier decision in Imperator vs The Pioneer Clay and Industrial Works Ltd.(1) had upheld the acquittal of the directors by the Presidency Magistrate.
After referring to the decisions in Gibson vs Barlon(2) Edmonds vs Foster(3) and Park vs Lawton(4 )where it was held that a person charged with an offence could not rely on his own default as an answer to the charge, and so, if the person charged was responsible for not calling the general meeting, he cannot be heard to say, in defence to the charge that the general meeting had not been called, and that the company and its officers were bound to perform the condition precedent if they could do that, in order that they might perform their duty, this Court considered that as the correct view to take.
As we said earlier, most of the High Courts which have considered this question after the decision of this Court have proceeded on the basis that the decision necessarily led to the conclusion that even in a prosecution under section 134 of the 1913 Act (corresponding to section 220 of the 1956 Act) the company and its directors could not rely upon their failure to call the general body meeting as a defence to the prosecution.
Under this category fall the decisions in Dulal Chandra Bhar vs Slate of West Bengal,(5) and Gopal Khaitan vs State (6) of the Calcutta High Court.
The Orissa High Court had taken a similar view in Registrar of Companies vs Misra (3) but in a latter decision in Vulcan Industries (P) Ltd. vs Registrar of Companies, Orissa(4) it has taken a contrary view and followed the decision of the Andhra Pradesh High Court in the judgment under appeal.
The earliest decision is the one in Debendra Nath Das Gupta vs Registrar of Joint Stock Companies.
In that case the principle laid down in Park vs Lawton(8) was applied and it was held that it is not open to the petitioner to plead in answer to a charge under sections 134 his prior default in respect of the calling of the prescribed general meeting and of placing before the company at such meeting a duly prepared and audited balance sheet.
