(d) To collect and disseminate statistical and other information and to make effort for the spread of commercial and economic knowledge.
(f)To provide for arbitration in respect of disputes arising, in the course of trade, industry or transport or other business matters, and to secure the services 350 of expert technical and other men to that end if necessary or desirable.
(z) To take or otherwise acquire and hold shares in any other association or company having objects altogether or in part similar to those of the Federation.
(zl) To establish a Trust or Trusts and/or appoint Trustees thereof from time to time and vest the funds or the surplus income or any property of the Federation in the Trustees who shall hold and deal with the funds, surplus income or property in such manner as the Committee may decide.
The Federation then moved the High Court under Article 226 of the Constitution for bringing up and quashing the order, dated February 4, 1964 passed by the Chief Inspector (Appellant 2).
From the side of the present appellant, at first a half hearted attempt was made to show that the Federation is carrying on a profession as it is "tendering advice to all businessmen and traders".
352 It was then contended that the activities of the Federation carried on in the premises in question amounted to "work in connection with, or incidental or ancillary" to trade or business in general within the latter part of the definition of "commercial establishment".
They read "Commercial establishment" means any premises wherein any trade, business or profession or any work in connection with, or incidental or ancillary thereto is carried on and includes a society registered under the , and charitable or other trust, whether registered or not, which carries on any business, trade or profession or work in connection with or incidental or ancillary thereto, ' journalistic and printing establishments, quarries and mines not governed by the , educational or other Institutions run for private gain and premises in which business of banking, insurance, stocks and shares, brokerage or produce exchange is, carried on, but does not include a shop or a factory registered under the , or theaters, cinemas, restaurants, eating houses residential hotels, clubs or other places of public amusement or entertainment. "
" Shop" means any premises where goods are sold, either by retail or wholesale Or where services are rendered to customers, and includes an office, a stoic room, godown, warehouse or workhouse, or work place, whether in the same premises or otherwise, used in or in connection with such trade or business but does not include a factory or commercial establishment. "
The controversy centres round the questions whether the activity of the Federation carried on in these premises is a "trade, business or profession" within the meaning of pari (a) of the definition.
It came up for consideration before this Court in Management of the Federation of Indian Chambers of Commerce and Industry vs Their workman, Shri R. K.
In the alternative, learned Counsel contends that even if this plea is allowed to be raised, then also the primary activity of the Federation cannot, by any stretch of reasoning, be called a 'trade, business of profession within the definition of "commercial establishment" given in the Act.
The occasional exhibitions or , museums organised by it are activities which are only incidental or ancillary to the primary charitable object of the Federation.
354 dends are declared, no profits are shared or divided among the Individual members, and no goods are sold or exchanged.
