The question that arises in this appeal by special leave is whether Shri Vithal Sukhamai Sansthan at Amalner, (East Khandesh) was a private Devasthan or a public religious trust.
Although the origin of the Sansthan is dipped somewhat in antiquity and direct testimony was lacking, it has never been disputed that Sakharam Maharaj constructed a temple in the year 1817 at Amalner and installed the aforesaid deity according to religious rites.
The Assistant Charity Commissioner after requisite notice made an enquiry into the matter in accordance with the provisions of the Act.
On behalf of the applicants representing the Sansthan evidence of the attorney Ramkrishna Deshpande was recorded and he was cross examined by the assessors as well as by the Assistant Charity Commissioner.
That led to an application under section 72 of the Act to the District Judge of West Khandesh at Dhulia which was duly filed on behalf of Purshottambuwa who meanwhile succeeded Guru Vasudeobuwa as "owner" of the Sansthan.
The learned District Judge reversed the decision of the Charity Commissioner by his order of October 16, 1959, and declared the Sansthan to be a private property and not a public trust.
Hence this appeal by special leave which was obtained on March 29, 1968, after condonation of delay, in the peculiar circumstances of the case arising out of revocation by the High Court of its earlier certificate in favour of the appellant on account of default of deposit of security.
Since the grievance of the appellant is directed against the High Court 's absolute failure to consider all the documentary evidence, we may deal with that aspect first.
This Sanad was granted by the then British Government during the reign of Queen Victoria in favour of "Devasthan Shri Vithal Rukhamai '.
623 and 624 measuring 14.5 acres of land in the name of the holder as Devasthan Shri Vithal Rukhamai, Manager Balkrishnabuwa, Guru Govindbuwa, Amalnairker.
There are significant recitals in the Sanad to the following effect: "It is hereby declared that the said land shall be continued for ever by the British Government as the endowment property of Shri Vithal Rukhamai of Kasabe Amalnair Talooka Amalnir on the following conditions, that is to say, that the managers thereof shall continue faithful subjects of the British Government, and .
The Sanad being an ancient Royal grant is a very important piece of evidence to show that although Sakharam Maharaj, the founder of the temple, had already been succeeded by Guru Govindbuwa and the latter by Balkrishnabuwa, the land had been held in the year 1860 61 in the name of the Devasthan.
This would go to show that the Government recognised the Sansthan with the temple as a public religious endowment and only on that basis the grant was continued.
This evidence of Ramkrishna Deshpande stands corroborated by the Sanad which shows in the year 1860 61 the Manager of the Sansthan as Balkrishnabuwa Guru Govindbuwa.
The next document in sequence is a Varaspatra of February 28, 1869 (exhibit 35) executed by Guru Govind Balkrishna buwa in favour of Prahladbuwa.
The appellant draws our attention to the following recitals in the above deed: "I have been carrying on the Malaki of Shri Sansthan Amalner. "
We are unable to accept this submission as we find some other significant recitals in the documents itself warranting a contrary conclusion.
This ancient document read as a whole does not admit of any other interpretation consistent with the nature of the property and the avowed object and purpose of the founder clearly revealed therein which has been carried into effect by successive loyal and devoted disciples.
In exhibit 40 the party taking the gift is described as Vahiwatdar Panch of Shri Sakharam Maharaj, Sansthan, Vithalwadi, Amalner.
x x x x x I have given in gift the above mentioned property as aforesaid of my free will for the purpose of religious work in order that my life may be of bliss as I have no male issue and wife.
