Appeal by Special Leave from the Award of the Industrial Tribunal, Gujarat in Reference (II) No.
631 of 1976 Appeal by Special leave from the Award of the Industrial Tribunal, Gujarat in Ref.
631 of 1976 arises out of the Tribunal 's award in the dispute between Jyoti Limited, Baroda, and its workmen.
It was also a grievance that the benefit under the scheme of the Act was much less than the normal earnings of an employee and was not beneficial to the workmen.
It was also urged that section 99 of the Act gave wide powers to the Employees ' State Insurance Corpora tion to enhance the benefit and it was therefore the proper authority to examine the demand.
The Company also contended that there was no practice of giving any such sick leave in the industries in Baroda or in the State of Gujarat.
In the case of Jyoti Ltd. an objection was taken that the reference was incompetent and the Tribunal had no jurisdiction to entertain it.
It was also pointed out that the benefit of sick.leave of 7 days per year was initially given to the workmen under an award dated August 29, 1958 which contained a specific direction that it would be automatically discon tinued when the benefits of the Employees ' State Insurance scheme would become available to the workmen, and also that the reasonableness of the demand could not be examined by the Tribunal.
An objection was also taken that the workmen had benefited a lot under the entire scheme of the Act and it would not be reasonable and proper to confer any addi tional benefit as the demands would place a heavy financial burden on the Company which it Could not bear.
The demand, according to the Company, would create an absurd position inasmuch as a worker would receive more wages by remaining absent than on duty.
The Company also pleaded that the demand for sickness leave could not be granted retrospec tively or allowed to accumulate.
The controversy in these cases is whether the benefits admissible under the Act in the matter of the grant of sick leave are such as to justify the rejection of the workmen 's demand and the setting aside of the Tribunal 's awards in that respect.
It has been argued by the learned counsel for the appel lants that as the benefits of sections 47 and 49 of the Act are already admissible to workmen in Baroda with effect from December 14, 1969, and they are quite adequate, the Tribunal committed an error 83 of law in granting the additional benefits mentioned above.
Reference in this connection has been made to section 61 of the Act which provides that when a person is entitled to any of the benefits provided by the Act, he shall not be enti tled to receive any similar benefit admissible under the provisions of any other enactment.
It provides in section 46(1)(a) for periodical treatment of any insured person in case of his sickness if certified by a duly appointed medical practitioner.
It is unnec essary to mention here the several provisions in the Act; viz., Sections 47, 48 and 49 which deal 'with the eligibility of workmen for sickness .benefit and the extent of the benefit that may be granted.
Section 56 of the Act pro vides for medical benefits to the insured workmen or in certain cases to the members of his family.
