This rule was issued on a petition filed under article 32 of the Constitution by one Purshottam Govindji Halai, a citizen of India, calling upon the respondents to show cause why a writ in the nature of a writ of habeas corpus should not be issued by this Court directing the Superintendent, House of Correction, Byculla, being the second respondent herein., to produce before this Court one Govindji Deoji Halai, the father of the petitioner, who is also a citizen of India., for the purpose of being released forthwith.
The said Govindji Deoji Halai (hereinafter referred to as the "assessee") is the sole proprietor of a business carried on under the name and style of Indestro Sales and Service Co. at No.
1,92,000 and a recovery certificate was also issued by the Income tax Officer to the Additional Collector of Bombay.
On the 1st February, 1954 the Additional Collector issued a notice of demand on the assessee for payment of the assessed amount of tax.
The sale proceeds not being sufficient to satisfy the assessed tax the Additional Collector on the 7th June 1955 issued a notice under section 13 of the Bombay City Land Revenue Act, 1876, requiring the assessee to appear before him in person on the 16th June 1955 and show cause why he, the assessee, should not be apprehended and confined to civil jail in satisfaction of the said certified demand.
The contentions put forward on behalf of the assessee not being considered satisfactory the Additional Collector on the 30th June 1955 issued a warrant for the arrest of the assessee under section 13 of the Bombay City Land Revenue Act, 1876.
On the 8th July 1955 an application was made by the present petitioner to the Bombay High Court under article 226 complaining of the arrest of his father, the assessee, and praying for a writ in the nature of a writ of habeas corpus for the production and release of the assessee.
The first objection to the above sub section is that it 893 contravenes the fundamental rights guaranteed by clauses (1) and (2) of article 22.
In view of the decision of this Court in the State of Punjab vs Ajaib Singh & Another(1) this objection has not been pressed before us and we need say no more about it.
The second objection to section 46(2) of the Indian Income tax Act is that it is violative of article 21.
In this case the assessee has been arrested and is being detained in jail in execution of a warrant of arrest issued under section 13 of the Bombay City Land Revenue Act, 1876 for the recovery of the demand certified under section 46(2) of the Indian Income tax Act.
As long as those sec tions stand no complaint can be made of infringement of article 21, for those two sections constitute a procedure established by law.
We have, therefore, to pass on to the third objection to section 46(2) founded on article 14 of the Constitution which alone has been strenuously insisted on before us by learned counsel for the petitioner.
It is pointed out that the first part of section 46(2) provides that the Collector, on receipt of a certificate from the Income tax Officer, shall proceed to recover from the defaulting assessee the amount specified therein as if it were an arrear of land revenue.
It is submitted that section 46(2) provides for two different and alternative methods of recovery of the dues and clothes the Collector with the power to apply either of the two methods, that is to say, he may issue a warrant of arrest under section 13 of the Bombay City Land Revenue Act, 1876 against one defaulter and keep him in detention for a period which may (1) ; 894 work out to be much longer than six months and he may proceed against another defaulter under the Code of Civil Procedure and arrest and detain him for the maximum period of six months.
All that the sub section directs the Collector to do is to proceed to recover the certified amount as if it were an arrear of land revenue, that is to say, he is to adopt the procedure prescribed by the appropriate law of his State for the recovery of land revenue and that in thus proceeding he is, under the proviso, to have all the powers a Civil Court has under the Code.
In our opinion the proviso does not indicate a different and alternative mode of recovery of the certified amount of tax but only confers additional powers on the Collector for the better and more effective application of the only mode of recovery authorised by the body of sub section (2) of section 46.
Act III of 1901) limits the period of detention to 15 days and also exempts many persons, e.g. Talukdars and women, from any imprisonment.
The argument is that income tax being a subject with respect to which the Union alone may make law and the recovery of it being the Union responsibility, the machinery for the recovery of income tax should be framed on a uniform all India basis, for to the Union all defaulters who may not pay up the Union demand are similarly situated; but the Indian Income tax Act by section 46(2) authorises the Collectors in different States to adopt machinery which differs from State to State, so that defaulters are treated differently in different States.
The contention is that section 46(2) which sanctions such discrimination is clearly violative of the equal protection clause of the Constitution and has, therefore, become void under article 13 (1).
The learned Attorney General appearing for the respondents seeks to meet the aforesaid argument in two ways.
All that it says is that the certified amount of income tax is to be recovered as if it were an arrear of land revenue and there its operation ends.
