Appeal from the Judgment and order dated 3 2 1978 of the Andhra Pradesh High Court in Crl.
The appellant was acquitted by the learned Additional Sessions judge, Chittoor of an offence under Section 302, Indian Penal Code.
The acquittal was reversed by the High Court of Andhra Pradesh and the appellant was convicted under Section 302 Indian Penal Code and sentenced to suffer imprisonment for life.
About three months before the occurrence the deceased gave birth to a female child in the house of the accused at Cherlopalle.
They replied that she had only delivered a child recently and that she would be sent to her husband 's house in the fifth month.
On 18th December, 1972, according to the case of the prosecution the accused once again requested his mother in law to send his wife to his house.
2 told him that she would send the girl in the fifth month as she had not yet regained her health after delivery.
On waking up they saw the accused sitting by the side of the deceased with a knife in his hand.
They found the deceased bleeding profusely from the left side of her chest.
They caught hold of the accused and tied him to a pole in front of the house by means of a rope.
When the Police officers went to the village, they 366 found the accused tied to a pole.
The Medical Officer, P. W. 12 who conducted the autopsy, found on the dead body a stab wound over the left axila 6 cms.
The stab injury had gone through the third intercostal space and through the upper lobe of the left lung in an upward and medial direction.
He commented on the failure of the Police to seize the mat or bedding on which the deceased was sleeping.
He referred to the evidence of me Doctor who stated that the injury found on the deceased could have been caused even if she was standing.
The learned Sessions Judge thought that when there were two divergent versions given by the prosecution and the defence and when two views were possible, the benefit of doubt should be given to the accused.
The learned Judges pointed out that there was no reason to doubt the testimony of P. Ws.
1 to 3 and that the discrepancies noticed by the learned Sessions 367 Judge were of a minor character.
The High Court observed that the learned Sessions Judge had magnified the importance to be attached to minor discrepancies.
The High Court also concluded from the medical evidence that it was more probable that the deceased was stabbed when she was lying down.
4 and 5 who came to the scene soon afterwards, the High Court convicted the accused under Section 302 and sentenced him as aforesaid.
He submitted that the version of the accused that the occurrence took place at about 10 p.m. was substantiated by what was mentioned in exhibit P. 15 the wound certificate given by P.W.
He urged that at the reasons given by the learned Sessions Judge had not been met by the High Court.
He also contended that two views were possible on the evidence and the accused was entitled to the benefit of doubt.
We have perused the relevant evidence as well as the judgments of the Sessions Judge and the High Court.
We are unable to find any substance in the submissions made by the, learned Counsel for the appellant.
1, 2 and 3 were of a minor character and that they have been unduly magnified by the learned Sessions Judge.
The discrepancies were in regard to which of them woke up first, where was the lantern and which of the neighbours came first to the scene on hearing their cries.
We do not think that an injury of the nature received by the deceased could have been caused in the manner suggested by the accused.
The injury must have been caused in the manner suggested by the prosecution that 368 is, when the deceased was lying on her right side.
It is obvious that he must have been upset by the persistent refusal of the brother and mother of the deceased to send her with him to his house.
He probably attributed the refusal to reluctance on the part of his wife to accompany him straightaway.
