Appeals by Special Leave from the Judgment and order dated 20 1 1979 of the Madhya Pradesh High Court in Misc.
23 of 1956) (hereinafter referred to as 'the Act '), the Collector of Raipur published the preliminary electoral roll on September 30, 1978 under Rule 4(1) of the Madhya Pradesh Munici 493 pal Corporation (Preparation, Revision and Publication of Electoral Rolls and Selection of Councillors) Rules, 1963 (hereinafter referred to as 'the Rules ') promulgated under the Act by the Madhya Pradesh State Government and issued a public notice under Rule 4(1) of the Rules calling upon persons whose names had not been included in the electoral roll and who claimed to be included in i. and persons who had any objection to the inclusion of the name of any person in the said electoral roll to submit their claims and/or objections within 20 days from the date of the publication of the said notice before Shri K. P. Pande, Deputy Collector, Raipur who had been authorised to pass orders on such claims or objections.
It was also notified that claims or objections which had not been preferred as required under the Rules within the prescribed period would be rejected.
Thereafter the calendar of events was published on November 25, 1978 notifying that the poll, if necessary would take place on December 31, 1978 in all the 44 constituencies: Six petitioners including the appellants herein presented a petition under Article 226 of the Constitution before the High Court of Madhya Pradesh at Jabalpur on December 28, 1978 requesting the Court to make an order quashing the electoral roll and the calendar of events issued for the purpose of the said election and directing the respondents to refrain from conducting the poll on December 31, 1978.
They prayed for a further direction to be issued to the respondents calling upon them to hold the election after preparing the electoral roll afresh in accordance with the provisions of the Act and the Rules.
They also prayed for the issue of an interim order staying the poll which had been fixed to be held on December 31, 1978.
On December 30, 1978, the learned Single Judge before whom the case came up for orders directed the issue of notice of the petition and the stay application to the respondents and issued an interim order directing the respondents not to notify the results of the election under Rule 46 of the Rules pending disposal of the petition.
Thereafter the successful candidates were also impleaded as respondents and the petition was amended by the inclusion of an additional prayer that the declaration of the results of the election should also be quashed.
After the respondents filed their counter affidavits, the petition was heard and it was dismissed by a Division Bench of the High Court on January 20, 1979.
Aggrieved by the order passed by the High Court, Ashok Kumar Mishra and Bhagwat Singh Thakur (Petitioners No.
It was alleged that by reason of a shorter period being fixed for entertaining claims and objections, a large number or people who could have filed claims and objections were prevented from preferring them within 30 days from the date of publication or the notice which was the prescribed period.
5 had filed a claim to include his name in the electoral roll on October 19, 1978 and that was rejected by the Deputy Collector without following the procedure prescribed for the purpose.
It was also alleged that on October 20, 1978, 34 persons mentioned in Annexure P 7 approached the Deputy Collector to entertain their claim for inclusion in the electoral roll and he refused to receive their applications.
became a nullity and that therefore, the declaration of results of all the 44 successful candidates was liable to be quashed.
5 was rejected as no evidence in support of his claim was produced before the Deputy Collector.
