Appeal by Special Leave from the Award dated 20 12 1978 of the Industrial Tribunal Maharashtra in Reference (IT) No.
This appeal by special leave has been preferred by Tata Consultancy Engineers against an award dated 20th December, 1978 of the Industrial Tribunal, Maharashtra, Bombay revising the wage scales of certain categories of employees and granting various other benefits.
It functions as a consulting organisation and a service industry, and does not manufacture any product or carry on trade.
They served a Charter of Demands in July, 1974, on the appellant, and as their demands were not accepted and conciliation proceedings proved fruitless, the State Government made a reference of the dispute under section 10(1) (d), Industrial Tribunal, Maharashtra for adjudication.
170 The Union filed a statement before the Tribunal claiming an upward revision of the wage scales and dearness allowance and an increase from fifteen years to twenty years in the span for earning annual increments.
The claim of the Union was resisted by the appellant, who maintained that the existing wage scales were fair and reasonable on a region cum industry basis and that it would not be possible for the appellant to bear the additional financial burden if the demands of the Union were accepted.
Dearness allowance became payable at 10% of the basic wage subject to a minimum of Rs.
Nothing those facts, the Tribunal observed that compared with the increased paying capacity of the appellant, an inference drawn from the prosperity enjoyed by the appellant over the years, there was definite need for revising the wage scales.
Wage scale statements were filed by the parties before the Tribunal pertaining to several engineering consultancy organisations but in the absence of pertinent information concerning the strength of their labour force, the extent of their business, the financial position for some years, the capital invested, the precise nature of the business, the position regarding reserves, dividends declared and future prospects of the company, the Tribunal found that it was unable to rely on them as comparable concerns.
Holding it impossible in the circumstances to apply the principle of industry cum region basis, the Tribunal turned to a consideration of the financial capacity of the company to bear an additional burden.
Having regard to the net profits earned by the appellant from 1968 to 1977 it found that the acceptance of the demands of the Union would result in an increased burden of Rs.
Nonetheless, the Tribunal observed, there was every reason to expect that the appellant would be able to earn sound profits in the future, and the instability in its business activities occasioned by the turbulent political situation in Iran, would be, it was expected, compensated by contracts secured in different developing countries.
For the purpose of determining the financial capacity of the appellant, the Tribunal followed Unichem Laboratories vs Their Workmen(1) where it was held that the gross profits should be computed without making deductions on account of taxation, development rebate and depreciation.
The Tribunal took note of the elaborate scales of wages already existing in the wage structure of the appellant and decided "to modify the existing structure of the scales with flat increases in each category. "
But it rejected the demand of the Union for dearness allowance on the basis of a slab system, because that would have imposed an unacceptable burden on the appellant 's financial capacity and there was no reason why the existing scheme of dearness allowance should be disturbed when a substantial increase was being made in the level of the basic wage.
Taking into account the circumstance that besides the staff of 306 workmen represented by the Union there were several other employees who would also have to be paid, the Tribunal considered it fair, in paragraph 23 of the award, to give a flat increase of Rs.
The revised wage scales, the Tribunal directed, should take effect retrospectively from 1st January, 1976.
It also laid down the principle enabling the actual fitment of the workmen in their respective wage scales as on that date and also provided for the number of increments to which they would be entitled having regard to the period of completed service.
173 Two days after the award was made, an application was made by the Union stating: "In the said award, your Honour has observed, at the end of para 22, "In view of the increase that is being allowed in the basic pay, I do not propose to revise the existing scheme of Dearness Allowance. "
On the same date, the Tribunal disposed of the application by the following order: "There can be no doubt that a flat increase of Rs.
The fitment has also to be done only after the flat increase is added to the present basic salary of each employee.
One is the retrospectivity attached to the revised wage scales, and the other is the flat increase given to each 174 employee of Rs.
2300 of 1979, in which they have challenged the rejection by the Tribunal of their claim in respect of dearness allowance which, they contend, should be pegged to the cost of living index and should not be a fixed amount.
Considering the appeal of Tata Consulting Engineers first, the contention of learned counsel for the appellant is that having regard to the financial capacity of the appellant the Tribunal erred in making the wage scales retrospective and, in any event, in ranging the retrospectivity back to 1st January, 1976.
We have been taken through some of the material on the record in the attempt to support the contention, but after giving careful thought to the matter, I think there is ample justification for what the Tribunal did.
It must be remembered that although the wage scales were introduced as long ago as 1973 they were maintained at that level except for a slight revision some time thereafter.
The cost of living had gone on increasing from 1972 onwards and, as the Tribunal has found, the dearness allowance and house rent allowance made no appreciable impact in neutralising the increasing cost.
The Charter of Demands was presented by the Union in July, 1974 and when conciliation proceedings failed the State Government made the reference to the Industrial Tribunal in 1975.
The Tribunal has referred to various considerations which prevailed with it in giving retrospectivity to the revised pay scales.
Accordingly, the contention raised on behalf of the appellant against retrospectivity of the wage scales must be rejected.
100/ to each workman in the case of other categories, a result wholly unwarranted, it is said, by the intent of the original award and, therefore, falling beyond the jurisdiction of the Tribunal.
The Labour Court, Tribunal or Arbitrator may correct any clerical mistake or error arising from an accidental slip or omission in any award it or he issues. "
It must not be a mistake or error which calls for rectification by modification of the conscious adjudication on the issues involved.
Is the instant case one where the amendment made by the Tribunal in the original award can be said to correct a mere clerical mistake or error arising from an accidental slip or omission?
The terms of reference in the State Government 's order required the Tribunal to revise the scales of pay and dearness allowance, and there was no mention of giving any ad hoc increase in the basic pay of individual workman.
It would do well to recall that the claim of the Union filed before the Tribunal also centered on the need to revise the wage scales.
The financial capacity of the appellant, and the related study of its annual profits from 1968 to 1977, were examined from that view point.
The financial capacity, as the Tribunal observed, constituted one of "the principles which are required to be followed in the fixation of the wage structure."
A clear statement of its intention is found in paragraph 22 of the award, where the Tribunal stated: "I only propose to modify the existing structures of the scales with flat increases in each category."
And that is confirmed by what was stated in paragraph 23 of the award: "Considering this outgoing the flat increase of Rs.
100/ in the initial pay fixed in each scale, the increase in the case of the category of Draughtsmen being Rs.
The amendment made by the Tribunal has the effect of providing a second increase, this time to each individual workmen.
If, as the Tribunal has stated in the amendment order, the increase in paragraph 23 was intended to apply to each individual workmen, there is nothing in the body of the award to form the foundation on which the actual figures in the restructured pay scales can be made to rest.
There will be no explanation why the initial start of the revised pay scales has been increased by Rs.
Considering the fitment of the workman in the revised scales, it was stated in the award that a workman found drawing a salary less than the beginning of the grade would be stepped up to the beginning of the grade and if his pay fell between two steps in the reclassified pay scales the basic pay was to be fixed at the step higher in the revised scale.
Conspicuous by its absence is any reference to a flat increase in the pay of an individual workmen.
Even when considering the range of permissible retrospectivity the Tribunal stated in the award: "In view of the revision of the wage scales, there would be consequent increase in the dearness allowance and the house rent allowance. "
This liability taken with the liability accruing on the need to increase the salaries of the other staff determined the Tribunal 's deliberations in regard to the several features of the award, including the grant of increments related to completed periods of service, the expansion of the span from 15 years to 20 years for earning increments, and other benefits.
5 lakhs mentioned in paragraph 33 of the award represented the result of adding a flat increase to the pay of each workman in addition to the benefits conferred by the revised pay scales and other awarded reliefs.
