From the judgment and decree dated April 21, 1969 of the Allahabad High Court in First Appeal No.
Sampath, Mukul Mudgal and Raju Ramachandran for the Appellants.
R.K. Garg, Mrs. Urmila Sirur and Shiv Pujan Singh, for the Respondents.
(b) of clause (I) of Article 133 of the Constitution granted by the Allahabad High Court against its judgment and decree dated April 21, 1969 disposing of appeals out of a suit for declaration and possession.
The plaintiffs filed a suit claiming that the property in dispute belonged to the Math Sauna or the deity Sri Thakur Gokarneshwar 661 Mahadeo Ji installed in the Math Sauna temple, and that Mahant Sadashiva Yati was in possession as Mahant and Sarbarakar.
The suit was contested by the first defendant, Kedar Nath Chaubey, also referred to as Uma Shanker Yati.
One of the earliest Mahants of the Math Mahant Gokaran Yati, raised a temple in the premises of the Math and installed a deity acclaimed by the name of "Gokarneshwar Mahadeo".
On his death he was succeeded by Mahant Shivbaran Yati, who executed a waqf deed on November 12, 1892 dedicating various properties to the deity with the intent that arrangements for bhog, deepdan and other expenses be met from them.
The surplus, the deed directed was to be employed for acquiring further property in the name of the deity and was not to be applied by the Sarbarakar to his personal use.
The learned Civil Judge decreed the suit but included a finding in his judgment that Sadashiv Yati was not a regularly constituted Mahant of Math Sauna and Sarbarakar of the deity.
80 of 1964 was filed by Kedar Nath Chaubey @ Uma Shanker Yati against the declaration that the Amauli properties were owned by Math Sauna or the deity and that Sadashiv Yati was in possession thereof as Mahant and Sarbarakar.
270 of 1965 was filed by the plaintiffs for the relief that Sadashiv Yati was a properly constituted Mahant of Math Sauna and Sarbarakar of the deity.
The High Court allowed both the appeals by its judgment and decree dated April 21, 1969.
The present appeal is directed against that part of the judgment and decree of the High Court.
It is admitted between the parties that the Amauli properties were purchased by Mahant Shivshankar Yati for Rs.
40,000 forming part of a fund left behind by his predecessor Mahant Shivpher Yati.
The Mahants and members of Math Sauna belonged to the Dashnami Sanyasi sect.
The material on the record establishes that they could own and possess personal property.
Some of them continued to possess and even to acquire personal property after taking sanyas.
It was observed in Sushil Chandra Sen vs Gobind Chandra Das(l) that Dashnami sanyasis mixed freely in the business world and carried on trade and often accumulated property.
This Court in Gurcharan Prasad vs Krishnanand (2) affirmed that Nihang Dashnami Sanyasis could pursue money lending business and could own property as absolute owners, and enjoy them as their personal property.
That certain sects of sanyasis could acquire personal property was accepted by that eminent Judge, Dr. B.K.
Mukherjee, in his "Hindu Law of Religious and Charitable Trusts",(a) where he says: "A Mohunt, and for the matter of that, any other Sanyasi can acquire personal property of his own.
