Dr. YS Chitale, V. G. Shanker, KL Hathi, Ms. Sadhana, DK Chhaya, MK Arora and Mrs. H. Wahi for the appellant.
Late Shri Raja Vasireddi Chandra Dhara Prashad was the husband of respondent No.
The short facts leading to this case are: One Late Raja Vasireddi Chandra Dhara Prasad (hereinafter referred to as a 'deceased ') died intestate on 12th January, 1961.
The Divisional Manager, Masulipatam Branch, denied liability on behalf of the appellant Corporation on 28th January, 1961.
Thereafter there was correspondence between the parties between 1st February, 1961 to 23rd December, 1963 wherein the respondents plaintiffs had claimed the payment and the appellant had denied liability for the same.
353 On the 10th January, 1964, the plaintiffs filed the suit in the court of Subordinate Judge, Masulipatam.
A report described as "All the Friend 's report" was duly sent to the appellant with regard to that proposal; and all the preliminaries were completed and it was further alleged that the deceased was assured and told by the local agent and the Field officer of the Corporation that the payment of the first premium would amount to the acceptance of the proposal and advised the deceased to pay the first premium in full.
It was, further, stated that the said two cheques were encashed and the appellant had duly appropriated the amount and credited in the accounts towards the premium payable by the deceased.
It was further stated in the plaint that the office of the Divisional Manager of Masulipatam was the concerned authority to settle the claim of the plaintiffs respondents and to pay the amount.
It was alleged that with full knowledge of the completion of all the preliminaries, the Corporation had encashed the cheques issued towards the first premium and therefore it was the case of the plaintiffs respondents that the encashment of the cheques amounted in those circumstances in law to an acceptance of the proposal of the deceased.
It was further alleged that the appropriation of the amounts by the Corporation towards the first premium by the deceased was only consistent with the acceptance of the proposal.
It was further stated that the averments in the plaint that the defendant Corporation cashed the above two cheques and appropriated the amounts and credited these in the account towards premium payable for the proposal were false.
It was stated that on the death of the deceased, the amount covering two cheques were lying in the deposit and in the suspense account of the Corporation and was not adjusted towards the premium since the proposal was not considered, the terms of acceptance was not fixed and the premium amount required for the proposal was not calculated.
Bhupala Prasad, son of the deceased and the Corporation on its behalf examined Shri Jagannadhachari, the Superintendent of the Corpo 355 ration branch at Guntur.
In his deposition, he had stated that the Divisional Manager was the competent authority for accepting the proposal for Rs.
He, further, stated that the amount would be transferred into the first premium register after the proposal was accepted and the risk covered.
Shri Brahmandrao Ramiah Assistant Divisional Manager of the Life Insurance Corporation office at Madras was also examined as the second witness of the defendants.
He further stated that according to the financial powers Standing order, it was the Divisional Manager who was competent to accept a proposal for Rs.
The purpose of review slip exhibit B 4 was to enable the Divisional officer to assess the risk and take a decision according to the deponent.
Shri Brahmandrao Ramiah had further stated that the papers were scrutinised by him in addition to the scrutiny by the concerned clerks.
When the acceptance was complete and when there was no requirement necessary and if the full first instalment was 356 in deposit, it would be adjusted towards premium amount, he stated.
In this connection before the learned Trial Judge, reliance was placed on the Life Insurance Corporation of India Standing order, 1960 (Financial Powers).
Chapter III of the Standing order dealt with the powers of the different authorities for, inter alia, 'Underwriting and Revivals of Policy '.
Underwriting and Revivals: (a) Standard Section Head 2,000 (Sum Proposed) lives and Supdt or J.O.
Learned Subordinate Judge by his judgment dated 19th November, 1964 held that there was no concluded contract.
