317 of 1986 arises out of the judgment and order of the High Court of Patna and the Writ Petition No.
Both these challenge the order of detention dated 2nd January, 1986 passed by the respondent no.1.
On or about 2nd January, 1985 the order of detention was passed on an incident relating to the exchange of fire between two rival groups.
A.M. the subject alongwith Ramashish Bangali, Gulam, Rambriksha armed with Rifle, gun etc.
BHG 9372 on Katras Coal Dump and started indiscriminate firing to kill Birendra Pratap Singh a rival of his calendestine business of coal to establish his criminal superiority in full view of the shopkeepers customers and passers by of the area.
Birendra Pratap Singh and his associates who were there also returned the firing in same manner.
Besides the aforesaid ground the following cases are also referred hereunder as background to show the criminality of the subject.
In this case subject and his associates tried to set free 908 the trucks and driver from the police custody by force and when he failed in his attempt he threatened the police officer and CISF Personnel to do away with their lives, C.S.No.
In this case subject and his associates went to the tailoring shop of Saukat Ansari and asked him to keep his cloths ready by 9.10.83 and on his refusal, he assaulted him in presence of customers and others C.S.No.
In this case subject and his associates opened fire on police party who went to apprehend Raghunath Singh absconder under NSA.
As a result of this indiscriminate firing by him and his associates one Police officer namely Shri R.K. Verma, received serious head injury and is still incapable to work.
In this case Sisir Rajan Das, who was coming in a religious procession on the eve of Shivratri and was dancing in the role of Shiva was compelled by his associates to dance before the marriage party of subject 's sister.
Sri Sisir Rajan Das, however, acceded to their request and started dancing.
In this case subject threatened Sri Krishana Ballav Sahay, General Secretary, Colliery Shramik Sangh, Sijua, to do away with his life if he takes out any procession or oppose him.
It is the case of the detenu that the order of detention was made on one incident relating to exchange of fire between two rival groups.
A criminal case had been registered in relation to the said incident pursuant to which the petitioner was already in custody.
By letter dated 22nd February, 1986 the petitioner/appellant was informed that the Advisory Board had confirmed the order of detention.
The petitioner/ appellant thereafter filed a writ petition in the High Court of Patna which was dismissed without any speaking order.
In the affidavit of the District Magistrate, the detaining authority, it has been stated that the activities of the petitioner 's brother and the petitioner have disturbed the normal tempo of life in Katras and Jogta Police Stations in Dhanbad area.
The series of offences against the detenu and the manner of their perpetuation, which have been noted before, indicate a calculated move to create panic and fear in the mind of the people.
It further appears from the affidavit f f the District Magistrate filed before the High Court of Patna that the petitioner was absconding from the very day of the issuance of the detention order.
