Judgment and Order dated 6.1.1971 of the Allahabad High Court in Wealth Tax Reference No.
The appeal under section 29(1) of the (hereinafter called the Act) is directed against the judgment and order of the High Court of Allahabad dated 6th of January 1971.
The questions involved before the Allahabad High Court in the reference under section 27(1) of the Act were as follows: (1) Whether, on the facts and in the circumstances of the case, the Tribunal right ly held that the assessee did not make valid gifts aggregating Rs.
(2) Whether, on the facts and in the circumstances of the case, the Tribunal right ly held that the assessee did not validly assign Rs.
(3) Whether, on the facts and in the circumstances of the case, the Tribunal tight ly held that the sum of Rs.
The case relates to the assessment year 1957 58 and the relevant date of valuation was 31st March, 1957.
Gupta had maintained an account in the books of Messrs. Tika Ram and Sons Pvt.
On that day, the assessee had addressed a letter to the Company stating that he had decided to gift away for love and affection various sums to the following persons: 125 Ved Prakash Gupta .
50,000 By that letter the assessee had directed the Company to debit his account to the extent of Rs.
There was no dispute that instructions of the assessee were car ried out by the Company and relevant debit and credit en tries were made in the respective accounts.
On the same day i.e. on ist January, 1957, Om Parkash Gupta wrote to the assessee, his father, thanking him for the gift of Rs.25,000 made in his favour and the gift of Rs.50,000 in favour of his son Pravin.
Ltd. was stated to be running an oil mill and carrying on business as grain tillers.
But it appears that it was admitted position that Tika Ram & Sons had a cash balance of Rs.4000 only on 1.1.1957 and it did not have any overdraft facilities with any bank.
It was his contention that Tika Ram & Sons carried on the business of banking and hence the gifts were valid.
But there was no evidence that Tika Ram and Sons were carrying on any banking business.
Gift is defined in section 122 of the as transfer of certain existing mova ble or immovable property made voluntarily and without consideration by 126 one person, called the donor, to another, called the donee, and accepted by or on behalf of the donee.
Section 123 of the said Act deals with how transfers are effected and stipulates, inter alia, that for the purpose of making a gift of movable property as in this case, the transfer must be effected either by a registered instrument signed by the donor and attested or by delivery.
The next contention was regarding the inclusion of net wealth a sum of Rs.67,560/12/ standing to the credit of the assessee in the books of M/s Pearls & Beads.
The assessee claimed to have gifted the said amounts by transfer entries in the books of M/s Pearls & Beads on 30th March, 1957.
No letter as in the previous case was addressed by the assessee but only oral instructions were said to have been given.
There was no evidence, it appears, that the said sum was available with the said firm of M/s Pearls & Beads.
In case of entries in the books of ac count by credit and debit, the sums should be available on the date of gift in the account of the firm whose accounts are said to be credited or debited.
It is possible in certain circumstances for a donor to make a valid gift by instructing a firm or a company or a H.U.F.
This position of law has been referred to and reiterated by the Bench decision of the Delhi High Court in the case of India Glass Agency vs Com missioner of Income Tax, New Delhi, Justice Ranganathan of the Delhi High Court after referring to several authorities has observed that book entries may be sufficient only when circumstances make it clear that the gift was genuine and the firms where accounts transfer are effected must have sufficient cash in hand or sufficient provision for overdraft facility upon the basis of which it would honour the instructions given by the assessee.
The assessee must also have sufficient credit balance to enable him to make the gift.
Reference may also be made for this proposition to the decision of the Delhi High Court in New India Colour Co. vs Commissioner of Income:Tax, New Delhi, The effect of the two aforesaid decisions of the learned fudges of the Delhi High Court indicates that in case there was not sufficient cash balance from out of which the amount gifted could be physically given to the donee, more entries in the books of account in the form would not constitute delivery of possession over the gifted property to the donee and gift in such case will not be valid.
The Calcutta High Court had occasion to discuss this aspect in the case of Commissioner of Income Tax, West Bengal 111 vs Ashok Glass Works, There it was held on facts that the entries had been made contemporane ously showed that the transaction was genuine and there was no suggestion that the interests which were credited in the accounts of the minor donees by the firm which carried on money lending business also were fictitious.
The Tribunal therefore, it was found, tightly held that the gifts were valid and the interest paid in respect of the accounts standing in the name of the donees was allowable as a deduc tion in the hands of the assessee firm.
The Calcutta High Court had to consider this in the case of Commissioner of Gift Tax, West Bengal 111 vs Tara chand Maghraj, There the High Court after discussing various decisions 128 including certain decisions of the Allahabad High Court which we shall presently note and the provisions of section 122 of the , and the Sale of Goods Act.
held that under section 123 of the , in case of gift of movable property, the transfer may be effected by delivery.
Section 33 of the Sale of goods Act permitted the parties to deliver by any manner or method which the parties agreed would be treated as delivery or which had the effect of putting the goods in the possession of the buyer.
