Srivastava, Hem 188 ant Sharma, P. Parmeshwaran, Ms. Sushma Suri and C.V. Subba Rao for the Appellants.
The question involved in these appeals by special leave which are filed against the judgment dated August 17, 1985 of the High Court of Allahabad in Civil Miscellaneous Writ No.
1977 by the Life Insurance Corporation of India (hereinafter referred to as 'the Corporation ') which pro vides that an employee belonging to Class I or Class II appointed to the service of the Corporation on or after 1st September, 1956 shall retire on completion of 58 years of age but the competent authority may, if it is of the opinion that it is in the interest of the Corporation to do so, direct such employee to retire on completion of 50 years of age and at any time thereafter on giving him three months ' notice or salary in lieu thereof.
As it came to the notice of the Government that the Indian life insur ers, with a few exceptions, were virtually controlled by few individuals who were utilising the funds of those companies to the detriment of the industry and the policyholders, the Government decided to nationalise the life insurance busi ness.
Pursuant to the said decision, the President of India promulgated the Life Insurance (Emergency Provisions) Ordi nance, 1956 on January 19, 1956 providing for the vesting of the management of the life insurance business (which was called the controlled business under the Ordinance) which was being carried on by any insurer in India on that day in the Central Government and providing for its management.
The Ordinance contained detailed provisions for the carrying on of the life insur ance business by 189 the Government for the time being.
Under the Act the expression 'appointed day ' is de fined as the date on which the Corporation is established.
By virtue of section 7 of the Act on the appointed day all the assets and liabilities appertaining to the controlled business of all insurers, the management of which it had been taken over earlier by the Central Govern ment, stood transferred to and vested in the Corporation.
When the Corporation thus came into existence it had no employees of its own to carry on the vast business of the large number of insurers which had been taken over by it.
The nature of the work of the Corporation was such that it required the services of the employees with sufficient experience and expertise in running the life insurance business.
Transfer of service of existing employees of insurers to the Corporation (1) Every whole time employee of an insurer whose controlled business has been transferred to and vested in the Corporation and who was employed by the insurer wholly or mainly in connection with his controlled business immediately before the appointed day shall, on and from the appointed day, become an employee of the Corporation, and shall hold his office therein by the same tenure, at the same remuneration and upon the same terms and conditions and with the same rights and privi leges as to pen 190 sion and gratuity and other matters as he would have held the same on the appointed day if this Act had not been passed, and shall continue to do so unless and until his employ ment in the Corporation is terminated or until his remuneration, terms and conditions are duly altered by the Corporation: Provided that nothing contained in this sub section shall apply to any such employee who has, by notice in writing given to the Central Government prior to the ap pointed day, intimated his intention of not becoming an employee of the Corporation.
(2) Notwithstanding anything con tained in sub section (1) or in any contract of service, the Central Government may, for the purposes of rationalising the pay scales of employees of insurers whose controlled business has been transferred to and vested in it or for the purpose of reducing the remuner ation payable to employees in cases where in the interest of the Corporation and its policyhold ers a reduction is called for, alter the terms of service of the employees as to their remuneration in such manner as it thinks fit; and if the alteration is not acceptable to any employee the Corporation may terminate his employment on giving him compensation equivalent to three months ' remuner ation unless the contract of service with such employee provides for a shorter notice of termination.
Explanation: The compensation payable to an employ ee under this sub section shall be in addition to and shall not affect any pension, gratuity, provident fund money or any other benefit to which the employee may be entitled under his contract of service.
(3) If any question arises as to whether any person was a whole time employee of an insurer or as to whether any employee was employed wholly or mainly in connection with the controlled business of an insurer immediately before the appointed day the question shall be referred to the Central Government whose decision shall be final.
Sub section (1) of section 11 of the Act provided that every whole time employee of an insurer whose controlled business had been transferred to and vested in the Corpora tion and who was employed by the insurer wholly or mainly in connection with the controlled business immediately before the appointed day, i.e., September 1, 1956, would on and from the appointed day become an employee of the Corpora tion, and would hold his office therein by the same tenure, at the same remuneration and upon the same terms and condi tions and with the same rights and privileges as to pension and gratuity and other matters as he would have held the same on the appointed day if the Act had not been passed, and would continue to do so unless and until his employment in the Corporation was terminated and until his remunera tion, terms and conditions were duly altered by the Corpora tion.
As mentioned earlier, there were more than 200 insurers whose controlled business had been taken over by the Corporation and we are informed that there were about 27,000 whole time employees working in them.
It was naturally difficult to continue after the establishment of the Corporation in the cases of all the transferred employees, the conditions of service enjoyed by them when they were in the employment of the former insur ers.
The conditions governing the retirement of those offi cials with which we are concerned in these appeals were also diverse and different.
In many cases the insurers had permitted their employees to continue in their service even beyond 60 years depending upon their efficiency and physical capacity.
The conditions of service of employees and in particular the terms of remuneration prevalent in some of the former 192 insurance organisations were also disadvantageous to the policyholders.
Parliament therefore, enacted sub section (2) of section 11 of the Act which provided that notwithstanding anything contained in sub section (1) of section 11 or in any contract of service, the Central Government might for the purposes of rationalising the pay scales of employees of insurers whose controlled business had been transferred to and vested in it or for the purposes of reducing the remu neration payable to those employees in cases where in the interest of the Corporation and its policyholders a reduc tion was called for, alter the terms of service of the employees as to their remuneration in such manner as it thought fit and if the alteration was not acceptable to any employee the Corporation might terminate his employment on giving him compensation equivalent to three months ' remuner ation unless the contract of service with such employee provided for a shorter notice of termination.
In Christopher Pimenta and Others vs Life Insurance Corporation of India, the High Court of Bombay opined that under section 11(2) of the Act the Central Government could alter the terms and conditions of service of the employees only as to the remuneration and that the said sub section had no reference to the other terms and conditions of the service.
It is stated that there were cases pending in other courts also questioning the scope and ambit of sub section (2) of sec tion 11 of the Act as it stood originally.
Hence in order to remove all doubts the President of India promulgated an ordinance (which was replaced by Act 17/1957) substituting a new sub section in the place of the original sub section (2) of section II of the Act making it more comprehensive and thus enabling the Central Government to alter suitably all conditions of service of the transferred employees.
is not acceptable to any employee, the Corporation may terminate his employ ment by giving him compensation equivalent to three months ' remuneration unless the contract of service with such em ployee provides for a shorter notice of termination.
Clause (b) of sub section (2) of section 49 of the Act in particular conferred power on the Corporation to make regulations as regards the method of recruitment of employ ees and agents of the Corporation and the terms and condi tions of such employees or agents.
Even before clause (bb) was actually introduced into the Act with retrospective effect by Act 17 of 1957 the Corporation had promulgated the Life Insurance Corporation of India (Staff) Regulations, 1956 (hereinafter referred to as 'the (Staff) Regulations, 1956 ').
Provided, however, that in respect of some of the employees of insurers who are allowed to continue in service beyond age 60 because of the terms and conditions of employ ment having not 'been favourable in the past, the Executive Committee may at its discretion extend their service every year upto age 65.
Explanation Notwithstanding anything contained in this Regulation, where an employee has privilege leave earned but not availed of as on the date of retirement as prescribed in the above Regulation he may be permitted to avail of the leave and in that case the employee will be deemed to retire from service at the expiry of the leave. "
The first proviso to regulation 21 of the (Staff) Regulations, 1956, however, 195 authorised the Corporation to allow some of the employees of insurers who were allowed to continue in service beyond the age of 60 years for the reasons mentioned therein.
Pursuant to the power conferred on it under sub section (2) of section 11 of the Act the Central Government issued an order on 1.6.1957 called the Life Insurance Corporation of India (Alteration of Remuneration and other Terms & Conditions of Service of Employees) Order, 1957 which came into force retrospectively from 1st September, 1956.
This Order applied to all transferred employees who had become employ ees of the Corporation under section 11(1) of the Act and who were in supervisory, clerical and subordinate grades (now classified as Class III and Class IV employees) of the erstwhile insurers on 31st August, 1956.
But the Corporation may require any employee who has attained the age of 55 to retire if his efficiency is found to have been impaired. "
Clause 13 of the above Order, therefore, modified regu lation 21 of the (Staff) Regulations, 1956 to the extent indicated therein with effect from the commencement of the Corporation.
After the promulgation of the Order the trans ferred employees to whom it applied were entitled to contin ue in the service of the Corporation till they attained the age of 60 years subject to the Corporation exercising its powers to retire a transferred employee on his attaining the age of 55 years if his efficiency was found to have been impaired.
In the case of the other employees who joined service subsequent to 1st September, 1956 regulation 21 of the (Staff) Regulations, 1956, which prescribed the age of retirement at 55 years subject to the appointing authority at its discretion extend the age of retirement to 60 years as provided therein, continued to apply.
As regards the trans ferred officers belonging to the Class II category, 196 namely, the Field Officers, a standardisation order was made under sub section (2) of section 11 of the Act on 30th December, 1957.
Leave and retirement In the matter of leave and retire ment, Development Officers shall be governed by the Life Insurance Corporation of India (Staff) Regulations, 1960, as amended from time to time. "
Insofar as the transferred offi cers belonging to Class I were concerned, the question of determination of their age of superannuation was taken up for consideration by the Services and Budget Committee of the Corporation on 20th November, 1959.
Para 9 of the office note circulated amongst the members of that committee gave a true picture of the conditions prevailing then.
As regards retirement, the Government has mentioned that the Department of Expenditure has objected to raising the date of superannuation to 58 years of age on the ground that other statutory Corporations are also demanding the same benefit on the analogy of the Life Insurance Corporation 's proposal.
Standardisation Order provides that an employee shall retire at 60 years of age, but the competent authority may require an employee to retire at any time after 55 years of age if his efficiency is found to have been impaired.
In the amended Regulations approved by the Board, this provi sion of the Standardisation Order was incorporated as far as employees in Classes III & IV are concerned but in the case of transferred officers and Field Officers, the retirement age was fixed at 55 extensible to 58 with a further proviso that in special circumstances only the competent authority may extend the services 197 beyond age 58 and upto 60 years of age.
The Board has also decided that administratively we shall grant exten sion upto 60 liberally till the end of 1963.
Most of the insurers permitted their officers to continue in service upto 60 years of age and even beyond, depending upon their efficiency.
There is no reason why there should be distinc tion between officers and staff in this matter as both of them had similar privileges with regard to retirement in the past.
There is thus a strong case for extending the provi sions of the Standardisation Order regarding retirement to the transferred officers also.
As regards new recruits, it was thought that there was no justification to bring down the retirement age from 60 to 55 all of a sudden nor was it considered necessary to maintain any distinction between officers and staff.
In the light of the above it is suggested that the provisions of the Standardisation Order may be extended to transferred officers and the retirement age may be retained at 58 for persons recruited on or after 1st January 1959.
After the matter was duly considered by the Services and the Budget Committee and by the Corporation, regulations were framed under clauses (b) and (bb) of section 49(2) of the Act prescribing the ages of retirement of the employees of the Corporation belonging to different categories with the previous approval of the Central Government and were incorporated in the (Staff) Regulations, 1960 made by the Corporation which came into effect on July 1, 1960.
Regula tion 19 of the (Staff) Regulations, 1960 dealt with the subject of superannuation and retirement of the employees of the Corporation.
A transferred employee shall retire on completion of age 60; but the appointing authority may direct such employ ee to retire on completion of 55 years of age or at any time thereafter, if his efficiency is found to have been im paired.
(2) An employee appointed to the service of the 198 Corporation on or after 1st September, 1956 shall retire on completion of 58 years of age; but the appointing authority may direct such employee to retire on completion of 55 years of age or at any time thereafter, if his efficiency is found to have been impaired.
All the transferred employees were entitled to remain in service till they completed 60 years of age but the appointing authority was empowered to retire any such transferred employee on completion of 55 years of age or at any time thereafter if his efficiency was found to have been impaired.
All employees appointed to the service of the Corporation on or after 1st September, 1956 were required to retire on completion of 58 years of age but the appointing authority was empowered to retire any such employee on completion of 55 years of age or at any time thereafter if his efficiency was found to have been impaired.
In the case of the transferred employees the regula tion was in conformity with the standardisation order passed in respect of Class III and Class IV transferred employees in whose case the age of retirement was fixed at 60 years.
The result was that the regulation made a clear and distinct classification of all the employees of the Corporation belonging to all classes into two groups transferred em ployees and the employees appointed after 1st September, 1956, for purposes of the age of retirement having regard to the historical reasons.
It would appear that an industrial dispute arose between the Class III and Class IV employees who entered the service of the Corporation on or after 1st September, 1956 and the Corporation and one of the points of dispute related to the age of retirement.
These employees demanded that their age of retirement should also be fixed at 60 years as in the case of Class III and Class IV employ ees belonging to the category of transferred employees.
The dispute ultimately ended in a settlement which was incorpo rated in the Memorandum of Settlement arrived at under section 2(p) and section 18(1) of the and rule 58 of the Industrial (Central) Disputes Rules, 1957 dated 29th January, 1965.
The relevant part of the settlement arrived at between the parties to the said industrial dispute as regards the age of retirement of class III and class IV emp 199 loyees who entered the service of the Corporation on or after 1st September, 1956 read as follows: "1.
(2) An employee belonging to Class I or Class II appointed to the service of the Corporation on or after 1st September, 1956 shall retire on completion of 58 years of age, but the appointing authority may direct such employee to retire on completion of 55 years of age or at any time thereafter, if his efficiency is found to have been im paired.
(2A) Notwithstanding what is stated in sub regula tions (1) and (2) above, an employee may be permitted to retire at any time after he has completed age 55. .
On account of the settlement arrived at between Class III and Class IV employees, who were appointed subsequent to 1st September, 1956 and the Corporation, which was followed up by the amendment of the (Staff) Regulations with effect from 19.6.1965, the employees of the Corporation were divid ed both longitudinally and latitudinally insofar as the age of superannuation was concerned.
