The petitioner of this application under Article 32 of the Constitution is an engineer who was employed in the Central Public Works Department under the Ministry of Works and Housing in Government of India and was compulsorily retired by order dated 3.8.1976 with effect from 5.11.1976 made under Rule 56(j) of the Fundamental Rules.
He has assailed that order for retirement and has claimed payment of remuneration which he would have been entitled to draw upto the normal date of superannuation.
The petitioner was born on 10.2.1922 and secured his first appointment as a Section Officer under the named employer on 22.10.1947.
He was pro moted as officiating Assistant Engineer in class II service with effect from ' 25.5.
On 3.7.1961, he was further promoted as officiating Executive Engineer in Class I service but on 4.9.1965, he was reverted to the post of Assistant Engineer in officiating position and was con tinuing in that post when he was compulsorily retired.
A and is to the following effect: "The impugned order is contrary to the judg ment delivered by this Hon 'ble Court on 26.2.1980, copy at Annexure C hereto.
111 Government of India Central Public Works Department New Delhi, the 3.8.76 635 ORDER WHEREAS the Engineer in Chief is of opinion that it is in public interest to do so: NOW, THEREFORE, in exercise of the powers conferred by clause (j) of Rule 56 of the Fundamental Rules, the Engineer in Chief hereby gives notice to Shri A.L.
Ahuja, As sistant Engineer (Civil), at present under suspension, that he, having already attained the age of fifty years on 10.2.1972, shall retire from service with effect from the forenoon of 3rd November, 1976, or, from the date of expiry of three months computed from the date of issue of the service of this notice on him, whichever is latter.
Ahuja, Assistant Engineer (Civil), (Under Suspension), A11/85, Lajpat Nagar, New Delhi 110024. "
Admittedly, he was holding a class II post when the impugned order was served on him.
Fundamental Rule 56(j) under which notice was given provides: "(j) Notwithstanding anything contained in this rule, the appropriate authority shall, if it is of the opinion that it is in the public interest so to do, have the absolute right to retire any Government servant by giving him notice of not less than three months in writ ing or three months ' pay and allowances in lieu of such notice; (i) if he is in Class I or Class II service or post (and had entered Government service before attaining the age 636 of thirty five years), after he has attained the age of fifty years; (ii) in any other case after he has attained the age of fifty five years; .
The appropriate authority is entitled to exercise power under clause (j) in the case of a Government servant in Class I or Class II service or post where he entered into service before attaining the age of 35 years after the said servant attained the age of 50 years; and in other cases after he has attained the age of 55 years.
In the instant case, the petitioner was promoted as officiating Assistant Engineer which is a Class II post on 25.5.
1954 and contin ued to hold that post when the order of compulsory retire ment was passed.
It has been argued before us that as the petitioner was holding an officiating appointment in Class 117 he could not have been compulsorily retired under sub clause (i).
Support is claimed from the observations in the Tahilia ni 's case (supra).
The sole question that fell therein for decision before this Court was whether a Government servant officiating in Class I or Class II service or post could be retired compulsorily by exercising the power under Rule 56(j)(i) after he has attained the age of 50 years.
The two Judge Bench which decided the case held: " An officiating hand has no right to the post and is perhaps a fleeting.
bird who may have to go back to the substantive post from which he has been promoted on an officiating basis what is more to the point, a person who has been appointed de novo may begin his service on an officiating basis or on a tempo rary basis and it is obvious that he has no right to the post and cannot be strictly said to be in that service or post as a member of that service.
