From the Judgment and Order dated 17.11.1980 of the Bombay High Court in Special Civil Appeal No.
This appeal by special leave arises from the judgment and order of the High Court of Bombay dated 17th of November, 1980.
They filed ejectment proceedings against one 1060 Sugrabhai Mohammed Husain, their tenant and obtained a decree.
On or about 9th of February, 1965 a fresh document of that date, was executed and it is alleged that the appellant continued by virtue of that agreement.
It is alleged that this agreement was entered into between the parties since the respondent wanted to charge more rent or mesne profits.
The agreement is described as an agreement of 'leave and licence ' entered into between the respondent on the one hand and the appellant on the other wherein the respondent had been described as the 'licensor and the appellant had been described as the licensee ' and the recitals therein recite that the licensor was seized and possessed of and was otherwise well entitled as the monthly tenant of the workshop premises situated at 231, Ripon Road, Cooperative Building, Bombay, being the premises in dispute, and whereas the licensee had approached the licensor to allow him to occupy and use the said premises for the purpose of carrying out his business of workshop for a period of five years and whereas the licensor had agreed to allow the licensee to use the premises under the said leave and licence of the licensor for a period of five years from 1st of September, 1965 till 31st of August, 1970, that agreement was being executed.
it was stated that the licensor gave and granted his 'leave and licence ' to the licensee to use and occupy the said premises for the period of five years.
Clause 2 of the said agreement recites that the licensee had agreed to use the premises as above and merely for the purpose of workshop business.
The period of leave and licence was to commence from 1st of September, 1965 to 31st of August, 1970 and it was further submitted that the licensee and the licensor shall not terminate the said agreement earlier save and except on the ground of breach of any of the terms and conditions written therein.
It further stipulated that the licensee should deposit a sum of Rs.2,500 for the due performance of the terms and conditions of the agreement.
The said deposit was to be kept free of interest and the same was to be refunded to the 1061 licensee on the licensee surrendering possession of the said premises by removing himself and his belongings on the expiry of the period of the agreement or sooner termination or determination thereof after deducting all the dues if any for payment of compensation.
It is further stipulated that the licensee would be entitled to keep the keys of the said premises with him and shall be at liberty to work in the said premises for twenty hours subject to restriction of rules and regulations imposed by the Municipal or any other local authority or authorities.
It is further provided that the licensee shall be alone responsible and liable for any breach or contravention of any rule or regulation of the said authorities and he shall indemnify the licensor therefor.
The document further stipulated that the licensee shall be at liberty to construct loft and electric fittings and apparatus and tools and shall be entitled to the ownership thereof and shall be free to carry away such articles and the licensor agreed and undertook that he shall not obstruct the removing of such articles at the time of the delivery of the possession of the said workshop.
It is further mentioned in the said agreement that it was agreed by the licensee that if he commits any default of any terms and conditions or fails to pay the compensation for two months or if the licensee at any time puts up false or adverse claim of tenancy or sub tenancy the licensor shall be entitled to terminate the agreement and cancel and revoke and withdraw the leave and licence granted earlier and shall be entitled to take possession forthwith of the said premises.
The agreement recited that the licensee shall not allow any other person to use and occupy the said premises and shall not do any unlawful or illegal business therein.
In setting out the terms of the agreement the emphasis has been supplied to the relevant clauses to highlight the points in controversy.
