This appeal by special leave is from a judgment of the High Court of Allahabad dated November 6, 1985 passed in Civil Misc.
In 1965 the State Government appointed a Pay Rationalisation Committee with wide ranging reference.
The High Court suggested "that in view of financial exigencies the Government may grant for the time being pay scale to 10 PG NO 292 Bench Secretaries as admissible to Section Officers. "
When this matter was pending consideration, the Government appointed the Pay Commission (1971 72) headed by Shri Ali Zahir.
The Registrar of the High Court while forwarding the memorandum has suggested that they should also be given the same pay scale which is given to Superintendents i.e. Rs.515 40 715 or to the Section Officers i.e. Rs.350 750.
Section Officers have to prepare a lengthy and original notes in complicated and important matters.
It will be seen that the Pay Commission refused to equate Bench Secretaries with Section Officers in view of their differential duties.
It was found that the nature PG NO 293 of work of Section Officers was quite different and more onerous than that of Bench Secretaries.
As the name itself suggests, the Committee was required to examine and remove anomalies in the recommendations of Pay Commission.
So far as Bench Secretaries are concerned, the Committee suggested: "(1) For this post the recommendations made by the Pay Commission need not have any amendments.
The Anomalies Committee also thus rejected the claim of Bench Secretaries for placing them at par with Section Officers.
It however, suggested that ten posts of Bench Secretaries should be upgraded and placed in the pay scale of Rs.500 1,000 The Government accepted that recommendation and issued an order dated July 2,1976 The order inter alia states: Judicial (High Court) Section, Lucknow dated 2nd July, 1976.
Sub: Implementation of decision and proposals of Sub Committee of the Cabinet constituted to consider the anomalies pointed out in the pay scales recommended by the U.P.
Pay Commission ( 1971 73) and its way of removal and other connected matters PG NO 294 Sir, In continuation of office memorandum No.
395 x 89(M)/74 dated 18th March, 1976 of the Finance (Pay Commission) Section on the above subject, I have been directed to say that the Governor has been pleased to sanc tion the pay scales mentioned in Column 3 to 10 post holders under you mentioned in column 2 in the table given below w.e.f.
1st October, 1975 with this condition that as a result of sanction of this scale, the number of total posts in the concerned cadre will not increase: Sl.
The Rules were framed in exercise of the powers conferred by Article 229(2) of the Constitution and brought into force from July 13,1976.
We have received a representation stating that the Bench Secretaries play a very important role in smooth running of the proceedings of the Court.
Even then we give importance to the fact that only best from Upper Division/Lower Division Assistants are preferred for the post.
Finally the Bench Secretaries Grade I moved the High Court on judicial side with an application under Article 226 of the Constitution.
The sheet anchor of their case was that in the same category of posts with similar duties and responsibilities there cannot be two grades with different pay scales.
It was also contended that Bench Secretaries was a well recognised class that existed over the years and indeed superior to Section Officers.
As to the Pay Commission recommendations the High observed: "Rejection of petitioner 's demand for equating them PG NO 297 at least with Section Officers by comparing them with absence of administrative control exercised by Section Officer in the Secretariat was ignoring history of Bench Secretaries being a different class both before and after independence and the nature of duties performed by them . "
As to the decision of the Anomalies Committee the High Court remarked: "Curiously enough when Anomaly Committee redressed the wrong by granting pay scale equivalent to Section Officers, it created an artificial division by drawing a line between first ten and others.
A Bench Secretary or for that matter any officer who puts in longer years of service gets more salary than his juniors but if a senior performing the same duty as his juniors is put in different higher scale then it results in invidious classification in the same group.
It only denies enactment of a rule or law which attempts to deal differently with persons situated similarly.
With regard to rule framed by the Chief Justice for the purpose of promotion to Bench Secretary Grade I, thee High Court said: "Rules were made not because the Court agreed with the classification of Bench Secretaries in Group I and Group II PG NO 298 but because of the Government order dated July 2, 1976.
Promotion from one post to another is associated with advancing to a higher office, climbing one more ladder in service career.
But the different grade for persons of same even on seniority cum merit with same work and responsibility cannot amount to promotion. "
With these conclusions, the High Court quashed a part of the notification dated July 4, 1976 which created Bench Secretaries Grade I.
On the submissions made by counsel on both sides, two questions arise for our consideration: (i) Whether Bench Secretaries in the High Court of Allahabad are entitled to pay scale admissible to Section Officers?
The first question regarding entitlement to the pay scale admissible to Section Officers should not detain us longer.
The quantity of work may be the same, but quality may be different that cannot be determined by PG NO 299 relying upon averments in affidavits of interested parties.
In the present case, it is true that at one time, Bench Secretaries were paid more emoluments than Section Officers.
But it is not known on what basis they were paid in the higher pay scale and treated as a superior class to Section Officers.
It was found that the Section Officers perform onerous duties and bear greater responsibilities than Bench Secretaries.
The Bench Secretaries, therefore, cannot claim as of right the pay scale admissible to Section Officers.
The entitlement to higher pay scale depends upon selection based on merit cum seniority.
