The civil appeal, by speci al leave, and the connected SLP raise an important issue as to the power of the Central Administration Tribun al ("Tribunal") to examine the adequacy of penalty awarded by the competent authority to a Government servant in discipl i nary proceedings.
Short factual background is this: Parmanand Respondent in the appeal was a Time Keeper in Beas Sutlej Link Project, Sundernagar.
The Inquiry Officer framed charge against the responde nt in the following terms: "That the said Shri Parma Nand, while working as Time Keeper in Time Keeping Sub Division of Beas Sutlej Li nk Project, Sundernagar during the month of May 1969 failed to maintain absolute integrity and devotion to duty in as mu ch as he falsely marked the attendance of Shri Ashok Kuma r, Token No.
210 K), Boggi Tunnelli ng Division, at the time of attempting to receive the pay of Shri Ashok Kumar from the Cashier. "
The report of e n quiry was forwarded to the competent authority who aft er giving an opportunity of being heard dismissed the respon d ent from service.
The respondent moved the High Court of Himachal Prade sh under Article 226 challenging the findings of Inquiry off i cer as well as the order of dismissal passed by the comp e tent authority.
The Tribunal upon consideration of the matter agre ed with the findings recorded by the Inquiry Officer that t he respondent was the master mind behind the scheme to defra ud the project.
access to the records which 24 were fabricated at the relevant time the Inquiry Officer h ad come to the conclusion that the applicant was the mast er mind behind the scheme to defraud the Project.
This is how the Tribunal dealt with that que s tion: "Lastly, it was argued on behalf of the applicant that t he punishment awarded to him is disproportionate to the gravi ty of the charge proved against him and is in stark contrast to the punishment awarded to his other three colleagues in whose cases, only future increments were stopped, the max i mum being for three years in respect of Shri Sain Ditt a, Clerk.
An appreciation of the evidence, as done in the preceding pages, would sh ow that the applicant had entered the name of Shri Ashok Kum ar in the pay roll for May 1969 and so far as other eviden ce against him is concerned, it is mostly of a circumstanti al nature.
There is no direct or expert evidence that it was he who had marked the attendance of Shri Ashok Kumar in the p ay roll for May 1969 or that it was he who had initiated t he identity card.
The evidence against him is circumstantial in as much as the pay roll was under his custody and he cou ld have access to the identity cards.
Under these circu m stances, the evidence that the applicant was the only mast er mind who sought to defraud the project of the funds cann ot be termed to be direct. "
The Tribunal seems to suggest that the respondent w as not the only master mind to commit the fraudulent act a nd there were others too, and as such, he should not be mea s ured with a different yardstick.
Yet it modified t he punishment to fall in line with that of others whose pa rt inthe fraudulent act was evidently not similar in nature.
The question which has to be decided, therefore, is whether the Tribunal has power to modify the penalty award ed to the respondent when the findings recorded as to h is misdemeanour is supported by legal evidence.
To put in oth er words, whether the Tribunal could interfere with the penal ty awarded by the Competent authority on the ground that it is excessive or disproportionate to the misconduct proved?
T he answer to the question cannot be determined without refe r ence to the scope of judicial review in the pre Tribun al period.
Before the Trib u nal was constituted, the Courts were exercising judici al review of administrative decisions in public services.
It provides power to Parliament to enact law for establishme nt of Administrative Tribunals for adjudication of disput es with regard to service matters.
The Tribunal could also regula te its own procedure including the fixing of places and time of enquiry and deciding whether to sit in public or in privat e. Sub section 2 of sec.
In pursuance of the provisions of the Act, the Centr al Government has established the Central Administrative Trib u nal with a Bench at Chandigarh whose order has been cha l lenged before us.
Jurisdiction, powers and authority of t he Central Administrative Tribunal: 27 (1) Save as otherwise expressly provided in th is Act, the Central Administrative Tribunal shall exercise, on and from the appointed day, all the jurisdiction, powers a nd authority exercisable immediately before that day by a ll courts (except Supreme Court) in relation to: (a) recruitment, and matters concerning recrui t ment, to any All India Service or to any civil service of the Union or a civil post under the Union or to a po st connected with defence or in the defence services, being in either case, a post filled by a civilian; (b) all service matters concerning Similar are the powers and authority of the State Ser v ice Tribunal under sec.
Section 29 provides for automatic transfer of all pending proceedin gs in the High Court under Articles 226 and 227, relating to service matters (except appeals) to the Tribunal for adjud i cation.
Likewise, suits and other proceedings pending befo re a Court or other authority relating to service matters al so stand transferred to the Tribunal for determination.
Sampat Kumar vs Union of India & Ors., ; In this backdrop, we may consider the main question th at we have set out at the beginning of the judgment.
Mr. Mah a jan, learned counsel for the Central Government urged th at the Tribunal has no powers to interfere with the punishme nt imposed by the disciplinary authority on the ground that it is disproportionate to the proved misdemeanour.
