From the Judgment and Order dated 4.7.85 & 21.6.84 of the Customs Excise and Gold (Control) Appellate Tribunal, New Delhi in Appeal Nos.
There it manufactures and sells fusel oil/Styrene Monomer falling under Tariff Item No.
Collector, the appellant had shown the value of fusel oil/Styrene Monomer at the rate at which those were sold in wholesale as "naked Ex Works and in bulk".
On 2nd July, 1983, a notice in respect of a consignment was issued to show cause as to why value of the drums should not be included in the value of the goods.
Another show cause notice as to why value of the drums should not be included in the assessable value of the goods, was issued to the appellant on the 5th April, 1983 pertaining to Gate Pass No.
773 whereunder the appellant had cleared 2.4 KI of fusel oil in drums supplied by the buyer.
Replies were duly filed to the said show cause notices by the appellant contending, inter alia, that as the drums were supplied by the buyer, value thereof could not be included in the assessable value.
On the 11th August, 1983, two orders were passed by the Assist ant Collector one in relation to each of the aforesaid show cause notices.
Collector to inflate the assessable value without establishing the receipt of the additional consideration by the appellant apart from what had been shown in the invoice.
The Tribunal held that at the time of removal the goods were delivered from the factory in packed condition and the containers were not returnable by the buyer, there fore, the value had to be included in the assessable value.
On behalf of the appellant, Shri Salve contended that the Tribunal had failed to appreciate the admitted factual position that the fusel oil/Styrene Monomer manufactured by the appellant is sold in bulk and is capable of being so sold.
Hence, according to the appellant, it is not necessary for the said fusel oil/Styrene Monomer to be supplied to the customers in drums in the aforesaid situation.
It was contended by Shri Salve, appearing on behalf of the appellant, that on a correct analysis of section 4(4)(d), the duty being on the activity of manufacture whatever is necessary to bring the goods into existence alone can be taken into account for duty purposes.
Reliance was placed by Shri Salve as well as by the learned Attorney General, appearing on behalf of the revenue, on the relevant provisions of the Act and the position as explained by this Court in Union of India & Ors.
vs Bombay Tyre International Ltd., ; 981 Shri Salve has, however, contended that so far as this Court is concerned, this question is concluded by the deci sion of this Court in Collector of Central Excise vs Indian Oxygen Ltd., Learned Attorney General, however, contended that this decision did not deal with the present controversy.
The said decision, according to learned Attorney General, was concerned with the rentals of certain oxygen gas cylinders supplied by the assessee.
Reference was made to the decision of this Court in K. Radha Krishaiah vs Inspector of Central Excise, Gooty & Ors., Shri Salve referred to and relied on the decision of tile High Court of Bombay in the case of Govind Pay Oxygen Ltd. vs Asstt.
Collector of Central Excise, Panaji & Ors., as also the decision of the Karnataka High Court in Alembic Glass Industries Ltd. vs Union of India & Ors., Learned Attorney General urged before us that the question whether for determining the assessable value of the excisable goods sold by the assessee in drums or containers provided by its customers (the asses see itself provided such drums/containers on payment of price in Civil Appeals Nos.
4339 41 of 1986) the value of such drums/containers would also have to be included on a correct interpretation of charging sections, namely, sec tions 3 and 4 of the Act.
It was submitted that while deter mining the scope and nature of levy, as contemplated under section 3 of the Act, of central excise and the measure of such levy as provided in section 4 of the Act the principles laid .down in Union of India vs Bombay Tyre International Ltd., (supra), should be followed and reliance was placed on the several decisions of this Court which we will refer to later.
Learned Attorney General emphasised that it is a well settled principle of construction that in taxing statutes one has only to look merely at what is clearly stated.
Reliance was placed for this proposition by the learned Attorney General on the observations of this Court in Gur Sahai Sehgal vs Commissioner of Income Tax, Punjab, ; at 898.
Learned Attorney General also drew attention to the decision of this Court in A.K.
Relying on the two decisions referred to hereinbe fore, learned Attorney General emphasised that percentages of sales would not in any manner affect determination of the assessable value of the excisable goods.
According to the learned Attorney General, the fact that 90% of the goods were supplied in tankers and not in containers had no relevance at all and the 10% represent ed the entire quantity of excisable goods delivered in packed condition.
In that case, the learned Attorney General contended the only question which arose was whether the rental charges received by the assessee for the gas cylinders lent by it to its customers could be included in the assessable value and whether inter est earned on deposits made by the customers for the securi ty of the cylinders supplied by the assessee could also be included in the assessable value of the excisable goods.
This Court clarified in the said decision that the said charges could not be included in the value of the goods since these were only ancillary and not incidental to the activities for the manufacture of gases.
Learned Attorney General submitted that this Court had no occasion in that decision to consider the question which arises in the present case, namely whether the cost of packing materials would have to be included in the assessable value of the goods when goods are delivered in packed conditions.
Learned Attorney General submitted that the decisions of the Bombay and Karnataka High Courts were wrong as they are contrary to the decision of this 983 Court in Bombay Tyre International 's case (supra).
The relevant provi sion of section 4 of the Act deals with the manner as to how the value is to be computed and section 4(4)(d) stipulates as follows: ""value" in relation to any excisable goods, (i) where the goods are delivered at the time of removal in a packed condition, includes the cost of such packing except the cost of the packing which is of a durable nature and is returnable by the buyer to the assessee.
In this sub clause "packing" means the wrapper, container, bobbin, pirn, spool, reel or warp beam or any other thing in which or on which the excisable goods are wrapped, contained or wound; (ii) does not include the amount of the duty of excise, sales tax and other taxes, if any, payable on such goods and, subject t9 such rules as may be made, the trade discount (such discount not being refundable on any account whatsoever) allowed in accordance with the normal practice of 984 the wholesale trade at the time of removal in respect of such goods sold or contracted for sale; (Explanation.
The provisions of these two sections must be judged in the light of the principles laid down by this Court in Union of India vs Bombay Tyre International, (supra).
This Court reiterated that section 4 of the Act provides the measure by reference to which the charge is to be levied.
Though the learned Attorney General referred to the fact that in taxing statutes, one must look merely at what is clearly stated, yet such a construction must be made in the context of the entire scheme of the Act.
According to him, the plain language of the Statute does not permit of any further exceptions being read into the Act.
To hold otherwise, it was contended, would make the provision of the measure of the levy unworka ble inasmuch as in every case the measure would have to differ in the light of the contentions as may be raised by the assessees depending upon the business arrangement of each assessee.
986 It was contended that it is not correct to equate the meas ure of tax with the levy itself which is the basis of the contentions of the appellant.
In my opinion, however, the correct position must be found out bearing in mind the essential nature of excise duty.
See the observations of this Court in Union of India vs Delhi Cloth & General Mills Ltd., [1963] Supp.
vs Union of India & Ors., ; and Bhor Industries Ltd., Bombay vs Collec tor of Central Excise, Bombay; , In order, therefore, to be manufacture, there must be activity which brings transformation to the article in such a manner that different and distinct article comes into being which is known as such in the market.
4339 of 1986 were delivered in tankers belonging to the assessee and only 10% of the goods were in packed condition at the time of removal clearly establish that the goods were marketable without being packed or contained in drums or containers.
In this connection, it is necessary to refer to the observations of this Court in Collector of Central Excise vs Indian Oxygen Ltd., (supra).
The revenue 's case was that the no tional value of deposit was rental and hence should be included in computing the assessable value.
Analysing the scope of section 4 of the Act, it was held by this Court that supply of gas cylinders might be ancillary activity to the supply of gases but this was not ancillary or incidental to the manufacture of gases.
There fore, the rental of the same though income of ancillary activity, was not the value incidental to the manufacture and could not be included in the assessable value.
Similar ly, in my opinion, drums even though these were ancillary or incidental to the supply of fusel oil and styrene monomer, these were not necessary to complete the manufacture of fusel oil or styrene monomer; the cost of such drums cannot, therefore, be included in the assessable value thereof.
This position, in my opinion, was correctly approached in the decision of the Bombay High Court in Govind Pay Oxygen Ltd. vs Assistant Collector of Central Excise, Panaji & Ors., (supra), where it was held that section 4(4)(d)(i) of the Act does not make any provision for including the cost of packing which was supplied by the buyer to the assessee for the obvious reason that the assessee did not spend for such packing.
It was for this simple reason that the legislature had not thought it fit to exempt such pack ing from the value of excisable goods.
Similarly, Karnataka High Court in Alembic Glass Industries vs Union of India & Ors., (supra) held that the term "value" defined in section 4(4)(d)(i) provides for exclusion of cost of packing materi al which was of durable nature and was returnable by the buyer to the assessee.
