(ii) no royalty shall be charged from Nimbha das of village potters who manufacture upto one lakh bricks per year.
(iii) no royalty shall be charged from Nimbha das of village potters if their annual produc tion is not exceeding two lakhs bricks and they supply at least one lakh bricks to the Rural Housing Board or Panchayats.
(iv) Royalty shall be recoverable in whole rupees, fraction fifty paise and above to be rounded upwards to a whole rupee and fraction below fifty paise shall be ignored" and fixing the royalty payable by the lessees in respect of minor minerals known as Black Trap and Hard Murrum at Rs.7 per metric tonne by amending schedule of the Rules which was being levied at Rs.
The Act was passed in the year 1957 by Parliament to provide for the regulation of mines and development of minerals under the control of the Union and it was made applicable to the whole of India.
The Act has made provision with regard to the issue of prospecting licences and mining leases in respect of various kinds of minerals other than minor minerals and the procedure to be followed in that connection in the matter of issue of prospecting licences and mining leases.
It empowers the Central Government to enhance or reduce the rate of royalty prescribed by the Second Schedule in respect of any mineral subject to the condition that the Central Government shall not enhance the rate of royalty in respect of any mineral more than once during any period of three years.
(1) The State Government may, by notifi cation in the Official Gazette, make rules for regulating the grant of (quarry leases, mining leases or other mineral concessions) in re spect of minor minerals and for purposes connected therewith.
(2) Until rules are made under sub section (1), my rules made by a State Government regulating the grant of (quarry leases, mining leases or other mineral concessions) in re spect of minor minerals which are in force immediately before the commencement of this Act shall continue in force.
It is seen from section 15 that the State Government is empowered to make rules for regulating the grant of quarry leases, mining leases or other mineral concessions in re spect of minor minerals and for purposes connected there with.
It is under this notification the rate of royalty in respect of black trap and Hard Murrum was increased from Rs.
During the pendency of the said petitions in the High Court the impugned notification was issued increasing the royalty payable in respect of Black Trap and Hard Murrum from Rs.4 to Rs.7.
Since many of the contentions raised by the parties in respect of the constitutionality of section 15 of the Act and the validity of Rules made thereunder had been considered and the contentions urged by the petitioners against the said rule in those petitions had been rejected, in the present case the petitioners have confined their case only to the following points which according to them had not been considered in the said decision.
Nariman, learned counsel for the petitioners in some of the petitions had two contentions: 1. that the royalty levied and covered under the Rules should be applied only for mineral development and since the said royalty is being treated as part of the consolidated fund of the State and used for other purposes by the State the levy was bad; and 2. that the impugned notification in question was in contravention of clause (b) of Article 304 of the Constitution.
