The question to be ultimately decided falls within a very narrow compass but it is neces sary to set out the facts leading to the present appeal at some length.
The property, which is the subject matter of the present dispute, originally formed part of an extent of land situat ed on Mount Road, Madras, bearing door Nos.
In respect of item 2 the fair rent claimed was Rs.3266.50 as against Rs.200 p.m. payable under the lease deed.
So far as item 2 was concerned, it appears that, at the time of the hearing, it was conceded before the Rent Controller that the respondents were tenants of the entire properties covered by the lease deed and that they had not constructed any of the premises thereupon.
534/66), did not treat the earlier decision as res judicata but came independently to the same conclusion that item No.
The tenants filed revision petitions against the order of the Court of Small Causes but these were dismissed on 20.11.1968.
The claim of the LIC for recovery of Rs.39,224.71, as arrears of rent, in respect of item 1 was thus held to be not maintain able.
1979, is from the order of the Division Bench rejecting the appellant 's claim for arrears of rent in respect of item No.
552 The questions to be decided in this appeal, on the above facts, boil down to these: (1) Was the LIC the vendee only of a vacant piece of land with no title to the buildings standing on the site in item 17 (2) It is open for the tenants to contend that the order of the Court of Small Causes in the earlier rent control proceedings deciding to the contrary and fixing the fair rent of item 1 at Rs.994 p.m. should be completely ignored as an order passed totally without jurisdiction, although it has become final as be tween the parties?
The first is that if either question is answered in the negative, the other will not arise for consideration and the appeal will have to be allowed.
The second is that, though the claim in issue before us is only a money claim for arrears of rent, any decision given by us, based, as it will have to be, on the issue whether the LIC owns the superstructure or not and whether the tenants are the les sees only of vacant land or of both land and buildings, will have repercussions not only on the claim in this suit (which by now has accummulated to more than Rs.3 lakhs) but also on any other proceedings by way of ejectment or otherwise which the LIC may have in contemplation against the tenants.
So far as the first question is concerned, we have no doubt that the Division Bench of the High Court has come to the correct conclusion.
In our view, the conclusion of the learned Single Judge that the lease exhibit P 1, executed by the co owners of the property in favour of one of them, was invalid, was erroneous.
Whatever may be the position, in spite of this provision, in respect of a pur ported transfer by a person to himself alone (which is very often the position in the case of trusts) which was consid ered by the House of Lords in Rye vs Rye, , there is no reason to hold that a contract between a person with himself and other is invalid The Division Bench, we think, has tightly distinguished the decisions in Girish Chandra vs Srinath, (3 C.L.J.
Once this objection is out of the way, the question is whether the construction put upon the leased land by the lessees formed part of the 553 property conveyed to the L.I.C.
Sri Parasaran pointed out that they did not and drew our attention to subsequent correspondence between the parties to show that even the L.I.C.
They clearly make out that the superstruc tures put up by the lessee under exhibit P 1 were not included in the property conveyed under the terms of exhibit P 3 and that, whatever may be the rights of the LIC to evict the tenant with liberty to demolish the superstructure on the termination of the lease, it had no property in the super structure so long as the lease subsisted.
whether, despite the above conclusion, we are precluded, by principles of, or analogous to, res judicata, from going behind the findings to the contrary given in the earlier rent control proceedings by the Court of Small Causes which have become final on the dismissal of the C.R.P.
He conceded that no legal conse quenes can flow from a totally void order (see, Kiran Singh vs Chaman Paswan, ; @ 121).
While the former has an inherent jurisdiction to decide a question raised about its own jurisdiction and such a decision cannot be challenged in another court after it has become final: (See: Bhatia Cooperative Society Ltd. vs Patel, ; and Nageswara vs Canesa, AIR 1942 Mad.
The Rent Controller and, on appeal, the Court of Small Causes were therefore, called upon to give their decision on this question which was completely within their statutory jurisdiction and this decision certainly constitutes res judicata between the parties: see also, Explanation VIII to section 11 of the Code of Civil Procedure.
Thereafter the tenant filed a suit for a declaration that the order of the Rent Controller was ultra vires in that no notice to quit had been given as required by law.
It would follow from this, therefore, that if notice to quit was necessary it would be merely one of the issues to be decided by the Rent Controller and would not in any way affect his jurisdiction to entertain the applica tion.
That being so, if the Rent Controller did not decide that question properly, the matter would have to be raised in appeal to the Court of Small Causes and would give this Court no jurisdiction to entertain a suit by the defeated party; for such a suit would be barred by section 12(4) of the Act.
413 556 a writ petition was filed to challenge the validity of an order passed by the Rent Controller on the ground that the circumstances for the invocation of section 13(b) of the Bombay Rent, Hotel .Rates and Lodging House Rates (Control) Act, 1944 had not been fulfilled.
Shri Iyer submits that the appellants ' case here is on a stronger footing than in the two decisions cited above because here, in the earlier proceedings before the Rent controller and the Court of Small Causes, a specific point had been taken that the tenant was only a tenant of the land and not of the premises (which belonged to him) and that this contention had been specifically over ruled by the appellate court after a consideration of the relevant mate rial.
Sri Krishnamoorthy Iyer also contended that even if it may be an arguable question as to whether the decision in the earlier petitions constitutes res judicata or not and it may plausibly be argued that it does not constitute res judicata, the question for our consideration really is whether the order passed in the 557 earlier eviction petition can be treated as a nullity being passed by a court totally without jurisdiction.
He submitted that if the tenants had filed a suit for declaration that the order passed in the earlier proceedings as a nullity that would have been bound to fail.
Shri Iyer also relied on certain observations of this Court in the decisions reported as Rai Brij Raj vs Shaw, ; @ 147, 150; Official Trustee vs Sachindranath, ; @ pp.
Shri K. Parasaran, appearing for the respondents, sought to support the High Court 's judgment on various grounds.
In the appeal the appellate court set aside the order of eviction on the ground that there was no denial of title prior to the insti tution of the petition.
(Emphasis added) He submitted that the Court erred in thinking that no fur ther proceed 558 ings had been taken in the earlier matter, The fact was that a Civil Revision Petition (C.R.P.
When the matter came back to the Court of Small Causes, the learned Judge, in his order dated 9.4.69, went into the issue at length and came to the conclusion that the superstructure belonged to Indian Automobiles and had not been conveyed to the L.I.C He held, therefore, that the claim by India Automobiles in the eviction petition of title to the superstructure would amount to a denial of title but that the denial was bona fide.
Sri Parasaran also sought to explain the reasons why the respondents did not prefer any appeal or revision from the order of the Court of Small Causes in H.R.A.
551, was that the Rent Control Act would apply even in cases where the landlord had leased out only a vacant site and the tenant had put up his own construction thereon.
vs Jaffer Mohamed sait 's Memorial Dispensary Charity and Others, [1969] 1 Andhra Weekely Reporter (S.C.) 16, that this view was disapproved.
The application under section 4 could not, therefore, have been summarily rejected even assuming that the question of title could be said to have been substantially in issue and decided in the previous proceedings.
It was only this limited aspect eviction on the ground of non bona fide denial of title that was under consideration of the Court under section 10(2)(vii) of the Act read with the proviso to section 10(1) and the Court 's observa tions on the question of title were one on a collateral issue.
The second argument, explaining why the respondents did not challenge the 1967 order in further appeal or revision, is also of no avail in consider ing the issue raised by the counsel for the appellant.
