This appeal arises from a suit brought by the appellant in the court of the Subordinate Judge, Mysore, as the sole executor of the will alleged to have been executed by one Lakshmamma on August 22, 1945, (exhibit A).
It was also alleged that the said Annaji lyengar had executed a will On August 31, 1901, (exhibit B2(a)) under which he had bequeathed in favour of Lakshmamma and Sadagopalachar hypo thecation bonds to the extent of Rs.
The appellant alleged that Sadagopalachar was a man of very moderate means and had given up his petty job in the registration department in order to manage the properties received by him and his wife from Annaji lyengar.
Respondent 1 's case was that, after the death of his father Sadagopalachar, her husband Narayana lyengar became the absolute owner of all the properties and so Lakshmamma was not competent in law to make a will in respect of any of them.
The High Court thought that the learned trial judge had not fully considered all the material bearing on this point and so was in error in holding that at the relevant date Lakshmamma had a subsisting interest in half the share even in the suit properties, items 1 and 2.
The will begins with the recital about the illness of the testatrix and says " as I have felt in my mind that it is necessary to mention here certain matters clearly so that there may not be any kind of obstacles and obstruction at the instance of any in respect of my purposes coming into effect after my death I have got them written in detail. "
The will then states that Narayanan had no issue and so he treated his younger sister 's children as his own, attended to their education, marriage and other auspicious functions with great zeal.
The witness was cross examined in regard to his statement that he had treated Lakshmamma and it was brought out in his answers that though she may have been under his treatment for about a week he could not say if her name found a place in the hospital register.
Ordinarily when the evidence adduced in support of the will is disinterested, satisfactory and sufficient to prove the sound and disposing state of the testator 's mind and his signature as required by law, courts would be justified in making a finding in favour of the propounder.
The presence of such suspicious circumstances naturally tends to 445 make the initial onus very heavy; and, unless it is satisfactorily discharged, courts would be reluctant to treat the document as the last will of the testator.
It is obvious that for deciding material questions of fact which arise in applications for probate or in actions on wills, no hard and fast or inflexible rules can 446 be laid down for the appreciation of the evidence.
