Counsel state that the facts in all these appeals are identical and that the only facts neces sary (or, atleast, on record before us), on the basis of which the issue us is to be decided, are these: Each of the appellants/ petitioners (hereinafter referred to compendi ously as 'assessees '), is a registered dealer in the State of Haryana.
He purchased certain raw materials in the State without paying tax thereon, in view of the provision con tained in section 24 of the Act.
On these facts, it is claimed, the assessee is not liable to pay the purchase tax on the raw materials imposed under section 9(1) of the Act.
This claim has been rejected by the taxing authorities and the High Court and hence these appeals.
1983 which reads: "(6) The purchase of barley or of goods used in the manufac ture of guar gum, scientific goods, utensils and metal handicrafts shall not form part of the turnover of a dealer for the period he is entitled to purchase the goods on the authority of his certificate of registration without payment of sales tax under section 24, provided these are used exclusively for the specified purposes. "
Provided that this section shall not apply to a dealer who deals exclusively in goods specified in Schedule B.
(2) Every dealer to whom sub section (1) does not apply shall, subject to other provisions of this Act, be liable to pay tax under this Act on the expiry of thirty days after the date on which his gross turnover during any year first exceeds the taxable quantum; Provided that this sub section shall not apply to a dealer who deals exclusively in goods specified in Schedule B.
349 Provided that this sub section shall not apply to a dealer who deals exclusively in goods specified in Schedule B.
(2) Every dealer to whom sub section (1) does not apply shall be liable to pay tax on all sales and purchases effected on the expiry of thirty days after the date on which his gross turnover during any year first exceeds the taxable quantum.
The section originally read thus: "section 9 Liability to pay purchase tax Where a dealer pur chases goods other than those specified in the Schedule B from any source in the State and (a) uses them in the State in the manufacture of (i) goods specified in Schedule B; or (ii) any other goods and disposes of the manufac tured goods in any manner otherwise than by way of sale whether within the State or in the course of inter State trade or commerce or in the course of export out of the territory of India; 350 (b) exports them in the circumstances in which no tax is payable under any other provision of this Act, there shall be levied, subject to the provisions of section 17, a tax on the purchase of such goods at such rate as may be notified under section 15. "
After this amendment, effective from 9.4.1979, the provision read thus: "9(1) Where a dealer liable to pay tax under this Act, (a) purchases goods, other than those specified in Schedule B, from any source in the State and uses them in the State in the manufacture of goods specified in Schedule B; or (b) purchases goods, other than those specified in Schedule B except milk, from any source in the State and uses them in the State in the manufacture of any other goods and disposes of the manufactured goods in any manner otherwise than by way of sale whether within the State or in the course of inter State trade or commerce or in the course of export out of the territory of India within the meaning of sub section (1) of section 5 of the ; or (c) purchases goods, other than those specified in Schedule B, from any source in the State and exports them, in the circumstances in which no tax is payable under any 351 other provision of this Act, there shall be levied, subject to the provisions of section 17, a tax on the purchase of such goods at such rate as may be notified under section 15."
(d) A doubt had arisen whether the words "disposes of" used in clause (a)(ii) later, clause (b) above was compre hensive enough to include cases of despatches by a dealer of the manufactured goods otherwise than by way of sale as, for example, by way of stock transfer.
The State Government had issued a notification dated 19.7.74 (even before the 1976 amendment) clarifying the position with an answer to the question in the affirmative but this notification as well as the interpretation favoured by it were quashed by a decision of the High Court reported as Goodyear India Ltd. vs State, [1982] 53 STC 163.
Actually clauses (b) and (bb) are identical, except that the latter excludes milk from Its purview w.e.f.
Amendment of section 9 of Haryana Act 20 of 197.3 For clauses (b) and (bb) of sub section (1) of section 9 of the principal Act, the following clause shall be substituted, namely: "(b) purchases goods, other than those specified in Schedule B. from any source in the State and uses them in the State in the manufacture of any other goods and either disposes of the manufactured goods in any manner otherwise than by way of sale in the State or dispatches the manufactured goods to a place outside the State in any manner otherwise than by way of sale in the course of inter State trade or commerce or in the course of export outside the territory of India within the meaning of subsection (1) of section 5 of the Central Sales Tax Act, 1956;or.
(f) Amendment Act 8 of 1986 substituted, in the proviso to section 9( 1 ), the words "scientific goods, guar gum, uten sils and handicrafts" in place of "scientific goods and guar gum" w.e.f.
The first was to change the marginal heading of the section to read thus: "9(1) Liability to pay tax on purchase value of goods".
The relevant part of clause (b), as thus amended, will, therefore, read: "despatches the manufactured goods to a place outside the State in any manner otherwise than by way of sale .
