From the Judgment and Order dated 27.4.79 of the Madras High Court in Criminal Misc.
Section 2 of the Prevention of Corruption Act interprets a public servant as meaning a public servant as defined in section 21 of the Indian Penal Code i.e. Act 45 of 1860.
Section 77 of the Indian Penal Code provides immunity to the Judges in respect of any act done by a Judge when acting judicially in the exercise of any power which is, or which in good faith he believes to be, given to him by law.
Therefore, it is clear that a Judge will be liable for committing criminal misconduct within the meaning of clause (e) of sub section (1) of section 5 of the said Act if he has in his possession pecuniary resources or property dis proportionate to his known sources of income for which the public servant (or a Judge as the public servant) cannot satisfactorily account.
Section 6(1)(c) specifically enjoins that no court shall take cognizance of an offence punishable under Section 5 of this Act, alleged to have been committed by a public servant i.e. the Judge of the High Court includ ing the Chief Justice of the High Court as in the present case, except with the previous sanction under clause (c) in the case of any other person, of the authority competent to remove him from his office.
So to initiate a proceeding against a Judge of a Supreme Court for criminal misconduct failing under Section 5(1)(e), previous sanction of the authority who is competent to remove a Judge including Chief Justice of the High Court from his office, is imperative.
Sub article 2 of Article 124 further provides that every Judge of the Supreme Court shall be appointed by the President by warrant under his hand and seal after consultation with such of the Judges of the Supreme Court and of the High Courts in the States as the President may deem necessary for the purpose and shall hold office until he attains the age of sixty five years.
Article 217 provides that every Judge of a High Court shall be appointed by the President by warrant under his hand and seal after consultation with the Chief Justice of India, the Governor of the State, and in the case of appointment of a Judge other than the Chief justice, the Chief Justice of the High Court.
Sub article 4 of the said article 124 further enjoins that a Judge of the Supreme Court shall not be removed from his office except by an order of the President passed after an address by each House of Parliament supported by a majority of the total member ship of that House and by a majority of not less than two thirds of the members of that House present and voting has 218 been presented to the President in the same session for such removal on the ground of proved misbehaviour or incapacity.
Sub article (5) also provides that Parliament may by law regulate the procedure for the presentation of an address and for the investigation and proof of the misbehaviour or incapacity of a Judge under clause (4).
On a plain reading of the provisions of sub article 4 of Article 124, a Judge of the Supreme Court can only be re moved on the ground of proved misbehaviour or incapacity by an order of the President passed after an address by each House of Parliament supported by a majority of the total membership of that House and by a majority of not less than two thirds of the members of that House present and voting, has been presented to the President in the same session for such removal on the ground of proved misbehaviour or inca pacity.
In other words, the President cannot on its own remove a Judge of the Supreme Court unless an address by each House of Parliament supported by a majority of the total membership of that House and by a majority of not less than two thirds of the members of that House present and voting, is passed and presented to him for removal of the Judge on the ground of proved misbehaviour or incapacity.
Without such an address by each of the House of the Parliament, the President is not empowered under the Constitution to order removal Of a Judge of the Supreme Court from his office.
Unless that ad dress is presented to the President in the same session for such removal, the President is not empowered under the Constitution to make the order for removal of the Judge of the Supreme Court of India or of the Judge of the High Court on the ground of proved misbehaviour or incapacity.
In the case of Union of India vs Sankalchand, AIR 1977 (SC) 2328 it has been observed by majority of the Constitution Bench that there is no need or justification, in order to uphold or protect the independ ence of the judiciary, for construing Article 222(1) to mean that a Judge cannot be transferred from one High Court to another without his consent.
"The power to transfer a High Court Judge is conferred by the Constitution in public inter est and not for the purpose of providing the executive with a weapon to punish a Judge who does not toe its line or who, for some reason or the other, has fallen from its grace.
The executive possesses no such power under our Constitution and if it can be shownthough we see the difficulties in such showing that a transfer of a High Court Judge is made in a given case for an extraneous reason, the exercise of the power can appropriately be struck down as being vitiated by legal mala fides.
The extraordinary power which the Constitution has conferred on the President by article 222(1) cannot be exercised in a manner which is calculated to defeat or destroy in one stroke the object and purpose of the various provisions conceived with such care to insulate the judiciary from the influence and pressures of the executive.
The power to punish a High Court Judge, if one may so describe it, is to be found only in article 2 18 read with article 124(4) and (5) of the Constitu tion, under which a Judge of the High Court can be removed from his office by an order of the President passed after an address by each House of Parliament, supported by a majority of the total membership of that House and by a majority of not less then two thirds of the members of that House present and voting, has been presented to the President in the same session for such removal on the ground of proved misbehaviour or incapacity.
Thus, if the power of the President, who has to act on the advice of the Council of Ministers, to transfer a High Court Judge for reasons not bearing on public interest but arising out of whim, caprice or fancy of the executive or its desire to bend a Judge to its own way of thinking, there is no possibility of any interference with the independence of the judiciary if a Judge is transferred without his consent.
The same view about the independence of the judiciary from the con 220 trol of the executive has been spelt out by the observations of the Constitution Bench of Seven Judges in the case of S.P.
It is to aid the judiciary in this task that the power of judicial review has been conferred upon the judiciary and it is by exercising this power which constitutes one of the most potent weapons in armoury of the law, that the judi ciary seeks to protect the citizen against violation of his constitutional or legal rights or misuse of abuse of power by the State or its officers.
The judiciary stands between the citizen and the State as a bulwark against executive excesses and misuse or abuse or power by the executive and there it is absolutely essential that the judiciary must be free from executive pressure or influence and this has been secured by the Constitution makers by making elaborate provisions in the Constitution to which detailed reference has been made in the judgments in Sankalchand Sheth 's case (AIR 1977 SC 2326) (supra).
namely fearlessness of other power centres economic or political, and freedom from prejudices acquired and nourished by the class of which the Judges belong.
If we may again quote the eloquent words of Justice Krishna Iyer: "Independence of the judiciary is not genuflexion; nor is it opposition to every proposition of Government.
221 The tyceon, the communalist, the parochialist, the faddist, the extremist and radical reactionary lying coiled up and sub consciously shaping judicial menrations are menaces to judicial independence when they are at variance with parts III and IV of the Paramount Parchment".
This is the principle of independence of the judi ciary which is vital for the establishment of real participatory democracy, maintenance of the rule of law as a dynamic concept and delivery of social justice to the vulnerable sections of the community.
It is this princi ple of independence of the judiciary which we must keep in mind while interpreting the relevant provisions of the Constitution.
The third most crucial question that fails for consider ation in this case is who is the competent authority to remove a Judge either of the, Supreme Court or of the High Court from his office in order to enable that authority to grant sanction for prosecution of the Judge under the provi sions as enjoined by Section 6 of the Prevention of Corrup tion Act, 1947.
The question, therefore, arises who is the author ity competent to grant sanction.
The Judge of the Supreme Court or the Judge of the High Court is appointed under the provisions of Article 124 or under the provisions of Article 217 respec 222 tively.
Similarly, a Judge of the High Court shall be appointed by the President by the warrant under his hand and seal after consultation with the Chief Justice of India, the Governor of the State, and in case of an appoint ment of the Judge other than the Chief Justice, the Chief Justice of the High Court and shall hold office except in the case of an additional judge till he attains the age of 62 years.
Thus, a Judge either of the High Court or of the Supreme Court is inde pendent of the control of the executive while deciding cases between the parties including the Central Government and State Government uninfluenced by the State in any manner whatsoever.
It is beyond any pale of doubt that there is no master and servant relationship or employer and employee relationship between a Judge of the High Court and the President of India in whom the executive power of the Union is vested under the provisions of Article 53 of the Consti tution.
The President has not been given the sole power or the exclusive power to remove a Judge either of the Supreme Court or of the High Court from his office though the Presi dent appoints the Judge by warrant under his hand and seal after consultation with such of the Judges of the Supreme Court and of the High Court in the States as he may deem necessary for that purpose and in case of the appointment of the Judge of the High Court, the President appoints a Judge by warrant under his hand and seal after consultation with the Chief Justice of India, the Governor of the State and in a case of appointment of a Judge other than the Chief Jus tice, the Chief Justice of the High Court.
The only mode of removal of a Judge from his office on the ground of proved misbehaviour or incapacity is laid down in clauses (4) and (5) of Article 124.
It is has been eloquently and vehemently urged on behalf of the appellant that since the Judge of the Supreme Court as well as of the High Court is a constitu tional functionary and 223 there is no employer and employee relationship or master and servant relationship between the Judge and the President of India and for that the Central Government or the State Government there is no authority to remove the Judge from 'his office by the executive except by taking recourse to procedure of impeachment as envisaged in Article 124(4) and (5) of the Constitution of India.
It has been further urged in this connection that if it is assumed that the President has the power to remove a Judge of the Supreme Court or of the High Court from his office it will do away with the independence of the judiciary and will being the judiciary under the control of the executive indirectly in as much as under Article 74 of the Constitution of India, the President while exercising his executive power has to act on the aid and advice of the Council of Ministers with the Prime Minis ter at the Head, as has been held by this Court in Shamsher Singh & Anr.
The FIR in question, which has been lodged against the appellant should be quashed and set aside Section 2 of the Prevention of Corruption Act denotes a public servant as defined in Section 21 of the Indian Penal Code (45 of 1860).
It has been noticed hereinbefore that the third clause particularly of Section 21 of the Indian Penal Code includes every Judge including any person empowered by law to dis charge whether by himself or as a member of any body of persons any adjudicatory functions.
Therefore a Judge of the High Court or of the Supreme Court comes within the defini tion of public servant and he is liable to be prosecuted under the provisions of 'the Prevention of Corruption Act.
It is farthest from our mind that a Judge of the Supreme Court or that of the High Court will be immune from prosecu tion for criminal offences committed during the tenure of his office under the provisions of the Prevention of Corrup tion Act.
The Judge as a con stitutional functionary being appointed by the President can only be removed by mandatory procedure provided under Arti cle 124 of the Constitution and in no other manner.
The has been enacted by Parliament to regulate 224 the procedure for the investigation and proof of the misbe haviour or incapacity of a Judge of the Supreme Court under clause (5) of subsection 1 of Article 124 of the Constitu tion.
The said Act and the Rules made thereunder only provide for removal of a Judge on the ground of proved misbehaviour or inability.
It does not provide for prosecution of a Judge for offences under section 5(1)(e) of the Prevention of Corruption Act.
It is apropos to mention in this connection that in England, before the full development of ministerial responsibility, impeachment was a weapon enabling the Com mons to call to account ministers appointed by, and respon sible to, the Crown.
In England, offices held during good behaviour may in the event of misconduct be determined by impeachment.
This power to remove by impeachment or address, a person holding office during good behaviour, is an essential counterpart to the independence secured to the holders of high office by making their tenure one of good behaviour instead of at pleasure.
Under article II, section 4, U.S. Constitution, the President, VicePresident and 'all civil officers of the United States can be removed from office on impeachment for, and convic tion of, "Treason, Bribery or other high Crimes and misde meanours".
Since the President of the United States who is the, highest executive authority of the State, an impeach ment has been provided for and in fact, President Johnson was impeached in 1867 for high crimes and misdemeanours.
In 1917, Justice Archibald of the Commerce Court was 'removed from office by impeachment for soliciting for himself and others, favours from railroad companies, some of which were at the time litigants in his court; in 1936 the removal of Judge Wright of the Florida Court for conduct in relation to a receivership Which evoked serious doubts as to this integ rity, although he was acquitted of specific charges, seem to have restored the wider view.
It has been said that: 225 "As to the Judges of the United States at least lack of 'good behaviour ' and 'high crimes and misdemeanours ' are overlapping if not precisely coincidental concepts."
It has been urged further that under Article 361, the President and the Governor have been given protection from being answerable to any court for the exercise and perform ance of the powers and duties of his office or for any act done or purporting to be done by him in the exercise and performance of those powers and duties.
Clause 2 of the said Article further provides that no criminal proceedings what soever shall be instituted or Continued against the Presi dent, or the Governor of a State, in any court during his term of office.
It has, therefore, been urged that the High Court should ensure modalities for launching prosecution against a Judge under the said Act.
It is, therefore, necessary to evolve some method commensurate with the grant of sanction in cases of serious allegation corruption and acquisition or the posses sion of disproportionate assets which the Judge cannot satisfactorily account for 'or possession of property dispro portionate to the sources of income of the Judge.
As has been suggested by my learned Brother Shetty, J. that the President is given the power to appoint the Judges of the Supreme Court as well as of the High Court by warrant under his hand and seal and similarly even after passing of an address by both the Houses of the Parliament in the manner provided in Article 124, clauses (4) and (5) and placed before the President, a Judge cannot be removed from his office unless and order to that effect is passed by the President.
The President, therefore, has the power to appoint as well as to remove a Judge from his office on the ground of 226 proved misbehaviour or incapacity as provided in Article 124 of the Constitution.
The President, therefore, being the authority competent to appoint and to remove a Judge, of course in accordance with the procedure envisaged in Article 124, clauses (4) and (5) of the Constitution, may be deemed to be the authority to grant sanction for prosecution of a Judge under the provisions of Section 6(1)(c) in re spect of the offences provided in section 5(1)(e) of the Prevention of Corruption Act, 1947.
In order to adequately protect a Judge from frivolous prosecution and unnecessary harassment the President will consult the Chief Justice of India who will consider all the materials placed before him and tender his advice to the President for giving sanction to launch prosecution or for filing FIR against the Judge concerned after being satisfied in the matter.
If the chief Justices of opinion that it is not a fit case for grant of sanction for prosecution of the Judge concerned the Presi dent shall not accord sanction to prosecute the Judge;This will save the Judge concerned from unnecessary harassment as weal as from frivolous prosecution against him as suggested by my learned brother Shetty, J. in his judgment.
The purpose of grant of previ ous sanction before prosecuting a public servant i.e. a Judge of the High Court or of the Supreme Court is to pro tect the Judge from unnecessary harassment and frivolous prosecution more particularly to save the Judge from the biased prosecution for giving judgment in a case which goes against the Government or its officers though 'based on good reasons and rule of law.
197 1 SC 1132, wherein it has been observed: "It seems to us that whoever drafted the Impeachment Motion drafted it with a view to bring the facts within the meaning of the express "misbehaviour" in Article 124(4) for he must have realised that to say that a Judge has committed errors, even gross errors, cannot amount to "misbehaviour".
The contention that frivolous prosecution can be launched against a Judge for giving a judgment against the Central Government or any of its Officers is of no avail in as much as such decision does not amount to misbehaviour within the meaning of the Article 124 of the Constitution.
227 It is also necessary to mention in this connection that the appellant resigned his post of Chief Justice when FIR was lodged by the CBI and so he ceased to be a public serv ant on the date of lodging the FIR against him by the CBI.
The scope and applicability of section 6 of the Prevention of Corruption Act came to be considered in the case of R.S.
Antulay; , before a Constitution Bench of this Court where it has been observed: "Section 6 bars the Court from taking cogni zance of the offences therein enumerated alleged to have been committed by a public servant except with the previous sanction of the competent authority empowered to grant the requisite sanction .
Section 6 creates a bar to the court from taking cogni zance of offences therein enumerated except with the previous sanction of the authority set out in clause (a) (b) & (c) of sub sec.
The object underlying such provision Was to save the public servant from the harassment of frivolous or unsubstantiated allegations.
Bansi vs State of Maharashtra), ; Existence thus of a valid sanction is a pre requisite to the taking of cognizance of the enumerated offences alleged to have been committed by a public servant.
5(2) of the 1947 Act clearly spell out that the offences therein defined can be committed by a public servant.
Iqbal Ahmed vs State of A.P., it was held that the terminus 228 a quo for a valid sanction is the time when the court is called upon to take cognizance of the offence.
6 in that a public servant is not to be exposed to harassment of a frivolous or speculative prosecution.
In the present appeal the appellant ceases to be a public servant as h. resigned from the office.
Therefore at the time of filing the FIR the appellant ceases to be a public servant and so no sanction under Sec.
In these circumstances the judgment and order of the High Court dismissing the application under Secll.
482 of the Code of Criminal Procedure is in my considered opinion, wholly in accordance with law and as such the Order of the High Court has to be upheld in any circumstances.
This appeal by certificate under Articles 132(1) and 134(1)(e) of the Constitution has been filed by the former Chief Justice of the Madras High Court against the Full Bench decision of the same High Court refusing to quash the criminal proceedings taken against him.
The background of the case in the barest outline is as follows: The appellant started his life as an Advocate in the High Court of Madras.
He held that post till 20 February 1960 when he was elevated to the Bench as a perma nent Judge of the Madras High Court.
During his tenure as the Judge and Chief Justice he was said to have acquired assets disproportionate to the known source of income.
The complaint in this regard was made to the Delhi Special Police Establishment ("CBI").
On 24 February 1976, the CBI registered a case against him with issuance of a First Information Report which was filed in one of the Courts at New Delhi.
It was alleged in the First Information Report that taking into consideration the sources of income of the appellant as a Judge and Chief Justice of the High Court and the mode and style of his living with the probable expenses required during the period of his Judgeship/Chief Justiceship, it is reasonably be lieved that the appellant cannot satisfactorily account fox the possession of assets which are far disproportion he to his known source of income.
The appel lant on coming to know of these developments proceeded on leave from 9 March 1976 and subsequently retired on 8 April 1976 on attaining the age of superannuation.
The investigation of the case by CBI was however, con tinued with the culmination of filing a final report.
On 15 December 1977, a final report under Section 173(2) of the Code of Criminal 'Procedure (Cr.
office as the Chief Justice of Madras gradually commenced accumulation of disproportionate assets etc.
The particulars of the disproportionate assets and the income of the appellant during the aforesaid period have been fully set out in the charge sheet.
The Full Bench of the High Court by majority view has dismissed his case.
We may briefly refer to those contentions not for the pur pose of examining them, since most of them have not been pressed before us, but only to indicate as to how the appel lant projected his case.
The Judge shall hold office until the age of super annuation subject to earlier removal for proved misbehaviour or incapacity.
This protection to Judges will be defeated if they are compelled to stand trial for offence committed while discharging duties of their office even before retire ment.
Even the Parliament or the State Legislatures are not competent to make laws creating offences in matters relating to discharge of Judge 's duties.
If the Legislatures are held to have powers to create offence for which Judges could be tried in ordi nary criminal Courts then, it may affect the very independ ence of the Judiciary and the basic structure of the Consti tution.
The jurisdiction of the CBI to register the case against the appellant and to investigate the offence was also questioned.
The issuance of the First Information RepOrt and the subsequent filing of the charge sheet were impeached.
The last and 231 perhaps the most important contention urged before the High Court was regarding the necessity to obtain prior sanction from the competent authority for prosecution of the appellant as required under Section 6 of the Act.
And since there was no such sanction obtained the Court has no juris diction to take cognizance of the case.
On the last aspect relating to the requirement of prior sanction for prosecution of the appellant, the learned Judge, held that since the appellant has retired from serv ice and was no longer a 'public servant ' on the date of filing the charge sheet, the sanction for his prosecution required under Section 6 of the Act is not warranted.
The learned Judge has dealt with the ingredients of the offence under clause (e) of Section 5(1) with which the appellant was charged.
He observed that clause (e) of Section 5(1) of the Act places the burden of establishing unsatisfactory accounting squarely on the prosecution.
In order to properly discharge this burden cast by the section, it Would be necessary for the Investigating Officer first of all to call upon the public servant to account for the disproportionate assets.
And the offence complained of under clause (e) of Section 5(1) is not made out without such exercise and finding by the Investigating Officer.
The learned Judge, however, was careful enough to modulate his reasoning so that it may be in conformity with the constitu tional protection guaranteed to the accused under Article 20(3) of the Constitution, Article 20(3) provides that no person accused of any offence shall be compelled to be a witness against himself.
The learned Judge said that in view of Article 20(3) the Investigating Officer has no power to compel the accused to give his explanation for his dispro portionate assets, but he must necessarily ask the public servant for an account.
the accused appellant has voluntarily submitted his statement of assets and income to the Investi gating Officer in the course of investigation.
Balasubraman yan, J., however, seems to have ignored that statement and focussed his attention on the default of the Investigating Officer in not calling upon the appellant to account for the disproportionate assets. '
The first concerns with the ingredients of the offence alleged and the requirements of the charge sheet filed against the appellant.
In this regard counsel sought to support the views expressed by Balasubramanyan, J., in his dissenting judgment.
The essence of the submissions made on this aspect is based on the special status and role of Judges of the higher judiciary and in the need to safeguard judicial independence consistent with the constitutional provisions.
if it is determined in favour of the appel lant, the first becomes academic and wc may conveniently leave it out.
For a proper consideration of the submissions made by counsel on both sides the attention may be drawn to the relevant provisions of the Act.
(3) Notwithstanding anything contained in sub sections (1) and (2) the court may decline to draw the presumption referred to in either of the said sub sections, if the gratification or thing aforesaid is, in its opinion, so trivial that no inference of corruption may fairly be drawn."
(3) Whoever habitually commits (i) an offence punishable under section 162 or section 163 of the Indian Penal Code, or (ii) an offence punishable under section 165 A of the Indian Penal Code, shall be punishable with imprisonment for a term which 235 shall not be less than one year but which may extend to seven years, and shall also be liable to fine: Provided that the court may, for any special reasons recorded in writing, impose a sentence of imprisonment of less than one year.
(3B) Where a sentence of fine is imposed under subsection (2) or sub section (3), the court in fixing the amount of fine shall take into consideration the amount or the value of the property, if any, which the accused person has obtained by committing the offence or where the conviction is for an offence referred to in clause (e) of subsection (1), the pecuniary resources or property referred to in that clause for which the accused person is unable to account satisfactorily.
No court shall take cognizance of an offence punishable under section 161 (or section 164) or section 165 of the Indian Penal Code, or under sub section (2) (or sub section 3A) of section 5 of this Act, alleged to have been committed by a public servant, except with the previous sanction, (a) in the case of a person who is employed in connection with the affairs of the (Union) and is not removable from his office save by or with the sanction of the Central Government (of the) State Government; (b) in the case of a person who is employed in connection with the affairs of (a State) and is not removable from his 236 office save by or with the sanction of the Central Government (of the) State Government (c) in the case of any other person, of the authority competent to remove him from his office.
(2) Where for any reason whatsoever any doubt arises whether the previous sanction as re quired under sub section (1) should be given by the Central or State Government or any other authority, such sanction shall be given by that Government or authority which would have been competent to remove the public servant from his office at the time when the offence was alleged to have been committed.
Notwithstanding anything contained in the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1898, no police officer below the rank (a) in the case of the Delhi Special Police Establishment, of an Inspector of Police; (b) in the presidency towns of Calcutta and Madras, of an Assistant Commissioner of Po lice; (c) in the presidency towns of Bombay, of a Superintendent of Police; and (d) elsewhere, of a Deputy Superintendent of Police, shall investigate any offence punishable under Section 161, section 165 or section 165A of the Indian Penal Code or under section 5 of this Act without the order of a Presidency Magistrate or a Magistrate of the first class, as the case may be, or make any arrest there for without a warrant: Provided that if a police officer not below the rank of an Inspector of Police is autho rised by the State Government in this behalf by general or special order, he may also investigate any such offence without the order of a Presi 237 dency Magistrate or a Magistrate of the first class, as the case may be, or make arrest therefor without a warrant: Provided further that an offence referred to in clause (e) of sub section (1) of Section 5 shall not be investigated without the order of a police officer not below the rank of a Superintendent of Police.
The Act was intended to suppress bribery and corruption in public administration and it contains stringent provi sions.
Section 5 of the Act creates offence of criminal misconduct on the part of a public servant.
Section 6 prohibits Courts from taking cognizance of an offence unless certain condition is complied with.
We will have an occasion to consider the provisions of Section 6 in detail and for the present we may deal only with the condition prescribed by the Section for a Court to take cognizance of an offence The condition prescribed therein is the previous sanction of a competent authority.
It may be of importance to remember that the power to take cognizance of an offence is vested in the Court of competent jurisdiction.
Section 6 is primarily concerned to see that prosecution for the specified offences shall not commence without the sanction of a competent authority.
Nor it was meant to afford protection to public servant from criminal prosecution for such offences.
The competent authority has to examine independently and impartially the material on record to form his own opinion whether the offence alleged is frivolous or vexatious.
But he cannot refuse to grant sanction if the material collected has made out 238 the commission of the offence alleged against the public servant.
Indeed he is duty bound to grant sanction if the material collected lend credence to the offence complained of.
When a public servant is prosecuted for an offence which challenges his honesty and integrity, the issue in such a case is not only between the prosecutor and the offender, but the State is also vitally concerned with it as it affects the morale of public serv ants and also the administrative interest of the State.
The authority competent to remove the public servant would be in a better position than the prosecuting agency to assess the material collected in a dispassionate and reasonable manner and determine whether sanction for prosecution of a public servant deserves to be granted or not.
Clause (a) of Section 6(1) covers public servants employed in connection with the affairs of the Union.
The prescribed authority for giving prior sanction for such persons would be the Central Govern ment.
Clause (b) of Section 6(1) covers public servants employed in connection with the affairs of the State.
The authority competent to give prior sanction for prosecution of such persons would be the State Government.
Clause (c) states that in the case of any other person the sanction would be of the authority competent to remove him from his office.
It is common ground that clauses (a) and (b) of Section 6(1) of the Act cannot cover the Judges of the High Courts and the Supreme Court since they are not employed in connec tion with the affairs of the Union or State.
It is true that the relationship of master and servant as is ordinarily understood in common law does not exist between the Judges of higher judiciary and the Government.
The servant undertakes to serve the master and obey the reasona ble orders within the scope of his duty.
The Judges are not bound nor do they under take to obey any order of the Government within the scope of their duties.
Sheth, ; at 450 Chandrachud, J., as he then was, has illu mined this idea: "the Judges owe their appointment to the Constitution and hold a position of privilege under it.
There is thus a fundamental distinction between the master and servant relationship between the Government and the Judges of High Courts and the Supreme Court. "
Section 21 of the IPC while defining "public servant" has denoted as many as twelve categories of per sons.
It includes not only the State and Central Government employees but also others like Judge, juryman, assessor 240 and arbitrator.
The structure oil the section does not permit the applicability of the rule of ejusdem generis.
There are, however, two requirements for the applicabil ity of clause (c) of Section 6(1) to a Judge of the higher judiciary.
His approach however, is to limit the operation of clause (c) only to Judges of the Subordinate judiciary.
It was specifically denoted in the third category of public servant under Section 21 of IPC.
The Fourth term of reference made to the Committee reads: "to suggest changes in law which would ensure speedy trial of cases of bribery, corrup tion and criminal misconduct, and make the law otherwise more effective."
The Committee collected a lot of material from the public relating to the nature of corruption in the administration.
"We heard from all sides", the Committee reported, "that corruption has, in recent years, spread even to those levels of administration from which it was conspic uously absent in the past."
While examining the Fourth term of reference extracted above, the Committee in Section 7 of its report considered the question of amendments to the IPC.
The Committee drew particular 241 attention to the definition of 'public servant ' in Section 21 of the IPC.
Under para 7.7, the Committee recommended that the third category under Section 21 of the IPC may be amended as stated below: "Third Every Judge including any person en trusted with adjudicatory functions in the course of enforcement of any law for the time being in force. "
40 of 1964), The Parliament by passing this enactment has reenacted Section 21 with the third category as follows: "21.
It will be seen that the Parliament has not only retained the expression "Every Judge" in the original enumeration of public servant under Section 21 of the IPC but also enlarged the expression to include any person empowered by law to discharge any adjudicatory functions.
"Judge" The word "Judge" denotes not only every person who is officially designated as a Judge, but also every person who is empowered by law to give, in any legal proceeding, civil or criminal, a definitive judgment, or a judgment which, if not appealed against, would be definitive, or a judgment which, if confirmed by some other authority, would be definitive, or 242 who is one of a body of persons, which body of persons is empowered by law to give such a judgment. "
A Judge of the superior Court cannot therefore be excluded from the definition of public servant.
He squarely falls within the purview of the Act provided the second requirement under clause (c) of Section 6(1) is satisfied The second requirement for attracting the provisions of clause (c) of Section 6(1) to a Judge of the superior Judi ciary is that for the purpose of granting sanction for his prosecution, there must be an authority and the authority must be competent to remove the Judge.
The power to remove them is vested in Parlia ment by the process analogous to impeachment.
Establishment and constitution of Su preme Court XXXXX XXXXX XXXXX (4) A Judge of the Supreme Court shall not be removed from his office except by an order of the President passed after an address by each House of Parliament supported by a majority of the total membership of that House and by a majority of not less than two thirds of the members of that House present and voting has been presented to the President in the same session for such removal on the ground of proved misbehaviour or incapacity.
243 (5) Parliament may by law regulate the proce dure for the presentation of an address and for the investigation and proof of the misbe haviour or incapacity of a Judge under clause (4).
In exercise of the power vested under clause (5) of Article 124, the Parliament has passed the prescribing the procedure for presentation of an address and for the investigation and proof of misbehaviour or incapacity of a Judge.
Section 3(1) provides for giving notice of a motion for presenting an address to the President praying for the removal of a Judge, (a) in the case of a notice of motion given in the House of the People, it should be signed by not less than one hundred members of that House; (b) in the case of a notice given in the Council of States, it should be signed by not less than fifty mem bers of that Council.
The notice of motion should be given to the Speaker or, as the case may be, to the Chairman who may, after consulting such persons, as he thinks fit and after considering such materials, if any, as may be avail able to him, either admit the motion or refuse to admit the same.
Section 3(2) states that if the motion referred to in sub section (1) is admitted, the Speaker or, as the case may be, the Chairman shall constitute a Committee for making an investigation into the grounds on which the removal of a Judge is prayed for.
There shall be three members of the Committee; of whom one shall be chosen from among the Chief Justice and other Judges of the Supreme Court; one shall be chosen from among the Chief Justices of the High Courts and one shall be a person who is, in the opinion of the Speaker or, as the case may be, the Chairman, a distinguished ju rist.
The section further provides that the Committee shall frame definite charges against the Judge on the basis of which the investigation is proposed to be held and the Judge shall be given a reasonable opportunity of presenting a written statement of defence.
Section 4(1) of the states that at the conclusion of the investigation, the Committee shall submit its report to the Speaker or, as the case may be, to the Chairman, stating therein its findings 'on each of the charges separately with such observations on the whole case as he thinks fit.
The Speaker or the 244 Chairman, as the case may be, shall cause that report to be laid before the House of People and the Council of States.
Section 6 provides that if the report of Committee contains a finding that the Judge is not guilty of any misbehaviour or does not suffer from any incapacity, then, no further step be taken in either House of Parliament Section 6(2) states that if the report of the Committee contains a finding that the Judge is guilty of any misbeha viour or suffers from any incapacity, then, each House of Parliament shall take further steps.
The motion to present an address to the President together with the report of the Committee, shall be taken up for consideration by the House in which it is pending.
That address praying for removal of the Judge must be adopted by each House of Parliament in accordance with the provisions of clause (4) of Article 124.
Incidentally, it may be mentioned that the same procedure has been made applicable for removal of the Comptroller and Auditor General of India.
Counsel for the appellant while referring to the afore mentioned provisions of the Constitution pointed out that the power to remove a Judge is not vested in any single individual or authority.
But Parliament, coun sel contended, cannot be the sanctioning authority for the prosecution of a Judge.
It would be reasonable to presume that the Legislature while enacting clause (c) of Section 6(1) of the Act could not have intend ed Parliament to be the sanctioning authority.
The other authority cannot be involved to grant sanction for prosecu tion of a Judge since it would be inconsistent with the provisions of the Act and the Constitutional requirements.
Mr. Tulsi, learned Additional Solicitor General, on the other hand, emphasised on the role of the President in relation to removal of a Judge.
He pointed out that the order of the President for removal of a Judge is imperative under clause (4) of Article 124 of the Constitution and the President could be the proper authority under clause (c) of Section 6(1) of the Act.
Such, then, put quite shortly, were the contentions addressed to us on the authority competent to grant sanction for prosecution of Judges of the superior judiciary.
We agree with counsel for the appellant that Parliament could not have been intended to be the sanctioning authority under clause (c) of Section 6(1).
The composition of Parlia ment consisting of the President and two Houses (Article 79) makes it unsuitable to the task.
The nature of transacting business or proceeding in each House renders it impractica ble.
The individual Member of the House takes part in a proceeding usually by speech and voting; but the conduct of Judge in the discharge of his duties cannot be discussed.
Article 121 provides "that no discussion shall take place in Parliament with respect to the conduct of any Judge of the Supreme Court or of a High ' Court in the discharge of his duties except upon a motion for presenting an address to the President praying for the removal of the Judge as hereinaf ter provided. "
The only exception made in the Constitution for discussion on the conduct of a Judge is when the motion is taken up for his removal.
On no other occasion the con duct of a Judge in the discharge of duties could be the subject matter of discussion in the two Houses of Parlia ment.
Without discussion, it would be difficult for Parlia ment to make an objective judgment with regard to grant of sanction for prosecution.
Parliament cannot therefore be the proper authority for granting sanction for the prosecution of a Judge.
That does not however, follow that the Judges of superi or Courts are entitled to be excluded from the scope of the Act as contended for the appellant.
The apparent policy of the legislation is to insure a clean public administration by weeding out corrupt officials.
J., in S.A. Venkataraman vs The 246 State; , while, analysing the provisions of the Act observed (at 1048): "that the provisions of the Act indicate that it was intention of the legislature to treat more severely than hitherto corruption on the part of a public servant and not to condone it in any manner whatsoev er. "
J., as he then was, in M. Narayanan vs State of Kerala, ; The learned Judge said that the Act is a socially useful measure conceived in the public inter est and it should be liberally constured.
To quote his own words (at 729): "The Preamble indicates that the Act was passed as it was expedient to make more effec tive provisions for the prevention of bribery and corruption.
The long title as well as the preamble indicate that the Act was passed to put down the said social evil i.e. bribery and corruption by public Servant.
Penal Code was found insufficient to eradicate or even to control the growing evil of bribery and cor ruption corroding the public service of our country.
The provisions broadly include the existing offences under sections 161 and 165 of the Indian Penal Code committed by public servants and enact a new rule of presumptive evidence against the accused.
The Act also creates a new offence of criminal misconduct by public servants though to some extent it overlaps on the pre existing offences and enacts a rebuttable presumption contrary to the well known principles of Criminal Juris prudence.
It also aims to protect honest public servants from harassment by prescribing that the investigation against them could be made only by police officials of particular status and by making the sanction of the Government or other appropriate officer a pre condition for their prosecution.
As it is a socially useful measure conceived in public interest, it should be liberally construed so as to bring about the desired object i.e. to prevent corruption among public servants and to prevent harassment of the honest among them."
p. 531) it is stated that "the distinction between a strict and a liberal construction has almost disappeared with regard to all classes of statutes, so that all statutes, 247 whether penal or not, are now construed by substantially the same rules .
If the literal meaning of the legislative language used would lead to results which would defeat the purpose of the Act the Court would be justified in disregarding the literal meaning and adopt a liberal construction which effectuates the object of the legislature.
It is sufficient that the authorities prescribed there under fall within the fair sense of the language of the Section.
Clause (4) of Article 61 reads as follows: "61(4) If as a result of the investigation a resolution is passed by a majority of not less than two thirds of the total membership of the House by which the charge was investigated or caused to be investigated, declaring that the charge preferred against the President has been sustained, such resolution shall have the effect of removing the President from his office as from the date on which the resolu tion is so passed. "
Article 67(b) of the Constitution provides that the Vice President may be removed from his office by a resolution of the Council of States passed by a majority of all the then members of the Council and agreed to by the House of People.
The resolution passed in accordance with the procedure prescribed under the respective provi sions for removing the President, Vice President and the Speaker, will ipso facto operate against those authorities.
Clause (4) of Article 124 mandates that "a Judge shall not be removed from his office except by an order of the President passed after an address by each House of Parliament . "
Antulay, at 206: "That competent authority alone would know the nature and function discharged by the public servant holding the office and whether the same has been abused or misused.
It seems to us that these observations were not intended to lay down the law that the authority competent to grant sanction for prosecution of public serv ant should be vertically superior in the hierarchy in which the office of the public servant exists.
In our opinion, it is not necessary that the authority compe tent to give sanction for prosecution or the authority competent to remove the public servant should be vertically superior in the hierarchy in which the, office of the public servant exists.
All that is required is that the authority must be in a position to appreciate the material collected against the public servant to judge whether the prosecution contemplated is frivolous or speculative Under our enact ment the power has been conferred on the authority competent to remove the public servant.
Under the British Prevention of Corruption Act, 1906 the power to give consent for prose cution for an offence under that Act has been conferred upon the Attorney General or Solicitor General.
Clause (2) of Article 124 provides that every Judge of the Supreme Court shah be appointed by the Presi dent in consultation with such of the Judges of the supreme Court and of the High Courts as the President may deem necessary for the purpose and in case of appointment of a Judge other than the Chief Justice, the Chief Justice of/India shall always be consulted.
The President exercises this power with the aid and advice of his Council of Minis ters under Article 74 of the Constitution.
250 In the event of President regarded as the authority competent to give prior sanction for the prosecution of a Judge, counsel for the appellant contended, that the Presi dent cannot act independently.
Counsel urged that a separate Parliamentary law to deal with the criminal misconduct of Judges of superior courts consistent with the constitutional scheme for their removal could be enacted and such a legislation alone would ensure judicial independence and not the present enactment.
A suggestion was also made that since 'misbehaviour ' under clause (4) of Article 124 of the Constitution and 'criminal misconduct ' under Section 5(1)of the Act being synonymous, the constitu tional process for removal of the Judge must be gone through first and only after his removal the prosecution if need be recommended in the same process.
Otherwise, it is said that it would lead to anomaly since there is no power either in the Constitution or under any other enactment to suspend the Judge or refuse to assign work to the Judge pending his trial or conviction in the Criminal Court and the Judge can insist on his right to continue till his removal even after his conviction and sentence.
It is inappropriate to state that conviction and sen tence are no bar for the Judge to sit in the Court.
He must voluntarily withdraw from judicial work and await the outcome of the criminal prosecution.
He shall not insist on his right to sit on the Bench till he is cleared from the charge by a Court of competent jurisdiction.
The Judge whose character is clouded and whose standards of morality and rectitude are in doubt may not have the judicial inde pendence and may not command confidence of the public.
The emphasis on this point should not appear superflu ous Prof. Jackson says "Misbehaviour by a Judge, whether it takes place on the bench or off the bench, undermines public confidence in the administration of justice, and also dam ages public respect for the law of the 251 land; if nothing is seen to be done about it, the damage goes unrepaired.
369 370) The proved "misbehaviour" which is the basis for removal of a Judge under clause (4) of Article 124 of the Constitu tion may also in certain cases involve an offence of crimi nal misconduct under section S(1) of the Act.
But that is no ground for withholding criminal prosecution till the Judge is removed by Parliament as suggested by counsel for the appellant.
"Even a Government servant who is answerable for his misconduct which may also constitute an offence under the IPC or under Section 5 of the Act is liable to be prose cuted in addition to a departmental enquiry.
It is not objectionable to initiate criminal proceedings against public servant before exhausting the disciplinary proceedings, and a fortiori, the prosecution of a JUdge for criminal misconduct before his removal by Parliament for proved misbehaviour is unobjectionable.
Likewise, Section 77 IPC gives them protection from criminal liability for an act performed judicially.
Section 77 states that ?nothing is an offence which is done by a Judge when acting judicially in the exercise of any power which is, or which in good faith he believes to be, given to him by law".
The (Act 7 0 71) provides power to the Court to take civil and criminal contempt proceedings.
Article 361(2) confers immunity from criminal prosecution only to the President and Governors of States and to no others.
The Judges are liable to be dealt with just the same way as any other person in respect of criminal offence.
It is only in taking of bribes or with regard to the offence of corruption the sanction for crimi nal prosecution is required.
In the book "Judicial Independence The Contemporary Debate" by section Shetreet and J. Deschenes '(1985 ed.)
The author has surveyed the penal liability of judges in the legal systems of some of the countries.
In a number of national systems one can also find the provision of criminal sanctions for certain acts or omissions that are typical only of the administration of Justice, such as deni de justice, or wilful abuse of the judicial office.
Even crimes which are of more general application, such as the taking of bribes, might well be sanctioned differently but possibly more severely when they refer" to judicial officers.
In other countries, howev er, such as Poland, Greece and Italy, a different approach prevails.
There is no criminal sanction which is specifical ly applicable only to judicial behaviour; rather, the judges are included in those criminal provisions which apply gener ally to public servants, such as provisions concerning corruption, omission or refusal to perform activities of office, vexation, etc. "
If we take the early English law it will be seen that the corruption on the part of a Judge was the most reprehen sible crime and punishable as high treason.
Even Lord Becon, the most gifted mind of the English Renaissance, acclaimed philosopher and the best legal brain was not spared from the punishment for accepting bribes.
He was fined forty thousand pounds, a monumental sum, and imprisoned in the Tower during the King 's pleasure."
King James however, liberated him from prison, remitted his fine, and pardon him fully (The Corrupt Judge by Joseph Borkin 1962 ed.
There is however, apprehension that the Executive being the largest litigant is likely to misuse the power to prose cute the Judges.
Section 6 providing for prior sanction from the competent authority and directing that no court shall take cognizance of the offence under Section 5(1) without such prior sanction is indeed a protection for Judges from frivolous and malicious prosecution.
It is a settled law that the authority entitled to grant sanction must apply its mind to the facts of the case and all the evidence collected before forming an opinion whether to grant sanction or not.
In the instant case the then Chief Justice of India was requested to give his opinion whether the appellant could be proceeded under the Act.
It was only after the Chief Justice expressed his views that the appellant could be proceeded under the provi sions of the Act, the case was registered against him.
Mr. Tulsi, learned Additional Solicitor General submitted that he has no objection for this Court for issuing a direction against the Government of India to follow that procedure in every case.
He maintained that it would be for the State to come forward with u separate enactment for the Judges consistent with the Constitutional provisions for safeguarding the independence of the judiciary and not for this Court to improve upon the defective law.
This Court being the ultimate guardian of rights of people and independence of the judiciary will not deny itself the opportunity to lay down such guidelines.
It is our responsibil ity and duty to apply the existing law in a form more condu cive to the independence of the Judiciary.
Even for trans fer of a Judge from one High Court to another the Chief Justice should be consulted by the President of India (Article 222).
If any questionarises as to the age of a Judge of a High Court,the question shall be decided by the President after consultation with the Chief Justice of India (Article 217(3)).
Hence it is necessary that the Chief Justice of India is not kept out of the picture of any criminal case contemplated against a Judge.
He would be in a better position to give his opinion in the case and consultation with the Chief Justice of India would be of immense assistance to the Government in coming to the right conclusion.
We therefore, direct that no criminal case shall be registered under Section 154, Cr.
