Kapil Sibal, Additional Solicitor General, Ms. A. Subha shini and K. Swamy for the Respondents.
In this petition under Article 32 of the Constitution, the petitioners have questioned the con stitutional validity of Section 5 of the (12 of 1919) (hereinafter called 'the Act ').
The grounds on which the vires of the provisions is attacked are that the section gives an unguided, unchanelised and arbitrary power to the State Government to include any substance as poison for the purpose of restriction to be imposed on the posses sion for sale and sale of the same.
The petitioner 's have also taken the plea that though the Act is a Central enactment it is possible of unjust and unjustified discriminatory appli cation as it is left to each State Government to determine what substance they would include as poison and regulated and the decision in one State to include the substance as poison is not automatically made applicable to the other States.
In other words, it is intended to control over the traffic in poisons.
It was the con tention of the petitioners before the authorities that their "unit is manufacturing only those thinners which contain only liquid substance, like as ecotone, ethyl acetate SDS etc.
According to them, therefore, the substance manufactured by them would not come within the amended Rules.
Though in the beginning the petitioners were contending that in substance manufactured by them did not come within Rule 2(x)(2) and there were some correspondence in this regard, when the competent authority held that the substance manufactured by the petitioners would come within the definition of 'thinner ' as contained in Rule 2(x)(2) of the Rules, the petitioners did not question the finding on any material.
Before us also they had not placed any materi al to show that the finding was wrong or that the substance would not come within Rule 2(x)(2).
In fact the learned counsel argued the petition on the basis that the petition ers are a manufacturer of 'thinner ' within Rule 2(x)(2) which has been declared as poison for purposes of the Act.
Later when Delhi Poisons Rules, 1926 were made in exercise of the powers under the Act those list of substances were included in the list enumerated in Rule 2 thereof.
Rule 2 was amended as already stated including 'thinner ' of the description mentioned therein as poison.
Section 5 of the Act the con stitutional validity of which is questioned reads as fol lows: "5.
The Act is intended to regulate the importation, possession and sale of poisons.
Some substances were includ ed in the Rules made in 1926 as poisons and that is not in dispute.
223 That Section enables the State Government to make Rules generally to carry out the purposes and objects of the Act.
Rules were amended in 1973 and duly notified as required by the Act.
Section 2(3) of the , 1/1904 defined poison as: "Any substance which were applied to the body internally or externally, or in any way intro duced into the system, is capable, without acting mechanically, but by its own inherent qualities,.
When this Act 1/1904 was repealed and re enacted as Poison Act 12 of 1919 the definition was omitted and speci fied substances were included in the schedule with a power vested in the State Government to amend the same by Rules including other substances to the list of poisons.
It is not all poisonous substances that are brought within the regula tion under the Act.
It is those substances which the Govern ment consider its possession for sale or sale to be regulat ed in the interest of health and safety of the society.
Under this term would fall anything calcu lated to destroy life.
Substances harmless in themselves might become poison by the time or manner of their adminis tration.
A substance may be a deadly poison or a valuable medicine according to how and how much is taken.
