From the Judgment and Order dated 16.5.1988 of the Punjab & Haryana High Court in Regular Second Appeal No.
The constitutional validity of section 15(1)(a) of the Punjab Preemption Act, 1913 was challenged on the ground that it offended the fundamental right guaranteed by Article 19(1)(f) m Ram Sarup vs Munshi & Ors., A Constitution Bench of this Court upheld the validity holding that there was no infringement of Article 19(1)(1 ') of the Constitution.
Thereafter, a host of writ petitions 122 were filed in this Court under Article 32 of the Constitu tion challenging the constitutional validity of section 15 on the ground that it infringed Articles 14 and 15 of the Constitution.
Section 15 of the 1913 Act, as it originally stood, underwent substantial changes in 1960 and as amended read as under: "15.
This Court in Atam Prakash vs State of Haryana & Ors, ; ; held that the right of pre emption given to co sharers as well as to a tenant can be justified as they constitute a class by themselves.
This Court, therefore, upheld the constitutional validity of clause 'fourthly of section 15(1)(a) clauses 'fourthly ' and 'fifthly ' of section 15(1)(b) and clause fourthly of section 15(1)(c) as valid and not infringing Articles 14 or 15 of the Constitution This Court, however, did not find any justification for the classification contained m section 15 which conferred a right of pre emption on the kinsfolk.
The right of preemption based on consanguinity was held to be a relic of the feudal past totally inconsistent with the constitutional philosophy and scheme.
It also found the list of kinsfolk entitled to pre emption as intrinsically defec tive and Self contradictory.
The right of pre emption in regard to a co sharer was upheld on the consideration that if an outsider is introduced as a co sharer in a property it will make common management extremely difficult and destroy the benefits of ownership in common.
The right of pre emp tion vested in a tenant was sustained on the ground that 1 and reform legislations in regard to the tiller of the soil to obtain proprietary right in the soil with a view to ensuring his continuance in possession of the land and consequently of his livelihood without threat or disturbance from the superior proprietor.
The right of pre emption granted to a tenant was taken as another instance of a legislation aimed at protecting the tenant 's interest in the land.
Holding that the co sharers and the tenants constitut ed a distinct class by themselves, the right of pre emption conferred on them was upheld as reasonable and in public interest.
In taking this view strong reliance was placed on the ratio of the decision of this court in Bhau Ram vs B. Baijnath Singh, ; wherein the vires of a provision of the Rewa State Pre emption Act which conferred a right of pre emption based on vicinage and the right of preemption conferred on co sharers and the Punjab Pre emption Act, 1913 were challenged on the ground of infraction of Article 19(1) (f) of the Constitu tion.
In that case it was held that a right of pre emption by vicinage offended Article 19(1) (f) of the Constitution but a similar right conferred on co sharers was intra vires Article 19(1)(1) of the Constitution.
In that case also this Court held that the right of pre emption vested in co shar ers was a reasonable restriction on the right to hold, acquire or dispose of property conferred by Article 19(1)(1) of the Constitution.
In Atam Prakash s case, this Court, therefore, held that what was said about the right of pre emption granted to co sharers in relation to Article 19(1)(1) of the Constitution applied with equal force to justify the classification in relation to Articles 14 and 15 of the Constitution.
After the surgery, section 15 underwent at the hands of this Court removing the offending pans in Atarn Prakash 's case, what survives of section 15 is that in the case of sale of agricultural land and village immovable property by a sole owner, the tenant alone can exercise the right of pre emption.
Where the sale is of a share out of joint land or property, and is, not made by all the co sharers jointly, only the other co sharers and the tenants can exercise the right of pre emption.
Where the sale is of a land or proper ty owned jointly and is made by all the co sharers jointly, the right to pre empt survives to the tenants only.
Since in the present case, we are concerned with sale by a single co sharer and not 125 by all the co sharers jointly, the remaining part of section 15(1)(b), with which we are concerned, reads as under: "15(b).
A similar question came up before this Court in Jagdish & Ors.
