Appeals by special leave from the judgment and orders dated August 5, 1955, of the former Travancore Cochin High Court in Income tax Reference Appeals Nos.
These two appeals by special leave raise a common question of law, and that is, whether business losses incurred in the erstwhile State of Cochin could, under the Income tax Act of Travancore, be set off against the business profits made in the erstwhile State of Travancore.
The appellant before us in both the appeals is the Commissioner of Income tax and the respondents are the two assessees, in one case a Bank and the other a private limited company.
The main argument has been confined to the question of applicability of section 32(1) and the first proviso to that section of the Travancore Income tax Act (hereinafter called the Travancore Act).
It filed its incometax return showing an income of Rs.
The assessee 's appeal to the Income tax Commissioner was unsuccessful but the Appellate Tribunal held that the banking business of the assessee being one and indivisible for the purpose of determining the amount assessable to income tax it was entitled to deduct the losses incurred outside Travancore State from the profits accruing and arising in that State.
At the instance of the Commissioner of Income tax the following question was referred to the High Court of Travancore Cochin: Is the aforesaid sum of Rs.
260/58 the assessee is a private limited company with its registered office in the former Cochin State.
This was not allowed by the Income tax Officer and on appeal this order was confirmed by the Appellate Assistant Commissioner.
The Appellate Tribunal also did not accept the submissions of the assessee and upheld the order of assessment.
On an application of the assessee the following question was referred to the High Court of Travancore Cochin: " Whether on the facts and in the circumstances of the case the loss of Rs.
27,709 arising in Cochin State could be set off against the profit of Rs.
The Commissioner has come up in appeal pursuant to special leave against both these judgments.
Application of the Act 4 4 Head of income charge able to income tax 9 6 Business 13 10 Exemptions of a gene ral nature 18 14 Set off of loss in com puting aggregate in come 32 24 261 It is only necessary to set out section 32(1) of the Travancore Act and the proviso which correspond to section 24(1) and proviso (i) of the Indian Act and which are necessary for the decision of the appeals before us: S.32(1) " Where any assessee sustains a loss of profits or gains in any year under any of the heads mentioned in Section 9 (Section 6) he shall be entitled to have the amount of loss set off against this income, profits or gains under any other head in that year: Provided that where the loss sustained is a loss of profits or gains which would but for the loss have accrued or arisen within British India or in an Indian State and would under the provisions of clause (e) of sub section (2) of Section 18 (Section 14(2)(c) ), have been exempted from tax, such loss shall not be set off except against profits or gains accruing or arising within British India or in an Indian State and exempt from tax under the said provisions ".
Ordinarily the effect of an excepting or a qualifying proviso is to carve something out of the preceding enactment or to qualify something enacted therein which but for the proviso would be in it and such a proviso cannot be construed as enlarging the scope of an enactment when it can be fairly and properly construed without attributing to it that effect.
Corporation of the City of Toronto vs Attorney General for Canada (1).
Rhondda Urban Council vs Taff Vale Railway (2).
262 proviso falls in the second category and takes the present cases out of section 32(1) of the Travancore Act and imposes a liability to tax on the profits or gains arising in that State, disallowing a deduction of the losses in British India and in States other than Travancore State against profits made in Travancore State: Rhondda Urban Council vs Taff Vale Railway (1) and Harrison vs Ward (2).
It may be mentioned that in the majority of cases decided in India the proviso to section 24(1) of the Indian Act has been construed in a manner contrary to the submissions made on behalf of the Revenue.
In order to determine the true meaning of the words of the proviso it is necessary and convenient to refer to the scheme of the Indian Act which is admitted by the parties to be same as that of the Travancore Act.
From 1922 to 1939 in order to be taxable income, profits and gains had to be received or had to accrue in British India.
Under section 2(15) of the Act total income ' was defined to mean the total amount of income, profits and gains computed in the manner laid down in that Act.
Under section 4 the total income of any previous year of any person who was resident included all income, profits and gains from whatever source derived but (i) it must accrue or arise to him during the year in British India or (ii) accrue or arise to him without British India during such year.
In the Indian Act they were set out in section 6 as follows: section 6 " Save as otherwise provided by this Act the following heads of income, profits and gains shall be chargeable to income tax in the manner hereinafter appearing, namely: (iv) Profits and gains of business, profession or vocation.
Then followed sections 7 to 12B laying down the method of computation of the income arising from each head.
In 1941 during the war an exemption was given for the purpose of taxability to any income, profits or gains which accrued or arose within what was then called Indian States but which were not received or brought into British India.
