The appellants are the legal representatives of the deceased plaintiff Inacio Martins who died pendente lite.
The plaintiffs case in the plaint was that he was the lessee in respect of seven lots on an annual rent of Rs.
1 executed a deed of lease in favour of the latter effective from January 1, 1968 on the strength whereof defendant No.
1 claimed to have assumed possession of the property sometime in the second week of June, 1968 without his tenancy having been lawfully terminated.
1020 The defendants, besides contending that the suit was barred on the principle of res judicata and/or constructive res judicata as found in Order 2 Rule 2(3) of the Code of Civil Procedure, averred that on the expiry of the lease at the end of December, 1967 the lease stood terminated by efflux of time and defendant No.
1 and hence the latter was in lawful possession of the said property The plaintiffs allegation that he was forcibly dispossessed was denied.
The Trial Court upheld the plaintiffs contention that the property was demised to him and he was the lawful tenant thereof till his possession came to be disturbed sometime in June, 1968.
1200 to defendant No.2 through his employee Dattu Kenkro by way of advance rent for the year commencing from January 1, 1968.
It also held that the suit was barred by res judicata as well as Order 2 Rule 2(3) of the Code of Civil Procedure.
It is against this order of the High Court that the present appeal by special leave is preferred.
The foundation for that suit was that the plaintiff who claimed to be a lessee in respect of the demised property apprehended his forcible dispossession therefrom.
With a view to preventing any such action on the part of the defendants he instituted the suit for an injunction to restrain them from so doing.
That suit, however, came to be dismissed as the Trial Court came to the conclusion that the plaintiff was no more in possession of the property in respect of which he claimed to be a lessee.
In the subsequent suit the plaintiff contended that he had been forcibly dispossessed sometime in the second week of June, 1968 contrary to law even though his tenancy was subsisting and he had paid the first installment of rent for the year 1968.
2 was a sham and bogus document set up with a view to supporting their illegal action in dispossessing him.
As the record stands the only ground on which the previous suit 1022 was dismissed was the technical ground that a suit for a mere declaration cannot lie without claiming possession once it is found that the plaintiff had lost possession.
The court came to the conclusion that a mere declaration of his status as a tenant could not be granted unless the consequential relief for possession was prayed.
The High Court has concluded against the plaintiff on this point in paragraph 31 which reads as under: Thus it is compelling to acknowledge that the subject matter of the second suit was directly and substantially in issue in the previous suit between the same parties.
In that suit the issue regarding the status of the plaintiff as a lessee was not settled once for all and hence that issue could not be stated to be barred by res judicata in the subsequent suit brought by the lessee for possession the demised property.
We are, therefore, of the opinion that the High Court was wrong in holding that the second suit was barred by res judicata.
1023 The next contention which found favour with the High Court was based on the language of Order 2 Rule 2(3) of the Code of Civil Procedure.
Rule 2 thereof requires that the plaintiff shall include the whole of his claim in the framing of the suit.
To preclude the plaintiff from so doing it is provided that if he omits any part of the claim or fails to claim a remedy available to him in respect of that cause of action he will thereafter be precluded from so doing in any subsequent litigation that he may commence if he has not obtained the prior permission of the court.
It may not be out of place to clarify that the doctrine of res judicata differs from the rule embodied in Order 2 Rule 2, in that, the former places emphasis on the plaintiff 's duty to exhaust all available grounds in support (if his claim while the latter requires the plaintiff to claim all reliefs emanating from the same cause of action.
The High Court is, therefore, clearly wrong in its view that the relief claimed is neither relevant nor material.
Now, in the fact situation of the present case, as we have pointed out earlier, the first suit was for an injunction and not for possession of the demised property.
The first suit was dismissed on the technical ground that since the plaintiff was not in de facto possession no injunction could be granted and a suit for a mere declaration of status without seeking the consequential relief for possession could not lie.
Once it was found that the plaintiff was not in actual physical possession of the demised property, the suit had become infructuous.
The cause of action for the former suit was not based on the allegation that the possession of the plaintiff was forcibly taken sometime in the second week of June, 1968.
Therefore, the cause of action for the former suit was based on an apprehension that the defendants were likely to forcibly dispossess the plaintiff.
The cause of action for that suit was not on the premise that he had in fact been illegally and forcibly dispossessed and needed the court 's assistance to be restored to possession.
It may be that the subject matter of the suit was the very same property but the cause of action was distinct and so also the relief claimed in the subsequent.
The High Court was, therefore, wrong in thinking that the difference in the reliefs claimed in the two suits was immaterial and irrelevant.
We are, therefore, of the opinion that the High Court was completely wrong in the view that it took based on the language of Order 2 Rule 2(3) of the Civil Procedure Code.
The Act was enacted on 16th October, 1964 to provide for the regulation of the terms of tenancy with respect to agricultural lands in the Union Territory of Goa, Daman & Diu and for matters connected therewith.
The definition of the various terms employed in the statute have been set out in section 2 thereof The expression 'agriculture ' is defined in sub section (1A) to include horticulture and raising of food crops, grass or garden produce, but not allied pursuits, meaning thereby rearing or maintaining plough bulls, breeding of livestock, dairy farming, poultry farming, grazing on grounds reserved for the purpose and such other pursuits connected with agriculture as may be prescribed.
It will be seen from the aforesaid definitions that land used primarily for growing coconut trees falls within the expression 'garden ' and any produce therefrom would be covered by the expression 'garden produce ' Since garden produce is included within the definition of agriculture in sub section (1A) of section 2 it is clear that land used primarily for growing coconut could be described as agricultural land.
Section 8(1) stipulates that no tenancy of any land shall be terminated and no person holding as tenant shall be liable to be evicted therefrom save as provided under the Act.
Ever where a tenant apprehends that his possession is likely to be interfered with contrary to the provisions of the Act he can make an application in the prescribed manner to the Mamlatdar for safeguarding the, same.
So also where a tenant is evicted illegally, section 8(2) permits him to approach the Mamlatdar for recovery of possession.
(ii) Whether the possession of any tenant in regard to any land or dwelling house is threatened and if so, whether an order safeguarding the same is required?
