nor can the compensation officer by pass the chief conservator on the misunderstood strength of the high court 's first order of remand.
the take over of the forests of the appellant was effected as early as 1960 and 16 years have passed without the intermediary being out of the litigative woods.
certainly the chief conservator can not be ignored by the compensation officer nor can the chief conservator ignore the assessment made by the forest officer and go through an independent exercise.
it follows that after the present second remand the re appraisal of the annual net income can not be done solely by the forest officer without securing the approval of the chief conservator.
the high court has stated that a large part of the delay has been due to laches committed from time to time by the officers who have been charged with the duty to calculate the compensation.
no it was created by the statute and canalised by the order of remand.
it is again due to mistakes committed by the authorities concerned that the matter is being remitted back to the compensation officer for disposal.
the force of these observations constrains us to direct that the proceedings before the compensation officer shall be completed within six months from today.
nor is it right to contend as the appellant did that the compensation officer 's jurisdiction was created by the order of remand by the high court.
if the officer had no jurisdiction the land would be gone because of the vesting provision and no compensation would be forthcoming for want of jurisdiction a consequence the appellant never wants.
and this holds good after the second remand order that the forest officer will do the appraisement of the annual income forward his report to the chief conservator of forests who will take the said report into consideration and if necessary make modifications therein or approve it with such changes as he deems fit.
we may make it clear that now that a forest officer has made an appraisement the chief conservator of forests will apply his mind to it and approve it as a whole or with such modifications as he thinks necessary and forward it to the compensation officer.
before the date of vesting the state never can nor does fix the compensation through the compensation officer in any of the agrarian reform laws and these compensation operations are post statutory exercises.
shri achutananda purohit appellant was the intermediary in respect of vast forests and other lands comprised in the estate of jujumura in the district of sambalpur.
substantially this is what has been done by the learned judge when allowing the revisions and remitting the case back to the compensation officer.
therefore there is no substance in the functus officio argument.
the integrated process has already been explained by us and will be followed in the proceedings to ensue on remand.
the true legal drill is.
in this context it is perhaps not irrelevant to remember that the appellant a freedom fighter is an 83 year old man and at this stage of his life the state should show commisseration not merely in quickly disposing of the proceedings but also in not being cantankerous in awarding and disbursing the balance compensation.
this estate vested in the state on april 1 1960 by force of the act and the crucial question agitated before us consequentially turns on the quantum of compensation awardable under chapter v of the act.
it is astonishing that anyone should urge as the appellant did that the date of vesting is the last date by which the calculation of compensation should have been made and since that had not been done the compensation officer had become functus officio in awarding compensation.
this was wrong and contrary to section 26 as was contended by the appellant and in a way accepted by the high court.
then followed three revision petitions to the high court which led to the order of remand now attacked before us in the present appeals.
technicality can be frightened away by technicality.
strictly speaking the statutory requirement is for initial appraisal of the annual income by the forest officer.
a second appeal was filed by the appellant before the board of revenue without success.
indeed there was a fundamental difference in the basis adopted by the forest officer and the chief conservator in the matter of assessing the income of the forests in question.
the high court after deciding various issues remanded the cases to the compensation officer under the act after over ruling most of the contentions pressed before it by the appellant.
both the state and the appellant filed appeals to the collector which were dismissed.
under rule 131 c of the orissa estates abolition rules 1952 the compensation officer may rely upon such other materials as may otherwise be ascertained by him.
equally clearly a slight error has crept into the judge 's order because he does not make any reference specifically to the statutory requirement of approval of the chief conservator of forests of the appraisement made by the forest officer.
thereafter the appropriate statutory course will follow.
from this narrative what follows is that the chief conservator had substituted his appraisement which was accepted by the statutory tribunal.
this will among other things save time.
the compensation officer accepted the report of the chief conservator and made the statutory calculation on that date.
the district forest officer who incidentally happens to be a forest officer under the act having been appointed as required thereunder made his appraisal of the annual income and submitted to the chief conservator who altered the annual yield and reduced it substantially.
the compensation case is to be disposed of by the compensation officer within six months from today 104 1969 with intimation to this court.
but in such a case the materials must be brought to the notice of the petitioners who would be entitled to cross examine the witnesses connected therewith and may give rebutting evidence.
with these directions and observations we affirm the orders under appeal but while dismissing the appeals direct the parties to bear their costs in this court.
but he pointed out that the forest officer had omitted to include the income from kendu leaves and added that sum to the income from forests.