in these matters relating to admission to professional courses in medicine engineering pharmacy nursing etc in educational institutions which are claimed to be minority educational institutions the petitioners have questioned the applicability of the scheme framed by this court in j p unni krishnan v state of a p 1993.
the order of the court was as follows.
1 scc 645 1993 indlaw sc 1056.
i e 1993with the direction that the basis of the said selection would be as indicated in order dated may 1419934 on the basis of merit leaving to the management of the college t m a pai foundation v state of karnataka1993.
the contempt petition nos 65100 and 126 of 1992 arise out of the judgment of this court in keshav chandra joshi v union of india 1990 indlaw sc 270 in which this court had directed to determine inter se seniority of the direct recruits and promotee asstt.
therefore the procedure to be adopted by the state in fixing the inter se seniority of the direct recruits and the promotees in their respective quota is the sole question.
therefore the state is enjoined to implement the judgment of this court in the light of the statutory rules.
the state government is directed to undertake fresh exercise in the light of the above directions and complete the same within a period of four months from the date of the receipt of the order.
in the event of converting them as permanent under rule 24the quota prescribed in rule 6 would be applied to substantive posts.
therefore the state has to determine whether the posts are likely to be made permanent or abolished.
it would be open to the state government to fix tentatively the inter se seniority in the temporary posts according to the ratio between the direct recruits and the promotees in the same manner of filling the substantive posts as indicated above.
we have to consider therefore whether the procedure adopted by the sate to determine the inter se seniority is in accordance with the rules and the law laid down in k c joshi case.
the officers he they direct recruits or promotees would rank below the juniormost officer in the list of the previous year.
since the process of selection of candidates for admission for the next academic session is to commence soon it is necessary to pass an interim order governing admission to the professional courses in minority educational institutions for the next academic session.
in these contempt petitions the promotees as well as some of the subsequent direct recruits complain against fixation of their inter se seniority by the state government.
i as well as the applicability of the rules and orders made by several state governments on the basis of the said decision.
as and when the temporary posts are converted either into permanent posts or the vacancies arise due to superannuation of the senior officers they should be fixed in the respective vacancies and fitment made.
on so determining the direct recruits would go en block as seniors to the promotees and the promotee officers in the order of their inter se seniority be appointed by the governor under rule 5b read with rule 6 and would be placed below the direct recruits.
it is a policy matter.
it is clear from the counter affidavit filed by the state that the posts are both permanent and temporary.
the seniority shall be determined in accordance with the quota rule to the posts available in the respective years in which the vacancies had arisen otherwise existing substantive posts should be filled up applying rule 6 it is therefore incumbent upon the state government to find out how many vacancies were existing in the year 1974 75 and thereafter every year and to determine as to how the respective posts stood reserved for the direct recruits and promotees in accordance with the quota.
this order shall be shahal h musaliar v state of kerala1993 4 scc.
conservator forest for the years 1973 74 to 1979 80 had taken place by a regularly constituted selection committee which selected 140 candidates for appointment.
shri r k garg for the promotees contended that as on august 311982 selection of the promotees on regular basis to fill up the posts of asstt.
there is no rota prescribed in the rules.
minority educational institutions which are in receipt of state funds by way of aid3 minority educational institutions in respect of which it is not clear from the averments in the writ petitions whether they are aided or unaided institutions4.
if the temporary posts are likely to continue for long normally as per the law laid down by this court they be treated for the purpose of counting seniority as permanent posts unless they are likely to be abolished.
therefore they are entitled to the seniority from the respective years.
the direct recruits were appointed in accordance with rule 5a read with appendix a of u p forest service rules1952 for short the rules.
similar exercise for each year in which the substantive vacancies had arisen should be done.
but it would be open for the management of the institution to adjudge the merit of the candidates having regard to the relevant factors.
the seniority of the promotee asstt.
the system obtaining in this state appears to be that the entire fees collected by these private engineering colleges has to be made over to the government while the government bears the entire expenditure for running the colleges.
the claim of being a minority whether based on religion or language and the claim of being a minority educational institution put forward by the petitioners can not be pronounced upon without first ascertaining what the said expressions connote and signify.
in the light of that stand while dismissing the contempt petition this court directed the sate government to dispose of the matter on the basis of the representation that may be received from the petitioners therein against the draft seniority list within six months from that date.
in the institutions referred to in writ petition no 598 of 1993 and similar minority educational institutions in the state of kerala which are governed by an agreement with the government of kerala the admissions shall be made in accordance with the terms of those agreements.
after this exercise is exhausted appointments should be made posts are to be filled up to substantive vacancies.
the contempt petitions are accordingly disposed of.
later when raj narayan singh and others filed writ petition civil no 641 of 1991this court on june 61991 directed to convert the writ petition as a contempt case for non implementation of the direction issued in k c joshi case which was numbered as contempt petition no 164 of 1971 when.
all the employees are entitled to all consequential benefits.
writ petitions challenging the correctness and applicability of unni krishnan filed by educational institutions which do not claim to be minority educational institutions5 writ petitions which do not fall in any of the above categories.
the hearing of the matters was therefore adjourned to march 181994on which date the questions requiring consideration by this bench have been reframed to highlight the several aspects of the claims put forward by the petitioners.
until they are appointed by the governor according to the rules they do not become the members of the service in a substantive capacity.
candidates so selected on the basis of merit amongst the minorities shall however abide by such condition in the matter of payment of tuition and other fee as may be permitted by the state government.
the inter se seniority of the direct recruits and promotees shall be determined in accordance with rules 56 and 24 as per the judgment in k c joshi case.
that is a matter between the institutions and the government of kerala.
in the light of the respective contentions the question arises whether the determination of the seniority is in accordance with the directions issued by this court.
the candidates so selected and admitted shall pay scales of fee as applicable to this class of students as determined by the state government from time to time.
the remaining fifty per cent of the intake may be regulated by the petitioners to admit candidates belonging to the particular religious or linguistic minority.
dealing with writ petition no 598 of 1993the court after noticing that an agreement was entered into between the institution and the government of kerala according to which while 85 of the seats were to be filled by the government and the remaining 15 of the seats were left for the management to fill up in its discretion observed that since the basic principle in unni krishnan as well as the order dated august 181993 is that merit shall be the guiding principle in the matter of admission a plea for discretionary quota could not be countenanced and it was directed that the said writ petition shall also be governed by the order dated may 141993as modified by addition.