appeals dismissed.
these appeals arising out of a judgment and order dated 26 4 2000 passed in writ petition no 1188 of 1997 by the high court of madhya pradesh indore bench involving similar questions of law and fact were taken up for hearing together and are being disposed of by this common judgment.
background facts.
they were not therefore entitled to take the recourse of the doctrine of equal pay for equal work as adumbrated in articles 14 and 39d of the constitution of india.
vs state of jammu kshmir ors.
the burden was on the appellants to establish that they had a right to invoke the said doctrine in terms of article 14 of the constitution of india.
in the instant case the industrial tribunal did not draw any adverse inference against the appellant.
in m p vidyut karamchari sangh vs m p electricity board 2004 9 scc 755 2004 indlaw sc 198 a three judge bench of this court held that a regulation which is not inconsistent with the provisions of the 1961 act and the rules can be issued by a statutory authority.
in state of haryana and another vs tilak raj and others 2003 6 scc 123 2003 indlaw sc 512 it was held a scale of pay is attached to a definite post and in case of a daily wager he hold no posts.
presumption as to adverse inference for non production of evidence is always optional and one of the factors which is required to be taken into consideration in the background of facts involved in the lis.
they were not appointed in terms of the provisions of the statute.
it was within its jurisdiction to do so particularly having regard to the nature of the evidence adduced by the respondent.
see orissa university of agriculture technology and another vs manoj k mohanty 2003 5 scc 188 2003 indlaw sc 348.
recently in m p electricity board vs hariram etc.
no post was sanctioned by the state government.
in hindustan shipyard ltd and others vs dr p sambasiva rao and others 1996 7 scc 499 1996 indlaw sc 3441 a division bench of this court observed.
the terms of conditions of service contained in the 1973 act and the 1987 rules are not in derogation of the provisions contained in schedule appended to the 1961 act.
the respondent workers can not be held to hold any posts to claim even comparison with the regular and permanent staff for any or all purposes including a claim for equal pay and allowances.
the said dispute was referred for adjudication of the labour court indore by the state of madhya pradesh on the following questions.
all actions of the state must conform to the constitutional requirements.
no material was placed before the high court as to the nature of the duties of either categories and it is not possible to hold that the principle of equal pay for equal work is an abstract one.
it was therefore impermissible for the state to direct regularization of the services of the employees of the cooperative societies.
at this stage it may be useful to refer to a judgment of this court in the case of muncipal corporation faridabad vs siri niwas jt 2004 7 sc 248 2004 indlaw sc 719 wherein this court disagreed with the high court 's view of drawing an adverse inference in regard to the non production of certain relevant documents.
the said seniority list was not prepared in terms of the classification of employees within the meaning of the 1961 act and the rules framed there under but was based on the date of joining probably for the purpose of maintenance of records.
for the purpose of invoking the said doctrine the nature of the work and responsibility attached to the post are some of the factors which were bound to be taken into consideration.
furthermore the labour court having derived its jurisdiction from the reference made by the state government it was bound to act within the four corners thereof.
the submission of mr m n rao to the effect that the principle of equity should be invoked in their case is stated to be rejected.
it was held that the services of the appellants can not be directed to be regularized in services.
the nature of their employment continues save and except a case where a statute interdicts which in turn would be subject to the constitutional limitations.
the statute rules and regulations formed by the state govern the terms and conditions of service of the employees of the respondent.
the labour court in absence of any pleadings or any proof as regard application of the 1961 act and the 1963 rules had proceeded on the basis that they would become permanent employees in terms of order 2ii and 2vi of the annexure appended thereto.
for the purpose of obtaining a permanent status constitutional and statutory conditions precedent therefor must be fulfilled.
it could not enlarge the scope of the reference nor could deviate therefrom.
2whether it is valid and proper for not giving equal salary to these sub engineers like other sub engineers in accordance with the equal work.
in absence of any specific directions contained in the schedule appended to the standing orders the statute and the statutory rules applicable to the employees of the respondent shall prevail.
indisputably the conditions precedent for appointment of the officers and servants of the authority as contained in the service rules had not been complied with.
such a relief would have been beyond the scope and purport of the reference made to the labour court by the state government.
vs union of india and others 1987 supp.
apex bank ltd vs.
the recruitments of the appellants do not fall in any of the said categories.
the presumption thus is not obligatory because notwithstanding the intentional non production other circumstances may exist upon which such intentional non production may be found to be justifiable on some reasonable grounds.
furthermore when their services had not been regularized and they had continued on a consolidated pay on ad hoc basis having not undergone the process of regular appointments no direction to give regular pay scale could have been issued by the labour court.
an illegal appointment can not be legalized by taking recourse to regularization.
the respondent authority is a state within the meaning of article.
such a plea was not even raised before the high court.
12 of the constitution of india.
a state before offering public service to a person must comply with the constitutional requirements of articles 14 and 16 of the constitution.
the 1961 act itself shows that the employees are to be classified in six categories namely permanent permanent seasonal probationers badlies apprentices and temporary.
the matter relating to recruitment is governed by the 1973 act and the 1987 rules.
furthermore the indore municipal corporation was not a party and thus no employee could be thrust upon it without its consent.
the scheme of the employees provident fund or the leave rules would not alter the nature and character of their appointments.
such an order can not be upheld also on the ground that the employees allegedly served the cooperative societies for a long time.
it was urged that the expression clear vacancies has to be read in the context of period for which the concerned workman was required to work namely six months.
application of the act and the rules.
aggrieved by and dissatisfied with the said award the respondent authority herein filed a writ petition before the madhya pradesh high court indore bench which was marked as writ petition no 1188 of 1997.
high court judgment.
the appointments of the appellants were therefore void ab initio being opposed to public policy as also violative of articles 14 and 16 of the constitution of india.
bal kishan soni and others 1997 5 scc 86 1997 indlaw sc 928.
the high court accepted the contention of the respondent authority that the appellants were not appointed against the sanctioned posts and their services were taken on account of the said oda project which was implemented through the agency of the respondent authority.
in absence of any pleadings the appellants could not have called for any document to show that the provisions of the 1961 act and 1963 rules would apply.
in niadar and another vs delhi administration and another 1992 4 scc 112 1988 indlaw sc 244 again no law has been laid down.
in this case except the nodal centre functions and supervision of the cooperative society the state has no administrative control over its day to day affairs.
see state of u p others vs.
a daily wager in absence of a statutory provision in this behalf would not be entitled to regularization.