appeal dismissed.
for short the rules is in question in this appeal which arises out of a judgment and order dated 27 12 2006 passed by a division bench of the high court of gujarat at ahmedabad in letters patent appeal no 1611 of 2006 arising out of a judgment and order dated 23 11 2006 passed by a learned single judge of the said court in sca no 7092 of 2001.
interpretation and or application of the provisions of the gujarat town planning and urban development act1976 for short the act and the rules framed thereunder known as the gujarat town planning and urban development rules1979.
before embarking upon the issue involved in this appeal we may notice the admitted fact of the matter.
it was on that legal principle this court in state of gujarat v shantilal mangaldas ors 1969 3 scr 341 1969 indlaw sc.
as early as 1957the concept of waiver was articulated in a case involving the late assertion of a claim regarding improper constitution of a tribunal in manak lal v dr prem chand air 1957 sc 425 1957 indlaw sc 159 in the following terms.
no costs.
it is true that waiver can not always and in every case be inferred merely from the failure of the party to take the objection.
emphasis supplied see also bank of india v o p swarnakar 2003 2 scc 721 2002 indlaw sc 1562.
in the director of inspection of income tax investigationnew delhi and another v pooran mal sons and another 1975 4 scc 568 1974 indlaw sc 354 the issue was regarding waiver of benefits under a statute of limitation.
the government of gujarat in exercise of its power conferred upon it u s 65 of the act made a scheme in respect of the town of umra surat on 1 06 1999.
significantly a similar conclusion was reached in the case of krishna bahadur v purna theatre 2004 8 scc 229 2004.
it is not in dispute that a appellant although filed an objection with regard to the draft scheme did not choose to pursue it.
for the reasons aforementioned the appeal is dismissed.
in west bengal housing board etc v.
it has been noticed by us hereinbefore that under rule 26 of the rules applicable in the instant case as distinguished from the bombay rules wherein special notice is requiredno special notice is mandatorily required to be served.
as sir johan romilly m r has observed in vyvyan v vyvyan.
waiver may also be by virtue of equitable or promissory estoppel unlike waiver arising from an election no question arises of any particular knowledge on the part of the person making the representation and the estoppel may be suspensory only.
we therefore are of the opinion that in this case no relief can be granted to the appellant.
we are however not unmindful of the fact that a statute of town planning ex facie is not a statute for acquisition of a property.
see also bhikhubhai vithlabhai patel ors v.
he may however take recourse to such remedy which is available with him in law including one by filing a suit or making a representation before the state.
it was stated we may in this connection refer to the decision in wilson v mcintosh.
applying the above principles to the present case it must be held that the benefit of notice provided under the act and rules being for the benefit of the appellant in which no public interests are involved he has waived the same.
waiver can be inferred only if and after it is shown that the party knew about the relevant facts and was aware of his right to take the objection.
we do not mean to say that under no circumstances the appellant was entitled to allotment of a portion of the property or mandatory compensation in lieu thereof from the landlord.
where the waiver is not express it may be implied from conduct which is inconsistent with the continuance of the right without the need for writing or for consideration moving from or detriment to the party who benefits by the waiver but mere acts of indulgence will not amount to waiver nor may a party benefit from the waiver unless he has altered his position in reliance on it.
issuance of any such direction in our opinion is legally impermissible.
lalit in support of his contention strongly relied upon a decision of this court in mansukhlal jadavji darji and others v ahmedabad municipal corporation and others 1992 1 scc 384 1991 indlaw sc 975 and jaswantsingh mathurasingh and another v ahmedabad municipal corporation and others 1992 supp 1 scc 5 1991 indlaw sc 972.
they referred with approval to the decision in phillips v martin where the chief justice said here there is abundant evidence of waiver and it is quite clear that a man may by his conduct waive a provision of an act of parliament intended for his benefit.
every step taken by the state does not involve application of the doctrine of eminent domain.
the bangalore development authority act1976 provides that every person whose name appears in the assessment list or land revenue records shall be served with notice see sureshchandra c mehta v state of karnataka and others 1994 supp 2 scc 511 1993 indlaw sc 538.
there exists a distinction in the action of the planning authority as regards vesting of a property in it and one so as to enable it to create a third party interest vis  vis for the purpose of re allotment thereof.
state of gujarat anr 2008 4 scale 278 2008 indlaw sc 527.
it was held that he had thereby waived his right to have the caveat set aside as lapsed u s 23 the privy council held that the limitation of time contained in s 23 was introduced for the benefit of the applicant to enable him to obtain a speedy determination of his right to have the land brought under the provisions of the act and that it was competent for the applicant to waive the limit of the three months and that he did waive it by stating a case and applying for and obtaining an order upon the appellant to state her case both which steps assumed and proceeded on the assumption of the continued existence of the caveat.
such conduct precludes and operates as estoppel against him with respect to asserting a right over a portion of the acquired land in a situation where the scheme in question has attained finality following as a result of the appellant 's inaction.
in the former case the vesting of the land may be held to be an act of acquisition whereas in the latter it would be distribution of certain benefits having regard to the purpose sought to be achieved by a statute involving town planning.
whenever waiver is pleaded it is for the party pleading the same to show that an agreement waiving the right in consideration of some compromise came into being.
existence of a public purpose and increase in the valuation of the property was admitted.
indlaw sc 681though the principle was stated far more precisely in the following terms the principle of waiver although is akin to the principle of estoppel the difference between the two however is that whereas estoppel is not a cause of action it is a rule of evidence waiver is contractual and may constitute a cause of action it is an agreement between the parties and a party fully knowing of its rights has agreed not to assert a right for a consideration.
in view of the above the issue is whether it was open to him to assert his purported right to special notice in respect of the final allotment in the instant case given the fact that he did not pursue his objections to the draft scheme and subsequently did not object participate during the proceedings for re allotment.
it is to my mind a clear principle of equity and i have no doubt there are abundant authorities on the point that equity will interfere to prevent the machinery of an act of parliament being used by a person to defeat equities which he has himself raised and to get rid of a waiver created by his own acts.
a right can be waived by the party for whose benefit certain requirements or conditions had been provided for by a statute subject to the condition that no public interest is involved therein.
the location of the land the area of the land the nature of right etc.
in this case the appellant did not oppose the draft scheme.
but if it appears that the statutory conditions were inserted by the legislature simply for the security or benefit of the parties to the action themselves and that no public interests are involved such conditions will not be considered as indispensable and either party may waive them without affecting the jurisdiction of the court.
but we intend to emphasise that he has lost his right to enforce the same in a public law forum.
in that case an applicant to bring lands under the real property act filed his case in court under section 21more than three months after a caveat had been lodged and thereafter obtained an order that the caveator should file her case which she accordingly did.
assuming however that it was obligatory for the state to issue notice to the appellant the question is whether the principle of waiver precludes him from claiming equitable relief in this case due to his earlier conduct which allowed the entire process of acquisition and allotment to become final.
b he did not file objections for re allotment and did not participate in the proceedings following acquisition instituted by the authorities under the act.
lalit submits that his client is ready and willing to pay some reasonable amount to the respondent no 3 in whose favour plot no 165 has been finally allotted.
the caveator was not brought into court in any way until the caveat had lapsed.
what is in dispute is the distribution of quantum thereof between two competing claimants viz landlord and tenant.
it may arise from a party making an election for example whether or not to exercise a contractual right.
1861 30 beav 65 54 e r 813817 waiver or acquiescence like election presupposes that the person to be bound is fully cognizant of his rights and that being so he neglects to enforce them or chooses one benefit instead of another either but not both of which he might claim.
it is not a case where the state by its acts of omissions and commissions was unjustly enriching itself.
the primary meaning has been said to be the abandonment of a right in such a way that the other party is entitled to plead the abandonment by way of confession and avoidance if the right is thereafter asserted and is either express or implied from conduct.
he however did not pursue his case in regard to the proposal for widening of the road.
and now the applicant after all these proceedings have been taken by him after doubtless much expense has been incurred on the part of the caveator and after lying by and hoping to get a judgment of the court in his favour asks the court to do that which but for some reasons known to himself he might have asked the court to do before any other step in the proceedings had been taken.
the question however would be what would be the consequence of non compliance thereof vis  vis the conduct of the appellant himself.
and the said land is now vested in the municipal corporation from 1 7 1999and is of the ownership of the municipal corporation.