appeal allowed.
leave granted.
interpretation of the provisions of s 461b of the trade and merchandise marks act1958 hereinafter called and referred to for the sake of brevity as the said act is involved herein.
in the case of american home products corporation v mac laboratories pvt ltd.
maharana shri bhagwat singhji bahadur of udaipur v union of india and anr air 1971.
notice for april 81986 meanwhile a temporary ex parte injunction is issued against the defendants restraining them from manufacturing or selling either themselves or through any dealer or representative diesel oil engines or parts thereof with the trade mark field marshal andor any other trade mark identical therewith and all goods falling in cl 7 of the trade and merchandise mark rules.
it may mean the moment or existing position as was held by this court in the case of jivendra nath kaul v collector district magistrate and anr 1992.
in kabushiki kaisha toshiba v tosiba appliances co ors 2008 8 scale 354 2008 indlaw sc 1395this court held we do not find any force in the aforementioned submission.
a fresh application was filed by the first respondent.
the clause is proposed to be modified to clarify that special circumstances in the trade will include restrictions imposed by any law or regulation on the use of trade mark in india.
indisputably during the proceedings in the above suit m s.
one of the stipulations contained therein reads as under that the party of the second part has satisfied the party of the first part of having used the mark field marshal in respect of centrifugal pumps and valves since 1973.
allegedly on the premise that the first respondent is the proprietor of the said mark by reason of long user and thus acquired a reputation in that behalf a legal notice was issued upon it questioning its right to use the said mark in respect of centrifugal pumps by the appellant laying a claim that it had been using the said mark since 1963.
a title to a trade mark derived on assignment as provided for under the act can not be equated with a defective title acquired in any other property as admittedly on the date of assignment the right of the registered trade mark was not extinguished.
respondent no 1 thereafter filed a suit in the delhi high court for grant of a decree of permanent injunction being suit no 2408 of 1985 alleging infringement of the said mark andor claiming right of passing off in respect thereof.
the right of a registered trade mark is not lost automatically on the expiry of five years and one month.
jurisdiction of the board being dependent on determination of the foundational facts the same was required to be established on the basis of the averments made in the application and not otherwise.
jain industries by a deed of assignment assigned the said trade mark along with its goodwill in favour of the appellant.
we are not satisfied with the explanation offered by the first respondent that it gave up the case of non use of the registered trade mark against m s jain industries on the basis of statement made by the learned counsel for the appellant firstly because consent does not confer jurisdiction secondly because want andor lack of jurisdiction on the part of the tribunal can not be waived as if any order is passed without jurisdiction the same would be a nullity and thirdly because the cause of action even according to the first respondent in his application before the high court was different.
in the suit only the competing right of the first respondent qua the appellant can be determined and not a right against m s such a right can not be determined in a proceeding under s 461b of the act which is restricted to non user of the registered trade mark.
the court while construing a statute takes into consideration the parliamentary intent in amending the provisions thereof.
the board could not while exercising its jurisdiction under s 461bof the act proceeded on the basis of such presumption.
so long as the right to assign a registered trade mark remains valid once the same is validly assigned the assignee derives the same right as that of the assignor in terms of the statute.
first respondent is the registered proprietor of a trade mark field marshal for diesel engines since 1964 bearing no 228867 one m s jain industries got the trade mark field marshal registered under clause 7inter alia for flour mills centrifugal pumps couplings for machines pulleys included in class 7 and valves parts of machines the said registration was renewed for the periods 13 5 1972 and 12 5 1979 13 5 1979 and 12 7 1986 and 13 7 1986 and 12 7 1993 appellant is said to have commenced its business of manufacturing and selling centrifugal pumps also under the mark field marshall.
the cause of action is continuous from day to day till the impugned registration is cancelled rectified.
it claimed user of the said mark since 1963 and sought for rectification of the register by expunging the expression circulation and centrifugal pumps from the specification of goods.
if thukral did then it can not be said that there was no bona fide use thereof by its proprietor.
the division bench of the high court thereafter while disposing of both the writ petition and the letters patent appeal allowed the writ petition and set aside the order of the board and directed it to adjudicate the dispute on merits.
an ex parte order of injunction was passed on 19 12 1985 against the defendant appellant herein to the following effect.
the principle of purchaser of a property has a duty to make enquiriestherefore cannot apply in a case of this nature.
the right of the first respondent as a proprietor of the trade mark by reason of a long user is required to be determined vis  vis m s jain industries as also the appellant in the suit filed by it which is pending.
when the applicant before the board establishes the fact in regard to non user of the mark for a period of more than five years on the part of the registered owner the latter may show that his case falls within the purview of sub s 3 of s 46.
a learned single judge of the delhi high court however refused to stay the operation of the order of the board dated 27 10 2004 an appeal was preferred there against.
whether s 461b read with s 48 of the act would bring within its purview not only a registered proprietor but also the proprietor who had otherwise acquired a right would depend upon the facts and circumstances of each case.
it only consented for grant of liberty in favour of the first respondent for filing of an application for the self same cause of action.
the tribunal may in any proceeding under this section decide any question that may be necessary or expedient to decide in connection with the rectification of the register.
a registered proprietor of a trade mark should not be permitted to circumvent the law of user of the trade mark for a long time by assigning the same from time to time.
but it is another thing to say that the appellant could be proceeded against alone for non user of the registered trade mark for a period of more than five years.
such an application may be maintainable in terms of s 56 of the act but strictly not in terms of s 461b thereof and that too in the absence of the original registered proprietor.
our attention has again been drawn to a passage from law of trade marks geographical indications by shri k c kailasam wherein the judgment of the tribunal has been criticized in the following terms from the above legislative intent it would seem that the period of non use of the trade mark is to be reckoned continuously from the date of its registration.
the injunction matter in suit no 2408 of 1985 came up for hearing before a learned single judge of the high court.
the question which therefore arises is as to who can prove that he had the bona fide intention to use the trade mark on the date of application for registration.
the core question which arises for our consideration is as to whether in the aforementioned facts and circumstances of the case the application under s 461b was maintainable.
a writ petition was filed there against by the first respondent.
while interpreting the same however certain basic principles of construction of statute must be kept in mind.
registrar of trade marks under section 4656 and 107 of the trade and merchandise marks act1958 for rectification of entry relating to the registered trade mark no 228867 in class 7 after.
concededly cl a of sub s 1 of s 46 is not attracted in the case.
it is not correct that no cause of action survived against jain industries.
the question of maintainability of the second suit is absence of the registrant proprietor was not and could not have been the subject matter of consent at that stage.
rendered under the 1958 act it was held by the supreme court that the person seeking to have the trade mark removed from the register has only to prove.
s 46 is a penal provision.