these three appeals by special leave are directed against the order dated september 92004 passed by intellectual property appellate board for shortipab whereby it ordered the removal of appellant 's mark infosys from the register of trade marks in respect of computer stationery computer manuals printed matter for computer instructional and teaching materials computer hardware and peripherals and machine and machine tools.
appeals allowed.
the appellant is infosys technologies limited.
it was incorporated and registered under the companies act1956 on july 21981 in the name of infosys consultants private limited.
in the case of hardie trading ltd 2003 indlaw sc 756 1this court approved the test applied by romer j in the royal baking powder company v wright crossley and co 1898.
on the other hand an objection is raised in the written submissions on behalf of the first respondent and reference was made in support of the objection to seven judge bench decision of this court in l chandrakumar v union of india ors 1997 3 scc 261 1997 indlaw sc 2816 that challenge to the order of ipab directly in the appeal before this court under article 136 of the constitution is barred.
learned counsel heavily relied upon two decisions of this court 1 hardie trading ltd anr v.
fwhether the registered trade mark has lost its distinctiveness and is liable to be removed under section 32c.
addisons paint chemicals ltd 2003 11 scc 92 2003 indlaw sc 756 and 2 kabushiki kaisha toshiba v tosiba appliances company ors 2008 10 scc 766 2008 indlaw sc 1395.
the appellant having come to know of several instances of misuse of mark infosys also filed a writ petition being writ petition no 14214 of 2000 before the calcutta high court inter alia praying that the registrar of companies be restrained from registering the companies bearing the name infosys.
b whether the respondent had a bonafide intention to use the mark applied for under section 18 of the trade and merchandise marks act.
whether the application is under section 46 or under section 56 or a composite application under both sections it is a pre requisite that the applicant must be a person aggrieved.
cwhether the mark registered in favour of the respondent is a service mark.
ewhether the registered trade mark is disentitled for protection in a court of law under section 11e of the trade and merchandise marks act.
in this regard he relied upon a decision of the madras high court in agha hyder hussain anr v.
but if the ground for rectification is merely based on non user i e under section 46 of the act that is not really on account of any public mischief by way of an incorrect entry.
section 461 of the 1958 act enables any person aggrieved to apply for removal of registered trade mark from the register on the ground of non use as stated in clause a andor clause b to be an aggrieved person under section 46he must be one whose interest is affected in some possible way it must not be a fanciful suggestion of grievance.
the 1958 act was repealed by the trade marks act1999 for shortthe 1999 act in terms of section 100 of the 1999 act the three petitions filed by the first respondent before the madras high court for rectification removal of registered trade mark nos 475269475267 and 484837 were transferred to the ipab.
in 2007however the first respondent filed a suit in the court of additional district judge delhi for setting aside the decree dated november 102004 that suit is said to be pending.
a whether the mark applied for registration was used in respect of the goods for which the mark was registered.
such type of actions are commenced for the purity of the register which it is in public interest to maintain.
this is so because the pre requisite for exercise of power under section 461 is that the applicant is a person aggrieved.
insofar as discretion exercised by ipab in ordering removal of the appellant 's registrations from the register under section 461b of the 1958 act is concerned learned counsel for the first respondent submitted that this court should not overturn the discretion so exercised by the ipab keeping in view the dishonest and fraudulent conduct of the appellant.
all cases of this kind where the original registration is not illegal or improper ought to be considered as questions of common sense to a certain extent at any rate and i think the applicants ought to show something approaching a sufficient or proper reason for applying to have the trade mark expunged.
in our view the grievance of the applicant when he invokes section 461 must not only be taken to have existed on the date of making application but must continue to exist when such application is decided.
the non user does not by itself render the entry incorrect but it gives a right to a person whose interest is affected to apply for its removal.
the first respondent then filed three separate applications before the madras high court inter alia under sections 46 and 56 of the trade and merchandise marks act1958.
on november 221996the calcutta high court by an ad interim order restrained the first respondent from using the word infosys in any manner in relation to the goods for the time being.
hardie trading ltd 2003 indlaw sc 756 1 has been followed by this court in a recent decision in the case of kabushiki kaisha toshiba 2008 10 scc 766 2008 indlaw sc 1395.
the appellant filed yet another suit being suit no 2115 of 2002 before delhi high court for infringement of trade mark and passing off against the first respondent.
the ritz hotel v charles of the ritz 1989.
the single judge of the madras high court passed an interim restraint order on february 12001 against the first respondent.
the ipab in the impugned order held that the trade mark nos 475269475267 and 484837 have not been used by the appellant for more than a period of five years and one month and the appellant also failed to make out that it had been in manufacturing or trading of the goods for which it had taken registration nos 475269475267 and 484837 consequently the ipab allowed the applications made by the first respondent purportedly under section 461b of the 1958 act and directed the registrar to remove these registrations from the register.
in the latter case the locus standi would be ascertained liberally since it would not only be against the interest of other persons carrying on the same trade but also in the interest of the public to have such wrongful entry removed.
in the backdrop of these peculiar facts in our view it is not appropriate to relegate the 17 appellant at this distance of time to challenge the impugned order passed by the ipab in writ petition before the high court.
anr air 1978 mad 336 he submitted that appellant is primarily in service industry which is unregistrable under the 1958 act and since the appellant is not trading in the goods in respect of which it is registered it can not be said that the mark of the appellant is distinctive of its goods.
on october 111996the appellant instituted a suit in the calcutta high court for perpetual injunction inter alia restraining the first respondent from infringing the appellant 's mark infosys by using the mark infosys by itself or in combination with other marks in course of its trade.
the question then arises whether it is sufficient for the applicant to show that he is a person aggrieved when he makes his application or he must continue to remain a person aggrieved until such time as the rectification removal application is finally decided.
in our opinion the phrase person aggrieved for the purposes of removal on the ground of non use under section 46 has a different connotation from the phrase used in section 56 for cancelling or expunging or varying an entry wrongly made or remaining in the register.
the ipab in the impugned order while dealing with the plea of limitation raised by the appellant held that the first respondent was the appropriate aggrieved party in the matter in view of the fresh cause of action having arisen to the first respondent on filing of civil suit no 71 of 2001 by the appellant before the madras high court.
based on this affidavit the suit was partially decreed in favour of the appellant on november 102004.
the power to rectify the register conferred by this section shall include the power to remove a trade mark registered in part a of the register to part b of the register.
mr akhil sibal learned counsel for the appellant argued that an application for rectification whether under section 46 or section 56 of the 1958 act can only be preferred by a person aggrieved the applicant must not only be a person aggrieved on the date of the application but must continue to remain a person aggrieved until such time as the rectification application is finally decided.
secondly and more importantly during the pendency of the applications certain events had taken place which had some bearing on the question of locus standi of the first respondent insofar as invocation of section 46 1 of the 1958 act is concerned.
whenever it can be shown as here that the applicant is in the same trade as the person who has registered the trade mark and wherever the trade mark if remaining on the register would or might limit the legal rights of the applicant so that by reason of the existence of the entry on the register he could not lawfully do that which but for the existence of the mark upon the register he could lawfully do it appears to me he has a locus standi to be heard as a person aggrieved.
if during the pendency of such application the applicant 's cause of complaint does not survive or his grievance does not subsist due to his own action or the applicant has waived his right or he has lost his interest for any other reason there may not be any justification for rectification as the registered trade mark can not be said to operate prejudicially to his interest.
the tribunal may in any proceeding under this section decide any question that may be necessary or expedient to decide in connection with the rectification of the register.
omar khayyam wineries pvt ltd anr air 1977 mad 166.
he vehemently contended that goods in classes 79 and 16 for which the appellant obtained registration were never used in the manner contemplated by the 1958 act for almost 30 years and that would show the mala fide intention of the appellant in having the same registered for the purpose of squatting and trafficking.
in the circumstances we are satisfied that the applications made by the first respondent for rectification removal of the subject trade marks from the register need to be considered afresh by the ipab in accordance with law and the observations made above.