appeals partly allowed.
accused pathan hussain basha was married to pathan haseena begum now deceased on 23rd june2002 at guntur.
again in satvir singh v state of punjab20018 scc 633 2001 indlaw sc 224.
this court in tarsem singh v state of punjab2008.
it was an arranged marriage.
maintaining silence can not be equated to discharge of onus by the accused.
in the present case the prosecution by reliable and cogent evidence has established the guilt of the accused.
the appeals are partially accepted to the extent afore indicated.
at the time of marriage it was promised that a dowry of rs 25000 besides other formalities would be paid by the side of the wife to the husband.
such a presumption can be drawn by the court keeping in view the evidence produced by the prosecution in support of the substantive charge under section 304 b of the code.
in other words the rule of law requires a person to be innocent till proved guilty.
denial can not be treated to be the discharge of onus.
this court in madhu sudan malhotra v kishore chand bhandari1988 supp.
the definition of dowry is not restricted to agreement or demand for payment of dowry before and at the time of marriage but even include subsequent demands was the dictum of this court in state of a p v.
the offences having been proved against the accused and keeping in view the attendant circumstances we are of the considered view that ends of justice would be met if the punishment awarded to the appellants is reduced.
the period intervening between the marriage and the death of the deceased is very small.
it is the case of the prosecution that for non payment of dowry the accused persons harassed the deceased and subjected her to cruelty.
the court can not ignore one of the cardinal principles of criminal jurisprudence that a suspect in the indian law is entitled to the protection of art 20 of the constitution of india as well as has a presumption of innocence in his favour.
the high court acquitted pathan khadar basha the fatherin law of the deceased as there was no direct evidence against him.
the father of the bride could not pay the balance amount within time because he lacked the resources.
applying these principles to the facts of the present case it is clear that the ingredients of section 304b read with section 498a ipc are completely satisfied in the present case.
the high court of andhra pradesh vide its judgment dated 26th october2006while allowing the appeal in part convicted accused nos 1 and 2 for the aforementioned offences however acquitted accused no 3namely pathan khadar basha.
they faced the trial and were convicted by learned sixth additional munsif magistrate guntur for committing an offence under sections 498a and 304b ipc.
in the case of biswajit halder alias babu halder and others v state of w b 2008 1 scc 202 2007 indlaw sc 304the court stated the ingredients of this provision as follows 10 the basic ingredients to attract the provisions of section 304 b are as follows.
it is for the accused to show that the death of the deceased did not result from any cruelty or demand of dowry by the accused persons.
the explanation to this section requires that the expression dowry shall have the same meaning as in s 2 of the act.
by a deeming fiction in law the onus shifts on to the accused to prove as to how the deceased died.
in other words the offence shall be deemed to have been committed by fiction of law.
similar view was expressed by this court in yashoda v state of m p20043 scc 98 2004 indlaw sc 132 where this court stated that determination of the period would depend on the facts and circumstances of a given case.
the expression in connection with the marriage can not be given a restricted or a narrower meaning.
however there must be existence of proximate link between the acts of cruelty along with the demand of dowry and the death of the victim.
dowry is something which existed in our country for a considerable time and the legislature in its wisdom considered it appropriate to enact the law relating to dowry prohibition so as to ensure that any party to the marriage is not harassed or treated with cruelty for satisfaction of demands in consideration and for subsistence of the marriage.
the sentence awarded by the trial court was confirmed.
in contradistinction to this aspect the legislature has applied the concept of deeming fiction to the provisions of section 304 b where other ingredients of section 304 b are satisfied in that event the husband or all relatives shall be deemed to have caused her death.
once the prosecution proves its case with regard to the basic ingredients of section 304 b the court will presume by deemed fiction of law that the husband or the relatives complained of has caused her death.
these are penal provisions but ultimately these are the social legislations intended to control offences relating to the society as a whole.
12 the definition of dowry under s 2 of the act reads as under 2 definition of dowry.
in our view the expression soon before her death can not be given a restricted or a narrower meaning.
the accused did not care to explain as to how the death of his wife occurred.
the concept of deeming fiction is hardly applicable to the criminal jurisprudence.
in the case of ashok kumar v state of haryana 2010 12 scc 350 2010 indlaw sc 502this court explained these terms in some elucidation and the effect of the deeming fiction appearing in the section as follows 11 the appellant was charged with an offence under section 304 b of the code.
at this stage it will be appropriate for us to examine as to what are the ingredients of an offence punishable under section 304b of the ipc.
they were committed to the court of sessions guntur division guntur for such an offence.
the object being that everything which is offending at any time i e at before or after the marriage would be covered under this definition but the demand of dowry has to be in connection with the marriage and not so customary that it would not attract on the face of it the provisions of this section.
this court in ran singh v state of haryana2008 4 scc 700 2008 indlaw sc 120 held that the payments which are customary payments for example given at the time of birth of a child or other ceremonies as are prevalent in the society or families to the marriage would not be covered under the expression dowry.
we have already referred to the provisions of section 304 b of the code and the most significant expression used in the section is soon before her death.
it is the first criteria which the prosecution must prove.
but even the rule of strict construction requires that the provisions have to be read in conjunction with other relevant provisions and scheme of the act.
this clearly shows the intent of the legislature that these expressions are of wide meaning and scope.
there being no rebuttal thereto there is no occasion to interfere in the judgments of the courts under appeal.
from the above evidence it is clear that the dowry demands were being raised by the accused persons persistently from the family of the deceased and for that they even harassed the deceased by beating and abusing her.
this penal section clearly spells out the basic ingredients as well as the matters which are required to be construed strictly and with significance to the cases where death is caused by burns bodily injury or the death occurring otherwise than under normal circumstances in any manner within seven years of a marriage.
and further a 1 to a 3 are sentenced to undergo imprisonment for life for the offence u s 304 b ipc both the sentences shall run concurrently.
for want of any specific period the concept of reasonable period would be applicable.
accused pathan hussain basha and pathan nazeer abi have rightly been found guilty of the offence by the courts.
similarlyin connection with the marriage is an expression which has to be given a wider connotation.
however the expression would normally imply that there has to be reasonable time gap between t he cruelty inflicted and the death in question.
in other words there should be a reasonable if not direct nexus between her death and the dowryrelated cruelty or harassment inflicted on her.
it was expected of the accused to explain as to how and why his wife died as well as his conduct immediately prior and subsequent to the death of the deceased.