leave granted in slp crl.
no 37372014.
after committal the trial court framed charges u s 302 read with ss 34 and 120b of the ipc the prosecution examined 32 witnesses.
in any case the period between the arrest and the identification parade was not large enough to constitute inordinate delay.
these appeals are preferred by four accused against the common judgment of the high court of chhattisgarh at bilaspur confirming the judgment of the additional sessions judge bemetara district durg convicting the appellants u s 302 read with ss 34 and 120b of the indian penal code hereinafter referred to as ipc and sentencing each of them to undergo imprisonment for life with a fine of rs 1000 and in default to undergo additional rigorous imprisonment for three months.
the purpose of a prior test identification therefore seems to be to test and strengthen the trustworthiness of that evidence.
state of haryana air 1999 sc 1083 1999 indlaw sc 391 and ramashish yadav vs.
it is accordingly considered a safe rule of prudence to generally look for corroboration of the sworn testimony of witnesses in court as to the identity of the accused who are strangers to them in the form of earlier identification proceeding.
a sealed packet containing hair found in the grip of the deceased and another sealed packet containing bloodstained cloth of the deceased were taken into possession vide exhibit p35.
the identification parades belong to the investigation stage.
state of u p 1970 2 scc 128 1970 indlaw sc 136 where this court made the following observations 7 now facts which establish the identity of an accused person are relevant u s 9 of the indian evidence act.
on a careful conspectus of the facts and the law we are of the view that the prosecution has failed to prove the guilt of mahesh beyond reasonable doubt.
the evidence of mere identification of the accused person at the trial for the first time is from its very nature inherently of a weak character.
the appellant raju.
the learned counsel for the appellants relied upon the judgment of this court in budhsen and anr.
the injuries found on person of the deceased were as follows external injuries 1 incised wound on left scapular region of size 3 cm x 1 cm 2 incised wound on left scapular region of size 4 cm x 1  cm.
state of maharashtra 2012 9 scc 249 2012 indlaw sc 304jai bhagwan vs.
generally speaking the magistrate must make a note of every objection raised by an accused at the time of identification and the steps taken by them to ensure fairness to the accused so that the court which is to judge the value of the identification evidence may take them into consideration in the appreciation of that evidence.
these parades are of the essentially governed by section 162criminal procedure code.
state of u p 1987 3 scc 331 1987 indlaw sc 28887and mohd abdul hafeez vs.
a test identification was conducted by the executive magistrate in the sub jail bemetara on 13 12 2003 a similar identification parade of raju.
in fact he even came to the court in the company of a police constable after being served summons at allahabad.
the persons required to identify an accused should have had no opportunity of seeing him after the commission of the crime and before identification and secondly that no mistakes are made by them or the mistakes made are negligible.
no defence witness was examined after the statements of the accused were recorded u s 313 of the criminal procedure code1973.
as a general rule the substantive evidence of a witness is a statement made in court.
the evidence in order to carry conviction should ordinarily clarify as to how and under what circumstances he came to pick out the particular accused person and the details of the part which the accused played in the crime in question with reasonable particularity.
according to the prosecution the accused shashi tripathi is the step mother in law of deceased bhavna tripathi.
merely because he has been some time in the company of the police at the police station his testimony can not be discarded as untrue.
there is no evidence of the formation or sharing of any common intention with the other accused.
they are generally held during the course of investigation with the primary object of enabling the witnesses to identify persons concerned in the offence who were not previously known to them.
this serves to satisfy the investigating officers of the bona fides of the prosecution witnesses and also to furnish evidence to corroborate their testimony in court.
there is no evidence of his having played any part in the crime.
the identification to be of value should also be held without much delay.
the observations of this court undoubtedly lay down the correct law and we have no reason to doubt them.
having regard to the role attributed to him and the absence of incriminating factors we find that it is not safe to convict mahesh of the offence of murder with the aid of ss 34 and 120b.
the number of persons mixed up with the accused should be reasonably large and their bearing and general appearance not glaringly dissimilar.
the learned counsel for mahesh accused no 3 relied on several decisions of this court in suresh sakharam nangare vs.
it is obvious that accused nos 2 and 4 did not enter the house to commit a robbery and had a single mission namely to kill bhavana.
dr m deodhar who conducted the postmortem opined that cause of her death was neurogenic and hemorrhagic shock.
he had no grouse against her neither any ulterior motive in identifying the accused who were not acquainted to him.
the accused devendra kumar was arrested on 22 12 2003 and his identification parade was conducted on 26 12 2003 within four days there is no evidence on record to show that the child witness had an opportunity to see and study the features of the accused between their arrest and test identification parade to enable a tutored identification.
keeping in view the purpose of identification parades the magistrates holding them are expected to take all possible precautions to eliminate any suspicion of unfairness and to reduce the chance of testimonial error.
they must therefore take intelligent interest in the proceedings bearing in mind two considerations i that the life and liberty of an accused may depend on their vigilance and caution and ii that justice should be done in the identification.
state of andhra pradesh air 1983.
devendra choubey accused no 4 has filed criminal appeal no 822 of 2012 the appellant mahesh accused no 3 has filed criminal appeal no 867 of 2013 the appellant beenu.
it is settled law that common intention and conspiracy are matters of inference and if while drawing an inference any benefit of doubt creeps in it must go to the accused vide baliya vs.
the evidence as to identification deserves therefore to be subjected to a close and careful scrutiny by the court.
there is no evidence that they had any previous animosity with the deceased and appeared to have acted as contract killers.
mahesh did not even act as a guard he did not prevent anil kumar pw 21 from entering the house.