my self acquired properties shall on my death be enjoyed by my wife till her death and after her death they shall pass to my daughter.
the main issue in the suit was whether the widow took under the will an absolute estate or an estate like the hindu widow 's estate and whether the daughter 's interest therein was in the nature of a contingent remainder or whether she got in the properties a vested interest.
indlaw mad 621 1940.
as above pointed out admittedly power of alienation in express terms was not conferred on her.
the words used in favour of the grandsons seem to indicate that the estate conferred on the daughter was not a life estate because there is no direct gift in favour of the grandsons but on the other hand what he says is that through his daughter the estate shall pass to his grandsons.
they were all alive in december 1924 when lakshminarayana died.
reference was also made to a decision of the bombay high court in lallu v jagmohan 1898 i l r 22 bom.
reliance was next placed on maharaja of kolhapur v sundaram iyer 1925 i l r 48 mad.
such casual observation made in respect of a will couched in entirely different terms can not afford much assistance in the decision of the case.
the learned counsel for the respondent followed the line adopted by mr krishnaswami iyengar.
chunderbutti his wife was in these terms the remaining milkiut and minhai estates together with the amount of ready money articles slaves and all household furniture i have placed in the possession of mst.
if both of them would live together amicably muthu arunachala chetty himself would enjoy the properties which remain after the death of the widow.
appeal dismissed.
she had complete control over the income of the property during her lifetime.
for the purpose of her maintenance for payment of debts etc and for settling the claim of the daughter in law she does not appear to have felt any necessity to make any alienation of any part of the estate mentioned in the schedule and the testator in all likelihood knew that she could fulfil these obligations without having recourse to alienations and hence he did not give her any power to do so.
these observations are unexceptionable but it may also be pointed out that it is open to a hindu to confer a limited life estate on his widow or even a larger estate than a widow takes as an heir and that in every case he may not confer upon her by will a hindu widow 's estate which she would otherwise get by inheritance.
the following remarks in the privy council decision in nathu ram mahajan v gangayabai 1938.
the subordinate judge held that chunderbutti got an estate for life with the power to appropriate profits and girdhari got a vested remainder on her death.
when i die my wife named suraj is owner of that property.
and these shall thereafter pass to her daughters.
this suggestion in the surrounding circumstances attending the execution of this will can not be sustained.
just as the widow was directed to enjoy tile entire properties mentioned in the schedule during her lifetime in like manner the daughter and her heirs were also directed to enjoy the same properties with absolute rights from generation to generation.
the privy council on this will held as follows their lordships do not feel justified upon mere conjecture of what might probably have been intended in so interpreting it as materially to change the nature of the estate taken by chunderbutti.
it is significant that the testator did not say in the will that the daughter will enjoy only the properties left indisposed of by the widow.
this line of reasoning which appealed to the learned judges is not of much he to us here as the language hi this will is quite different.
bhagwati devi v chowdry bholonath thakur 1874 75 2 i a 256.
it was averred in the plaint that ramalakshmi obtained a vested interest in the suit properties under the will of her father and plaintiff was thus entitled to maintain the suit.
rani dhun kaur should not take an absolute estate but that she should be succeeded in her estate by her two daughters.
during the pendency of the appeal the widow died on 14th february 1948.
the gift to mst.
the court 's primary duty in such cases is to ascertain from the language employed by the testator what were his intentions keeping in view the surrounding circumstances his ordinary notions as a hindu in respect to devolution of his property his family relationships etc.
the restraint against alienation was repugnant to both a life estate and a widow estate and was not therefore taken into account.
the properties disposed of by the will and mentioned in the schedule were considerable in extent and it seems that they fetched sufficient income to enable the widow to fulfil the obligations under the will.
that was a case of a government grant on the special terms set out therein and the question arose as to the nature of the grant.
on the 19th september 1945 an ad interim injunction was issued by the high court restraining the widow from alienating the properties in her possession and forming part of her husband 's estate inspite of this injunction on the 27th september 1945 she executed two deeds of settlement in favour of the other defendants comprising a number of properties.
it would also follow that she would completely represent the estate and under certain circumstances the statute of limitations might run against the heirs to the estate whoever they might be.
either he must have intended that the daughter should convey the property either by will or inter vivos to the grandsons or she having taken the estate through her it should pass to the grandsons in the ordinary course of devolution.
on 21st february 1928 she settled the maintenance claim of lakshmi ammal and obtained a deed of release from her by paying her a sum of rs 3350 in cash and by executing in her favour an agreement stipulating to pay her a sum of rs 240 per annum.
there it was said that the widows of sivaji raja got the gift of a life estate very much resembling the ordinary estate of a hindu widow and with all the incidents of a widow 's estate except the liability to be divested but nevertheless a life estate rather than an estate of inheritance.
these remarks do not throw much light on the point before us.
in our opinion even if that suggestion is accepted that for the limited purposes mentioned in the will the widow could alienate this power would fall far short of the powers that a hindu widow enjoys under hindu law.
she was given a present right of future enjoyment in the property.
the will there recited that if a daughter or son was born to the testator during his lifetime such son or daughter would be the owner of all his properties but if there was no son or daughter his niece section would get a bequest of a lakh of rupees and the rest of the movable and immovable properties would remain in possession of his wife until her death and after her these would remain in possession of his niece.
the learned counsel in support of his contention drew our attention to a number of decisions of different high courts and contended that the words of this will should be construed in the manner as more or less similar words were construed by the courts in the wills dealt with in those decisions.
this rule of construction by analogy is a dangerous one to follow in construing wills differently worded and executed in different surroundings.
the fact that the gift over was a contingent bequest was by itself taken as a sure indication that the preceding bequest was that of a widow 's estate.
the high court took a different view and held that chunderbutti took the estate in her character as a hindu widow.
according to jarman jarman on wills the law leans in favour of vesting of estates and the property disposed of belongs to the object of the gift when the will takes effect and we think the daughter got under this will a vested interest in the testator 's properties on his death.
this decision only decides that case and is not very relevant in this enquiry.
by this will he gave the following directions after my lifetime you the aforesaid ranganayaki amminal my wife shall till your lifetime enjoy the aforesaid entire properties the outstandings due to me the debts payable by me and the chit amounts payable by me.
