a return on the working capital at a lesser rate than the return on paid up capital.
both the industrial court as well as the labour appellate tribunal found as a fact that there was a trading loss of rs 502563 1 10 during the year 1949 and also.
appeal allowed.
i l l j 386 textile mills madhya pradesh v their workmen 1952 2 l l j 625and famous cine laboratory v their workmen 1953.
that the dividend of 2434 per cent.
it is not a gift or gratuity but a sum paid for services or upon a consideration in addition to or in excess of that which would ordinarily be given 12.
mr isaacs the learned counsel for the respondent.
there may be special cases and we consider the case before us to be one where social justice would demand that labour should have bonus for the year where for that very year capital had not only a reasonable return but much in excess of that.
was paid to the ordinary shareholders.
even on a winding up of a company the property of the company would be applied in satisfaction of its liabilities pari passu and unless the articles of association of the company otherwise provided in distribution amongst the members according to their rights and interest in the company.
an aggregate sum of rs 1251871 13 5 was thus brought into the balance sheet by these two transfers.
if in any particular year the working of the industrial concern has resulted in loss there is no basis nor justification for a demand for bonus.
ordinance of 1948 the whole of the profits of 1948 could have been distributed after paying the workers bonus in that year of four annas in the rupee.
bonus is not a deferred wage.
this appeal with special leave is directed against the judgment and order of the labour appellate tribunal of india in a dispute regarding the workers claim for bonus.
the considerations of social justice imported by the labour appellate tribunal in arriving at the decision in favour of the respondent were not only irrelevant but untenable.
the shareholders only would be entitled to such benefit and the mere fact that dividends were declared and paid to the shareholders out of such reserves and undistributed profits would not entitle the workers to demand bonus when in fact the working of the industrial concern during the particular year had showed a loss.
the surplus that remained after meeting the aforesaid deductions would be available for distribution as bonus.
whereas the industrial court declined to grant the respondent any relief because the working of the appellant during the year had resulted in a loss the labour appellate tribunal made a special case for the respondent in spite of its concurrence with that finding of the industrial court.
the demand for bonus becomes an industrial claim when either or both these conditions are satisfied.
the labour force which earns the profits of a particular year by collaborating with the employers is distinct from the one which contributed to the profits of the previous years and there is no continuity between the labour forces which are employed in the industrial concern during the several years.
as at present advised a claim for bonus which had been rested on profits earned should ordinarily be determined on the basis of the profits earned in the year under claim and that the scale of bonus should be determined on the quantum of profits earned in the year.
the labour appellate tribunal also overlooked the fact that but for the public companies limitation of dividend.
the employees would in no event be entitled to any share or interest in the assets and the capital of the company.
the same would ripen into a legally enforceable claim.
social justice is not the fancy of any individual adjudicator if it were so then ideas of social justice might vary from adjudicator to adjudicator over all parts of india.
no further claimed payment of bonus out of those reserves or undistributed profits can therefore survive.
this definition was adopted by stirling j in in re eddystone marine insurance co l r i894 w n 30 webster 's international dictionary defines bonus as something given in addition to what is ordinarily received by or strictly due to the recipient.
the result therefore is that the decision of the labour appellate tribunal appealed against must be reversed and that of the industrial court textiles and hosiery kanpur restored.
but second the meaning of the word bonus is not given to it by the objection.
the conciliation board by a majority decision repelled the contention of the appellant and awarded the payment of bonus at annas 4 per rupee.
it is significant to observe that this principle was accepted by the labour appellate tribunal itself.
this contention can be shortly answered by referring to our decision in bharat bank ltd delhi v employees of the bharat bank ltd delhi 1950 s c r 459 1950 indlaw sc 48 where we held that the industrial tribunals were tribunals within the meaning of article 136 and further that article 136 has vested in this court exceptional and overriding power to interfere where it reaches the conclusion that a person has been dealt with arbitrarily or that a court or tribunal within the territory of india has not given a fair deal to a litigant.
because if it were so it would necessarily rank for precedence before dividends the dividends can only be paid out of profits and unless and until profits are made no occasion or question can also arise for distribution of any sum as bonus amongst the employees.
on the 4th may 1950 the secretary of the respondent union petitioned to the provincial conciliation officer textile that there was more production in 1949 than in 1948 that there was no reason to hold that the profit in 1949 was less than in the previous year and that the rate of bonus was wrongly reduced and asked that bonus for 1949 should also be paid at the rate of annas 4 per rupee.
in our full bench decision see 1950 2 l l j 1247 we carefully considered the question of social justice in relation to bonus and there we equated the rights and liabilities of employers and workmen with a view to achieving a just formula for the computation of bonus.
vide encyclopaedia britannica volume iii page 856.
the principles for the grant of bonus were discussed and a formula was evolved by the full bench of the labour appellate tribunal in millowners association bombay v rashtreeya mill mazdoor sangh bombay 1950.
the question which therefore arises for our consideration is mainly whether the workers are entitled to the payment of a bonus in spite of the employer having worked at a loss during the year and incidentally whether the workers have any right title or interest in the reserves and the undistributed profits of the previous years.
it has been used especially in the united states of america to designate an award in addition to the contractual wage.
attempted to give a definition in the following terms social justice connotes the balance of adjustments of the various interests concerned in the social and economic structure of the state in order to promote harmony upon an ethical and economic basis and he stated that there were three parties concerned here viz the employers the labour and the state itself and the conception of social justice had to be worked out in this context.
the pocket part of the corpus juris secundum volume xi under the heading as compensation for services quotes the following passage from attorney general v city of woburn 317 mass 465 the word bonus is commonly used to denote an increase in salary or wages in contracts of employment.
it is usually intended as a stimulus to extra effort but sometimes represents the desire of the employer to share with his workers the fruits of their common enterprise.
during the year 1948 the appellant made a profit of rs 1197648 11 9.
