a of section 239.
the respondent No 1.
a says that persons accused of the same offence committed in the course of the same transaction may be charged and tried together.
but entry 7 a in part v of sch.
read with section 149.
his point is that the proviso to section 3371 confers the power on the district magistrate to grant pardon in a case pending before another magistrate and not on a district magistrate and therefore his power to grant pardon in such cases can not be conferred under sub s 2 of section 10 on an additional district magistrate.
para 5 provides that as officers of the revenue department those magistrates would be under the control of the government through the board of revenue.
the high court allowed the revision application.
these are relevant facts.
the evidence of the approver was inadmissible because the pardon granted to him was illegal that in any case it is unreliable was so found even by the sessions judge and must therefore be rejected.
similarly z can be charged with offence 's under sections 147 323 and offences under section 302.
there are also other reasons which point to this conclusion which we will set out while considering the argument advanced by mr bhimasankaram.
again as already stated section 2341 does not override the provisions of section 2351 which permits trial of a person for more offences than one committed during any period provided they are so connected together as to form one transaction.
it divided the magistrates into two groups judicial magistrates and executive magistrates.
similarly if the second respondent were alone tried on the second charge his trial would not have been open to any objection if the allegation were that the offences were so connected together as to form the same transaction.
what is necessary to consider is whether applying all these tests we should act upon the evidence of the approver should be acted upon.
the vesco had no managing director but at each meeting of its board of directors one of the directors used to be elected chairman.
criminal conspiracy was however not an unknown thing before the amendment of the indian penal code in 1913.
p c was transportation for life or imprisonment of either description for ten years and fine.
but on appeal by the state of andhra pradesh to this court this court held that there was no misjoinder of charges that the introduction of a large number of charges spread over a long period was a question of propriety and that it should be left to the judge or the magistrate trying the case to adopt the course which he thought to be appropriate in the facts and circumstances of the case.
nor again could they be tried jointly only with the help of cl.
does this mean that the provisions of section 233 234 235 and 236 must also be complied with.
take cls.
that in our opinion is not the correct legal position.
section 160 provides that a witness may also testify to the facts mentioned in any such document as is mentioned in section 159.
while we are disposed to agree with learned counsel that the questions embrace a number of matters and that it would have been better if those matters had been made the subjects of separate questions the answers given by the respondents clearly show that they understood the questions and wherever possible they have given complete answers to those questions.
it obtained licences from the government under the electricity act for supply of electrical energy to visakhapatnam anakapalli and some other places.
finally he said that the court did not perform its duty under section 342 4 of the code as amended as it failed to bring to the notice of the respondents that they may if they chose give evidence in their defence.
the aeco was appointed managing agent for each of these corporations under separate agreements.
fact misappropriated by the respondents in the circumstance that there are no corresponding entries in the account books of those firms.
we shall first deal with the third point.
these amounts also used to be noted in the private note book and entered.
the prosecution be established by reference to section 34 of the indian evidence act which reads thus.
section 234.
with these observations we set aside the acquittal of the respondents and remit the appeal to the high court for decision on merits in the light of our observations.
that report showed that during the period 1948 49 rs 33 271 10 0 shown as paid to the andhra power system were in fact not paid.
1 deals with the trial of a person for offences of the same kind not exceeding three committed within the space of 12 months from the first to the last of such offences and section 231 2 what is meant by the expression offences of the same kind.
he pressed his claim for appointment as secretary of vesco and representative of the managing agents at visakhapatnam and r h g raju appointed him to that post.
then this court has observed.
the decision in queen empress v grees chunder banerjee 1884 i l r 10.
during the course of the attack one person from the second group was killed as a rest of blows with an axe inflicted by the aggressors a b and c two persons of the second group sustained grievous hurt as a result of lathi blows and one person sustained simple hurt.
it is clear from the charge that some of the amounts were misappropriated between april 1947 and march 1950 some between april 1947 and march 1949 some between april 1947 and march 1951 and quite a large number between september 1947 and march 1950 and a still large number between april 1951 and march 1952.
each of them has committed two offences and each of them participated in the same offence.
if the evidence of the approver is left out the remaining evidence would be inadequate to sustain the prosecution case.
on the strength of these considerations mr chari for the state contends that if the words any offence punishable with imprisonment which may extend to 10 years were interpreted to mean offences which were punishable with imprinsonment of less than 10 years grave offences which are not exclusively triable by a court of sessions will be completely out of section 337 1.
bearing in mind the fact that the provisions in the former part of chapter xix are applicable to charges made with the aid of section 239 only so far as may be it would not be right to construe section 239 as being subject to the provisions of sections 233 to 236.
in swamirathnam 's case 1 which is a decision of this court certain persons were tried for the offence of the conspiracy to cheat the members of the public and for specific offences of cheating in pursuance of that conspiracy.
no doubt the offence mentioned in charge No i is alleged to have been committed not by just one person but by all the accused and the question is whether all these persons can be jointly tried in respect of all these offences.
the respondents preferred appeals before the high court challenging their convictions and sentences.
it says nothing about non existence of entries in account books.
the last objection was that the charge of conspiracy was added to the charge sheet very late.
we are also satisfied that there is no substance in the complaint that the questioning bordered on cross examination.
he contends that since the offence is punishable with transportation for life section 337 1 could not be availed of for granting pardon to the approver.
let us consider these clauses along with another illustration.
srinivasa rao originally a stores boy.
the gravity is of course to be determined with reference to the sentence awardable with respect to that offence.
in the meantime on november 29 1951 there was a meeting of the general body at which the accounts were among other things to be considered.
mr bhimasankaram therefore very rightly did not support the view of the high court.
it could not have been the intention of the legislature to create such a situation.
i secured the promotion of the approver k v ramana who was originally accounts clerk to the post of senior accountant.
the acquittal in the previous case was urged as a bar under section 4031 of the code to the trial for an offence under section 467 i p c the contention apparently was that this was a case which fell under section 236 cr.
mody v the state of bombay.
is not strictly germane to the question considered by the high court that is clubbing together all the provisions of the various clauses of section 239.
the term of the managing agency was renewed in 1943 and aeco con tinued to be managing agents until the vesco was taken over by the government in 1952.
as we are remanding the appeal to the high court for a fresh decision after full consideration of the evidence adduced in the case it would be open to it to consider this matter particularly while judging the credibility of the evidence of the approver.
various sentences were passed against them by the additional sessions judge visakhapatnam who presided over the court.
the pardon is stated to be illegal for two reasons.
these words he contended clearly show that cl.
some of the facts in issue in this case are whether payments of certain sums of money were made to crompton engineering co and other firms or authorities.
ganeswara rao was also an old employee of aeco having been appointed a stenotypist in the year 1923 on an initial salary of rs p m eventually he became the head clerk therein.
two persons a and b enter a house at night and first together commit the murder of a man sleeping there and then also his wife.
in coming to this conclusion it has relied upon the provisions of section 356 2a of the code of criminal procedure.
on the other hand at the end of cl.
section 337 1 as it stood before its amendment by act 26 of 1955 read thus.
para 193 occurring in this part deals with allocation of powers under the provisions of the code otherwise than these referred to in the earlier paragraphs.
what intrinsic difficulty is there in trying them all together simultaneously availing of cls.
the argument before the high court was and before us is that the absence of an entry can not of electricity duty to government.
papers seized by the police include receipts purporting to have been signed by one j j billimoria on behalf of the firm.
we do not think that we should take notice of the complaint made by mr bhimasankaram.
but it does not follow that where crimes have been committed the liability to punishment already incurred under section 120 b by having entered into a criminal conspiracy is thereby wiped away.
it is also their case that these firms maintain their accounts in the regular course of business and it is their practice to enter in those accounts all payments received by them.
this amount was posted in vesco 's cash handover book as by safe indicating that this amount was kept in the safe though in fact it was not.
the shareholders felt that the report had been received but was being suppressed or deliberately withheld.
amounts which had been misappropriated used to be posted therein though in fact no orders were placed for any material.
he however directed ramana to make his confession before a submagistrate.
the third point stressed by him was that the approver was allowed to refresh his memory while deposing in the case by referring extensively to the account books and various documents produced in the case.
later however murty was also got transferred to the general section and replaced by p w 18.
no objection however was taken in the courts below on this score and in the absence of any prejudice to the respondents.
apart from this the question whether the provisions of sections 233 to 236 have or have no overriding effect on section 239.
the first question for consideration is whether there was a misjoinder of parties and of persons.
he died in the year 1939 and was succeeded by r k n g raju an advocate of rajahmundry.
further according to the high court where a conspiracy has yielded its fruits the conspirators can be charged with the actual offences committed and not with conspiracy to commit those offences.
he was thus all important with respect to the every day affairs of vesco.
what it does is to make entries in books of account regularly kept in the course of business relevant in all proceedings in a court of law.
in the first place according to the high court joint trial of two or more persons in respect of different offences cornmitted by each of them is illegal and that here as they were charged with having committed offences under section 120 b section 409 section 477 a and section 476467 i p c they could not be tried jointly.
where however several offences are alleged to have been committed by several accused persons it may be more reasonable to follow the normal rule of separate trials.
the points which he urged are briefly these 1 that there was a misjoinder of charges and persons in that the various provisions of section 239 were clubbed together and an omnibus charge of conspiracy was framed which on its face was one likely to embarrass the respondents and make their task of defending themselves difficult.
instead of doing that what he was permitted to do was just to prove the various documents or read those documents and then depose with reference to them.
this means that the trial for an offence under section 147 will have to be separated from the trial for the different offences committed by them.
next according to the high court even if section 239 is applicable its provisions are subject to those of section 234 and as such the trial being for more than three offences was impermissible.
the second charge is for an offence of criminal breach of trust punishable under section 409 and the accusation therein is that the two respondents along with ramana misappropriated 69 items aggregating to a little over rs 3 20 000.
but that would be a matter ultimately within the discretion of the court before which the trial takes place.
the same offence committed by all of them is that under section 147 and all of them can be tried jointly in respect of that offence under cl.
that is to say they have given their explantion regarding the circumstances appearing in the evidence set out in the questions and wherever that was not feasible they have said that they would do so in their written statements.
the accounts maintained by the vesco used to be explained by him not only to the directors but also to the shareholders.
it is true that by introducing this provision the disability placed on an accused person in respect of giving evidence on oath in his own defence has been removed and to that extent such person is placed on par with an accused person under the english law.
there remains the decision of this court in k v krishna murthy iyer v the state of madras in on which mr bhimasankaram strongly relied.
this according to him was an absue of the provisions of section 159 of the evidence act.
a and b.
a case under enquiry or trial before another magistrate does not fall in any of these classes.
some of the members of the unlawful assembly carried axes with them while some others carried lathis and attacked the other group.
full effect can not possibly be given to this provision if we hold that it is subject to the limitation of s 2341.
thus this is a special provision available in case of doubt and is neither subject to the limitations prescribed by section 233 nor those of the other preceding provisions.
i opened four personal accounts in different banks including the imperial bank of india.
coming to the next point of mr bhimsankaram regarding the abuse of powers under section 342 his first contention was that long and involved questions were put to the respondents.
looking at the matter in that way it is pointless to inquire further whether the provisions of section 239 are subject to those of section 2361.
in d k chandra 's case 1951 indlaw mum 117 f b it was held that the provisions of sections 234 235 and 236.
the high court seems to think that before reliance could be placed upon the evidence of the approver it must appear that he is a penitent witness.
ramana forged six documents on different dates between march 28 1949 and november 12 1951 and thus committed an offence under section 471 read with section 467 i p c as we have pointed out earlier the respondent No i alone was convicted by the additional sessions judge in respect of the third and fourth charges.
he became only an additional district magistrate.
then we come to section 236 which provides that if a single act or series of acts is of such a nature that it is doubtful which of several offences the facts which can be proved will constitute the accused may be charged with having committed all or any of such offences and further provides that any number of such charges may be tried together.
mr chari then referred to section 133 of the evidence act and pointed out that this section clearly makes an accomplice evidence admissible in a case and that an approver whose pardon is found to be invalid does not cease to be an accomplice and contends that he is therefore as competent a witness as he would have been if he had not been granted pardon at all and not been put on trial.
laksbminarayana rao was appointed the cashier.
a and c c provides that persons accused of more than one offence of the same kind within the meaning of section 234 committed by them jointly within the period of twelve months could also be charged and tried together.
there nine persons were jointly tried for an offence under section 5 1 c and d of the prevention of corruption act 1947 and section 109 i p c read with s 420 section 466 and section 467 i p c and all except one for offences under sections 420 467471 i p c some of them were also charged with separate offences under some of these provisions.
a pointed reference was made to question.
each clause is an exception to the general rule enacted in section 233 cr.
the chapter is split up into two sub heads form of chargesand joinder of charges.
whether they can or can not be read cumulatively must be determined by consideration of the language used in those clauses.
on the basis of the entries in the handover book the final accounts were written up.
is also an enabling provision to be availed of in case of doubt and it is meaningless to say that section 239 is subject to section 236.
it is difficult to appreciate how this case assists the conclusion arrived at by the high court.
according to the prosecution the report is a forged document.
now of course by the amendment made by section 117 of act 26 of 1955 for the words transportation for life the words imprisonment for life have been substituted but the original structure of all the sections now amended continues.
b says that persons accused of an offence and persons accused of abetment or of an attempt to commit such offence may also be charged and tried together.
this decision completely meets the argument based upon dawson 's case.
consequent on the separation.
by government order No 3106 dated september 9 1949 the government of the province of madras issued certain instructions to the magistrates in pursuance of the separation of the judiciary from the executive.
it may further be mentioned that the account books of vesco show certain payments made to billimoria co of kharagpur.
according to mr bhimasankaram the pardon tendered to the approver was illegal and if the pardon is illegal his evidence is wholly inadmissible.
section g krishna aiyar after his appointment in january 1952 made close enquiry and submitted an interim report.
bhimasankaram supporting the view taken by the high court then contends that it is not permissible to frame a charge of conspiracy when the matter has proceeded beyond the stage of conspiracy and that in pursuance of it offences have actually been committed.
the high court has propounded that the connection described in each of the various clauses is mutually exclusive that no two of them can exist simulta neously in any case and that one can not therefore have in any case persons connected with one another in two or more ways.
the new provision however does no more than lift the ban and does not impose a duty on the court to draw the attention of an accused person to its contents.
226 to 231 deal with the power of the court with regard to framing and altering charges and the procedure to be adopted at the trial where a charge is found to be defective or there is no charge or where a new charge is to be framed.
this section does not expressly say that the only punishment provided for the offence should be imprisonment not exceeding 10 years.
according to the prosecution the respondent No i took both the approver and lakshminarayana rao in his confidence as also some other persons known and unknown for carrying out his nefarious purpose namely the misappropriation of the funds of vesco during the subsistence of aeco 's managing agency of vesco.
apparently subba raju was fully satisfied with this and other explanations and therefore he appointed one c section raju who was the manager of andhra cements to supervise over the affairs of vesco apparently because of this a new method of misappropriation was adopted by the respondents by starting in the vesco account books an account called suspense account.
for the pardon granted in this case can be regarded as being within the ambit of section 337 1 for another reason.
these are enabling provisions which circumstance implies that the court may avail itself of one or more of these provisions unless doing so would amount to an infringement of any of the provisions of the code.
for where all the acts are referable to the same conspiracy their connection with one another is obvious.
the high court has pointed out that the main evidence on which the prosecution rests its case that the amount represented by the entries against these various firms were in.
as a result of investigation they found that there was a total misappropriation of rs 3 40 000.
the decision in singarachariar 's case 1934 indlaw mad 352 c has really no bearing upon the point before us.
his next objection was that it brought within its purview all the various offences which were alleged to have been committed by the respondents.
there was a considerable uproar at that meeting because the respondent No 1 said that the auditor 's report had not been received.
p c and that if he had been tried alternatively for both the offences at the same trial the court could have dealt with him under section 237 cr.
3 irrelevant evidence was introduced and some evidence was introduced in a manner not authorised by the evidence act.
absence of entries in their account books would be inconsistent with the receipt of the accounts and would thus be a relevant fact which can be proved under section 11.
section 120 b provides that whoever is a party to a criminal conspiracy to commit an offence punishable with death imprisonment for life or rigorous imprisonment for a term of two years or upwards shall be punishable in the same manner as if he has abetted such offence unless there was an express provision in the code for the punishment of such conspiracy.
for all these reasons we can not accept the argument of learned counsel on the ground of misjoinder of charges and multiplicity of charges.
there were no complaints about the management of the affairs of vesco or the aeco till the end of 1946 or the beginning of 1947.
cal 231 247.
further 64 documents were missing from the records when they came to the high court and that this has caused serious prejudice to the respondent.
on may 13 1954 a chargesheet was filed against the two respondents as well as murti and the approver ramana.
d yet the transaction in which the offences were committed is the same and there is a close association amongst the persons who have committed the different offences.
in so far as the portion included in the bracket is concerned we agree with the learned counsel that it should not have found place there.
merely because the accused persons are charged with a large number of offences and convicted at the trial the conviction can not be set aside by the appellate court unless it in fact came to the conclusion that the accused persons were embarrassed in their defence with the result that there was a failure of injustice.
the court has in addition to ascertain whether his evidence has been corroborated sufficiently in material particulars.
that is why they read rather queer but even so they serve the purpose of allowing certain offences triable by a court of session to be triable also by magistrates of the first class.
section 224 deals with the interpretation of the language of the charge and section 225 with the effect of errors in the charge.
according to the prosecution both these concerns were running smoothly and efficiently during the lifetime of d l n raju because he was personally attending to their affairs.
the aeco on the other band always had a managing director first of whom was d l n raju.
similarly if we take cl.
negativing the contention.
a No iii of 1959 decided on january 19 1961.
the high court held that since the account books were not translated they are not admissible in evidence.
the ideas however of the committing magistrate in stating all that is said there appears to have been merely to describe the conspiracy and do nothing more.
they also show payment case was that the payments which were entered in the account of vesco do not find a place in the account books of the corresponding firms or authorities because they were never made by vesco.
but in the case before us no objection was taken to multiplicity or misjoinder of charges before the learned additional sessions judge and it was only in the high court that the point was raised.
the power conferred by sub s 1 of section 337 on the different clauses of magistrates is of the same character.
mr bhimasankaram supports the reason given by the high court for coming to the conclusion that there was a misjoinder of charges.
grammatically therefore it would appear that the provisions of the various clauses are capable of being applied cumulatively.
then again it would not be sufficient for the high court to deal with the evidence in a general way.
221 to 232 are comprised under the first sub head and sections 233 to 240 in the second.
therefore where the alleged offences have been committed in the course of the same transaction the limitation placed by section 234 1 can not operate.
the offence under section 467 read with section 471 is punishable with imprisonment for life or imprisonment of either description for a period of 10 years but it is exclusively triable by a court of session and therefore in so far as such offence is concerned the argument of mr bhimasankaram would not even have been available.
for the purpose of showing that no amounts were received by the firms their account books would thus be as relevant as the vesco account books for the purpose of showing the contrary.
there the learned judges have held thus these clauses are mutually exclusive and they can not be simultaneously applied and to construe them as supplementing each other would be enlarging the scope of the exceptions.
upon this understanding he accepted the position offered to him.
the first three provisions relate to the framing of charges against a single accused person.
on a plain construction of the provisions of section 239 therefore it is open to the court to avail itself cumulatively of the provisions of the different clauses of section 239 for the purpose of framing charges and charges so framed by it will not be in violation of the law the provisions of sections 233 234 and 235 notwithstanding.
as secretary of vesco it was his duty to convene the meetings of the board of directors to present before them the periodical statement of receipts and expenditure of vesco to convene meetings of the general body to prepare the managing agents report and the director 's report as also to see to the presentation of auditors report and the statement of accounts.
a lakh of rupees passed through that account.
his second contention was that reference was made to a number of documents in some of these questions and those documents were not made available to the respondents for answering those questions.
why can they not be tried jointly for both murders and why should there be two trials for the two murders.
a to g can be tried together in one case which certainly involves a bewildering multiplicity of charges and which would obviously set at naught the salutary principle contained in section 233.
iii when it refers to the power of a district magistrate under section 337 1 does not exclude the power under the proviso.
it is the prosecution case that as secretary of vesco and the resident representative of the managing agents the respondent No i was attending to the day to day affairs of vesco which included the receiving of all sums of money due to vesco spending money for the purpose of vesco attending to the appointment supervision and control of the staff of vesco purchasing materials required for the purpose of vesco and supervising over the accounts of vesco.
