appeal allowed.
weaving works and according to the terms of tenancy suit the suit premises were leased for manufacturing cloth in the name of ahmedabad fine weaving works.
the agreement must be to share profits of business and 3 the business must be carried on by all or any of the persons concerned acting for all.
the landlord had alleged that the appellant had closed that business and he was not using the premises in question for the purpose for which it was let to him.
the high court may at any time call for the record of any case under this act for the purpose of satisfying itself that a decision made therein is according to law and may pass such order in relation thereto as it thinks fit.
the partnership deeds were there entitling the petitioner to share in the partnership.
the respondent plaintiff had alleged in both the suits that the appellant was his tenant in the suit premises which were leased to him for conducting his business in the name of ahmedabad fine.
as we read the power the high court must ensure that the principles of law have been correctly borne in mind.
the high court could not substitute its own finding for the one reached by the courts below on a reappraisal of evidence.
but thereafter when the partnership deed exhibit 69 was executed the appellant and his father joined the firm with an agreement to share profits only and their share was fixed at 0 03 paise in a rupee.
on or about 24th of october1960.
the suit for possession is accordingly dismissed.
the first question therefore is whether the high court could do so in the facts of this case and secondly whether the high court was right in so doing.
scr 933 1961 indlaw sc 157 had to consider section 351 of the delhi ajmer rent corntrol act1952.
2 the work to be carried out by our partnership is of manufacturing and selling neon signs tubes and of obtaining orders therefore.
mehta.
the trial court in the instant appeal held that there was subletting.
hereinafter called the rent act is the question involved in this appeal by special leave from the judgment and order of the high court of gujarat dated 21st of august1979.
all these factors were present before the court of small causes.
judged by that standard we are of the opinion that the high court in this case had exceeded its jurisdiction.
there is nothing inherently illegal or improbable making a provision of such a type.
the first partnership deed which is exhibit 114 is dated 13th october1960 it recited that the partnership firm should be presently started at ahmedabad and the same should later be started in another city.
the fact that the high court would have taken a different view is wholly irrelevant.
sharing of profits and contributing to losses were not the only elements in a partnership existence of agency was essential and whether there was a partnership or not is a mixed question of law and fact depending upon the varying circumstances in different cases.
this was set aside in appeal.
and it was a possible view to take.
though the decree in the dissolution suit was not binding in these proceedings inter se between the parties as partners it is a piece of evidence which can not be wholly ignored.
it was submitted by mr mehta that once it was accepted that the partnership deed was a mere camouflage the other subsequent acts and conducts were merely ancillary and were put in a formal way.
the clause of the partnership deed provided that there should be a fixed percentage of profit to be given to the partner appellant no 1 the appellant was not to share the losses.
the said section reads as follows 351.
it may be mentioned that the respondent no 1 is the landlord of two premises which were quite adjacent as mentioned before.
it is true that since after 4th of october1960 the partnership firm was carrying on business in the premises in question.
all the work had been done by some of the partners of which appellants were not parties and that they had to do the said work as per instructions of the other partners.
in order to decide this question it is necessary to decide the scope and ambit of section 292 of the rent act.
we are concerned in this appeal with only one of the premises which was involved in suit no 553 of 1969 it is not in dispute and it never was that the premises was being used by bharat neon signs firm being the defendant no 2 in the original suit.
it was sufficient for the rent court to proceed on the finding that the appellant and s were living together as husband and wife whether they were legally married or not.
nos 34 and 5.
the power according to the learned judge was of the widest amplitude to pass such orders as the court thought fit in order to do complete justice.
there is a third partnership deed exhibit 70 which showed that the deceased tenant girdharlal had died on 1st of february1961 and so by the remaining seven partners with same terms and conditions a new partnership deed being exhibit 70 was executed on 22nd.
supp 2 s c r 906 1962 indlaw sc 455.
he has stated further that the suit premises were to be used for business and he could use it for any business and he joined in partnership with defendants nos 2 to 5 somewhere in 1961 to prepare neon signs and the defendants nos 2 to 5 were his partners and doing business in the suit premises.
however on account of the death of khristi girdharbhai chimanlal on 1 2 61 and other reasons the said partnership was dissolved from 8 9 61 thereafter we the parties from the first to seventh part have after purchasing at its cost price all the debts and dues goods stock etc together with goodwill of the dissolved partnership started manufacturing and selling of neon signs tubes in partnership from 9 9 61 we the parties of all the seven parts execute the deed of the said partnership to day.
therefore it was submitted that the court of small causes committed an error of law resulting in miscarriage of justice.
the high court on a reappraisal of these very evidence came to the conclusion that the partnerships were camouflages and were not acted upon and in fact and in reality the partnership firm was a sub tenant of the appellant herein.
one point was emphasised by mr mehta learned counsel appearing for the respondents that the original first partnership deed did not mention the appellant or his father as a partner.
there the learned judge relying on section 292 of the said act held that the revisional power with which the high court was vested under section 292 was not merely in the nature of jurisdictional control.
it extended to corrections of all errors which would make the decision contrary to law.
another partnership deed being exhibit 69 came to be executed among the six persons and the father of the appellant girdharlal.
this view had also been expressed in the decision of this court in puranchand v motilal1963.
3 whatever moneys that may be required to be invested in our partnership are to be invested by the parties of the first second third fourth and seventh parts out of us and the interest at the rate of 712 per cent per annum has to be paid for the moneys that may be invested in this partnership.
unless the statute conferring the right to appeal limits the re hearing in some way.
there was nothing intrinsically wrong in law in constituting a partnership in the manner it was done.
secondly the facts have been properly appreciated and a decision arrived at taking all material and relevant facts in mind.
the main question in issue in this appeal as well as before the high court in revision was whether there was a genuine partnership at the appellant was a partner.
it was registered in the name of 7th and 8th partners girdharlal who was the appellant and his father.
there was an appeal before the court of small causes bombay and by judgment and order delivered by the court of small causes bombay on 18th of august1977it was held that the learned trial judge had erred in passing a decree for possession on the ground of subletting change of user and breach of terms of tenancy.
in the instant case the basic question is whether keeping in background the partnership deeds referred to hereinbefore and the facts that came to light was there partnership or not.
