he had claimed rights of a protected tenant.
no civil court shall have jurisdiction to settle decide or deal with any question which is by or under this act required to be settled decided or dealt with by the tahsildar tribunal or collector or by the board of revenue or government.
we direct that the appellants shall withdraw not more than 40 per cent of the compensation pending disposal of the appeal before the high court.
kowlnama executed in favour of shaik hussain was not filed.
we are unable to accept this submission.
1the learned single judge vaidya j held inter alia as follows whether the petitioner abdul khader is a protected tenant or whether he has any prima facie interest in the suit property are matters entirely within the sole jurisdiction of the arbitrator who has to be appointed under s 8 of the central act.
tenancy and agricultural lands act1950 being.
the court reiterated that there was surfeit of evidence to declare that abdul khader was a tenant.
the judgment under appeal was passed on 15th of april1986 this appeal arises out of the said judgment.
hereinafter called the andhra pradesh act.
the question of abdul khader 's right to compensation had to be decided in accordance with law.
in this appeal we are concerned with the claim for compensation for the said acquisition by one abdul khader who was a flower picker.
the high court noticed the position that under the said andhra pradesh act it was for the revenue authorities to order whether a tenant is a protected tenant under section 34s 37 and section 37a of the said act.
the arbitrator has done so.
this court by the two orders referred to hereinbefore had also affirmed this position.
sub s 2 of s 40 of the said act indicates who are the heirs who would be entitled to hold the tenancy on the death of the protected tenant and on what terms.
the land was taken possession of under a panchanama dated 12th of september1963 according to the high court the documents discussed in the judgment indicated that shaik hussain was a tenant from 1935 after his death on july 181949his son mohd abdul khader became a tenant.
s 37 deals with persons not entitled under s 34 to be deemed in certain circumstances as protected tenants.
by the scheme of the central act compensation was payable to persons who had interest in the land acquired.
the high court was of the view that the arbitrator was to decide that question and the arbitrator was not in error in deciding the issue in the manner it did.
fruits.
we are not concerned with the challenge to this aspect in this appeal.
other c m ps were filed for clarification of the second part of the order dated 19th august1985 and this court on 29th november1985 in cmps.
in this appeal we are concerned with the question whether the high court was right in upholding the award of the arbitrator so far as it has held in favour of abdul khader and his rights to get 60 of the compensation.
in the aforesaid view of the matter this appeal must fail and is accordingly dismissed with costs.
s 102 of the said act stipulates that the act shall not apply to certain lands and areas and provides inter alia as follows 102 nothing in this act shall apply to lands leased granted alienated or acquired in favour of or by the central government or the state government a local authority or a cooperative society.
s 35 of the said act deals with decision on claims and stipulates by sub s 1 of s 35 of the said act that if any question arises whether any person and if so what person is deemed under s 34 to be a protected tenant in respect of any land the landholder or any person claiming to be so deemed may within one year from the commencement of the act apply in the prescribed form to the tahsildar for the decision of the question and the tahsildar shall after enquiring into the claim or claims in the manner prescribed declare what person is entitled to be deemed to be protected tenant or as the case may be that no person is so entitled.
in 1954there was wakfnama by the said sail nawaz jung.
i suspect that somebody has tampered the register and entered the name of sri mohd abdul khader.
it was in those circumstances held by him that the entry was a spurious one.
on or about 22nd of april1985.
s 4 of the said act empowers taking possession of requisitioned property.
sub s 3 of s 40 of the said act provides that if a protected tenant dies without leaving any heirs all his rights shall be so extinguished.
s 38 of the said act deals with right of protected tenant to purchase land.
the matter was brought to this court by a special leave application and this court in special leave petition civil no 10 of 1975 on or about 30th january 1975 held that since the question whether the petitioner in that case namely abdul khader was a protected tenant had been left open by the high court to be decided by the arbitrator u s 8 of the central act special leave petition was rejected with those observations.
the order was passed by the district revenue officer who held that abdul khader was not a protected tenant.
it is necessary also to note the provisions of s 99 of the act.
aggrieved by the aforesaid decision the appellants being the successor of the owner of the land in question is in appeal before us.
there was an award by the arbitrator holding that as this court had left it open to decide whether abdul khader was a protected tenant.
the high court dealt with the value of the land.
the two orders of this court as we have mentioned hereinbefore dated 30th of january1975 and 19th of august 1985 reiterated the position that it was for the arbitrator to decide the question and he should decide the question in the light of ss 99 and 102 of the andhra pradesh act as set out hereinbefore.
that in any event what was the interest of abdul khader had to be determined in determining the question of payment of compensation to him and in so determining the facts and circumstances and the proceedings before the revenue authorities and entries and subsequent deletions had to be taken into consideration by the arbitrator.
despite the objection exercising the jurisdiction of the arbitrator to go into the question of protected tenant the arbitrator held that abdul khader was a protected tenant.
the appeal is heard.
on or about 3rd february1970 the collector issued notice for acquisition of the property u s 71 of the requisitioning and acquisition of immovable property act1952 being act 30 of 1952.
let it be.
it was observed that the high court was at liberty to consider the claims to be made by both the parties and pass any fresh order with regard to the disbursement of the remaining 60 of the compensation.
in the judgment under appeal which is directed against the award made by the arbitrator formulated the following four issues  1 what is the value of the land 2 who are entitled to the compensation amount 3 whether abdul khader is a protected tenant of sail gulshan of the area 19 02 guntas excluding the land of buildings wells etc and 4 what share is to be apportioned to successors of sail nawaz jung.
hyderabad west taluk.
now as the arbitrator has already been appointed he will go into the matter as to whether the petitioner was a protected tenant of the lands or not and if he was the protected tenant to what share in the compensation amount he would be entitled to.
separate enquiry in this connection is going on in this office to know under what circumstances such entry has been made and copy also issued without knowledge of the tahsildar.
this order of cancellation was challenged by abdul khadar by filing a writ petition in the high court of andhra pradesh being w p no 1786 of 197 1 and by judgment and order passed on 27th august197.
s 3 of the said act gave power to requisition immovable property.
furthermore under s 99 of the andhra pradesh act the bar was not against the arbitrator but against a civil court.
sub s 2 of s 34 of the said act also deals with to be deemed to be a protected tenant in respect of any landfor certain purposes.
determination by the revenue authorities and non determination is not conclusive or decisive.
act no xxi of 1950.
s 2r states that the expression protected means a person who is deemed to be a protected tenant under the provisions of the said act.
the main question centres around the right of abdul khader respondent no 1 herein to the compensation awarded by the arbitrator it is therefore necessary to refer to the relevant portion of the said order which inter alia stated as follows by perusal of the tenancy register of 1958 it is evident that sri mohd abdul khader is not a genuine protected tenant.
he held further that khasra pahani which is the basic record of occupancy period after spot inspections does not find the name of abdul khader and further held that all entries except this entry in the protected tenancy register prepared under section 37a of the andhra pradesh act was supported by an enquiry.
therefore it was submitted by the respondents that s 99 of the andhra pradesh act which made the determination by the tahsildar to be final and debarred other courts from going into the question did not apply in case of compensation payable.
the high court on reciting the facts came to the conclusions inter alia.
he had sought to establish his rights which must be found within the four corners of the andhra pradesh act along with other documents because u s 404 of the andhra pradesh act the interest of a protected tenant in the land held by him as a protected tenant formed 60 the rights of the protected tenants have been defined in the andhra pradesh act and relevant provisions of that act namely sections 343737a and 40 in conjunction with the definition under s 2r have to be taken into consideration in the background of the facts and circumstances of the case.
