a bare perusal of the above section shows that an appeal against the judgment sentence or order of the designated court except an interlocutory order shall lie on facts and on law to the supreme court and that no appeal or revision shall lie to any other court.
public prosecutor.
it was also taken into possession vide a panchnama.
one accused died during the pendency of the trial.
the victims it appears from the record belong to the wadar community.
the prosecution has not been able to establish the case against a 10 beyond a reasonable doubt and is our opinion he is entitled to the benefit of the doubt.
bone deep.
appellants no 1 a 52 a 83 a 9 and.
from the testimony of pw9it stands established that while mukesh pw 12 was narrating the incident which had taken place at the video parlour the appellants alongwith 78 other persons arrived in a jeep and two auto rickshaws armed with swords satturs and sticks and opened the assault on the prosecution witnesses and that a 11 and his two associates assaulted pw 14 with swords.
3 verticle incised wound 5 x 1 x 1 cms.
the conviction and sentence of the appellants for the offence under section 3 tada can not therefore be sustained and is hereby set aside.
samples of blood of the accused were collected for ascertaining their blood groups and sent for chemical analysis.
a 10 also made a disclosure statement under section 27 of the evidence act to the effect that he had buried a sword behind yamai tukai temple and could get it recovered.
the defence plea of total denial and false implication has been rightly rejected by the designated court in view of the over whelming cogent and reliable prosecution evidence.
besides the testimony of these prosecution witnesses has received ample corroboration from the medical evidence as well as the recoveries of the weapons of offence.
pw 19 was declared hostile by the prosecution and was cross examined by the addl.
2 abraded contusion below right knee and front of right leg5 x 5 cm.
learned counsel submitted that the appellants should not be denied the opportunity to get the first hearing in the high court because in the event of their failure in the high court they still have a chance to approach this court under article 136 of the constitution of india.
he ran away to conceal himself.
there was an altercation between the accused and the complainant party when the leg of kaka dombe a 11 dashed against the leg of anna shety band patte.
according to a 2a 3a 5a 6 and a 7 they had been identified by pw 9during the identification parade at the instance of the police.
in hitendra vishnu thakur and others vs.
the designated court as already noticed found all of them guilty and convicted them for the offences under section 3 tada302149307149 and 323149 ipc.
1994 indlaw sc 1706 this court opined that the criminal activity in order to invoke tada must be committed with the requisite intention as contemplated by section 31 of the act by use of such weapons as have been enumerated therein and which cause or are likely to result in the commission of offences as mentioned in that section.
some of the other witnesses including popat deceased and baban pw 9 fled towards the math to save themselves.
prosecution has led no evidence nor brought any circumstances on the record from which any inference may be drawn that the appellants intended to strike terror amongst the wadar community.
we do not find any force in the submission of the learned counsel for the appellant that since mohan lal pw 19who runs the video parlour has not fully supported the prosecution version regarding the cause of altercation at the video parlour the genesis of the occurrence gets shrouded in doubt.
in so far as the remaining appellants are concerned the evidence of the eye witnesses and particularly of pw 3 and pws 9 to 14 unmistakably connects them with the assault on the complainant party near the jagdamba hotel and at the math resulting in the death of popat and injuries being caused to pw9 and pw14 despite searching cross examination nothing has been brought out in their cross examination from which any doubt may arise about the participation of a 1a 5a 8a 9 and a 11 in the assault or discredit the testimony of any of these witnesses.
after completion of the investigation two charge sheets arising out of crime no 10190 and crime no 10290 were filed before the designated court.
at the trial the prosecution alleged that the accused party with an intent to commit terror in the wadar community had committed the murder of popat and injured pw 9 and pw 14by using lethal weapons and had thereby committed terror in the wadar community and thus committed an offence under section 3 of tada besides the other offences as already noticed.
p c as the series of acts in both the cases were so inter connected as to form one transaction.
all the injured persons were admitted to the hospital.
the trial court for the purposes of consideration of the evidence divided the prosecution case into three parts namely i the incident at vrindavan video parlour ii incident near jagdamba hotel and iii the incident at the math.
10 years ri and a fine of rs 5000 each for the offence under section 307149 ipc 2 years ri for the offence under section 324149 ipc and life imprisonment and fine of rs 5000 each for the offence under section 3 of tada in default of payment of fine on each of the counts the appellants were to undergo further ri for two years each.
prevention act1987 hereinafter referred to as tada by the learned designated judge pune.
from the post mortem report prepared by dr a p khiste.
in the result the appeal succeeds insofar as a 10 appellant no 4 is concerned.
cms above right ear fracture of right parietal bone with laceration of brain.
during the investigation an identification parade was got conducted through the executive magistrate pw 32 when baban karpe pw 9 and other prosecution witnesses identified the assailants.
appellants a 5a 10 and a 11 thereafter assaulted bajrang band patte pw 14 on his head in front of the hotel.
under section 12 of tada the designated court has the jurisdiction not only to try the cases under tada but also to try offences under the indian penal code if the offence under tada is connected with such other offences.
the accused a 6a 10 and a 11 alongwith one other person were also present at the video parlour.
that apart the name of a 10 does not figure specifically in the statement of baban pw 9which formed the basis of the fir ex 77 pw 10pw 11 and pw 15 have tried to implicate a 10 by making tell tale improvements in their statements at the trial by ascribing a role to him in the assault by improving upon their statements earlier recorded during the investigation with which statements they were duly confronted.
the transfer of the appeal to the high court after hearing the appeal on merits and finding that section 3 of tada on the basis of the evidence led by the prosecution was not made out is neither desirable nor proper nor permissible let alone justified.
can it be said that the accused had the intention to strike terror much less in a particular section of the society when they entered into an altercation at the video parlour or even when they went after the complainant party and opened an assault on then opposite jagdamba hotel or at the math.
police inspector joshi arrived at the hospital and baban karpe pw 9 narrated the occurrence to him which was reduced into writing.
none out of those who were present at the video parlour received any injury and there is no material on the record to show as to which community did they belong to either.
section 19 1 and 2 of tada read as follows.
in fairness to the learned counsel for the state mr madhav reddy sr advocate we must also record that he conceded that in the facts and circumstances of the case and keeping in view the law laid down by the constitution bench in kartar singh 's case 1994.
in the face of this express provision there is no scope to urge that the appeal may be transferred to the high court because of the acquittal of the appellants for the offence punishable under section 3 tada by us.
pw 22 opined that these injuries individually as well as collectively were sufficient in the ordinary course of nature to cause death.
from our independent analytical appreciation of the evidence on the record we are of the opinion that the designated court rightly found the participation of a 1a 5a 8a 9 and a 11in the assault to have been positively established.
pw 9 was examined by dr khiste pw 22 who noticed the following two injuries on his person 1 transverse superficial incised wound 10x12 cm on posterior of left knee in popliteal.
at the identification parade a 5 was identified by pw 9pw10pw 11pw 14 and pw 15 a 10 by pws 10 to 15 a 11 by pw 3 and pws 9 to 15 a 1 by pws 10 to 15 a 8 and a 9 by pw 3 and by pws 10 to 15.
