point 2.
on facts the position was that the aicte had granted approval on 30 4 95 expressly stating that this was on consideration of the observations made by the expert committee and the recommendations made by the central regional committee state level committee central task force as per the provisions of aicte regulations dated 31 10 94.
regulation 8 deals with scrutiny of applications.
appeal allowed.
it reads as follows grant of affiliation 1.
para 4 of the counter affidavit had further stated that the government was not in a position to take a decision to start new engineering college without properly assessing the necessity of more engineering gradu ates in the state and exploring the possibility of employment oppor tunity in the country to the extent possible.
reg 84.
learned senior counsel for the appellant.
othersl995 4 scc 104 1995 indlaw sc 1631.
regulation 4 deals with the requirement of grant of approval and for the commencement of these regulations a b no course or programme shall be introduced in any technical institutions university or deemed university or university departments or college or c no technical institutions universities or deemed universities or university departments or colleges shall continue to admit students for degree or diploma courses or programmes.
whether any statute in the state of kerala if it required such approval would be void.
procedure and conditions for affiliation could not be inconsistent with the provisions of the central act in particular s 10k of the regulation and the university could not seek approval of government.
another v adhiyaman educational research institute.
therefore this special leave petition is dismissed as premature.
obtaining the views of the state government as already stated did not amount to obtaining its approval.
after the constitutional amendment 42 amendment act1976 entry 25 of list iii in the concurrent list.
in inviting your attention to the reference cited i am to inform you that government regret their inability to comply with your request.
i to the order and the general conditions were enlisted in annexure ii the.
the tamil nadu case.
the university also granted permission on 21 11 87 for the academic year 1987.
there were also two unaided engineering colleges at mallappuram and thiruvananthapuram.
thus the university ought to have considered the grant of final or further affiliation without waiting for any approval from the state govern ment and should have acted on the basis of the permission granted by aicte and other relevant factors in the university act or statutes which are not inconsistent with the aicte act or its regulations.
the secretary technical education of the state of kerala was also a member of that committee.
the aicte 's approval dated 30 4 95 showed that the approval had been given by the state level com mittee of which they were obviously members.
cl s to declare technical institutions as fit to receive grants cl t to advice for declaring institutions to be deemed as universities cl u to set up a national board of accreditation.
in thirwnuruga kirupan and variyar thavathiru sundara swamigal medical education charitable trust v state of tamil nadu others1996 3 scc 15 1996 indlaw sc 858which was a case relating to medical education and which also related to the effect of a central law upon a law made by the state under entry 25 list iii it was held that the essentiality certificate can not be withheld by the state government on any policy consideration because the policy in the matter of establishment of a new medical college now vests with the central government alone.
under the impression that the state govt was to grant permission the appellant requested the state government by letter dated 24 6 1995 for permission to start the college.
for the purposes of performing its functions under the act the council may a undertake survey in various fields of technical education collect data on all related matters and make forecast of the needed growth and development in technical education b coordinate the development of technical education in the country at all levels c allocate and disburse out of the fund of the council such grants on such terms and conditions as it may think fit to i technical institutions and ii universities imparting technical education in coordination with the commission d promote innovations research and development in established and new technologies generation adoption and adaptation of new technologies to meet developmental requirements and for overall improve ment of educational processes e formulate schemes for promoting technical education for women handicapped and weaker sections of the society f promote an effective link between technical education system and other relevant systems including research and development organisations industry and the community g evolve suitable performance appraisal systems for technical institutions and universities imparting technical education incorpo rating norms and mechanisms for enforcing accountability h formulate schemes for the initial and in service training of teachers and identify institutions or centres and set up new centres for offering staff development programmes including continuing education of teachers i lay down norms and standards for courses curricula physical and instructional facilities staff pattern staff qualifications quality instructions assessment and examinations j fix norms and guidelines for charging tuition and other fees.
the learned single judge of the high court by his judgment dated 14 1 1997 allowed the writ petition quashed the above said order of the government dated 16 8 1996 and directed the mahatama gandhi university to consider the appellant 's application for permanent affiliation without reference to the above letter of the government and pass appropriate order within 8 weeks from the date of the receipt of a copy of the judgment.
they were preconstitutional or a post constitutional laws they would be repugnant to the aicte act passed by parliament under entry 66 of list.
it was held that the aicte act was referable to entry 66list.
the only requirement as per the statute 97 was for the university to obtain the views of the state government.
thus we hold in the present case that there was no statutory require ment for obtaining the approval of the state government and even if there was one it would have been repugnant to the aicte act.
before we refer to the abovesaid judgment it will be necessary to refer to certain provisions of the aicte act and the relevant regulations.
sub cl 5 of regulation 8 requires the regional office to arrange visits by an expert committee constituted by the council which is to forward its recommendations to the council.
it is therefore not under standable how the director had given a contrary opinion to the state government.
we may however add that if thereafter any fresh facts came to light after an approval was granted by the aicte or if the state felt that some conditions attached to the permission and required by the aicte to be complied with were not complied with then the state government could always write to the aicte to enable the latter to take appropriate action.
sub cl 2 with the courses or programmes and sub cl 3 deals with the power of admissions and sub cl 4 with tuition fees etc and sub cl 5 with the staff and sub cl 6 with the governing body of the private institutions and subcl 7 with other matters.
granting approval for starting new technical institution.
in case of difference of opinion as between the various consultees the aicte would have to go by the views of the central task force.
these are stated to be the reasons for the government 's rejection by letter dated 16 8 96.
as already stated in view of the judgment of this court in tamil nadu case it is obvious that there is no need to approach the state of kerala for its approval for starting the engineering colleges.
to that extent after the coming into force of the central act the provisions of the university act will be deemed to have become unenforceable.
the bureau rc shall invite comments recommendations on the applications referred to in sub regulation 3 from the follow ing namely.
learned additional solicitor general stated before us that there was no statute in the state of kerala corresponding to the tamil nadu act of 1976 nor any other law which specifically required the approval of the state government.
d no approved intake capacity of seats shall be increased or varied except with the approval of the council.
the so called policy of the state as mentioned in the counter affidavit filed in the high court was not a ground for refusing approval.
sri t l vishwanatha.
such repugnancy would have to be adjudged on the basis of the tests which are applied for adjudging repugnancy u art 254 of the constitution.
meanwhile the mahatama gandhi university by their letter dated 31 5 1995 forwarded to the government a list of colleges and courses for affiliation during the academic year 1995 96 the appellant 's college was shown as one of the colleges among the affiliated colleges for the said period.
the division bench however observed that the appellant was at liberty to make a fresh application to the government of kerala for according sanction for setting up the engineering college or to request the government to consider the earlier application for a future academic year.
admittedly the university 's inspection report was in favour of the appellant.
the said judgments were affirmed by this court.
it is against the abovesaid judgment of the division bench that this appeal has been preferred.
provided that the council may for reasons to be communicated to the applicant allow the approval with such restrictions or modifications as it may deem necessary.
the government was also directed to reconsider its decision.
in the above matter the state of tamil nadu granted permission on 17 4 84 to all private managements to start private engineering colleges without financial commitment to government but subject to conditions.
we find that the petitioner has already filed a writ petition in the delhi high court namely cwp no 952 of 1998 and the same is pending.
there was an inspection by a team of professors of the university and it recommended favourably when it stated that the facilities provided by the appellant would be sufficient for establish ing an engineering college.
s 11 of the act deals with inspection.
i the state government concerned ii the affiliating university state board of technical education iii bureaus mpcd iv bureau bos v bureau ra vi the regional office.
the all india council for technical education and the mahatma gandhi university have sought for the remarks of the state government.
in case affiliation is granted the fact shall be reported to the senate at its next meet ing.
u s 10 of the act it is stated that it is the duty of the council constituted under the act to take all steps as the said council might think fit for ensuring coordinated and integrated develop ment of technical education and maintenance of standards.
once that procedure laid down in the aicte act and regulations had been followed under regulation 84and the central task force had also given its favourable recommendations there was no scope for any further objection or approval by the state.
these were sufficient safeguards for ascertaining the views of the state governments and the universities.
there is no power vested in the state under any state law to grant approval and even if it was so vested it would have been void in view of tamil nadu case.
regulation 84 of aicte only required calling for the com ments recommendations of the state government and of the university.
the commission was to inspect the site verify the title deeds as regards the proprietary right of the management over the land and buildings if any offered building accommodation provided if any assets of the management constitution of the registered body and all other relevant matters sub cl 2 of cl 9 stated that the affiliation shall depend upon the fulfilment by the management of all the conditions for the satisfactory establishment and maintenance of the proposed institutional courses of studies and on the reports of inspection by the commission or commissions which the university may appoint for the purpose.
