appeals allowed.
if the accused was arrested at behror there is no reason why the memo of arrest should not have been prepared at village behror.
this piece of evidence was put to the accused during his statement under section 313 cr.
the forensic science laboratory confirmed presence of group b blood on the clothes of deceased.
human semen was detected on underwear.
conviction of the accused appellant under sections 302 and 3762f of indian penal code is set aside.
secondly harish chand sharma himself states that between 19 3 1991 and 25 3 1991 the ac cused was called several times at the police station and on 21 3 1991 itself he was called twice in a day.
thus none of the pieces of evidence relied on as incriminating by the trial court and the high court can be treated as incriminating pieces of circumstantial evidence against the accused.
according to report exbt.
false plea of alibi.
the two learned judges constituting the division bench differed in their opinion.
thereafter the wit nesses went to see movie in the cinema hall.
sc 765 1980 indlaw sc 47.
i last seen together on the point of last seen together there is solitary testimony of a child witness shalu pw7 aged about 4 years on 23 3 1992 the date of her examination in the court.
therein a charge under sections 376 and 302 ipc was sought to be substantiated on circumstanctial evidence.
v absconding of the accused was the accused absconding at all.
he is acquitted of the charges framed against him.
goma to whose shop the three girls had gone to buy balloon has not been examined.
presence of semen stain on underwear assuming that the underwear belonged to the accused though there is no evidence adduced in this regard is not by itself an incriminating piece of evidence connecting the accused with the crime in question.
on asking a few questions by way of preliminary examination the learned trial judge found that the witness could answer some of the questions.
abnormal conduct of accused kalu ram pw5 stated that two or three days after the date of dead body of s having been found.
in diameter on the appellant 's pant and of a dried stain of semen on his under pant were circumstances for too feeble to establish that the appellant raped or murdered the victim.
in dhananjoy chatterjee v state of west bengal 1994 2 scc 220 1994 indlaw sc 1743 wherein one of us dr a s anand j as his lordship then was spoke for the bench.
in the result the high court has declined the confirmation of death sentence but upheld the conviction on both the charges found proved and dismissed the appeal laying challenge to the conviction subject to modification in the sentence by substituting sentence of life imprisonment for death sentence under section 302 ipc.
no evidence is available to show as to what was the blood group of the accused and therefore the possibility of blood on the underwear being of the accused himself can not be and is not ruled out.
conclusion.
the plea taken should be capable of meaning that having regard to the time and place when and where he is alleged to have committed the offence he could not have been present.
the accused was arrested on 3 4 1991 on suspicion.
one of the circumstan tial evidence relied on was that a human blood stain of b group was found on the accused 's pant which blood group was also of the deceased.
he was further asked to name the witness in whose statement shalu 's reference was available but the investigation officer drew a blank and could not tell the name of the witness from whom any clue as to shalu was received by him.
slides of vaginal swab were prepared for cyto chemical analysis for blood and seminal stains.
he did not remember and was therefore not in a position to tell how many number of times the accused subhash was called for interrogation or making enquiries.
all injuries found on the person of the victim could be around 6 of 24 hours old prior to the time of post mortem examina tion.
the accused may or may not avail the opportunity for offering his explanation.
this court held as under in a case based on circumstantial evidence the circumstances from which the conclusion of guilt is to be drawn have not only to be fully established but also that all the circumstances so established should be of a conclusive nature and consistent only with the hypoth esis of the guilt of the accused.
there are clueless crimes committed.
in the present case the age of the accused was about 21 years at the time of the incident.
the prosecution case depends on circumstantial evidence.
thus how and in what manner the investigating officer came to learn about shalu pw7 so as to record her statement during investigation remains shrounded in mystery.
we have very carefully read the statement of this witness.
santosh pw9 did not support the version of kalu ram and was declared hostile.
the accused appears to have been engaged as a causal not regular gate keeper at hira moti a local talkies.
we are left with circumstance No 3 only i e recovery of underwear and baniyan stained with semen and human blood group b which alone in the fact and circumstances of the case discussed hereinabove can not form basis of conviction of the accused appellant for the offence charged.
there was no injury on his private parts or on any other part of body.
in the opinion of the other learned judge the prosecution evidence was sufficient to sustain the conviction as recorded by the trial court though the case was not one of those rarest of rare cases as would warrant death sentence being awarded to the appellant.
the proprietor of the cinema hall was examined to state that on 18th and 19th march the accused had taken leave from his job and during those days he was not present on duty.
in the later case it was also held that a false explanation or false plea taken by the accused can be used as an additional link in the chain of circumstantial evidence subject to satisfication of three essential conditions namely i various links in the chain of evidence led by the prosecution have been satisfactorily proved ii the said circumstance points to the guilt of the accused with reasonable definiteness and iii the circumstance is in proxim ity to the time and situation.
the accused appellant has filed this appeal by special leave.
although the dead body of the victim was found on the outskirts of the village however there is no material available on record to fix the place and the likely time at which rape was committed on s and then she was murdered.
it is this testimony which has been relied upon by the trial court as also by the high court as the evidence of last seen together.
p c and in reply he stated galat hai not correct.
the fact remains that the testimony of shalu pw 7 aged 4 years even if taken at its face value does not constitute such a circumstance as to draw an incriminating inference against the accused and connect him with the crime.
the purpose of asking questions during examination under section 313 cr.
and in confirmation of the information led the police to a dry well wherefrom an underwear and baniyan wrapped in a newspaper dated 18 3 1991 were recovered.
so far as the underwear is concerned the investigation suffers from another infirmity also.
he was a grown up male of 21 years and capable of performing sexual intercourse.
he shall be set at liberty forthwith if not required to be detained in connection with any other offence.
any person even if innocent and not connected in any way with a gruesome crime which had recently occurred and was talk of the town if called by police and interrogated as a suspect would be scared and be apprehensive of the likelihood of his being implicated in the crime.
there is no evidence adduced by the prosecution to hold that soon after the date of the offence the accused was found missing from his residence or the place of his employment and was not available though searched at the place or places where normally he ought to have been.
