the misc.
pratima mehta rs 115 crores even after deducting the amount set aside by itat.
in kedarnath jute mfg.
applications nos.
l s synthetics ltd 2004 indlaw sc 715 supra.
the properties of late harshad mehta and the appellants herein being notified persons stood attached in terms of the provisions of the act.
petition No 41 of 1999.
the parties shall file their respective documents within one week thereafter.
appeals allowed.
the priority however which is given under section 112a to such tax liability only covers such liability for the period 1 4 1991 to 6 6 1992.
the learned judge special court may therefore proceed to pass an appropriate order as regard confirmation of the sale of such properties.
lifting the corporate veil.
sale of commercial properties has never been seriously contested by the appellants.
allegedly therein it was shown that the individuals had received large loans advances credits from the harshad mehta group and there had been intermingling of the assets to the tune of crores of rupees.
the parties have also filed several charts before us showing individual assets and liabilities.
if the orders of assessment have been set aside the liabilities of the appellants have to be worked out on the basis of the new orders of assessment.
section 5 provides for establishment of the special court.
it is interesting to note that the properties belonging to the mother of harshad mehta has since been released from attachment.
in the context of section 112 therefore the taxes due refer to taxes as finally assessed.
it exceeds rs 35 crores vii.
a large number of commercial properties having already been sold and third party rights having been created this court should not interfere with the impugned judgment.
mehta 1998.
this court it is trite can take into consideration the subsequent events.
in fact one of the contentions raised on behalf of the appellants had been that if commercial properties are sold there would be no need to sale the residential properties.
admittedly the flats have been sold subject to the result of these appeals.
in view of the aforementioned pronouncement of law we are of the opinion that it is absolutely necessary to request the learned special court to consider the matter afresh.
the ratio of the said decision as regard applicability of the limitation act was further considered by a division bench of this court in fairgrowth investments ltd v custodian 2004 11 scc 472 2004 indlaw sc 868 wherein it was held that section 5 of the limitation act will have no application in relation to an application falling under sub s 2 of section 4 of the act stating it is enough for the purpose of this appeal to hold that section 292 of the limitation act 1963 does not apply to proceedings under section 42 of the special court trial of offences relating to transactions in securities act 1992.
in any event ordinarily a bona fide purchaser for value in an action sale is treated differently than a decree holder purchasing such properties.
whether the special court has the power to absolve a notified person from payment of penalty or interest for a period subsequent to the date of his notification section in the alternative is a notified person liable to payment of penalty or interest arising from his inability to pay taxes after his notification.
iiiwhether the tax liabilities could not have been held to be due as the order of assessments did not become final and binding.
in view of our foregoing discussions we are of the opinion that i the contention of the appellants that they being not involved in offences in transactions in securities could not have been proceeded in terms of the provisions of the act can not be accepted in view of the fact that they have been notified in terms thereof.
this court also in its order dated 5th may 2004 clarified that the interim order dated 30th january 2004 shall not be applicable as regard sale of commercial properties as even before this court the same had not been questioned.
save and except for sufficient or cogent reasons the learned judge shall not grant any adjournment to either of the parties.
the question as regard intermingling of accounts by the appellants herein with that of the harshad mehta group and or any other or further contentions raised by the parties hereto before us shall receive due consideration of the learned judge special court afresh in the light of the observations made hereinbefore.
raj u p govt.
mr ashok h desai learned senior counsel appearing on behalf of the custodian on the other hand would inter alia submit.
in these appeals we are not concerned with the said flat.
41 of 1999 4 of 2001 265 266 and 275 of 2003.
ii sub s.
the intention to attach property which did not belong to the notified person on the date of the notification but which he might acquire later would had it been there have been clearly expressed and sub s 3 would have stated that such property would stand attached the moment it was acquired by the notified person.
the learned judge special court shall allow the parties to make brief oral submissions with pointed reference to their written submissions.
let it be done within two weeks.
conclusion.
however out of the said 29 entitles only late harshad mehta and two of his younger brothers were cited as accused in various criminal cases filed against them.
v the assets and liabilities of each of the entities having been audited by the chartered accountants it is evident from the reports that in all cases liabilities exceed the assets.
the said irregularities and malpractices led to the diversion of funds from banks and financial institutions to the individual accounts of certain brokers.
it is no doubt true that the law of limitation bars a remedy but not a right.
hitesh mehta and dr pratima mehta who are medical practitioners by profession having affirmed affidavits admitting that the share broking and investment businesses which were part of family businesses were undertaken and conducted by late harshad mehta and they had no knowledge thereabout nor were they involved therewith.
the special court may in these cases scale down the tax liability to be paid out of the funds in the hands of the custodian.
it does not appear that claims inter se between the entities within the so called group had ever been taken into consideration.
see zain ul abdin khan v muhammad asghar ali khan 15 ia 12 1887 indlaw pc 13.
background facts.
it is furthermore not in dispute that in a large number of cases the appellate authorities have set aside best judgment assessments.
thus the total value of the assets as per the affidavit filed on behalf of the custodian of harshad mehta group is rs 9727332166 94.
we therefore have not been given a clear picture as to the correctness or otherwise of the affidavit filed by the custodian vis a vis the books of accounts which have been maintained by the appellants themselves as well as the auditor 's report.
a sur rejoinder thereto was filed on 15 october 2003 and in paragraphs 1 to 6 thereof the said statements were denied and disputed.
the words on and from the date of notification indicate the point of time at which the attachment takes effect this is reiterated by the words shall stand attached simultaneously with the issue of the notification.
the fact however remains that the copies of the documents books of accounts and other records on the basis whereof the auditors appointed by the court filed their reports had not been shown to the appellants herein on the premise that they were in know of the things.
therefore all the properties belonging to them stand attached.
these appeals are directed against a judgment and order dated 17 october 2003 passed by the special court constituted under the special courts trial of offences relating to transactions in securities.
the act.
it was directed in case all adult members of the family of late shri harshad metha who are presently occupying the abovereferred flats file an undertaking in this court within a period of four weeks from today undertaking to vacate the flat occupied by them and hand over peaceful possession thereof to the custodian within a period of four weeks from the date on which the custodian sends them communication asking them to vacate the flats on sale of the flats being sanctioned by the court.
3 of section 3 should be literally construed and so construed all properties belonging to the notified person shall be subject to attachment which may consequently be applied for discharge of his liabilities in terms of section 11 of the said act.
a copy of the auditor 's report having only been supplied during pendency of these appeals the learned special judge committed a serious error in passing the impugned judgment relying on or on the basis thereof.
while a purposive interpretation is permissible where two interpretations are possible the purposive interpretation must be such as preserves the constitutionality of the provision.
in respect of the question No 3 it was opined that the date of distribution arrives when the special court completes the examination of claims under section 9 a and if on that date any tax liability for the statutory period is legally assessed and the assessment is final and binding on a notified person that liability would be considered for payment section 111a.
iiwhether individual liabilities of the appellants ought to have been separately considered by the special court as not a part of harshad mehta group.
such tax liability may be discharged either under the directions of the special court under section 112c or the taxing authority may recover the same from any subsequently acquired property of a notified person vide tejkumar balakrishna ruia v a k menon 1996 indlaw sc 2403 or in any other manner from the notified person in accordance with law.
8 and exh.
iin view of the decision of this court in l s synthetics ltd v fairgrowth financial services ltd and another 2004 11 scc 456 2004 indlaw sc 715 all properties belonging to the notified persons being subject to automatic attachment could be applied for discharge of the joint liabilities of the harshad mehta group in terms of section 11 of the act.
we must however notice that reliance was sought to be placed on the said judgment wherein reference was made to a bombay high court judgment in hitesh shantilal mehta v union of india.
although a remedy is barred a defence can be raised.
indlaw sc 732 v custodian and others 1998 5 scc 1 wherein the following questions were framed what is meant by revenues taxes cesses and rates due.
it is not in dispute that the said applications are pending for consideration before the special court.
the appellants herein who are related to one harshad section mehta since deceased purchased nine residential flats in a building called madhuli apartments in worli area of mumbai.
see bombay dyeing manufacturing co ltd v the state of bombay and others air 1958 sc 338 savitra khandu beradi v nagar agricultural sale and purchase co operative society ltd ahmednagar and others.
late harshad mehta rs 11829 crores.
the question however before us is as to whether any contention which may not have a direct bearing with the question as to whether the special court could entertain their applications for de notifications could be raised by way of defence.
but at the stage when liabilities are required to be discharged the notified person may inter alia raise a contention inter alia for the purpose of establishing that the properties held and possessed by them are sufficient to meet their liabilities.
x we would however request the learned special judge special court to complete the hearings of the matter keeping in view of the fact that auction sale in respect of the residential premises is being consideration as expeditiously as possible and not later than twelve weeks from the date of the receipt of the copy of this order.
as the said question has not been gone into by the learned judge special court it is necessary that the same be considered and appropriately dealt with.
the learned judge proceeded on the basis that the assets and liabilities joint and collective of all those who are related with harshad mehta as also the corporate entities in which he was a director or had some other interest must be considered as a group.
it has as noticed hereinbefore further been contended that various best judgment assessment passed by the assessing authority against some of the appellants have been set aside in appeal and the matters are pending reassessment before the assessing authority.
the said chart however shows that at least mrs deepika mehta held assets more than her liabilities.
the custodian in terms of the directions issued by the learned special court had affirmed an affidavit putting on record the assets and liabilities of each of the members of the so called harshad mehta group on an individual basis.
smt and another 1994 2 scc 368 1994 indlaw sc 1613.
such claims may also be preferred.
we therefore as at present advised refrain ourselves from adverting to the said question.
provided that no contract or agreement shall be cancelled except after giving to the parties to the contract or agreement a reasonable opportunity of being heard.
tax liability.
sub s 2 of section 3 postulates that the custodian may on being satisfied on information received that any person has been involved in any offence relating to transactions in securities after the 1st day of april 1991 and on and before 6th june 1992 the statutory period notify the name of such person in the official gazette.
a notified party has the requisite locus to bring the fact to the notice of the special court that certain sum is owing and due to him from a third party whereupon a proceeding can be initiated for recovery thereof by the custodian and consequent application thereof in discharge of the liability of the notified person.
does the word due refer merely to the liability to pay such taxes etc or does it refer to a liability which has crystallised into a legally ascertained sum immediately payable.
the custodian may also take assistance and or further assistance from a chartered accountant of his choice.
although we do not intend to enter into the correctness or otherwise of the said contention of the appellants at this stage however there can not be any doubt whatsoever that they being notified persons all their properties would be deemed to be automatically attached as a consequent thereto.
in construing a special statute providing for limitation consideration of plea of hardship is irrelevant.
provisions.
the same consideration does not apply when the decree holder is himself the purchaser and the decree in his favour is set aside.
the said letter was replied by the custodian by his letter dated 10 october 2003 wherein none of the queries contained in paragraphs 3 to 8 of the said letter was even attempted to be answered.
the special court can for this purpose examine whether there is any fraud collusion or miscarriage of justice in assessment proceedings.
the amount of priority demand of income tax liabilities comes to rs 18297576248.
the appeal is accordingly dismissed but without any order as to costs.
the courts must interpret the law as it reads.
residential property.
the appellants however raised the following contentions i that the statement prepared by the custodian and exhibited as c to his affidavit in rejoinder dated 1 october 2003 was based on material at least all of which were not connected to the appellants as were pointed out before the court.
the provision contained in the act being stringent in nature the purport and intent thereof must be ascertained having regard to the purpose and object it seeks to achieve.
vithe decretal amount against the harshad mehta group also would exceed rs 4339 crores and thus the assets held by the appellants are wholly insufficient to meet the liabilities.
it also provides for appointment of one or more custodians for attaching the property of the offenders with a view to prevent diversion of such properties by the offenders.
application being 4 of 2001 was filed by the custodian praying for the sale of commercial premises.
the learned judge special court while hearing the matter in terms of this order shall also consider as to whether the auction sale should be confirmed or not.
we however have not heard the purchasers as the question as to whether the auction sale of the said flats will be confirmed or not will depend upon the ultimate finding of the learned judge special court upon consideration of the matter afresh in the light of the observations made hereinbefore.
but if the assessment is a best judgment assessment the special court may examine whether for example the income which is so assessed to tax bears comparison to the amounts attached by the custodian or whether the taxes so assessed are grossly disproportionate to the properties of the assessee in the hands of the custodian applying the wednesbury principle of proportionality.
does the special court have any discretion relating to the extent of payments to be made under section 112a from out of the attached funds property.
reliance in this behalf has been placed on b c dalal 2005 indlaw sc 1826 v custodian.
