p c which was recorded on the very next day of the death of bhimabai this witness did not state that the cause for ill treatment was a demand for money and a consequent beating.
he has deposed that in the marriage he had given rs 20000 as dowry.
when confronted with her aforesaid statement under section 161 cr.
the appeal preferred by the appellants was dismissed by the high court by the judgment and order dated 23 february 2005.
pw 1 then immediately went to the house of the accused along with some of his relatives.
in view of the aforesaid definition of the word dowry any property or valuable security should be given or agreed to be given either directly or indirectly at or before or any time after the marriage and in connection with the marriage of the said parties.
there he saw that bhimabai was lying dead and froth was coming out of her mouth which indicated that she had consumed some poisonous substance.
the learned sessions judge after consideration of the material on record acquitted the appellants of the charges under sections 498 a and 306 read with section 34 ipc but convicted them under section 304 b ipc and imposed a sentence of 7 years ri thereunder.
the last time she visited her parental home was during the festival of nag panchami and at that time she looked depressed.
she also told her parents that her husband had asked her to bring an amount of rs 1000 1200 for the purpose of household expenses and manure.
the appellant no 1 is in custody.
sc 558 1991 indlaw sc 861.
appeal allowed.
see union of india v garware nylons ltd air 1996.
initially bhimabai was treated well for about six months but thereafter the appellants started ill treating her.
whenever bhimabai came to her parental home she used to complain that for some domestic reasons she was being harassed.
what i meant was that there was demand for money for defraying expenses of manure etc.
section 2 of dowry prohibition act reads as under 2.
the police patil of the village pw 3 sandu mohanrao patil lodged an accidental death report at 9 00 p m on 15 september 1991 at the police station.
we do not consider it necessary to examine this question.
it is important to note that in her statement under section 161 cr.
she further stated that it will be correct to say that her daughter was receiving ill treatment as a result of domestic cause.
pw 5 sumanbai is the mother of the deceased bhimabai.
he has deposed that on an earlier occasion he had gone along with pw 1 and some others to the house of appellant no 1 to persuade him not to harass bhimabai and to treat her well.
the witness has further deposed that on the date of incident a man came from village palshi on motorcycle and informed that he should immediately go there as bhimabai was not well.
the appeal before the high court and also in this court has been preferred by the appellants challenging their conviction under section 304 b read with section 34 ipc.
bhimabai had complained to him that she was not being given proper food clothings and even footwear and occasionally the appellant No 1 used to beat her.
the report of the post mortem examination was admitted by the defence.
a demand for money on account of some financial stringency or for meeting some urgent domestic expenses of for purchasing manure can not be termed as a demand for dowry as the said word is normally understood.
she has stated in her examination in chief that bhimabai was being ill treated by the appellants and the reason for ill treatment was that they were demanding money to be brought from her parental home.
the sureties and bail bonds furnished by her are discharged.
the appellants pleaded not guilty and claimed to be tried.
he has also deposed that it was after about 1 12 years of marriage that bhimabai first complained to him about the harassment being caused to her.
according to the case of prosecution a sum of rs 5000 and some gold ornaments had been given at the time of marriage of bhimabai.
what do you mean by domestic cause.
learned counsel for the appellants has also submitted that there is absolutely no evidence either direct or circumstantial to show that bhimabai committed suicide.
appasaheb son of sheshrao palaskar about two and half years prior to the date of incident which took place on 15 september 1991.
there used to be some bickering in the marital life of bhimabai and her husband on trifling matters.
he has admitted that it was appellant No 1 who had sent a person on motorcycle who had given information regarding bhimabai being unwell and that both the appellants were present at the time of her funeral.
i can not assign any reason why police did not write about it in my statement.
he has submitted that the insecticide thimet is extensively used by the farmers for preservation of crop and is kept stored in their houses and it could be a case where thimet accidentally got mixed with some food item and was consumed by bhaimabai.
the specific case of the prosecution is that bhimabai ended her life by consuming poison because of harassment caused to her by the appellants for or in connection with demand of dowry.
in his cross examination he admitted that he did not make detailed enquiries as to what was the cause of death and where the incident had taken place.
when she had visited her parental home on the last occasion she had said that her husband appasaheb had asked her to bring rs 1000 1200 for domestic expenses and for purchasing manure as he had no sufficient money.
the evidence on record does not indicate that the police had any reason to favour the accused and deliberately omitted to mention about the alleged demand of money while recording the statement of pw 5 sumanbai under section 161 cr.
after completion of investigation charge sheet was submitted against the appellants and in due course the case was committed to the court of sessions.
he then went to the house of the appellant and saw bhimabai lying with froth coming out of her mouth.
sc 240 1961 indlaw sc 171 that section 4231bi of code of criminal procedure 1898 which corresponds to section 386bi of code of criminal procedure 1973 is clearly confined to cases of appeals preferred against orders of conviction and sentence the powers conferred by this clause can not be exercised for the purpose of reversing an order of acquittal passed in favour of a party in respect of an offence charged in dealing with an appeal preferred by him against the order of conviction in respect of another offence charged and found proved.
