he was merely put a chairman of the dpc for non ministerial post of the revenue department.
i submit that these appointment orders annexures a1 and a2 bear my signature initial and appear to have been issued under my signature.
cl 2 protects government servants against being dismissed or removed or reduced in rank without being given a reasonable opportunity of showing cause against the action proposed to be taken in regard to them.
in civil appeal arising out of slp c no 19375 19376 of 2005the respondents were appointed on ad hoc basis for a period of six months.
com rev dated 11 9 97 annexure a1 to the writ petition appointing 3 persons to the post of mandol and no 11497 com rev.
mr jaideep gupta learned senior counsel appearing on behalf of the appellants would submit that the high court went wrong in passing the impugned judgment insofar as it failed to take into consideration that in a case of this nature it was not necessary to comply with the principles of natural justice.
the appeals are allowed.
in parshotam lal dhingra 1957 indlaw sc 103.
moreover it was for the respondents who had filed the writ petitions to prove existence of legal right in their favour.
they were not issued by any authority competent therefor.
1991 pl64.
the renewal of their further term again depends upon the quality of work and conduct capacity as a lawyer professional conduct public reputation in general and character and integrity as certified by the district magistrate and the district judge.
in kumari shrilekha vidyarthi 1990 indlaw sc 463 suprathis court was dealing with a question in regard to continuance of the law officers.
the state proceeded on the said basis.
commissioner revenue.
this distinction between the state and a private individual in the field of contract has to be borne in the mind.
it will be noted that in cl 1 the words dismissed and removed have been used while in cl 2.
the term dpc would ordinarily mean the departmental promotion committee.
strong reliance in this behalf has been placed on kendriya vidyalaya sangathan and others v ajay kumar das and others 2002 4 scc 503 2002 indlaw sc 287.
he was only a cadre controlling authority.
the offers of appointment were cancelled not on the ground that some irregularities had been committed in the process of recruitment but on the ground that they had been non est in the eye of law.
it was held 34 in our opinion the wide sweep of art 14 undoubtedly takes within its fold the impugned circular issued by the state of u p in exercise of its executive power irrespective of the precise nature of appointment of the government counsel in the districts and the other rights contractual or statutory which the appointees may have.
temp i dated 17 2 1998.
for the reasons aforementioned the impugned judgments can not be sustained.
the state while offering appointments having regard to the constitutional scheme adumbrated in arts 14 and 16 of the constitution of india must comply with its constitutional duty subject to just and proper exceptions to give an opportunity of being considered for appointment to all persons eligible there for.
the said decision is not an authority for the proposition that the principles of natural justice are required to be complied with in all situations.
if the offers of appointments issued in favour of the respondents herein were forged documents the state could not have been compelled to pay salaries to them from the state exchequer.
what then is the meaning of those expressions dismissed removed or reduced in rank.
it was argued that the question as to whether appointments were made without the knowledge of the department or for that matter whether any record was available there for was of not much significance as in effect and substance they lead to the same inference and in that view of the matter the decision of this court in mohinder singh gill 1977 indlaw sc 53 supra was not attracted.
the said shri tayeng retired on 28 02 1998 despite the fact that he in his uo note dated 12 02 1998 addressed to the minister of revenue denied to have made any appointment when approached by the writ petitioners respondents he affirmed in their support an affidavit in the high court stating 3 that while i was functioning as revenue commissioner manipur matters relating to appointment on the recommendation of the d p c transfer etc were put up to me in files and i used to pass order on the basis of facts presented to me in file.
the state of manipur had not framed any recruitment rules for appointment inter alia in the revenue department and in particular the field staff thereof.
with reference to the u o letter no 21593 comr pt.
i therefore deny making of such appointments.
arbitrariness is the very negation of the rule of law.
the purported appointment letters were fake ones.
after my retirement from service i have no access to such files.
submitted for information and consideration.
chief election commissioner delhi and ors air 1978 sc 851 1977 indlaw sc 53.
the latter are not appointed as a part of the spoils system.
we as noticed hereinbefore do not know as to under what circumstances the orders of appointments were issued.
it is only after their satisfactory performance during that period that a deed of engagement is given to them and even then the engagement is to be for a term not exceeding three years.
on the other hand md.
the government counsel in the high court with whom we are concerned and the district government counsel with whom the said decision was concerned are made by dissimilar procedures.
suprathis court held that whoever holds civil posts would be entitled to protection of their services in terms of cl 2 of art 309 of the constitution of india in the event any disciplinary action is taken against them stating the underlying idea obviously is that a provision like this will ensure to them a certain amount of security of tenure.
in m c mehta v union of india and others 1999 6 scc 237 1999 indlaw sc 1396this court developed the useless formality theory stating more recently lord bingham has deprecated the useless formality theory in r v.
an inquiry was therefore made to find out the authority which had issued the said offers of appointments.
sd 12198 annayok j tayeng.
the action of the state did not thus lack bonafide.
no records there for were available with the state.
the appointing authority in absence of any delegation of power having been made in that behalf was the state government.
the xerox copy of the cyclostyled appointment order bearing no 11497.
their appointments were also cancelled on similar grounds.
their appointment is in the first instance for one year.
govt of manipur minister revenue.
thus in relation to cases other than those relating to admitted or indisputable facts there is a considerable divergence of opinion whether the applicant can be compelled to prove that the outcome will be in his favour or he has to prove a case of substance or if he can prove a real likelihood of success or if he is entitled to relief even if there is some remote chance of success.
the question which arose herein was not raised.
the shortcomings in the work are required to be brought to the notice of the legal remembrancer.
i still deny that i have made any appointment of field staffs of revenue department during the recent months.
