it was noted as follows.
in our opinion where the facts justify a party in filing an application either u art 226 or 227 of the constitution and the party chooses to file his application under both these articles in fairness and justice to such party and in order not to deprive him of the valuable right of appeal the court ought to treat the application as being made under article 226and if in deciding the matter in the final order the court gives ancillary directions which may pertain to article 227this ought not to be held to deprive a party of the right of appeal under cl 15 of the letters patent where the substantial part of the order sought to 296be appealed against is u art 226 such was the view taken by the allahabad high court in aidal singh v karan singh air 1957 all 414 1956 indlaw all 107 and by the punjab high court in raj kishan jain v tulsi dass air 1959 punj 291 1958 indlaw pnh 109 and barham dutt v peoples coop.
the case of hari vishnu kamath v syed ahmad ishaque air 1955 sc 233 1954 indlaw sc 212 before this court was of such a type.
the findings of the rent controller and resident deputy collector were set aside on the question of habitual defaulter as well as on the ground of bona fide need.
u art 226 an order direction or writ is to issue to a person authority or the state.
additionally it is submitted that the prayer in the writ petition was to quash the order passed by the assistant commissioner commercial tax.
scc 401 1986 indlaw sc 651 in.
co ltd v.
the high court was therefore not justified in holding that this court 's earlier order only waived the limitation for filing a letters patent appeal.
the non obstante clause in rule 18namelynotwithstanding anything contained in rules 14 and 17 of this chaptermakes it abundantly clear why that rule uses the words finally disposed of.
leave granted.
in this connection it is profitable to have a look at the decision of this court in the case of umaji keshao meshram v radhikabai 1986 supp.
prior to the commencement of the constitution the chartered high courts as also the judicial committee had held that the power to issue prerogative writs possessed by the chartered high courts was an exercise of original jurisdiction see mahomedalli allabux v ismailji abdulali air 1926.
but the said observation of the learned single judge did not necessarily mean that the learned judge was not inclined to interfere u art 227 of the constitution of india only.
even when the learned single judge 's order has been passed under both the articles for deciding the maintainability against such an order what would be relevant is the principal or main relief granted by the judgment passed by learned single judge and not the ancillary directions given by him.
the high court was directed to dispose of the lpa on merits if it was otherwise free from defect.
it was observed as follows it is therefore obvious that the writ petition invoking jurisdiction of the high court both u arts 226 and 227 of the constitution had tried to make out a case for the high court 's interference seeking issuance of an appropriate writ of certiorari u art 226 of the constitution of india.
in the event in passing his judgment on an application which had mentioned in its cause title both arts 226 and 227the single judge has in fact invoked only his supervisory powers under article 227the appeal under cl 15 would not lie.
it is the nature of the relief sought for and the controversy involved which determines the article which is applicable.
the writ appeal shall be heard by the division bench on merits.
thus in each case the division bench may consider the substance of the judgment under appeal to ascertain whether the single judge has mainly or principally exercised in the matter his jurisdiction.
provided that no such appeal shall lie against an interlocutory order or against an order passed in exercise of supervisory jurisdiction u art 227 of the constitution of india.
the word finally used in rule 18 of chapter xvii of the appellate side rules does not and can not possibly have the effect of barring a right of appeal conferred by the letters patent.
secondly in a writ of certiorari the record of the proceedings having been certified and sent up by the inferior court or tribunal to the high court the high court if inclined to exercise its jurisdiction may simply annul or quash the proceedings and then do no more.
it is equally true that the learned single judge dismissed the writ petition by observing that the courts below had appreciated the contentions and rejected the complaint.
as has been held in the case of surya devi rai supra a writ of certiorari can be issued u art 226 of the constitution against an order of a tribunal or an order passed by the sub ordinate court.
the impugned order is set aside.
