the term waiver has been described in the following words waiver is the abandonment of a right in such a way that the other party is entitled to plead the abandonment by way of confession and avoidance if the right is thereafter asserted and is either express or implied from conduct.
amended rules are in pari materia with rule 26 of the rules.
it is not in dispute that a appellant although filed an objection with regard to the draft scheme did not choose to pursue it.
appeal dismissed.
such notice shall be published in the official gazette and in one or more gujarati newspapers circulated within the area of the appropriate authority and shall be pasted in prominent places at or near the areas comprised in the scheme and at the office of the town planning officer.
sub rule 3 of rule 21 of the bombay rules provides for issuance of a special notice upon the person interested in any plot or in any particular plot comprised in the scheme.
on the day on which the preliminary scheme comes into force.
even if he had a claim he would be deemed to have waived the same for the reasons stated hereinafter.
a all lands required by the appropriate authority.
emphasis supplied.
prashant g desai learned counsel appearing on behalf of the respondent no 1on the other hand would submit.
see also bhikhubhai vithlabhai patel ors v.
plot nos 177 and 178 were owned by respondent no 4 herein.
in jaswantsingh mathurasingh1991 indlaw sc 972 suprait was reiterated that a tenant or a sub tenant is a person interested and is entitled to notice.
further it appears that if the interest of the landlord and of the tenant is common and in absence of any inter se dispute between the landlord and tenant even if any portion of the land which is in possession of the tenant is included in the scheme the proper remedy for the tenant would be to claim for compensation to that extent and if such compensation is not received by him he may resort to proper remedy available for recovery of the compensation to the extent of the area in his occupation.
the action as per the s 188 of the indian penal code will be initiated against you before the criminal court pleased take note of the same.
for the purpose of preparing the preliminary scheme and final scheme the town planning officer shall give notice in form h of the date on which he will commence his duties and shall state the time as provided in rule 37 within which the owner of any property or right which is injuriously affected by the making of a town planning scheme shall be entitled u s 82 to make a claim before him.
33 procedure for eviction u s 68 1.
lalit submits that his client is ready and willing to pay some reasonable amount to the respondent no 3 in whose favour plot no 165 has been finally allotted.
shall unless it is otherwise determined in such scheme vest absolutely in the appropriate authority free from all encumbrances b all rights in the original plots which have been re constituted into final plots shall determine and the final plots shall become subject to the rights settled by the town planning officer.
interpretation and or application of the provisions of the gujarat town planning and urban development act1976 for short the act and the rules framed thereunder known as the gujarat town planning and urban development rules1979.
thereafter the notice below s 67 for the change in occupation was issued on 15 1 2000 to you.
b he did not file objections for re allotment and did not participate in the proceedings following acquisition instituted by the authorities under the act.
the validity and or legality of the said notice was questioned by the appellant by filing a writ petition in the high court of gujarat inter alia contending that the purported final allotment of plot no 165 in favour of the respondent no 3 and allotment of final plot no 157 in favour of the respondent no 4 were made without issuing any notice as envisaged u ss 52 and 53 of the act.
s 81 of the act enables the state to transfer of right from original to final plot or extinction of such right.
appellant was a tenant under the said respondent in respect of plot no 178 admeasuring 1067 sq m.
statutory right however may also be waived by his conduct.
but he must be in possession of the property on the crucial date i e when.
a road widening project was proposed in terms of the said scheme.
before embarking upon the rival contentions we may also notice that the provisions of the bombay town planning rules1955.
c if the person to be evicted resists or obstructs the officer or servant deputed u cl b or.
it is true that waiver can not always and in every case be inferred merely from the failure of the party to take the objection.
rules 261263 and 33 of the rules read as under 26 procedure to be followed by town planning officer u s 51 and under sub s 1 of s 52 1.
s 52 contemplates issuance of a notice in a prescribed manner and in the prescribed form.
it was stated we may in this connection refer to the decision in wilson v mcintosh.
for the said public purpose viz.
the said final plot original plot is allotted in lieu of your no 177178 paiki land.
m g makwana ors 1967 3 scr 65 1967 indlaw sc 138.
we are however not unmindful of the fact that a statute of town planning ex facie is not a statute for acquisition of a property.
respondent no 4 was owner of both plot.
the draft scheme was approved 867 sq m of land had been acquired for public purpose out of the said plot no 178 while the proceedings relating to allotment of final plot were in progress he even did not file any objection thereto.
applying the above principles to the present case it must be held that the benefit of notice provided under the act and rules being for the benefit of the appellant in which no public interests are involved he has waived the same.
there exists a distinction in the action of the planning authority as regards vesting of a property in it and one so as to enable it to create a third party interest vis  vis for the purpose of re allotment thereof.
in that case an applicant to bring lands under the real property act filed his case in court under section 21more than three months after a caveat had been lodged and thereafter obtained an order that the caveator should file her case which she accordingly did.
i think he is altogether too late.
he has no enforceable claim against the state at this juncture.
chapter v of the act provides for town planning schemes.
in west bengal housing board etc v.
67 effect of preliminary scheme.
i public notices having been issued in terms of the rule 26 of the rules an objection which would nullify the scheme can not be entertained at this stage.
assuming however that it was obligatory for the state to issue notice to the appellant the question is whether the principle of waiver precludes him from claiming equitable relief in this case due to his earlier conduct which allowed the entire process of acquisition and allotment to become final.
lalit in support of his contention strongly relied upon a decision of this court in mansukhlal jadavji darji and others v ahmedabad municipal corporation and others 1992 1 scc 384 1991 indlaw sc 975 and jaswantsingh mathurasingh and another v ahmedabad municipal corporation and others 1992 supp 1 scc 5 1991 indlaw sc 972.
widening of the road867 sq m of land was taken over leaving only 200 sq m of land.
no costs.
in maneklal chhotalal1967.
it may arise from a party making an election for example whether or not to exercise a contractual right.
the legal principle emerging from these decisions is also stated in craies on statute law 6th edn at page 369 as follows as a general rule the conditions imposed by statutes which authorise legal proceedings are treated as being indispensable to giving the court jurisdiction.
it is in the aforementioned situation a claim is to be made before the authority whenever a notice in form h is published.
a tenant having regard to the provisions of the transfer of property act or otherwise having an interest in the property can not be deprived therefrom without following the procedure established by law and without initiation of any proceedings for acquisition of land.
validity of rule 26 of the rules had never been questioned.
they referred with approval to the decision in phillips v martin where the chief justice said here there is abundant evidence of waiver and it is quite clear that a man may by his conduct waive a provision of an act of parliament intended for his benefit.
but we intend to emphasise that he has lost his right to enforce the same in a public law forum.
it has been noticed by us hereinbefore that under rule 26 of the rules applicable in the instant case as distinguished from the bombay rules wherein special notice is requiredno special notice is mandatorily required to be served.
and its pole demarcations were done by the town planning officer at site.
in spite of this you have not handed over the possession.
therefore a tenant or a sub tenant in possession of a tenement in the town planning scheme is a person interested within the meaning of rules 213 and 4 of the rules.
in halsbury 's laws of england volume 1624th edition para 907it is stated the expression waiver may in law bear different meanings.
the government of gujarat in exercise of its power conferred upon it u s 65 of the act made a scheme in respect of the town of umra surat on 1 06 1999.
if the first respondent has expressly waived his right on the trade mark registered in the name of the appellant company could he claim the said right indirectly.
such notice shall specify the matters which are proposed to be decided by the town planning officer and state that all persons who are interested in the plots or are affected by any of the matters specified in the notice shall communicate in writing their objections to the town planning officer within a period of twenty days from the publication of notice in the official gazette.
we would consider the effect of sub s 3 of s 65 of the act a little later but we may at this juncture notice that the respondent no 3 in whose favour plot no 165 has been allotted which includes 200 sq m of land purported to be in possession of the appellant had nothing to do with the dispute between the appellant and his landlord the respondent no 4 respondent no 4 was in possession of a contiguous plot.
state of gujarat anr 2008 4 scale 278 2008 indlaw sc 527.
he used to run a business of marble and stone therein.
waiver of this kind depends upon consent and the fact that the other party has acted upon it is sufficient consideration it seems that in general where one party has by his words or conduct made to the other a promise or assurance which was intended to affect the legal relations between them and to be acted on accordingly then once the other party has taken him at his word and acted on it so as to alter his position the party who gave the promise or assurance can not afterwards be allowed to revert to the previous legal relationship as if no such promise or assurance had been made by him but he must accept their legal relations subject to the qualification which he has himself so introduced even though it is not supported in point of law by any consideration see 16 halsbury 's laws 4th edn para 1471.
