c of section 299 and cl.
thirdly it must be proved that there was an intention to inflict that particular bodily injury that is to say that it was not accidental or unintentional or that some other kind of injury was intended.
once these three elements are proved to be present the enquiry proceeds further and fourthly it must be proved that the injury of the type just described made up of the three elements set out above is sufficient to cause death in the ordinary course of nature.
in his cross examination has categorically stated that death due to stab injury was in consequence of injury No 1 and all other injuries were superficial in nature.
302 ipc.
culpable homicide of this degree is punishable under the second part of section 304.
however pw 1 again intervened and removed the said stone from the hand of accused no 3.
appeal disposed of.
p s joaquim dias pw 21 who was attached to the ponda police station as p s i received a phone call at about 10 45 p m from p s i k k desai of the panaji police station that a person named rauji dulba sawant had been brought in police jeep by police constable jaisingrao rane and that while he was being taken to the goa medical college he expired.
reference in this regard may be made to the decision of this court in ruli ram v state of haryana 2002 7 scc 691 2002 indlaw sc 1927 augustine saldanha v state of karnataka 2003 10 scc 472 2003 indlaw sc 674 state of u p v virendra prasad 2004 9 scc 37 2004 indlaw sc 60 chacko v state of kerala 2004 12 scc 269 2004 indlaw sc 20 section n bhadolkar v state of maharasthra 2005 9 scc 71 2004 indlaw sc 268 and jagriti devi v state of h p jt 2009 8 sc 648.
the accused then started assaulting her and pw 8 with slaps.
there was a heated exchange of words between rauji and the appellant switched on the light which was again switched off by rauji the deceased.
illustration c appended to section 300 clearly brings out this point.
all murder is culpable homicide but not vice versa.
section 299 defines culpable homicide as the act of causing death i with the intention of causing death or ii with the intention of causing such bodily injury as is likely to cause death or iii with the knowledge that such act is likely to cause death.
to put it shortly the prosecution must prove the following facts before it can bring a case under section 300 thirdly first it must establish quite objectively that a bodily injury is present secondly the nature of the injury must be proved these are purely objective investigations.
therefore he brought them along with the residents of the house who were found to be there namely accused No 3 and the two juvenile offenders namely sarita and sharmila who were all ladies.
a report to that effect might have been noted in the general diary but the same could not have been treated to be an fir.
section 300 ipc however deals with murder although there is no clear definition of murder provided in section 300 ipc.
the trial court passed an order on 04 08 1998 acquitting all the accused persons from the offences under sections 302 323 143 147 and 149 of ipc.
in order to verify the information received pw 21 went to the place of occurrence and found the entire house in total darkness.
initially the accused appellant also did not have any weapon with him but during the course of the incident he went inside and got a knife with the help of which he stabbed the deceased.
he submitted that since the investigation in the instant case was started by the police without recording an fir such an fir is necessarily hit by the provisions of section 162 of the cr.
his bail bonds shall stand cancelled and the appellant shall surrender immediately to serve out the remaining period of sentence.
it is also clear and established that thereafter a lamp was brought by accused No 3 to the room besides another lamp which was already burning in the said room itself.
all the contentions raised by learned counsel appearing for the appellant were considered by us in the light of evidence on record.
there was indeed some scuffle between the parties during the course of which accused No 1 received simple injuries and the deceased died of the two stab injuries inflicted by the present appellant.
religious ceremony was performed by installing the statue of lord ganesh in the house and.
the words bodily injury sufficient in the ordinary course of nature to cause death mean that death will be the most probable result of the injury having regard to the ordinary course of nature.
both the expression intent and knowledge postulate the existence of a positive mental attitude which is of different degrees.
they came back after a short while hearing the cries of pw 1.
the ratio of the aforesaid decision is squarely applicable to the facts of the present case.
the conductor of the bus sent an information to the depot manager of the state road transport corporation at tuni.
in animireddy venkata ramana and others v public prosecutor high court of andhra pradesh 2008 5 scc 368 2008 indlaw sc 354 this court while considering a similar case observed as follows 10.
but in any case there was an electricity light post in the front of the house which was giving enough light to the house.
pw 8 pw 18 and pw 1 then lifted rauji and brought him in the courtyard.
he also submitted that the high court has not given any reason for setting aside the appeal against acquittal which was passed after appreciating the entire evidence on record.
when he reached at the place of occurrence even the complainant party was not available there.
the learned judge explained the third ingredient in the following words the question is not whether the prisoner intended to inflict a serious injury or a trivial one but whether he intended to inflict the injury that is proved to be present.
the test laid down by virsa singh case4 for the applicability of clause thirdly is now ingrained in our legal system and has become part of the rule of law.
the aforesaid eye witnesses although are related witnesses were natural witnesses for they were the inmates of the house where the incident had taken place.
he went around the house and saw blood marks on the walls of the verandah and also in the courtyard and came to learn about the incident by using torch light.
conviction can be made on the basis of such evidence.
i and if it is only a case of knowledge and not the intention to cause murder and bodily injury then the same would be a case of section 304 part ii.
they acceded to his request to take the bus to his house.
he next submitted that there was no evidence on record as to when the fir reached the magistrate and that none of the courts below considered the said aspect.
the deceased was taken to the hospital and while so taken he died.
accused No 3 told the appellant not to do anything in the ceremony and insulted the family members of rauji.
the high court by impugned judgment convicted appellant.
pw 1 also alleged that on 19 04 1988 the deceased rauji returned from his duty at about 6 30 p m and thereafter went to purchase some articles.
investigation in substance means collection of evidence relating to the commission of the offence.
there is cogent and reliable evidence on record to prove and establish that the accused has committed the act of stabbing as a result of which the deceased had died.
at that time all the accused persons were in the balcony.
after reaching the police station and at the request of pw 1 the fir was recorded at 3 00 a m in the morning.
thereafter the appellant and the two other alleged accused namely accused nos 2 and 3 and the two juvenile offenders gathered in the hall to assault rauji the deceased pw 1 and pw 8.
pw 1 and others asked the police to take rauji to the hospital.
but the main object of investigation being to bring home the offence to the offender the essential part of the duties of an investigating officer in this connection is apart from arresting the offender to collect all material necessary for establishing the accusation against the offender.
the aforesaid distinction between an act amounting to murder and an act not amounting to murder has been brought out in the numerous decisions of this court.
so long the defence is not able to establish from the records by cogent evidence that there was any delay in sending the fir to the magistrate it can not be held that there was any such delay.
3 of section 300 is one of degree of probability of death resulting from the intended bodily injury.
but sometimes the facts are so intertwined and the second and the third stages so telescoped into each that it may not be convenient to give a separate treatment to the matters involved in the second and third stages.
on medical examination his injury was found to be simple.
the issue with regard to the initiation of the investigation without recording the fir was succinctly addressed by this court in the case of state of u p v bhagwant kishore joshi 1964 3 scr 71 1963 indlaw sc 268 observed as follows 17.
it was a very cryptic information received by him regarding the death of a person residing within the jurisdiction of his police station pursuant to an incident taking place on 10 04 1988 between 8 30 p m to 8 45 p m and therefore it appears that there was not enough information available to him either to get a g d entry recorded or to get an fir lodged.
the word likely in cl.
when the eyewitnesses are stated to be interested and inimically disposed towards the accused it has to be noted that it would not be proper to conclude that they would shield the real culprit and rope in innocent persons.
duty of the state to protect the life of an injured as also an endeavour on the part of the responsible police officer to reach the place of occurrence in a situation of this nature is his implicit duty and responsibility.
at this the deceased became annoyed and the appellant removed the fuse of the electricity which act of his plunged the entire house into darkness.
accused No 3 had then lit a kerosene lamp and brought the same in the hall.
as already noted it is quite clear from the record that there was an altercation preceding the incident.
the said fact is proved by the evidence of pws.
these observations of vivian bose j have become locus classicus.
ms a subhashini learned counsel appearing for the respondent state however strenuously submitted that none of the aforesaid submissions could be accepted by this court as it is a foolproof case of conviction of the appellant section.
if no harassment to the accused results from the action of a police officer how can it be said to defeat the purpose underlying section 5 a looking at the matter this way i hold that what mathur did was something very much short of investigation and therefore the provisions of section 5 a were not violated.
the next contention that we proceed to discuss now is about whether sufficient light was available at the place of occurrence for the eye witnesses to see the occurrence as stated by them in the evidence.
the juvenile offender sarita went inside the house and brought out one iron pipe which she handed over to the appellant who then hit the said pipe on the right leg of pw 1 and also gave a blow with the said pipe on rauji 's right hand.
it is noteworthy that the intention to cause death is not an essential requirement of cl.
on receipt of the aforesaid message pw 21 along with asi tabit mamlekar went to the scene of offence.
2 and 3 were held guilty of an offence punishable section 323 read with section 34 of the ipc.
the postmortem report indicates that there were sixteen injuries as against the two as adduced in ocular evidence and therefore a submission was made by the counsel appearing for the appellant that the medical evidence adduced in the present case is not supporting the ocular evidence.
in the absence of any prohibition in the code express or implied i am of opinion that it is open to a police officer to make preliminary enquiries before registering an offence and making a full scale investigation into it.
after completion of the arguments the trial court reserved the verdict.
s p shri raikar and p i shri alan osa were sent in their search.
an information received in regard to commission of a cognizable offence is not required to be preceded by a first information report.
there is therefore provocation and the incident happened at the spur of the moment.
but if after careful analysis and scrutiny of their evidence the version given by the witnesses appears to be clear cogent and credible there is no reason to discard the same.
this is the lowest type of culpable homicide and the punishment provided for it is also the lowest among the punishments provided for the three grades.
there is therefore one particular injury being injury No 1 caused because of stabbing and the rest being superficial in nature could be caused during scuffle.
in the meantime police jeep arrived at the scene and on seeing the police jeep all the accused ran away from the courtyard and went inside.
however a perusal of record clearly shows that the doctor who conducted the postmortem pw 7 stated in his evidence that there were in total 16 injuries when external examination was done by him and the knife m o 11 could have caused the injuries No 1 2 3 and 4.
being aggrieved by the aforesaid judgment and order of acquittal the state filed an appeal in the high court against accused nos.
the investigating officer is for this purpose entitled to question persons who in this opinion are able to throw light on the offence which has been committed and is likewise entitled to question the suspect and is entitled to reduce the statements of persons questioned by him to writing.
during the survey made at the place of occurrence pw 21 noticed some blood stains in the front courtyard of the house and a pipe of length of about 1 foot or slightly less lying in the courtyard having blood stains.
