infosys technologies limited.
hardie trading ltd 2003 indlaw sc 756 1 has been followed by this court in a recent decision in the case of kabushiki kaisha toshiba 2008 10 scc 766 2008 indlaw sc 1395.
we concur with the above statement.
on application made in the prescribed manner to a high court or to the registrar by any person aggrieved the tribunal may make such order as it may think fit for cancelling or varying the registration of a trade mark on the ground of any contravention or failure to observe a condition entered on the register in relation thereto.
private ltd v.
these three appeals by special leave are directed against the order dated september 92004 passed by intellectual property appellate board for shortipab whereby it ordered the removal of appellant 's mark infosys from the register of trade marks in respect of computer stationery computer manuals printed matter for computer instructional and teaching materials computer hardware and peripherals and machine and machine tools.
in this regard he relied upon a decision of the madras high court in agha hyder hussain anr v.
the ritz hotel v charles of the ritz 1989.
the relevant statement made in the affidavit dated july 142003 we were informed that the date of the affidavit is july 142004 reads as follows that in the meantime the defendant has already changed the trade mark namely jupiter international ltd in place of jupiter infosys ltd the copy of the incorporation on change of name which was issued by the registrar of the companies are being marked and annexed herewith as annexure a that now there is no dispute between the plaintiff and defendant under the trade mark.
we heard mr akhil sibal learned counsel for the appellant and mr vaibhav gaggar learned counsel for the first respondent at quite some length.
the question then arises whether it is sufficient for the applicant to show that he is a person aggrieved when he makes his application or he must continue to remain a person aggrieved until such time as the rectification removal application is finally decided.
sections 46 and 56 read as follows s 46 removal from register and imposition of limitations on ground of non use   1 subject to the provisions of section.
the said suit was transferred to the court of the additional district judge tis hazari court delhi.
the objection about maintainability of the appeals is accordingly overruled.
the name of the first respondent was changed to jupiter infosys p limited in august1995 and now since july2003the name is changed to jupiter international limited.
the ad interim order was confirmed on november 291996.
in that suit the appellant also made an application for grant of temporary injunction.
as regards class 9 he would submit that in view of the affidavit filed by the first respondent on july 142004 in the court of additional district judge delhi the first respondent ceases to be an aggrieved person on the date of consideration of the rectification application.
this is so because the pre requisite for exercise of power under section 461 is that the applicant is a person aggrieved.
m s eagle flask industries pvt.
s 56 power to cancel or vary registration and to rectify the register 1.
an applicant shall not be entitled to rely for the purpose of clause b of sub section 1 or for the purposes of sub section 2 on any non use of a trade mark which is shown to have been due to special circumstances in the trade and not to any intention to abandon or not to use the trade mark in relation to the goods to which the application relates.
the situations covered by this section include a the contravention or failure to observe a condition for registration b the absence of an entry c an entry made without sufficient cause d a wrong entry and e any error or defect in the entry.
rpc 333philosophy di alberta ferretti 2003 r p c 15.
the ipab proceeded with the matter in light of the issues that were already framed by the high court and heard the parties.
he argued that the appellant has not taken the plea of the first respondent not being a person aggrieved with respect to filing of the applications for rectification before the ipab merely urging the plea that the first respondent has no locus standi in the written submissions before the ipab is not sufficient.
learned counsel thus submitted that the impugned order is unsustainable and liable to be set aside.
the 1958 act was repealed by the trade marks act1999 for shortthe 1999 act in terms of section 100 of the 1999 act the three petitions filed by the first respondent before the madras high court for rectification removal of registered trade mark nos 475269475267 and 484837 were transferred to the ipab.
learned counsel for the appellant also submitted that in any view of the matter the ipab erred in exercising its discretion under section 46 of the 1958 act without taking into consideration the aspect of public interest.
a whether the mark applied for registration was used in respect of the goods for which the mark was registered.
on september 132000the calcutta high court restrained the department of company affairs and registrar of companies from incorporating any company bearing the name infosys without the permission of the appellant.
hto what further relief.
d 92 and motor terms company pty limited v.
the interpretation of the expression person aggrieved occurring in sections 46 and 56 has come up for consideration before this court on more than one occasion.
appeals allowed.
the non user does not by itself render the entry incorrect but it gives a right to a person whose interest is affected to apply for its removal.
three sections viz sections 4656 and 69 of the act contain the phrase.
in january 2001the appellant filed yet another suit before the high court of judicature at madras for permanent injunction restraining the first respondent from offering shares to the public as claimed in the initial public offer ipo using infosys.
the appellant opposed these applications on diverse grounds by filing counter affidavits.
an applicant must therefore show that in some possible way he may be damaged or injured if the trade mark is allowed to stand and by possible i mean possible in a practical sense and not merely in a fantastic view.
in the backdrop of these peculiar facts in our view it is not appropriate to relegate the 17 appellant at this distance of time to challenge the impugned order passed by the ipab in writ petition before the high court.
insofar as section 56 is concerned it provides for varying situations in which the person aggrieved may apply for rectification of the registered trade mark from the register.
learned counsel for the first respondent further argued that infosys is not an invented or a coined word the said word is an abbreviation and combination of the words information system the word infosys has been used by various companies abroad as well as within india prior to incorporation of the appellant itself and hence can not be called an invented word.
rpc 333 and australian wine importers trade mark.
it was incorporated and registered under the companies act1956 on july 21981 in the name of infosys consultants private limited.
dwhether there is a non use of registered trade mark by the respondent for a period of over 5 years and 1 month.
in re apollinaris company 's trade marks while dealing with this aspect kekemich j stated because that is a remedy given to the person aggrieved through the interposition of the court for the benefit of the 14 1891 2 ch 186 27 applicant and if at the date of the trial he has no cause of complaint it seems to be monstrous to suppose that the court will rectify the register at his instance when it can do him no good to rectify and when the retention on the register can do him no harm merely because at the date of his application he may have had some grievance.
omar khayyam wineries pvt ltd anr air 1977 mad 166.
according to him the ipab sought to rely upon computer programming which is a service enumerated in class 42without considering the distinction between a computer programme and computer programming and without noticing the entry computer under class 9 which falls within goods.
the single judge of the madras high court passed an interim restraint order on february 12001 against the first respondent.
the parties shall bear their own costs.
accordingly it is directed that pending further consideration of the matter after notice for the next date of hearing the defendants are restrained by themselves their directors employees agents andor others acting on its behalf from using the trade mark corporate name infosys or any other mark name deceptively similar trade mark or colourable imitation thereof as a mark andor corporate name or as part of a mark andor business name in respect of goods andor services for publicity on propaganda on websites and or in domain names in any way whatsoever thereby causing infringement of the registered trade mark infosys of the plaintiff in isolation or in combination with words letters numbers their advertisements as part of their corporate name either in isolation or in goods and services or in or by way of any advertisement publicity campaigns etc.
section 56 on the other hand deals with situations where the initial registration should not have been or was incorrectly made.
in our opinion the phrase person aggrieved for the purposes of removal on the ground of non use under section 46 has a different connotation from the phrase used in section 56 for cancelling or expunging or varying an entry wrongly made or remaining in the register.
ewhether the registered trade mark is disentitled for protection in a court of law under section 11e of the trade and merchandise marks act.
secondly and more importantly during the pendency of the applications certain events had taken place which had some bearing on the question of locus standi of the first respondent insofar as invocation of section 46 1 of the 1958 act is concerned.
sunniwite products ld 1949 66 rpc 84.
47a registered trade mark may be taken off the register in respect of any of the goods in respect of which it is registered on application made in the prescribed manner to a high court or to the registrar by any person aggrieved on the ground either a that the trade mark was registered without any bona fide intention on the part of the applicant for registration that it should be used in relation to those goods by him or in a case to which the provisions of section 45 apply by the company concerned and that there has in fact been no bona fide use of the trade mark in relation to those goods by any proprietor thereof for the time being up to a date one month before the date of the application or b that up to a date one month before the date of the application a continuous period of five years or longer had elapsed during which the trade mark was registered 18 and during which there was no bona fide use thereof in relation to those goods by any proprietor thereof for the time being provided that except where the applicant has been permitted under sub section 3 of section 12 to register an identical or nearly resembling trade mark in respect of the goods in question or where the tribunal is of opinion that he might properly be permitted so to register such a trade mark the tribunal may refuse an application under clause a or clause b in relation to any goods if it is shown that there has been before the relevant date or during the relevant period as the case may be bona fide use of the trade mark by any proprietor thereof for the time being in relation to goods of the same description being goods in respect of which the trade mark is registered.
