in judging a question of prejudice as of guilt the courts must act with a broad vision and look to the substance and not to the technicalities and their main concern should be to see whether the accused had a fair trial whether he knew what he was being tried for whether the main facts sought to be established against him were explained to him fairly and clearly and whether he was given a full and fair chance to defend himself.
that around 00 30 am the appellant again came into her house and touched her daughter in law sheela devi who woke up and raised an alarm and that the appellant immediately ran away.
the court may infer from this that a was misled and that the error was material.
the charge must also contain the particulars of date time place and person against whom the offence was committed as are reasonably sufficient to give the accused notice of the matter with which he is charged.
e a was charged with murdering haidar baksh on the 20th january1882and khoda baksh who tried to arrest him for that murder on the 21 st january1882 when charged for the murder of haidar baksh he was tried for the murder of khoda baksh.
prakashi devi and thereby committed an offence punishable u s 452 ipc within my cognizance.
sub s 1 thereof provides that no finding sentence or order of a court of competent jurisdiction shall be deemed invalid merely on the ground that no charge was framed or on the ground of any error omission or irregularity in the charge including any misjoinder of charge unless in the opinion of the court of appeal confirmation or revision a failure of justice has in fact been occasioned thereby.
the court having charged the accused with the offence of having trespassed into the house of prakashi devi with intent to assault her and having further charged him for having assaulted the said prakashi devi by outraging her modesty convicts him on the ground that though he did not assault or outrage the modesty of prakashi devi he had outraged the modesty of sheela devi that would lead to failure of justice.
8 scc 339 2008 indlaw sc 1064 and sanichar sahni vs state of bihar 2009 7 scc 198 2009 indlaw sc 736.
act1989 the magistrate committed the case to sessions court which was specified as a special court under the act.
the code is emphatic that whatever the irregularity it is not to be regarded as fatal unless there is prejudice.
thakkidiram reddy.
there were two women present at the house at the time of the alleged incident namely prakashi devi and her daughter in law sheela devi.
where an accused is charged with having committed offence against one person but on the evidence led he is convicted for committing offence against another person without a charge being framed in respect of it the accused will be prejudiced resulting in a failure of justice.
in her cross examination prakashi devi stated that she has five sons that only her husband and one son named mahavir were staying with her that the other four sons were married and were not staying with her that on that night her husband was away in the fields and her son mahavir was also not present in the house.
he contended that as the charge levelled against him was not proved and as he was not required to defend himself against a charge that he assaulted and outraged the modesty of sheela devi he ought to have been acquitted.
s 211 of the code relates to the contents of the charge.
the respondent was chargesheeted for an offence u s 376 ipc and s 3 of the scheduled castes and scheduled tribes prevention of atrocities.
however when confronted with her statement recorded in the fir she admitted having stated that when the appellant had come first time at around 11 30 pm and broke the outside bulbs her son woke up and went out of the house.
the illustrations under a provision of a statute offer relevant and valuable indications as to meaning and object of the provision and are helpful in the working and application of the provision.
appeal allowed.
it inter alia provides that every charge under the code shall state the offence with which the accused is charged.
their evidence was that he touched caught the hand of sheela devi and when she raised an alarm he ran away.
it was held that mentioning the name of prakashi devi instead of the name of sheela devi in the charge was an error that did not prejudice the accused.
pc and sentenced him for rigorous imprisonment for six months and a fine of rs 1000 in default thereof simple imprisonment for one month.
the accused is entitled to know with certainty and accuracy the exact nature of the charge against him and unless he has such knowledge his defence will be prejudiced.
if sheela devi alone had been present at the house at the time of the incident and the accused had assaulted and outraged the modesty of the said sheela devi but in the charge the name of the victim had been erroneously mentioned say as sushila devi or prakashi devi though there was no person by such nameand the inquiry exclusively referred to the assault and outraging the modesty of sheela devi the court could infer that the accused was not misled and the error in the charge was immaterial.
one of the contentions urged by the accused before the appellate court and high court was that the charge against him was that he attempted to outrage the modesty of prakashi devi pw 1 whereas the evidence was to show that he attempted to outrage the modesty of her daughter in law sheela devi.
he did not attempt to meet the case made out in the trial that the offence was against sheela devi.
in view of the specific charge the accused concentrated on showing that the charge was false.
if all these elements are there and no prejudice is shown the conviction must stand whatever the irregularities whether traceable to the charge or to a want of one.
these go to the foundations of natural justice and would be struck down as illegal forthwith.
she and her daughter in law sheela devi were sleeping in her house around 11 30 pm the appellant jumped over the front wall of her house and broke the bulbs and ran away that at that time no male member was present in the house except the children.
nor did he proceed with his defence on the understanding that he was being charged with having committed the offence with reference to sheela devi.
other violations will not be so obvious and it may be possible to show that having regard to all that occurred no prejudice was occasioned or that there was no reasonable probability of prejudice.
the object of the code is to ensure that an accused person gets a full and fair trial along certain well established and well understood lines that accord with our notions of natural justice.
there was a material error in the charge as it violated the requirement of sub s 1 of s 212 of the code that the charge shall contain particulars as to the person against whom the offence was committed.
when the said charged was read over and explained to the appellant he pleaded not guilty to the said charge and claimed trial.
however if the aspect is of such a nature that non explanation of it has contributed to penalizing an individual the court should say that since he was not given the opportunity to explain that aspect there was failure of justice on account of non compliance with the principle of natural justice.
in willie william slaney vs state of madhya pradesh.
neither can be done if the shadow is mistaken for the substance and the goal is lost in a labyrinth of unsubstantial technicalities.
ipc that matter was considered u s 465 of the code and not relevant on the facts of this case.
