appeals allowed.
in our opinion therefore the contention of learned counsel for the respondent authorities is not well founded and can not be upheld that once a case is covered by sub ss 1 or 2 of s 17 of the act sub s 4 of s 17 would necessarily apply and there is no question of holding inquiry or hearing objections under section 5 a of the act.
the same view has been reiterated by another three judge bench decision of this court in munshi singh and ors.
thereafter over a period of 9 months the state government deposited 10 of compensation payable to the landowners along with 10 of acquisition expenses and 70 of cost of acquisition was deposited and the proposal for issuance of s 6 declaration was sent to the director land acquisition on 19th of june2009 the director in turn forwarded all these to the state government on 17th july2009and the state government finally issued the s 6 declaration on 10th of august2009 this declaration was published in the local dailies on 17th of august2009.
as per the schedule this shifting was to be done in two phases 1 st phase 1 district jail shahjahanpur 2 district jail azamgarh 3 district jail jaunpur and 4 district jail moradabad 2 nd phase 1 district jail badaun 2 district jail varanasi 3 district jail barielly and 4 district jail muzaffarnagar.
ltd and ors 2007.
by judicial interpretation the contents of these part iii rights are constantly expanded.
8 scc 705 2007 indlaw sc 554wherein this court construed the status of a person 's right to property after deletion of art 191f from part iii by referring to various international covenants namely the declaration of human and civil rights this court held that even though right to property has ceased to be a fundamental right but it would however be given an express recognition as a legal right and also as a human right.
but such acquisition can be made only by strictly following the mandate of the said act.
b e billimoria and ors 2003 7 scc 336 2003 indlaw sc 618 in the context of ceiling law.
the state of uttar pradesh vide its office memorandum dated 25 10 2004 constituted a committee under the chairmanship of the honourable minister of revenue to suggest its recommendations for transfer of prisons situated in the congested areas of various districts.
the possession of the appellants in respect of their land can not be interfered with except in accordance with law.
one admeasuring 25 89 hectares 63 93 acres in village morchha tehsil puwayan in the district of shahjahanpur.
the history behind insertion of section 5a in the act of 1894 seems to be a decision of the division bench of calcutta high court in j e d ezra vs the secretary of state for india and ors reported in 7 c w n 249 in that case the properties of ezra were sought to be acquired under the pre amended provision of the act for expansion of the offices of the bank of bengal.
the object of this bill is to provide that a local government shall not declare u s 6 of the act that any land is needed for a public purpose unless time has been allowed after the notification u s 4 for persons interested in the land to put in objections and for such objections to be considered by the local government.
the judiciary in its sphere shares the revolutionary purpose of the constitutional order and when called upon to decode social legislation must be animated by a goal oriented approach.
from the various facts disclosed in the said affidavit it appears that the matter was initiated by the government 's letter dated 4th of june2008 for issuance of s 41 and s 17 notifications.
while examining these questions of public importance the courts especially the higher courts cannot afford to act as mere umpires.
in construing the concept of public purpose the mandate of art 13 of the constitution that any pre constitutional law can not in any way take away or abridge rights conferred under part iii must be kept in mind.
these recommendations were accepted by the state government vide the approval of the cabinet dated 7 12 2007 following this decision the director general of prisons administration and reformsuttar pradesh vide letter dated 04 06 2008requested the district magistrate shahjahanpur to send all the relevant records to the state government for publication of notification u ss 41 and 17 of the land acquisition act1894 hereinafter the act the land suggested for such acquisition by the divisional land utility committee was.
in paragraph 15 of the writ petition it has been clearly stated that there was a time gap of more than 11 months between s 4 and s 6 notifications which demonstrates that there was no urgency in the state action which could deny the petitioners their right under section 5a in the counter which was filed in this case by the state before the high court it was not disputed that the time gap between s 4 notification read with section 17and s 6 notification was about 11 months.
in a recent judgment of this court in essco fabs 2008 indlaw sc 2494 supra2009 2 scc 377this court after considering previous judgments as also the provisions of s 17 of the act held whereas sub s 1 of s 17 deals with cases of urgencysub s 2 of the said section covers cases of sudden change in the channel of any navigable river or other unforeseen emergency.
however the provisions of section 5a inquiry were dispensed with.
the valuable right of the appellants under section 5a of the act can not flatten and steamrolled on the ipsi dixit of the executive authority.
as early as in 1964this court in nandeshwar prasad and ors vs.
in challenging the said acquisition it was argued that the person whose property is going to be taken away should be allowed a hearing on the principles of natural justice.
in that case the court was considering the importance of rights under section 5a vis vis s 171 and s 171.
thus the state government issued notifications u ss 41 and 17 on 21 08 2008.
the high court in its decision dated 25 11 2009 refused to interfere with the selection of the site for the construction of the jail premises on the ground that it was not required to do so unless it found the selection of the site was wholly arbitrary.
in the background of the aforesaid discussion this court proceeds to examine the scope of a person 's right under section 5a of the act.
the impugned notifications u ss 4 and 6 of the act in so far as they relate to the appellants land are quashed.
in hindustan petroleum corporation limited vs darius shahpur chennai and ors.
committee was formed matter was discussed at a leisurely pace at various levels and there is no material fact to justify the abridgement of the appellants right of raising an objection to acquisition and of a hearing under section 5a of the act.
no order as to costs.
the construction of jail is certainly in public interest and for such construction land may be acquired.
the open ended nature of our constitution needs a harmonious reconciliation between various competing principles and the overhanging shadows of socio economic reality in this country.
this committee was also to evaluate and recommend the means for modernisation of existing old prisons.
the concept even though sought to be defined u s 3f of the act is not capable of any precise definition.
