x 1  cm.
in such a situation it is considered a safe rule of prudence to generally look for corroboration of the sworn testimony of witness in court as to the identity of the accused who are strangers to them in the form of earlier identification proceeding as observed by this court in budhsen 's case 1970 indlaw sc 136 supra.
mahesh did not even act as a guard he did not prevent anil kumar pw 21 from entering the house.
the appellant raju.
4 incised wound on lower costal region left of size.
shashi tripathi accused no 1 has filed criminal appeal arising out of special leave petition criminal no 3737 of 2014.
state of m p 2012.
on 25 11 2003when pw 1 dr.
he deposed before the court that shashi didi accused brought him to village jevra from bilaspur.
devendra choubey was conducted on 26 12 2003 after his arrest.
in his deposition he specified the details of the part which the accused played with reasonable particularity.
state of haryana air 1999 sc 1083 1999 indlaw sc 391 and ramashish yadav vs.
chandra prakash were arrested on 29 11 2003 a bloodstained knife was taken into possession.
sharda prasad tripathi came home from his clinic found that his daughter in law bhavna tripathi has been murdered.
mahesh the fourth accused was standing outside the house.
jitendra is her step son and the deceased bhavna is the wife of jitendra.
there is no evidence of the formation or sharing of any common intention with the other accused.
the learned counsel for the appellants relied upon the judgment of this court in budhsen and anr.
appeals disposed of.
the incident occurred in the courtyard and shashi didi was present in the passage.
he had no grouse against her neither any ulterior motive in identifying the accused who were not acquainted to him.
he participated in the identification parade which was held in sub jail bemetara and identified the accused persons in the court by touching them.
they do not constitute substantive evidence.
he referred to bhavna as bhabhi.
it is for this reason that the identification parades in this case seem to have been held under the supervision of a magistrate.
shashi tripathi mahesh and binu.
we therefore hold that the accused mahesh accused no 3 in criminal appeal no 867 of 2013 is innocent and the conviction against him is set aside.
she resided with shashi didi.
he ate his food there and studied in a school.
3  cm x 2 cm x 1 cm 5 incised wound on lower costal region right side on right epigestic region of size 3  cm.
the accused chandra prakash had threatened him not to disclose anything about the incident to anyone.
the purpose of a prior test identification therefore seems to be to test and strengthen the trustworthiness of that evidence.
the sole eyewitness was a boy of 13 years of age anil kumar pw 21who worked as a servant with the family.
9 scc 696 2012 indlaw sc 343.
he lodged a first information report f i r on 25 11 2003 at about 2045 hours.
merely because he has been some time in the company of the police at the police station his testimony can not be discarded as untrue.
after committal the trial court framed charges u s 302 read with ss 34 and 120b of the ipc the prosecution examined 32 witnesses.
liver kidney and spleen were pale.
chandra prakash accused no 2 has filed criminal appeal no 589 of 2014 the appellant smt.
the credibility of the evidence of anil kumar pw 21 was attacked by the learned counsel for the appellants who submitted that the boy is a tutored witness who has been influenced by the police with whom he spent a lot of time.
having regard to the role attributed to him and the absence of incriminating factors we find that it is not safe to convict mahesh of the offence of murder with the aid of ss 34 and 120b.
there were numerous injuries including incised wounds on bhavna none on shashi.
about the assault he deposed that devendra caught bhavna and chandra prakash attacked her with knife 3 to 4 times and she fell down.
thereafter all the three accused fled from there.
the number of persons mixed up with the accused should be reasonably large and their bearing and general appearance not glaringly dissimilar.
no weapon was seized from him nor was any property connected with the crime seized.
in any case the period between the arrest and the identification parade was not large enough to constitute inordinate delay.
cm x cm x  cm 10 incised wound on forearm left hand radial side dorsal aspect on lower 23rd region 11 incised wound on left forearm middle l3rd region radial side and posterior aspect of size 2.
the prosecution has found it difficult to pinpoint the motive but shashi tripathi 's husband dr sharda prasad tripathi pw 1 deposed before the court that she tried to create a hindrance in the marriage of his son jitendra since she wanted her daughter abhilasha to marry him however he went ahead with the marriage of jitendra to bhavna whereupon shashi tripathi remained silent.
according to the prosecution the accused shashi tripathi is the step mother in law of deceased bhavna tripathi.
sc 367 1982 indlaw sc 63 the facts and circumstances of the cases are however different and it is not necessary to consider those cases in detail while dealing with the present case.
this deposition clearly implicates accused nos 12 and 4 the picture that emerges is that shashi tripathi caused bhavna to be killed and for this purpose engaged chandra prakash accused no 2 and raju.
his brother shivendra studies at calcutta.
they are generally held during the course of investigation with the primary object of enabling the witnesses to identify persons concerned in the offence who were not previously known to them.
the observations of this court undoubtedly lay down the correct law and we have no reason to doubt them.
dr m deodhar who conducted the postmortem opined that cause of her death was neurogenic and hemorrhagic shock.
x 3 cm lobe was cut and there was 3 cm punctured wound.
x  cm x 1 cm and 14 incised wound over left side of neck on anterior triangle of size 2 cm.
bhavna was dead.
the evidence of mere identification of the accused person at the trial for the first time is from its very nature inherently of a weak character.
internal injuries brain membrane pale lungs trachea pale punctured wound on right and left lungs of size 2 cm x 1 cm2  cm and 1 cm.
these parades are of the essentially governed by section 162criminal procedure code.
the learned counsel submitted that the evidence of a child witness must be carefully scrutinized before acceptance since a child can be easy prey for tutoring and the court must insist on corroboration from other evidence.
this serves to satisfy the investigating officers of the bona fides of the prosecution witnesses and also to furnish evidence to corroborate their testimony in court.
state of u p 1987 3 scc 331 1987 indlaw sc 28887and mohd abdul hafeez vs.
he was brought to the house by shashi tripathi accusedwho apparently took care of him and sent to school and gave him food and residence.
the persons required to identify an accused should have had no opportunity of seeing him after the commission of the crime and before identification and secondly that no mistakes are made by them or the mistakes made are negligible.
