these appeals are directed against a judgment and order dated 17 october 2003 passed by the special court constituted under the special courts trial of offences relating to transactions in securities.
act 1992 for short the act in misc.
application nos.
41 of 1999 4 of 2001 265 266 and 275 of 2003.
the appellants herein who are related to one harshad section mehta since deceased purchased nine residential flats in a building called madhuli apartments in worli area of mumbai.
the family of the appellants consists of four brothers their wives children and their widowed mother.
the eldest among them harshad section mehta has since expired.
the said nine flats it is said were merged and redesigned for joint living of the entire family.
the appellants herein and the said.
late harshad mehta were persons notified in terms of the act which was enacted to provide for the establishment of a special court for the trial of offences relating to transactions in securities and for matters connected therewith.
in terms of the provisions of the act along with late harshad mehta the custodian had notified 29 entities in terms of section 3 of the act comprising three of his younger brothers wife of late harshad mehta wives of two of his younger brothers and other corporate entities a partnership firm and three hufs.
the properties of late harshad mehta and the appellants herein being notified persons stood attached in terms of the provisions of the act.
proceedings before the special court.
it is not in dispute that the learned special court on or about 3 august 1993 issued directions in various proceedings before it appointing auditors to prepare and audit the books of accounts of all notified persons for the period 1 april 1990 and 8 june 1992 i e the date of the notification.
three firms of chartered accountants were appointed to prepare statement of accounts and liabilities of each of the appellants herein.
a chartered accountants firm was appointed by the learned special judge by an order dated 17 september 2003 to represent all notified entities in the family of late harshad mehta for the purpose of ascertaining their tax liabilities.
we may at this juncture notice the nature of the applications filed by the parties herein before the learned special court i on 26 april 1999 the custodian filed an application being misc.
application No 41 of 1999 seeking permission of the special court for sale of residential premises commonly known as madhuli of eight notified entities.
application being 4 of 2001 was filed by the custodian praying for the sale of commercial premises.
the appellants herein filed several misc.
applications praying for lifting of attachment on their residential premises on the ground that the same had been purchased much prior to 1 april 1991 and the same had no nexus with any illegal transactions in securities.
4 of 2001 and 41 of 1999.
applications filed by the appellants herein for release of the residential flats as well as the commercial premises from attachment were dismissed.
it was directed in case all adult members of the family of late shri harshad metha who are presently occupying the abovereferred flats file an undertaking in this court within a period of four weeks from today undertaking to vacate the flat occupied by them and hand over peaceful possession thereof to the custodian within a period of four weeks from the date on which the custodian sends them communication asking them to vacate the flats on sale of the flats being sanctioned by the court.
the custodian shall permit the members of family of late shri harshad mehta to occupy the flats during the time that the process of the sale of the flats goes on.
in case no such undertakings are filed by the adult members as directed above within the aforesaid period the custodian shall stand appointed as receiver of the flats which are described in exh.
contentions of the parties appellants 9.
mr mahesh jethmalani learned senior counsel appearing on behalf of the appellants in assailing the said judgment of the learned special court inter alia raised the following contentions i some of the entities having their asset base much more than actual liability the impugned judgments are unsustainable.
there was no occasion for the custodian to club all the notified entities in one block so as to be termed as harshad mehta group andor to club their assets and liabilities jointly.
although in relation to a body corporate incorporated and registered under the indian companies act the doctrine of lifting the corporate veil would be applicable but the same can not be applied in case of individuals.
ii having regard to the fact that only three entitles out of eight were involved in the offences the liability of harshad mehta could not have been clubbed for the purpose of directing attachment and consequent sale of the properties which exclusively belong to them.
the liabilities of harshad mehta who was a sui generis could have been recovered from the properties held and possessed by him or from the companies floated by him but not from the individual entities at least two of whom being medical practitioners have their income from other sources.
the books of accounts and other documents on the basis whereof the auditor s report had been made having not been allowed to be inspected by the appellants herein on the plea that they had the knowledge thereabout the same could not have been taken into consideration for the purpose of passing of the impugned order or otherwise.
v the appellants having preferred appeals against the income tax orders of assessment passed by the authority and the same having been set aside no liability to pay income tax by the appellants as of now being existing the residential properties could not have been sold.
mr ashok h desai learned senior counsel appearing on behalf of the custodian on the other hand would inter alia submit.
iin view of the decision of this court in l s synthetics ltd v fairgrowth financial services ltd and another 2004 11 scc 456 2004 indlaw sc 715 all properties belonging to the notified persons being subject to automatic attachment could be applied for discharge of the joint liabilities of the harshad mehta group in terms of section 11 of the act.
iithe applications for de notification filed by the appellants herein having been withdrawn the contention raised by the appellants that they are not liable in terms of the provisions of the act are not open to question particularly in view of the fact that no application for de notification could be filed subsequently as they had become barred by limitation.
iiithe order of assessment under the income tax act having become final and binding as on the date when the orders of assessment were passed and thus mere filing of appeals were not sufficient for raising a contention that the taxes did not become due.
reliance in this behalf has been placed on b c dalal 2005 indlaw sc 1826 v custodian.
co ltd v the commissioner of income tax.
central calcutta 1972 3 scc 252 1971 indlaw sc 841.
ivthe appellants herein apart from the corporate entity which is a front company of late harshad mehta have received large loans advances and credits from the harshad mehta group and there had been intermingling of the assets to the tune of crores of rupees they can not escape their liabilities under the act.
even in the case of dr pratima mehta wherein some excesses has been shown if the interest is calculated for the last over 13 years of the amount received the liabilities would exceed the assets.
v the assets and liabilities of each of the entities having been audited by the chartered accountants it is evident from the reports that in all cases liabilities exceed the assets.
vithe decretal amount against the harshad mehta group also would exceed rs 4339 crores and thus the assets held by the appellants are wholly insufficient to meet the liabilities.
viifurthermore the appellants are also unable to maintain their residential properties as the custodian had to pay a sum of rs 1 06 crores towards the maintenance of the said residential properties.
hitesh mehta and dr pratima mehta who are medical practitioners by profession having affirmed affidavits admitting that the share broking and investment businesses which were part of family businesses were undertaken and conducted by late harshad mehta and they had no knowledge thereabout nor were they involved therewith.
they at this stage can not be permitted to turn round and contend that they have nothing to do with the liabilities of late harshad mehta.
ixthe sale of commercial property had never been seriously contested by the appellants and in fact the contention of the appellants herein before the special court was that if the commercial properties were sold there would be no need to sell the residential properties.
even before this court the sale of commercial properties had not been questioned.
2 to deal with the situation and in particular to ensure speedy recovery of the huge amount involved to punish the guilty and restore confidence in and maintain the basic integrity and credibility of the banks and financial institutions the special court trial of offences relating to transactions in securities ordinance 1992 was promulgated on the 6th june 1992.
section 7 confers exclusive jurisdiction upon the special court.
the act provides for stringent measures.
the provision contained in the act being stringent in nature the purport and intent thereof must be ascertained having regard to the purpose and object it seeks to achieve.
the right of a person notified to file an application or to raise a defence that he is not liable in terms of the provisions of the act or in any event the properties attached should not be sold in discharge of the liabilities can be taken at the initial stage by filing an application in terms of sub s 2 of section 4 of the act.
in terms of the provisions of the act the special court had been conferred a very wide power.
recedents as regard scope of the act.
constitutionality and or interpretation of the act came up for consideration before this court in harshad shantilal.
indlaw sc 732 v custodian and others 1998 5 scc 1 wherein the following questions were framed what is meant by revenues taxes cesses and rates due.
does the word due refer merely to the liability to pay such taxes etc or does it refer to a liability which has crystallised into a legally ascertained sum immediately payable.
do the taxes in cl.
does the special court have any discretion relating to the extent of payments to be made under section 112a from out of the attached funds property.
whether taxes include penalty or interest.
whether the special court has the power to absolve a notified person from payment of penalty or interest for a period subsequent to the date of his notification section in the alternative is a notified person liable to payment of penalty or interest arising from his inability to pay taxes after his notification.
therefore the phrase taxes due can not refer merely to a liability created by the charging section to pay the tax under the relevant law.
such tax liability may be discharged either under the directions of the special court under section 112c or the taxing authority may recover the same from any subsequently acquired property of a notified person vide tejkumar balakrishna ruia v a k menon 1996 indlaw sc 2403 or in any other manner from the notified person in accordance with law.
this is because the tax liability of a notified person having priority under section 112a is only tax liability pertaining to the statutory period.
the special court can for this purpose examine whether there is any fraud collusion or miscarriage of justice in assessment proceedings.
the assessee who is before the special court is a person liable to be charged with an offence relating to transactions in securities.
but the said observation was held to be not laying down a law by a 3 judge bench of this court in l s synthetics ltd v fairgrowth financial services ltd and another 2004 11 scc 456 2004 indlaw sc 715 holding i.
the ratio of the said decision as regard applicability of the limitation act was further considered by a division bench of this court in fairgrowth investments ltd v custodian 2004 11 scc 472 2004 indlaw sc 868 wherein it was held that section 5 of the limitation act will have no application in relation to an application falling under sub s 2 of section 4 of the act stating it is enough for the purpose of this appeal to hold that section 292 of the limitation act 1963 does not apply to proceedings under section 42 of the special court trial of offences relating to transactions in securities act 1992.
the appellants herein are notified persons in terms of the provisions of the act.
in tejkumar balakrishna ruia v a k menon and another 1997 9 scc 123 1996 indlaw sc 2403 this court held in our view the terms of sub s 3 of section 3 are clear.
the apprehension expressed by the special court does not appear to be well founded if what a notified person obtains by way of purported income or gift or inheritance is really his own money such money would upon establishment of the fact stand attached automatically under the provisions of section 33.
iwhether the appellants being not involved in offences in transactions in securities could have been proceeded against in terms of the provisions of the act.
iiwhether individual liabilities of the appellants ought to have been separately considered by the special court as not a part of harshad mehta group.
iiiwhether the tax liabilities could not have been held to be due as the order of assessments did not become final and binding.
see bombay dyeing manufacturing co ltd v the state of bombay and others air 1958 sc 338 savitra khandu beradi v nagar agricultural sale and purchase co operative society ltd ahmednagar and others.
air 1957 bom 178 1957 indlaw mum 110 and hari raj singh v sanchalak panchayat.
the intent and purport of parliament enacting the said act furthermore must be given its full effect.
we are therefore of the opinion that the provisions of the limitation act have no application so far as directions required to be issued by the special court relating to the disposal of attached property are concerned.
the contention of the appellants to the effect that their properties should have been attached only towards the liabilities incurred by the parties in respect of the transactions made during the statutory period can not be accepted as all the appellants being notified the attachment of the assets would be automatic.
l s synthetics ltd 2004 indlaw sc 715 supra.
the principle of lifting the corporate veil however ipso facto would not apply to the individuals.
the custodian in a case of this nature may however show that the transactions entered into apparently by harshad mehta were intimately connected with acquisition of properties in the name of others.
a transaction of benami indisputably can be a subject matter of a lies in terms of section 41 of the act as and when such a question is raised the same may have to be dealt with by the special court appropriately.
according to the appellants the custodian has under estimated the assets and exaggerated and overstated their liabilities.
a triable issue had been raised and the custodian s petition should have been converted into a suit.
v thus taking into consideration the total of the decretal amount and the income tax liability it is clear that the total assets of harshad mehta group would be far below the liabilities.
his death has also forced upon him bankruptcy.
furthermore the question as regard liability of the parties should have been determined at the stage of section 9 a of the act.
the act confers wide power upon the custodian and the learned special court and in that view of the matter having regard to the principles of natural justice the judgment and order of the learned judge special court should have furthermore been supported by sufficient and cogent reasons.
it is not in dispute that the tax liabilities of the appellants individually were assessed on the basis of best judgment assessment.
the contention of the appellant to the effect that the income tax dues should have been considered at the point of time when they become recoverable can not be accepted having regard to the 3 judge bench decision of this court in b c dalal 2005 indlaw sc 1826 supra wherein this court categorically held that in absence of any order of stay granted by the higher court the liabilities would remain.
we may further notice that the learned special court relied upon a decision in custodian v union of india and ors.
co ltd 1971 indlaw sc 841 supra this court has held although that liability can not be enforced till the quantification is effected by assessment proceedings the liability for payment of tax is independent of the assessment.
it is significant that in the present case the liability had even been quantified and a demand had been created in the sum of rs 149776 by means of the notice dated november 21 1957 during the pendency of the assessment proceedings before the income tax officer and before the finalisation of the assessment.
if the orders of assessment have been set aside the liabilities of the appellants have to be worked out on the basis of the new orders of assessment.
so long such orders of assessment are not passed by the competent assessing authorities it can not be said that the appellants are liable to pay a huge amount by way of income tax dues on the basis of such orders of assessment which have since been set aside.
v hitesh mehta rs 73 crores vi.
aatur holdings rs 15 95 crores even after deducting the amount set aside by itat.
1998 indlaw sc 732 supra.
such subsequent events could also be taken into consideration for the purpose of review.
in board of control for cricket in india and another v netaji cricket club and others 2005 4 scc 741 2005 indlaw sc 1243.
in any event ordinarily a bona fide purchaser for value in an action sale is treated differently than a decree holder purchasing such properties.
in the former event even if such a decree is set aside the interest of the bona fide purchaser in an auction sale is saved.
see zain ul abdin khan v muhammad asghar ali khan 15 ia 12 1887 indlaw pc 13.
the said decision has been affirmed by this court in gurjoginder singh v jaswant kaur.
smt and another 1994 2 scc 368 1994 indlaw sc 1613.
in janak raj v gurdial singh and anr.
1967 2 scr 77 1966 indlaw sc 120.
this court confirmed a sale in favour of the appellant therein who was a stranger to the suit being the auction purchaser of the judgment debtor s immovable property in execution of an ex parte money decree in terms of order xxxi rule 92 civil procedure code.
in padanathil ruqmini amma v p k abdulla 1996 7 scc 668 1996 indlaw sc 3096 this court making a distinction between decree holder auction purchaser himself and a third party bona fide purchaser in an auction sale observed the ratio behind this distinction between a sale to a decree holder and a sale to a stranger is that the court as a matter of policy will protect honest outsider purchasers at sales held in the execution of its decrees although the sales may be subsequently set aside when such purchasers are not parties to the suit.
the flats have been sold on the basis of the joint liabilities of the appellants together with harshad mehta and other companies as a group.
in view of our foregoing discussions we are of the opinion that i the contention of the appellants that they being not involved in offences in transactions in securities could not have been proceeded in terms of the provisions of the act can not be accepted in view of the fact that they have been notified in terms thereof.
v as regard sale of residential properties an appropriate order may be passed by the learned judge special court in the light of the observations made hereinbefore.
we direct the custodian to permit the appellants to have inspection of all the documents in his power or possession in the premises of the special court in the presence of an officer of the court.
the appellants shall be entitled to take the help of a chartered or cost accountant and may make notes therefrom for their use in the pending proceeding.
the custodian may also take assistance and or further assistance from a chartered accountant of his choice.
a reply and or rejoinder thereto shall be filed within one week from the date of the receipt of the copy of the objection.
