we have heard learned counsel on both sides.
the admitted facts are that the respondents through their agents had registered trade mark raleigh and other trade marks 12 marks under the indian merchandise marks act1889 4 of 1989 and the trade marks act1940 5 of 1940 the trade and merchandise marks act1958 43 of 1958 for short the act which came into force with effect from october 31958 has repealed the predecessor act and now the act is in operation.
the respondents entered into an agreement with sudhir kumar sen on november 31948 to render technical know how to the indian company to be formed which would manufacture bicycles and market them under raleigh s indian trade marks.
pursuant thereto a company called sen raleigh limited came into existence which manufactured cycles with technical assistance by the respondents raleigh industries of u k and marketed the bicycles with a brand name and trade marks belonging to the respondents.
on april 241954sen.
raleigh was recorded as permitted users of the trade marks.
by agreement dated december 291962sen raleigh and the respondents agreed that sen raleigh was registered user for further period up to 1976 sen raleigh was taken over by the government of india on september 81975 under the idr act and the government took over the management of sen raleigh limited.
the agreement dated december 291962 was modified and the respondents were given option to terminate the agreement.
an agreement dated december 201976 was entered into between the appellant as registered user and the respondent in respect of 12 trade marks for a period of 5 years.
on march 281978joint application by sen raleigh and the appellant duly signed by the respondent as proprietor and sen raleigh limited as registered user came to be made before the registrar of trade marks.
on october 241980sen raleigh was nationalized and got vested in the appellant corporation by publication of the notification under idr act.
on march 51982the respondent wrote a letter to the appellant that in the absence of a new agreement they were instructing their advocate to prevent the appellant by restraint proceedings to use the trade mark effective from april 11982.
on march 241982the appellant made an application under sections 3246 and 56 of the act against the respondents in the high court of calcutta in suit no 26692 pleading inter alia that the respondents had failed to provide technical assistance by passing the technical know how to sen raleigh after november 11976 neither the appellant nor sen raleigh were registered users of the trade mark after november 11976.
a continuous period of 5 years or longer had passed and the trade mark had not been bona fide used by the respondent.
by proceedings dated june 131984the registrar of trade marks informed the appellant that the registered user s applications were abandoned since the appellant failed to comply with the statutory requirements.
after termination of the collaboration and user agreement between the appellant and the respondents it was likely to cause confusion and deception amongst the trade and public.
the conduct of the respondents was not violative of s 32b and c the court in those circumstances declined to rectify the trade mark and strike it off from the register of trade marks.
on appeal the division bench in appeal no 1391 confirmed the same holding that on and from october 251980the respondent had allowed and permitted the appellant to manufacture bicycles etc according its specifications and to pass off the goods under their trade marks.
there is no specific bar for an unregistered lincesee to use registered trade mark so long as there is a connection in the course of trade between the licenser and the lincesee.
the appellant was unable to prove that there had been no such user of the trade mark for a continuous period of 61 months or longer and the lack of bona fide intention the expression by any registered proprietors in s 461b should not be restricted to user by proprietor or registered user who should also include bona fide or authorized users the legislature did not intend to register proprietor to be deprived of their property at the instance of user whose use is unregistered.
the expression therefore should not be restricted to user by the proprietor himself or any registered user but should also take into account bona fide authorized user.
non registration of the user agreement by sen raleigh and the appellant was due to the default of the latter.
the discretion therefore was not to be extended in favour of the appellant.
it is his pivotal contention that undisputedly when the respondent was not in urge of trade mark as a registered proprietor or its agent sen raleigh as permitted user for a period of 5 years immediately preceding the date of the application u s 46 for removal of the trade mark from the register there was no bona fide user thereof in relation to those goods by the proprietor himself.
the construction put up by the high court renders sub s 2 of s 48 otiose or surplus age which interpretation is impermissible.
it is contended that the registered user must be understood to be the user by the proprietor or authorized user registered under section 48 the period of 5 years should be computed from that date of expiry of registered user.
the division bench therefore was wrong in its conclusion that the appellant has failed to establish it.
on the other hand it is for the respondent to prove the same.
the respondents did not prove that they were prevented to use the same for 5 years or more preceding the date of the application.
in the absence of such a findings the high court was wrong in law in refusing to rectify the trade mark and striking it off the register.
in normal circumstances when it is established that the trade mark was not used either by the registered proprietor or the permitted user the public interest of supply of the quality of the goods marketed by the appellant should be taken into factual consideration for removal of the trade mark from the register.
in view of the prohibition to import bicycles the respondent was prevented to use the trade mark but by collaboration agreement it was continuing to use the trade mark by the permitted user.
the discretion exercised by the court must be judged in the light of the facts and circumstances the appellant having used the trade mark it does not lie in the mouth of the appellant to contend that he is not a permitted user or a bona fide user of the trade mark.
in view of the diverse contentions the question arises whether the high court was right in refusing to rectify and strike off the trade marks of the respondents from the register of trade marks.
s 48 1 envisages that subject to the provisions of section 49a person other than the registered proprietor of a trade mark may be registered as a registered user thereof in respect of any or all of the goods in respect of which the trade mark is registered otherwise than as defensive trade mark.
the central government is empowered to prevent trafficking in trade mark.
the question is whether the trade connection exists to dispel the charge of trafficking in the trade mark.
this question was considered by this court in american home products corporation vs mac laboratories pvt ltd and anr 1985 indlaw sc 464 and they need no reiteration.
it was therefore not a case of getting the trade mark registered under the predecessor act and continuing under the act for trafficking of the trade mark.
we have given anxious consideration to the reasoning therein.
suffice it to hold that subs 3 of s 46.
is not attracted to the facts in this case.
the question then is whether the discretion has been properly exercised by both the division bench as well the single judge in refusing to take off the trade mark from the register by striking off trade mark from the register of the registrar of trade marks.
the high court in our view declined for good reasons to rectify the trade mark under section act b of the act.
in these circumstances we are of the view that the high court has properly exercised its discretion and refused to rectify and strike off the trade mark from the register of trade marks of the registrar.
the appeal is accordingly dismissed but in the circumstances without costs.
