March 22.
Samanta purchased the leasehold interest of Banerji and thereafter on November 23 1900 it appears that Samanta bad surrendered his rights under the previous lease in favour of the Raja and taken a fresh lease of the same 300 bighas on a reduced rent.
On June 10 1901 Jugal Kishore Lal granted a lease of 96 bighas out of his 400 bighas to one D M Mathews.
The defendants denied that they had encroached upon the plaintiff   coal land and stated that the suit was barred by limitation.
No plan was annexed to this lease deed.
The southern boundary of this leasehold is given as the northern boundary limit of the leasehold land of Girish Chandra Samanta and others and the western boundary is shown as the eastern boundary of Chatkari Jorh as per the map annexed.
As the plan is a part of the lease deed it is clear from the plan that the northern boundary of the leasehold of Samanta is the said line.
One interesting feature is that a map has been referred to in each of the documents and the said map shows that the line drawn from point A to point B is the boundary between the two leaseholds.
The map exhibit 3b annexed to the lease deed executed in favour of the respondents  predecessor in interest clearly demarcates the boundary line between the holdings of the appellant and the respondents and according to that plan the disputed extent falls within the boundary of the respondents  holding.
It is well settled that a map referred to in a lease should be treated as incorporated in the lease and as 499 forming part of the said document.
He held that article 48 of the Limitation Act applied to the suit and that the appellant had failed to prove that the respondents had knowledge of the sinking of the quarries and pits in the encroached land.
On appeal the High Court accepted the finding.
Obviously where a person has a right to sue within three years from the date of his coming to know of a certain fact it is for him to prove that he had the knowledge of the said fact on a particular date for 501 the said fact would be within his peculiar knowledge.
It is the obligation of the plaintiff to satisfy the court that his action is not barred by lapse of time see Lalchand Marwari vs Mahanth Rampur Gir 1 and Rajah Sahib Perhlad Sein vs Maharajah Rajender Kishore Sing 2 .
He stated in his evidence that the appellant had encroached upon the South Kujamal Colliery in Seam Nos 10 11 and 12 and another special seam known as 4 feet seam and that in August 1941 be came to know about the encroachment for the first time when the Mines Department forwarded a plan of the joint workings of the two collieries of the parties.
In the cross examination two suggestions were made to him namely that in 1932 there was a survey of the plaintiffs  and defendants  coal land by the Mines Department and that Seam Nos 11 and 12 were 1 Pat 312.
He denied that he had any knowledge of the said two facts.
After noticing the words in the last column of the article the learned Judges proceeded to observe thus  The starting date of limitation in the case of conversion is the date when the person who has the right to possession first learns of the act of conversion.
But the courts found from Commissioner s maps that in the encroached portion there were only underground workings and that the quarries were mostly outside the encroached area.
Appeal dismissed.
