ION Criminal Appeal 89 of 1961.
Appeal by special leave from the judgment and order dated December 8 1960 of the Allahabad High Court in Criminal Appeal No 1782 of 60 and Referred No 125 of 1960 section K Kapur for the appellant G C Mathur and C P Lal for the respondent.
December 19.
The Judgment of the Court was delivered by RAGUHBAR DAYAL J.
Ram Singh appeals by special leave against the order of the Allahabad High Court dismissing his appeal and confirming 204 his conviction and sentence of death under section 302 IPC by the Session Judge Etawah.
The prosecution case in brief is that due to enmity the appellant caused injuries to Sheo Sahai who was sleeping in his cattle shed in village Bhadurpur Ghar with a sword at about mid night on the night between June 14 15 1960.
Sheo Sahai died of the injuries received.
The appellant thereafter proceeded to the Canal Distributory at some distance from the village and had a bath there.
Later on he went to the Police Station Ekdil nine miles away and lodged a report.
He delivered the sword which has been found by the Serologist to be stained with human blood.
The appellant was taken in custody and as a result of the investigation was sent up for trial The appellant denied the allegation that he had caused the death of Sheo Sahai and alleged that he was falsely accused of the offence.
He also denied the other allegations for the prosecution.
He alleged that one Paley Singh informed him about the murder of Sheo Sahai and asked him to go to the Police Station Ekdil and to inform the Station Officer orally about the murder.
He did accordingly.
He was detained at the Police Station till 11 am the next day and was then put up in the lock up.
The Sub Inspector took his thumb impression forcibly on three papers but did not tell him the reason.
The appellant adduced no evidence in support of his statement.
The Courts below rightly did not accept his version.
The evidence led by the prosecution consisted of the evidence relating to motive to his extrajudicial confession to one Ujagar Singh when he was having a bath in the Canal to his purchasing the sword and to his delivering it at the police Station after he had dictated the report.
Both the Courts below rightly believed the evidence about the motive and purchase of the sword by the appellant.
205 The learned Sessions Judge believed Ujagar Singh and acted on the extra judicial confession made by the appellant to him.
The High Court however did not rely on this extra judicial confession.
It relied on certain statements made by the appellant in his report dictated at the Police Station and considered those facts together with the motive and the evidence about the purchase of the sword sufficient to confirm the appellant s conviction and sentence.
The learned counsel for the appellant has argued that the entire report dictated by the appellant was inadmissible in evidence as its contents amounted to a confession of the offence by the appellant made to a Police Officer and that the evidence relied upon by the High Court was insufficient to establish that the appellant had murdered Sheo Sahai.
On the other hand learned Counsel for the respondent urged that the High Court was wrong in rejecting the statement of Ujagar Singh about the appellant s extra judicial confession and that the extra judicial confession together with the circumstances relied on by the High Court fully make out the prosecution case against the appellant.
He also urges that such portions of the report which did not amount to a direct admission of the appellant s striking Sheo Sahai with a sword and thereby causing his death were admissible in evidence.
We do not consider it necessary to decide whether any portion of the report dictated by the appellant at the Police Station is admissible or not in evidence as there is good independent evidence with respect to the four matters mentioned in the report and relied on by the High Court in considering the case against the appellant.
These admissions of the appellant are i that he purchased a cycle from the deceased ii that there was a quarrel in a play of cards iii that he purchased a sword and iv that he deposited the sword at the Police Station.
Ajit Singh bears no enmity with the appellant.
Kehar Singh PW3.
We need also consider whether the facts that the accused had a motive to harm Sheo Sahai and that he had purchased a sword a day before the incident and deposited it stained with human blood at the Police Station on the night of the murder are sufficient to establish that it must be the appellant who committed the murder of Sheo Sahai or not as we are of opinion that the High Court erred in rejecting the statement of Ujagar Singh about the appellant s confessing to him that he had murdered Sheo Sahai.
We agree with those reasons.
Both on account of the temperature and on account of the culprit s desire to wash of blood marks on his person the appellant s bathing in the Canal at that hour of the night cannot be said to be improbable.
It is not stated by sub Inspector Kishan Singh nor it is alleged that the appellant had on his person or on his clothes blood stains when he presented himself at the Police Station.
The fact that he had the sword which was stained with human blood leads to such a supposition even if the mere possession of a sword so stained be not sufficient to establish conclusively that the person who possessed it so shortly after the murder of a person with whom he had enmity had committed the murder.
There is no reason to think that the appellant would not make such a statement when the appellant himself proceeds to the Police Station and hands over the blood stained sword.
We agree with the view of the learned Sessions Judge and do not consider Ujagar Singh s conduct of continuing to remain on his field during the night to be so improbable as to affect his veracity.
Appeal dismissed.
