Civil Appeal No 50 of 1961.
January 29.
This is an appeal by special leave in an industrial matter.
The same day Sankaran protested against his suspension and requested that in any case the departmental inquiry should be expedited.
Two witnesses were produced before the tribunal in connection with the alleged misconduct but the tribunal did not rely on them on the ground that the important witnesses namely the Engineer the Secretary and other members of the staff whose evidence would have been of more value had not been produced and no explanation had been given why they were not produced.
The claim thus put forward on behalf of the appellant is that it is entitled under r 18a of the Standing orders which is a term of contract between the appellant and its employees to dispense with the service of any employee at any time by just giving 14 days notice or paying 12 days wages.
We are of opinion that this claim of the appellant cannot be accepted and it is too late in the day for an employer to raise such a claim for it amounts to a claim to hire and fire an employee as the employer pleases and thus completely negatives security of service which has been secured to industrial employees through industrial adjudication for over a long period of time now.
As far back as 1952 the Labour Appellate Tribunal had occasion to consider this matter relating to discharge by notice or in lieu thereof by payment of wages for a certain period without assigning any reason see Buckingham and Carnatic Co Ltd Etg.
etc 1.
It was of opinion that even in a case of this kind the requirement of bona fides is essential and if the terminataton of service is a colourable exercise of the power or as a result of victimisation or unfair labour praction the industrial tribunal would have the jurisdiction to intervene and set aside such termination.
Further it held that where the termination of service is capricious arbitrary or unnecessarily harsh on the part of the employer judged by normal standards of a reasonable man that may be cogent evidence of victimisation or unfair labour practice.
and Assam Oil Company vs Its Workmen 2.
The reason given by the appellant in the order terminating the services of Sankaran of July 8 1958 namely that the proposed inquiry if conducted would lead to further friction and deterioration in the rank and file of the employees in general and also that maintenance of discipline in the undertaking would be prejudiced if Sankaran were retained in service cannot be accepted at its face value so that the necessity for an inquiry intended to be held for misconduct actually charged might be done away with.
Learned counsel for the appellant however relies on the decision of this Court in Parshotam Lal Dhingra vs Union of India.
Appeal dismissed.
