March 24 1964.
The general practice of the Company both at the Head Office and the Branch Offices appears to have been to retire its employees at the age of 55 though in certain cases the Company in its discretion permitted an employee to continue beyond that age.
In September 1959 an agreement was entered into between the Company and its employees at Calcutta under which the age of retirement was extended to 58 years subject to the employees passing a medical examination on reaching the age of 55.
It is against this decision that the present appeal has been filed by the workmen.
According to this the pensionable age is 70 in two countries 67 in another two 65 in twenty four 60 in seventeen 55 in two and 50 in one.
In support of their demand for fixing the age of retirement at 60 the workmen tried to show that in recent years at least the tendency in comparable concerns in Bombay region has been to fix the retirement age at 60.
The Court pointed out that though this was a relevant consideration its effect had to be judged in the light of other material and relevant circumstances and that one of the important material considerations in this connection would be that the age of retirement can be and often is determined on industry cum region basis.
The Court then took into account the fact that the Tribunal had found that in all the awards in recent times in various concerns in Bombay region the trend had been to fix the age of retire ment at 60 years.
Reliance was placed for this purpose on the Chart exhibit Cl.
There is no indication at all as to how long ago the age of retirement in these concerns was fixed at 55 or at 58.
The Statement filed by the workmen to explain this Chart shows that in two of these cases  viz Ingerzoll Band and Northern Assurance Co the demand for fixing the age of retirement at 60 years is under negotiation.
Having embarked an this enquiry the Tribunal appears to have taken considerable pains to perform this duty and it has ultimately persuaded itself to hold that no such trend is established in fact.
We ought to add in this connection that the approach adopted by the Tribunal in dealing with this aspect of the problem is not very commendable and that its present conclusion that what was said by itself on an earlier occasion and was confirmed by this Court in appeal was in fact inaccurate is on the whole unsound.
After careful consideration of all the materials placed on this record we have however found nothing to justify any doubt about the correctness of what was said on the earlier occasion.
What the Tribunal has failed to notice is that instances which may justify a revision of the judicial opinion expressed on an earlier occasion about a particular trend must be strong and unambiguous and they must speak for the period both before and more particularly after the previous finding had been recorded in the matter.
On a consideration of all the facts and circumstances disclosed by the oral and documentary evidence on this record we have come to the conclusion that the age of retirement of the appellant workmen should be fixed at 60.
Accordingly we allow the appeal with costs and in modi fication of the award made by the Tribunal direct that the age of retirement for the workmen of the respondent be fixed at 60.
