January 11.
This is an appeal by the State of West Bengal from a judgment of a Full Bench of the High Court of Judicature at Calcutta quashing the conviction of the respondent by the Special Court established under sec tion 3 of the West Bengal Special Courts Ordinance 1949 Ordinance No 3 of 1949 which was replaced in March 1950 by the West Bengal Special Courts Act 1950 West Bengal Act X of 1950 hereinafter referred to as the Act.
The High Court by a Full Bench consisting of the Chief Justice and four other Judges quashed the conviction and directed the trial of the respondent and the other accused persons according to law.
 Sections 6 to 15 prescribe the special procedure which the court has to follow in the trial of the cases referred to it.
Co 2.
2  293 offences as there can of course be no trial of offences in the abstract and the general expressions used in providing for the power to set that machinery in operation must be restricted to that end in accordance with the intention of the legislature for a literal construction of the general language would impute to the legislature an intention to confer an arbitrary power of reference which would be incon sistent not only with the declared object of the statute but also with the constitutional prohibition against discrimina tion which the legislature must be taken to have been aware of when it deliberately re enacted the provisions of the old Ordinance.
In my opinion the true position is as follows  As a general rule if the Act is fair and good the public authority who has to administer it will be protected.
It is designed to prevent any person or class of persons for being singled out as a special subject for discriminatory and hostile legislation.
The only answer for withholding from such persons the pro tection of article 14 that could reasonably be given to these inquiries would be that Of all other accused persons they are a class by themselves and there is a reasonable 315 difference between them and those other persons who may have committed similar offences.
That is so yet to carry that presumption to the extent of always holding that there must be some undisclosed intention or reason for subjecting certain individuals to a hostile and discriminatory legislation is to make the pro tection clause of article 14 in the words of an American decision a mere rope of sand in no manner restraining State action.
The result is that the appeals fail and are dismissed.
It is against this decision that these two appeals have been taken to this court by the State of West Bengal.
The article lays down that the State shall not deny to any person equality before the law or the equal protection of the laws within the territory of India.
His first line of argument is that quite apart from the question of classification there has been no infringement of article 14 of the Constitution in the present case.
It was held by the Supreme Court that the equal protection clause was not violated by this provision.
That a judicial discretion has to be exercised on the basis of the facts of each case in the matter of granting the application for a struck jury does not really involve discrimination.
It is not stated that it is only when speedier trial is necessary that the discretion should be exercised.
It must appear not only that a classification has been made but also that it is based upon some reasonable ground some difference which bears a just and proper relation to the attempted classification1.
The order in question laid down that it would be unlawful for any person to engage in laundry business within the corporate limits without having first obtained the consent of the Board of Supervi sors except the same to be located in a building constructed either of brick or stone.
It appears to be an accepted doctrine of American courts that the purpose of the equal protection clause is to secure every person within the States against arbitrary discrimination whether occasioned by the express terms of the statute or by their 1  331 improper application through duly constituted agents.
It was held that the equal protection clause could be availed of against the taxing officer but if he was found to have acted bona fide and the discrimination was the result of a mere error of judgment on his part the action would fail.
The position therefore is that when the statute is not itself discrimi natory and the charge of violation of equal protection is only against the official who is entrusted with the duty of carrying it into operation the equal protection clause could be availed of in such cases but the officer would have a good defence if he could prove bona fides.
In the opinion of the learned Chief Justice if the State Govern ment had directed certain offences or classes of offences committed within the 1  332 territory of West Bengal to be tried by the Special Court the law or order could not have been impeached as discrimi natory.
It is said that in cases where the law does not lay down a standard or form in accordance with which the classification is to be made it would be the duty of the officers entrust ed with the execution of the law to make the classification in the way consonant with the principles of the Constitution 2.
The difference brought about by a statute may be of such a trivial unsub stantial and illusory nature that that circumstance alone may be regarded as cogent ground for holding that the stat ute has not discriminated at all and that no inequality has in fact been created.
 In order to be a proper classification so as not to offend against the Constitution it must be based on some intelligible differentia which should have a reason able relation to the object of the Act as recited in the preamble.
It is urged by the learned AttorneyGeneral that this selection of cases must also be made in the light of the object of the Act as expressed in its preamble that is to say the State government can only select those cases which in their view require speedier trial.
Preliminary inquiry before committal to the sessions trial by jury or with the aid of assessors the right of a de novo trial on transfer of a case from one Court to another have been taken away from the accused who are to be tried by a Special Court even graver is section 13 which provides that a person may be convicted of an offence disclosed by the evidence as having been committed by him even though he was not charged with it and it happens to be a more serious offence.
