Appeal No 647 of 1966.
I N Shroff for respondent No 1.
There will be a further provision in the decree that the liability arising out of the declaration that the appellant is in Government service is the liability of the State of Gujarat and that the liability for the payment of the arrears of pay is the liability of the State of Maharashtra.
On March 25 1954 he was suspended and at that time he was acting as Accountant at Rajkot Central Jail.
The plaintiff filed a written statement on September 4 1954 and an enquiry was held by Mr Gangopadhyay.
The plaintiff appeared before that officer and cross examined witnesses.
This order was amended on February 9 1955 in which it was stated that the aforesaid order should be read so as to show that the plaintiff was dismissed from service on account of charge of accepting illegal gratification from prisoner Ratilal Jivan having been conclusively proved against him in the departmental inquiries conducted against him by the Government.
The High Court held that the failure on the part of the competent authority to provide the plaintiff with a copy of the report of the Enquiry Officer amounted to denial of reasonable opportunity contemplated by article 3112 of the Constitution.
Moreover as pointed out by the High Court the Inspector General of Prisons had the report before him and the tentative conclusions arrived at by the Enquiry Officer were bound to influence him and in depriving the plaintiff of a copy of the report he was handicapped is not knowing what material was influencing the Inspector General of Prisons.
921 As observed by Gajendragadkar J as he then was in Union of lndia vs H C Goel1 the enquiry report along with the evidence recorded constitute the material on which the Government has ultimately to act.
As is well known the State of Bombay was reorganised into the above two States and the Bombay Reorganisation Act 1960 contained various provisions for the apportionment of assets and liabilities between the two States.
RKPS Appeal dismissed.
