The deity of his worship was Shri Vithal Rukhamai.
The High Court by its order of 1920th December 1962 set aside the order of the District Judge and held the Sansthan to be a public trust under the Act and restored the order of the Charity Commissioner.
His only contention is that it is a private religious endowment and not a public one.
He submits that there is no evidence of long user of this temple by 521 the public as a matter of right.
The Sanad being an ancient Royal grant is a very important piece of evidence to show that although Sakharam Maharaj the founder of the temple had already been succeeded by Guru Govindbuwa and the latter by Balkrishnabuwa the land had been held in the year 1860 61 in the name of the Devasthan.
After him the present Buwa Purshottam came to Gadi.
This is a document which was relied upon both by the District Judge as well as by the High Court.
That ownership is of your own.
You are free to give and take as per the Shishya sampradaya as has been done previously.
As stated above we are unable to hold that recitals in these documents taken as a whole can reasonably lead to the conclusion that the Sansthan is a private property.
Again in the gift deed exhibit 39 the donee is described as Shri Rukhmini Pandurang Sansthan Sansthan Amalner Sakharam Maharaj at present Vasudev Buwa Guru Bal 525 krishna Maharaj.
Hence with the intention object that some service may be rendered by me for his Devasthan I have given in gift out of love the below mentioned property valued at Rs 600 Six hundred without taking any consideration from you for the purpose of expenses of performing worship and offering Naivadya food.
It is clear that the beneficiaries of the deeds are the deity and the Sansthan and the gifts were made with the object of maintenance of the worship of the deity for the benefit of the Hindu public as a whole.
It is very significant that in the last gift deed exhibit 38 of January 28 1949 there is a most reverential reference to Shri 526 Sakharam Maharaj and his Devasthan when Sakharam Maharaj had departed in the past century.
vs Sm.
You are free to give and take as per the Shishya sampradaya as has been done previously.
This property goes from Guru to his Shishya.
