Tax Reference Cases Nos 3 to 5 of 1975 Tax Reference under Section 257 of the Income tax Act 1961 made by the Income tax Appellate Tribunal Cuttack Bench Cuttack PA Francis Champat Rai and Miss A Subhashini for the Appellant.
CSS Rao for the Respondent.
The question can be disposed of shortly.
The expression net wealth is defined by cl.
The definition embodied in the substantive part of cl.
q of s2 indicates that broadly Parliament has fixed upon the last day of the previous year as defined under the Income Tax Act as the valuation date.
The figure of net wealth of the assessee at the end of the previous year takes into account the financial activities of the assessee during that previous year.
His financial activities during that period determine how his net wealth on a particular valuation date differs from his net wealth on the immediately preceding valuation date.
There is an obvious advantage in adopting as the valuation date the last day of a period which is also the relevant period under the Income Tax Act.
The reasons for defining the valuation date in terms of the last day of the income tax previous year stop there.
The system of accounting mercantile or cash or hybrid is of no relevance for the purpose of determining the assets of the assessee.
That appears plainly from the definition or net wealth which speaks of the aggregate value of all the assets belonging to the assessee on the valuation date.
All the assets of the assessee bar those expressly excepted by the statute are to be taken into account and it is immaterial whether the assessee employs one system of accounting or another.
There is clear indication that the assets to be considered are not circumscribed by any consideration of the particular system of accounting adopted by the assessee.
The assets are not confined to cash.
Where the asset is an asset other than cash its value is determined pursuant to sub section.
I of s7 as the estimated price which in the opinion of the Wealth Tax Officer the asset would fetch if sold in the open market on the valuation date.
In other words it would be the estimated open market value of the rights in the property which constitute the asset.
When we speak of the value of a property on a legal plane we refer to the value of the rights in that property.
In the result the question is answered in the affirmative in favour of the Revenue and against the assessee.
There is no order as to costs.
