On or about 2nd January 1985 the order of detention was passed on an incident relating to the exchange of fire between two rival groups.
As a result of this firing one innocent namely Brahamdeo Mishra was killed.
In this case subject and his associates opened fire on police party who went to apprehend Raghunath Singh absconder under NSA.
Sri Sisir Rajan Das however acceded to their request and started dancing.
The order of detention though dated 2nd January 1986 was served on or about 11th January 1986.
The petitionerappellant states that he desired that he should be heard in person by the Advisory Board.
The petitioner appellant was in detention when the petitionerappellant was served with the order of detention.
There were criminal cases against the petitioner.
In the said case investigation was in progress and the defence of the petitioner in the murder case was that he was falsely implicated and was not at all concerned with the murder.
The service of order of detention on the petitioner while he was in jail was futile and useless since such an order had no application under section 32 of the Act.
In the affidavit of the District Magistrate the detaining authority it has been stated that the activities of the petitioner s brother and the petitioner have disturbed the normal tempo of life in Katras and Jogta Police Stations in Dhanbad area.
It further appears from the affidavit f f the District Magistrate filed before the High Court of Patna that the petitioner was absconding from the very day of the issuance of the detention order.
There is a statement in the order as follows D Subject is already in jail.
He is likely to be enlarged on bail.
 According to the District Magistrate when police pressure to apprehend him became heavy the detenu opted to surrender before the Sub Divisional Judicial Magistrate on 10th January 1986 in substantive case to frustrate the service of the detention order.
The grounds stated that there was indiscriminate firing on 24th December 1985 on Katras Coal Dump and the petitioner started indiscriminate firing to kill Birendra Pratap Singh a rival of his calendestine business of coal to establish the criminal superiority in full view of the shopkeepers customers and passers by of the area.
26986.
If a man is in custody and there is no imminent possibility of his being released the power of preventive detention should not be exercised.
