MKD Namboodary for the Petitioner in SLP Civil N o 6998 of 1988.
access to the records which 24 were fabricated at the relevant time the Inquiry Officer h ad come to the conclusion that the applicant was the mast er mind behind the scheme to defraud the Project.
with the disciplinary authority whi le dismissing the applicant from service.
There will be no order as to costs.
The Tribunal however h as held that the respondent was guilty of entering the name of Ashok Kumar in the pay roll of May 4969.
It provides power to Parliament to enact law for establishme nt of Administrative Tribunals for adjudication of disput es with regard to service matters.
There should be only one Tribunal for t he Union of India and one for each State or for two or mo re States put together.
Section 28 excludes t he jurisdiction of all Courts except the Supreme Court.
In pursuance of the provisions of the Act the Centr al Government has established the Central Administrative Trib u nal with a Bench at Chandigarh whose order has been cha l lenged before us.
Jurisdiction powers and authority of t he Central Administrative Tribunal 27 1 Save as otherwise expressly provided in th is Act the Central Administrative Tribunal shall exercise on and from the appointed day all the jurisdiction powers a nd authority exercisable immediately before that day by a ll courts except Supreme Court in relation to a recruitment and matters concerning recrui t ment to any All India Service or to any civil service of the Union or a civil post under the Union or to a po st connected with defence or in the defence services being in either case a post filled by a civilian b all service matters concerning Similar are the powers and authority of the State Ser v ice Tribunal under sec.
The powers of the High Cour ts under Article 226 in so far as they are exercisable in relation to service matters stand conferred on the Tribun al established under the Act.
Section 27 provides for finality of t he orders of the Tribunal.
The Tribunal thus could exercise on ly such powers which the Civil Court or the High Court cou ld have exercised by way of judicial review.
Because the Tribunal is just a substitute to t he civil court and High Court.
If the High Court is satisfied that if some but not all of t he findings of the Tribunal were unreasonable the order of the Governor on whose powers by the rules no restrictions in determining the appropriate punishment are placed w as final and the High Court had no jursidiction to direct t he Governor to review the penalty for as we have alrea dy observed the order of dismissal passed by a competent a u thority on a public servant if the conditions of the co n stitutional protection have been complied with is n ot justifiable.
We must unequivocally state that the jurisdiction of t he Tribunal to interfere with the disciplinary matters or punishment cannot be equated with an appellate jurisdictio n.
The Tribun al also cannot interfere with the penalty if the conclusion of the Inquiry Officer or the competent authority is based on evidence even if some of it is found to be irrelevant or extraneous to the matter.
