before his death he executed a will on 16th november 1924 the construction of which is in controversy in this appeal.
by this will he gave the following directions after my lifetime you the aforesaid ranganayaki amminal my wife shall till your lifetime enjoy the aforesaid entire properties the outstandings due to me the debts payable by me and the chit amounts payable by me.
as regards the payment of maintenance to be made to chinnanmal alias lakshmi ammal wife of my late son hariharamayyan my wife ranganayaki ammal shall pay the same as she pleases and obtain a release deed.
on 21st february 1928 she settled the maintenance claim of lakshmi ammal and obtained a deed of release from her by paying her a sum of rs 3350 in cash and by executing in her favour an agreement stipulating to pay her a sum of rs 240 per annum.
ramalakshmi died on 25th april 1938 during the lifetime of the widow.
none of her children survived her.
on the 24th july 1945 the widow describing herself as an absolute owner of the properties of her husband sold one of the items of the property to the 2nd defendant for rs 500.
on the 18th september 1945 the suit out of which this appeal arises was instituted by the plaintiff the husband and the sole heir of ramalakshmi for a declaration that the said sale would not be binding on him beyond the lifetime of the widow.
the plaintiff was allowed to amend his plaint and include therein a prayer for a declaration in respect of the invalidity of these alienations as well.
it was averred in the plaint that ramalakshmi obtained a vested interest in the suit properties under the will of her father and plaintiff was thus entitled to maintain the suit.
in view of this finding he granted the plaintiff a declaratory decree to the effect that the first defendant had only an estate for life in the suit properties and that the alienations made by her would not endure beyond her lifetime.
the unsuccessful defendants preferred an appeal against this decree to the high court of judicature at madras.
the high court by its judgment under appeal affirmed the decision of the trial judge and maintained his view on the construction of the will.
it was not contested before us that a hindu can by will create a life estate or successive life estates or any other estate for a limited term provided the donee or the persons taking under it are capable of taking under a deed or will.
he wished to make his daughter a fresh stock of descent so that her issue male or female may have the benefit of his property.
they were the real persons whom he earmarked with certainty as the ultimate recipients of his bounty.
in express terms he conferred on his daughter powers of alienation byway of gift exchange sale but in sharp contrast to this on his widow he conferred no such powers.
and these shall thereafter pass to her daughters.
the extent of the grant so far as the properties mentioned in the schedule are concerned to the daughter and the widow is the same.
if that was the intention the testator would clearly have said that the daughter would only take the properties remaining after the death of the widow.
the widow can not be held to have been given a full hindu widow s estate under the will unless it can be said that under its terms she was given the power of alienation for necessary purposes whether in express terms or by necessary implication.
it was argued that such a power was implicit within the acts she was authorized to do that is to say when she was directed to pay the debts and settle the maintenance of ramalakshmi it was implicit within these directions that for these purposes if necessity arose she could alienate the properties.
this suggestion in the surrounding circumstances attending the execution of this will can not be sustained.
indeed we find that within four years of the death of the testator the widow was able to pay a lump sum of rs 3350 in cash to the daughter in law without alienating any part of the immovable properties and presumably by this time she had discharged all the debts.
by this transaction she substituted one property by another.
in this situation the inference that the testator must have of necessity intended to confer on the widow power of alienation for those limited purposes can not be raised.
and she thus got an interest in it on the testator s death.
she was given a present right of future enjoyment in the property.
according to jarman jarman on wills the law leans in favour of vesting of estates and the property disposed of belongs to the object of the gift when the will takes effect and we think the daughter got under this will a vested interest in the testator s properties on his death.
the learned counsel in support of his contention drew our attention to a number of decisions of different high courts and contended that the words of this will should be construed in the manner as more or less similar words were construed by the courts in the wills dealt with in those decisions.
however out of respect for learned counsel on both sides who adopted the same method of approach we proceed to examine some of the important cases referred to by them.
mr krishnaswami iyengar sought to derive the greatest support for his contention from the decision in ram bahadur v jager.
the will there recited that if a daughter or son was born to the testator during his lifetime such son or daughter would be the owner of all his properties but if there was no son or daughter his niece section would get a bequest of a lakh of rupees and the rest of the movable and immovable properties would remain in possession of his wife until her death and after her these would remain in possession of his niece.
the remainder was disposed of in the following words if on the death of my wife and my niece there be living a son and a daughter born of the womb of my said brother s daughter then two thirds of the movable property will belong to the son and one third to the daughter.
they will of course be entitled to enjoy the balance left after payment of rent.
the provisions contained in this will bear no analogy to those we have to construe.
the restraint against alienation was repugnant to both a life estate and a widow estate and was not therefore taken into account.
but there were other indications in that will showing that a widow s estate had been given.
assuming that it is possible to create a hindu woman s estate not with standing the addition of a gift over the question nevertheless whether that had been done in a given case must depend on the terms of the particular instrument under consideration.
the following remarks in the privy council decision in nathu ram mahajan v gangayabai 1938.
2 m l j 562 were next cited as the will gave her the right to enjoy the income of the estate during her lifetime it was evidently contemplated that she should as provided by the hindu law in the case of a widow be in possession of the estate.
such casual observation made in respect of a will couched in entirely different terms can not afford much assistance in the decision of the case.
my self acquired properties shall on my death be enjoyed by my wife till her death and after her death they shall pass to my daughter.
it seems to us that he meant to give a daughter s estate rather than a life estate.
the words used in favour of the grandsons seem to indicate that the estate conferred on the daughter was not a life estate because there is no direct gift in favour of the grandsons but on the other hand what he says is that through his daughter the estate shall pass to his grandsons.
reliance was next placed on maharaja of kolhapur v sundaram iyer 1925 i l r 48 mad.
these remarks do not throw much light on the point before us.
in other words that she should take an estate very much like the ordinary estate of a hindu widow.
in construing the will of a hindu it is not improper to take into consideration what are known to be the ordinary notions and wishes of hindus with respect to the devolution of property.
these observations are unexceptionable but it may also be pointed out that it is open to a hindu to confer a limited life estate on his widow or even a larger estate than a widow takes as an heir and that in every case he may not confer upon her by will a hindu widow s estate which she would otherwise get by inheritance.
the learned counsel for the respondent followed the line adopted by mr krishnaswami iyengar.
in the first instance he placed reliance on a decision of the madras high court in ratna chetty v narayana swami chetty 19i4 26 m l j 616.
if the two could not agree and live together amicably my wife would pay rs 4000 and separate him.
this decision only decides that case and is not very relevant in this enquiry.
reference was also made to the decision of their lordships of the privy council in mst.
bhagwati devi v chowdry bholonath thakur 1874 75 2 i a 256.
this was a case of a gift inter vivos.
chunderbutti his wife was in these terms the remaining milkiut and minhai estates together with the amount of ready money articles slaves and all household furniture i have placed in the possession of mst.
the subordinate judge held that chunderbutti got an estate for life with the power to appropriate profits and girdhari got a vested remainder on her death.
if she took the estate only of a hindu widow one consequence no doubt would be that she would be unable to alienate the profits or that at all events whatever she purchased out of them would be an increment to her husband s estate and the plaintiffs would be entitled to recover possession of all such property real and personal.
this will was couched in different language than the will in the present case.
the will there ran as follows.
when i die my wife named suraj is owner of that property.
appeal dismissed.
