in the year 1929 the andhra engineering co which was originally a partnership firm formed by one d l n raju was converted into a private limited company with its headquarters at visakhapatnam.
it obtained licences from the government under the electricity act for supply of electrical energy to visakhapatnam anakapalli and some other places.
as the aeco did not have the necessary capital to undertake the work raju floated in the year 1933 a public limited company called visakhapatnam electric supply corporation ltd and another in the year 1936 called the anakapalli electric supply corporation ltd the aeco transferred its licences for the supply of electrical energy to the consumers of visakhapatnam to vesco and similarly transferred to aeco the licence to supply electrical energy to consumers at anakapalli.
the aeco was appointed managing agent for each of these corporations under separate agreements.
some time later other industrial concerns the andhra cements ltd vi jayawada and the east coast ceremics.
rajahmurthy were started apparently by raju himself and the aeco was appointed the managing agent of each of these concerns.
the aeco on the other band always had a managing director first of whom was d l n raju.
according to the prosecution both these concerns were running smoothly and efficiently during the lifetime of d l n raju because he was personally attending to their affairs.
his successor however apart from the fact that be continued to be staying mostly at rajahmundry was also interested in several other ventures including a sugar factory at dewas in central india.
the aeco as managing agents of vesco had appointed in the year 1939 one d v appala raju a trusted employee as its representative and as the secretary of vesco.
in 1944 this person resigned from his appointments and started his own business in radio and electrical goods in the name of d brothers.
he was succeeded by t visweswara rao p w 6 an employee of the aeco.
the respondent No 1.
ganeswara rao was also an old employee of aeco having been appointed a stenotypist in the year 1923 on an initial salary of rs p m eventually he became the head clerk therein.
he pressed his claim for appointment as secretary of vesco and representative of the managing agents at visakhapatnam and r h g raju appointed him to that post.
he was thus all important with respect to the every day affairs of vesco.
his dual capacity enabled the respondent No i to earn the confidence not only of the directors of aeco but also of those of vesco.
as secretary of vesco it was his duty to convene the meetings of the board of directors to present before them the periodical statement of receipts and expenditure of vesco to convene meetings of the general body to prepare the managing agents report and the director s report as also to see to the presentation of auditors report and the statement of accounts.
it was also his duty to have the accounts of vesco audited by the auditors elected by the general body and to produce before the auditors the relevant accounts vouchers bank statements and so on.
of which the respondent No i was a director.
r k n g raju took till towards the end of 1947 and died at madras in april 1948.
according to the prosecution the respondent No i wanted to take advantage of this fact and conceived of a scheme for misappropriating as much money belonging to vesco as possible before the managing agency agreement of aeco came to an end in october 1948.
i secured the promotion of the approver k v ramana who was originally accounts clerk to the post of senior accountant.
similarly k v gopala raju was transferred from the post of stores clerk to the general department and k s n murty the discharged accused was appointed stores clerk in his place.
according to the prosecution the respondent No i took both the approver and lakshminarayana rao in his confidence as also some other persons known and unknown for carrying out his nefarious purpose namely the misappropriation of the funds of vesco during the subsistence of aeco s managing agency of vesco.
the conspiracy is said to have been hatched in the year 1947 and falsification of accounts and misappropriation of funds of vesco went on till the end of the accounting year.
i continued to be the secretary of vesco and resident representative of the managing agents throughout the period of conspiracy.
after the death of r k n g raju it was discovered that the aeco was indebted to many concerns which were under its managing agency the liability being shown either as that of aeco or that of r k n g raju personally.
again the vesco was shown as indebted to the andhra cement to the extent of rs 42 000.
i and some of his friends were in search of a rich and substantial man who would be amenable to them to fill the post of managing director of aeco.
he was assured that by consenting to become the managing director be would not be required to discharge onerous duties and that the respondent No i would look to all the affairs of vesco.
he was also told that apart from signing important papers which may be sent to him by the respondent No i from time to time to manchili or wherever be might be would have no work to do.
he agreed and was elected managing director of aeco in the middle of 1948.
by cheques.
but domestic consumers usually paid their bills in cash to the bill collectors who used to hand over their collections to the respondent No 2.
i opened four personal accounts in different banks including the imperial bank of india.
another thing which the respondent No i initiated was opening a heading in the ledger called advance purchase of materials.
amounts which had been misappropriated used to be posted therein though in fact no orders were placed for any material.
it may be mentioned that subba raju used to visit visakhapatnam twice a month and check up the account books.
a lakh of rupees passed through that account.
amounts which were misappropriated used to find their way in this account.
a new cash book was also said to have been prepared by the conspirators with the object of covering up the misappropriations which had been made.
subbaramayya took his work seriously and called for information on a number of points from the respondent No 1.
in january 1952 he therefore brought one section g krishna aiyar who had vast experience in the maintenance of accounts of electrical undertaking s having been chief accountant of the south madras electric supply corporation to undertake an investigation and then to act as financial adviser.
in the meantime on november 29 1951 there was a meeting of the general body at which the accounts were among other things to be considered.
however the meeting was postponed and eventually held on december 9 1951.
on that date the respondent No 1 produced the auditor s report.
according to the prosecution the report is a forged document.
that was also the feeling of a number of shareholders who wanted to see the original but one dutt who was chairman of the meeting after seeing exhibit p 234 said that the report seemed to be a genuine one.
that report showed that during the period 1948 49 rs 33 271 10 0 shown as paid to the andhra power system were in fact not paid.
on february 12 1952 the respondent No i wrote to the managing director admitting his responsibility and agreed to make good the amounts found short or such other amounts as would be found short up to the end of march 1952.
on april 30 1952 the respondent No 1 by selling some of his property himself paid rs 50 000 to the andhra power system towards the sum due to it from vesco and had promised to pay the balance shortly thereafter.
he was given time for doing so but he failed to pay it.
on the next day the police placed an armed guard around the office of the respondent No i and seized a number of papers.
as a result of investigation they found that there was a total misappropriation of rs 3 40 000.
on may 13 1954 a chargesheet was filed against the two respondents as well as murti and the approver ramana.
according to it the provisions of section 239 were of no avail.
section 409 and section 471467 are of different kinds and are not capable of joint commission.
therefore they could not be jointly tried.
in so far as the respondent No 2 is concerned the high court has held that since he was charged with a specific offence under s 409 i p c he could not be convicted of mere abetment of an offence.
mr bhimasankaram appearing for the two respondents however has not sought to support the judgment of the high court on all these points.
3 irrelevant evidence was introduced and some evidence was introduced in a manner not authorised by the evidence act.
4 that the court abused its powers under s 342 cr.
p c while conducting the examination of the respondents.
if the evidence of the approver is left out the remaining evidence would be inadequate to sustain the prosecution case.
on the face of it this is a valid charge.
but certain objections have been taken to it with which we will deal at the appropriate place.
it is clear from the charge that some of the amounts were misappropriated between april 1947 and march 1950 some between april 1947 and march 1949 some between april 1947 and march 1951 and quite a large number between september 1947 and march 1950 and a still large number between april 1951 and march 1952.
it is thus apparent that offences committed within a space of 12 months were tried along with offences committed beyond that period.
mr bhimasankaram supports the reason given by the high court for coming to the conclusion that there was a misjoinder of charges.
each clause is an exception to the general rule enacted in section 233 cr.
if such a combination is permissible all persons accused of offences described in cls.
a to g can be tried together in one case which certainly involves a bewildering multiplicity of charges and which would obviously set at naught the salutary principle contained in section 233.
section 224 deals with the interpretation of the language of the charge and section 225 with the effect of errors in the charge.
section 232 deals with the power of the appellate court or the high court when it discovers that there is material error in the charge.
but it also provides that this will be subject to the exceptions contained in sections.
234 235 236 and 239.
section 234.
section 2351 however goes a step further and permits the trial of a person for more offences than one if they are so connected together as to form the same transaction.
it also permits that charges could be framed against an accused person in the alternative if the court thinks fit.
here however we have a case where the prosecution alleges that there was additionally a conspiracy to which apart from the two respondents the approver and some other persons were parties and where in both the respondents were tried together.
a conspiracy must be regarded as one transaction and there fore a single individual charged with it could be tried with the aid of section 2351 for all the acts committed by him in furtherance or in pursuance of the conspiracy without the limitations imposed by s 2341.
let us therefore examine closely the provisions of section 239.
it will be useful to set out the provisions of that section which run thus this first thing to be noticed is that section 239 does not read as if its various clauses can be applied only alternatively.
on the other hand at the end of cl.
if the intention of the legislature was that the provisions of these clauses should be available only alternatively it would have used the word or and not and which has the opposite effect.
of course a court has the power to depart from the grammatical construction if it finds that strict adherence to the grammatical construction will defeat the object the legislature had in view.
does this mean that the provisions of section 233 234 235 and 236 must also be complied with.
obviously section 233 does not override the provisions of section 239.
it could not have been the intention of the legislature to create such a situation.
bhimasankaram contended that s 239 must be read at least subject to sections 2341 and 2351 on the ground.
c of section 239 is subject to the provisions of section 234.
in our opinion the words within the meaning of section 234 indicate that what was meant by the words offence of the same kind persons accused of more offences than one of the same kind not exceeding three in numberor may have used the words person accused of more than one offence of the same kind to the extent permissible under section 234.
the expression same transaction occurring in cls.
a c and d of section 239 as well as that occurring in section 2351 ought to be given the same meaning according to the normal rule of construction of statutes.
looking at the matter in that way it is pointless to inquire further whether the provisions of section 239 are subject to those of section 2361.
is also an enabling provision to be availed of in case of doubt and it is meaningless to say that section 239 is subject to section 236.
for even in the absence of those words the earlier provisions could not have been ignored.
indeed the very expression so far as may be empha sises the fact that while the earlier provisions have to be borne in mind by the court while applying section 239 it is not those provisions but the latter which is to have an overriding effect.
a large number of decisions of the different high courts and one of the privy council have been considered in this case.
but while this principle is easy to appreciate and follow where one person alone is the accused and the interaction or intervention of the acts of more persons than one does not come in it would where the same act is committed by several persons be not only inconvenient but injudicious to try all the several persons separately.
but here again if those offences are alleged not to be wholly unconnected but as forming part of the same transaction the only consideration that will justify separate trials would be the embarrassment or difficulty caused to the accused persons in defending themselves.
in other words as the high court puts it persons included in two or more of the groups can not all be tried together and that since there is absolutely nothing to connect one group with any other the persons of one group can not be tried with those of any other.
no reason has been stated in support of this view.
now if persons a b and c are tried for an offence of murder what intrinsic difficulty would there be in trying x y and z of abetment of the same offence.
let us consider these clauses along with another illustration.
a and c can not be combined.
for without combining these two clauses their joint trial for the two offences in each of which both have participated would be impermissible.
some of the members of the unlawful assembly carried axes with them while some others carried lathis and attacked the other group.
during the course of the attack one person from the second group was killed as a rest of blows with an axe inflicted by the aggressors a b and c two persons of the second group sustained grievous hurt as a result of lathi blows and one person sustained simple hurt.
a of section 239.
d yet the transaction in which the offences were committed is the same and there is a close association amongst the persons who have committed the different offences.
all these persons can be jointly tried for offences under section 147 by recourse to cl.
a so also a b and c could be jointly tried together for an offences under section 302.
similarly z can be charged with offence s under sections 147 323 and offences under section 302.
read with section 149 and section 325.
read with section 149.
similarly if we take cl.
d by itself all of them can be tried jointly for the different offences committed by each of them in the course of the same transaction and if cl.
a is unavailable they could not be tried for the offence under section 147 at the same trial.
it is difficult to appreciate what purpose would be served by separating the trial for the same offence from the trial for different offences.
p c clearly was to prevent multiplicity of trials and not only would that object be defeated but an extraordinary result will ensue if the various clauses of section 239 are read disjunctively.
in that case the question was whether a person who was first tried for an offence under section 380 i p c for stealing a blank second class railway ticket from the booking office tried for it and acquitted could not be tried subsequently for the offence of forgery by making entries in that ticket and using it.
the acquittal in the previous case was urged as a bar under section 4031 of the code to the trial for an offence under section 467 i p c the contention apparently was that this was a case which fell under section 236 cr.
p c and that if he had been tried alternatively for both the offences at the same trial the court could have dealt with him under section 237 cr.
it is difficult to appreciate how this case assists the conclusion arrived at by the high court.
in d k chandra s case 1951 indlaw mum 117 f b it was held that the provisions of sections 234 235 and 236.
being exceptions to section 233 must be strictly construed and that if joinder of charges did not fall under any of them it would be illegal and contrary to law.
in so far as some of the charges were concerned this court pointed out that the special judge who was to try the case should consider splitting them up so that the accused persons would not be prejudiced in answering the charges and defending themselves.
no doubt the offence mentioned in charge No i is alleged to have been committed not by just one person but by all the accused and the question is whether all these persons can be jointly tried in respect of all these offences.
in that case this court upheld the order of the high court of madras in quashing the charges in the exercise of its inherent powers even before the conclusion of the trial.
that again was a matter which came before the high court before conviction and not after the trial was over.
in willie william slaney v the state of madhya pradesh all the learned judges were in agreement on the point that this section and section 535 cover every case in which there is departure from the rules set out in ch.
for all these reasons we can not accept the argument of learned counsel on the ground of misjoinder of charges and multiplicity of charges.
in swamirathnam s case 1 which is a decision of this court certain persons were tried for the offence of the conspiracy to cheat the members of the public and for specific offences of cheating in pursuance of that conspiracy.
it was urged before this court that there was misjoinder of charges and persons.
no doubt there is no discussion there as to the question whether the various clauses of section 239 could be combined or as to the impact of the provisions of section 233 to 236 on those of section 239.
the actual decision of the case is however directly opposed to the contention now put forward before us.
here again the question of clubbing together of the various provisions of cls.
a to d of section 239 was not raised expressly in the argument before the court.
but the ultimate decision of the case would negative such argument.
in the first place there the trial had not actually begun.
objection was taken very seriously by mr bhimasankaram to the charge of conspiracy framed in this case.
in the indian penal code as originally enacted conspiracy was not an offence.
section 120 b which makes criminal conspiracy punishable was added by the indian criminal law amendment act 1913 8 of 1913 along with section 120 a section 120 a defines conspiracy and section 120 b provides for the punishment for the offence of conspiracy.
criminal conspiracy as defined in section 120 a and consists of an agreement to do an illegal act or an agreement to do an act which is not illegal by illegal means.
criminal conspiracy was however not an unknown thing before the amendment of the indian penal code in 1913.
but what the amendment did was to make that conspiracy itself punishable.
but it does not follow that where crimes have been committed the liability to punishment already incurred under section 120 b by having entered into a criminal conspiracy is thereby wiped away.
but that would be a matter ultimately within the discretion of the court before which the trial takes place.
in so far as the portion included in the bracket is concerned we agree with the learned counsel that it should not have found place there.
even assuming for a moment that this charge is cumbersome in the absence of any objection by the respondents at the proper time and in the absence of any material from which we could infer prejudice they are precluded by the provisions of section 225 from complaining about it at any rate after their conviction by the trial court.
his second contention was that reference was made to a number of documents in some of these questions and those documents were not made available to the respondents for answering those questions.
in support of his first contention he referred to questions nos 4 8 9 10 and 20 put to the respondent No i and question No 12 put to the respondent No 2 and tried to show that those questions rolled up a large number of separate questions and that it could not have been possible for the respondents to give any rational answers to those questions.
that is to say they have given their explantion regarding the circumstances appearing in the evidence set out in the questions and wherever that was not feasible they have said that they would do so in their written statements.
a pointed reference was made to question.
No i which contains as many as 22 sub heads and it is said that it was an extremely unfair and embarrassing question.
his object was to obviate the possibility of a complaint before the appellate court that they were denied the opportunity of explaining the circumstances appearing in evidence against them because of defective questions.
nor again do we think that there is any substance in the complaint made that the respondents had no opportunity of referring to the documents to which reference has been made in certain questions.
it is true that by introducing this provision the disability placed on an accused person in respect of giving evidence on oath in his own defence has been removed and to that extent such person is placed on par with an accused person under the english law.
apart from that the respondents were represented by counsel at the trial who knew very well what the law was.
no complaint was made by the respondents even in appeal that they were ignorant of their right that had they known about it they would have given evidence on oath in their defence and that because of this they have been prejudiced.
in the circumstances this point must also be rejected as being without substance.
the irrelevant evidence to which mr bhimasankaram referred was certain account books.
fact misappropriated by the respondents in the circumstance that there are no corresponding entries in the account books of those firms.
the argument before the high court was and before us is that the absence of an entry can not of electricity duty to government.
section 34 does not go beyond that.
it says nothing about non existence of entries in account books.
cal 1024 upon which reliance is placed by the high court in support of its view is also to that effect.
similarly in ram prashad singh v lakhpati koer 1902 i l r 30.
that however is not the only provision to be considered.
some of the facts in issue in this case are whether payments of certain sums of money were made to crompton engineering co and other firms or authorities.
for the purpose of showing that no amounts were received by the firms their account books would thus be as relevant as the vesco account books for the purpose of showing the contrary.
both the sets of facts are relevant that is non receipt of the amounts by the firms and non existence of entries in their account books pertaining to those amounts.
the best evidence to prove the latter set of facts consists of the account books of the firms themselves.
it is under these provisions that the account books of the firms must be held to be relevant.
papers seized by the police include receipts purporting to have been signed by one j j billimoria on behalf of the firm.
in coming to this conclusion it has relied upon the provisions of section 356 2a of the code of criminal procedure.
in the circumstances we wish to say nothing further on the point.
further 64 documents were missing from the records when they came to the high court and that this has caused serious prejudice to the respondent.
section 160 provides that a witness may also testify to the facts mentioned in any such document as is mentioned in section 159.
the complaint of mr bhimasankaram is that the approver should have been questioned about the various facts which were sought to be established through his evidence and it was only if and when he was in a difficulty that he should have been allowed to refer to the account books.
in our opinion where a witness has to depose to a large number of transactions and those transactions referred to are or mentioned either in the account books or in other documents there is nothing wrong in allowing the witness to refer to the account books and the documents while answering the questions put to him in his examination.
that is precisely what happened in this case and we do not think that the additional sessions judge adopted a procedure which was either a violation of law or was an abuse of the power of the court.
further according to him the evidence of the approver was found by the additional sessions judge to be unreliable and therefore the first condition referred to in sarwan singh v the state of punjab was not satisfied.
for all these reasons the evidence of the approver must be left out of account.
section 337 1 as it stood before its amendment by act 26 of 1955 read thus.
he contends that since the offence is punishable with transportation for life section 337 1 could not be availed of for granting pardon to the approver.
it seems to us that it would not be correct to read section 337 1 in the way sought by learned counsel.
on the strength of these considerations mr chari for the state contends that if the words any offence punishable with imprisonment which may extend to 10 years were interpreted to mean offences which were punishable with imprinsonment of less than 10 years grave offences which are not exclusively triable by a court of sessions will be completely out of section 337 1.
it will be noticed that transportation for life was not the only punishment provided for an offence under section 409 of the indian penal code even before the amendment made to the indian penal code by section 117 of the act 26 of 1955 the other alternative being imprisonment up to 10 years.
it is true that the respondent No i alone was convicted by the additional sessions judge of this offence and the offence under section 467 read with section 471 but the validity of a pardon is to be determined with reference to the offence alleged against the approver alone and not with reference to the offence or offences for which his associates were ultimately convicted.
no doubt under entry 9 a in part iii of sch.
a case under enquiry or trial before another magistrate does not fall in any of these classes.
para 4 of the instructions provides.
the additional district magistrates independent would also be under the control of the government through the board of revenue.
the category of judicial magistrates was constituted of the following 1 district magistrate 2 sub divisional magistrates 3 additional first class magistrates and 4 second class magistrates sub magistrates.
consequent on the separation.
he became only an additional district magistrate.
part iv of the government order deals with the allocation of powers between the judicial and executive magistrates.
however that is not the point which is relevant while considering the argument of mr bhimasankaram.
his point is that the proviso to section 3371 confers the power on the district magistrate to grant pardon in a case pending before another magistrate and not on a district magistrate and therefore his power to grant pardon in such cases can not be conferred under sub s 2 of section 10 on an additional district magistrate.
in our opinion there is no subtance in the contention.
iii when it refers to the power of a district magistrate under section 337 1 does not exclude the power under the proviso.
iii of the government order which reads thus.
mr chari for the state advanced a further argument before us in case his main argument that the pardon was valid failed and said that the approver even if we ignore the pardon was a competent witness.
mr chari then referred to section 133 of the evidence act and pointed out that this section clearly makes an accomplice evidence admissible in a case and that an approver whose pardon is found to be invalid does not cease to be an accomplice and contends that he is therefore as competent a witness as he would have been if he had not been granted pardon at all and not been put on trial.
if pardon is tendered to an accused person and eventually it is found that the pardon is illegal such person is pushed back into the rank of an accused person and being no more than an accomplice would be a competent witness.
mr chari in support of his contention has cited a large number of cases indian as well as english and certain passages from halsbury s laws of england.
of course the view taken by the additional sessions judge is not binding on the high court.
but it should remove from its mind the misconception that the additional sessions judge has not believed him.
appeal allowed.
case remanded.
