it was stated that according to the practice prevailing in the erstwhile state of travancore the cultivators could enter into unoccupied waste lands belonging to the janmies with the object of cultivating and improving them and as they held the lands under them by paying rent the consent of the jemies to such occupation was implied.
january 1918 in the district court at quilon for a declaration of its title to those properties.
in that suit the appellant after his application for registration was rejected sought to get himself impleaded but that application also was rejected.
112 of 1100 1925 a d as the suit of the illom had been finally disposed of and the title of the illom to the lands was not established the appellant apprehending that he might be ejected in the above l c case filed a suit.
o s 156 of 1103 m e 1927 28 a d in the district court at quilon against the respondent to establish his right and title to the said 160 acres and in the adjoining cherikkal lands in his possession.
against that order a civil miscellaneous appeal No 206 of 1110 m e 1934 35 a d was filed in the high court of travancore.
cc set out the improvements made by the appellant on the lands which comprised of a bungalow in which the appellant was residing a number of small houses.
a rubbers state and a large number of other valuable trees like jack trees mango trees coconut trees etc.
112 of 11 00 m e an order was passed for dispossessing the appellant on july 24 1939 ext.
the appellant pursuant to this order was dispossessed from the lands and possession of these lands was given to the second defendant nair service society ltd in august 1939.
112 of 11 00 m e and he was evicted in due course that the trespass by the appellant was of recent origin that the allegation that the entry was made in the belief that the land belonged to the illom was false that the revenue and forest departments did not harass the appellant but they took steps for dispossessing him only in accordance with the law that the commissioner s report was not correct in that all the improvements noted by the commissioner were not made by the appellant but by other independent squatters that after due notice an order of forfeiture had been passed in l c case.
112 of 1100 m e and the appellant was therefore not entitled to claim any value for improvements as it was his duty to remove any building before he was evicted.
several issues were framed but it is not necessary to refer to them except to say that the suit was decreed only for rs 3000 being the value of the appellant s bungalow taken possession of by the respondent.
it was observed by the trial court that though there is no specific evidence to show when exactly the possession of the appellant had commenced the evidence however indicated that it must have started close to the year i 100 m e and that in any case the claim of the appellant that possession was from 1030 m e was not true inasmuch as from the year 1067 m e when the act was passed possession without permission was penal and it could not be imagined that the appellant was left in peace for all these long years.
all this according to the trial court would show that the appellant was aware that he was remaining on government lands without title.
in the circumstances the question that had to be considered was whether without an order of forfeiture being passed the respondent could forfeit the improvements.
on this issue it was held that no notice of forfeiture of trees.
the high court accepted the finding of the trial court on issue.
it then said if the possession commenced only about the year 1100 it certainly can not be under any bona fide claim of title for even on.
12 6 1094 the petitioner knew that the land was government land and had then applied for assignment of the land.
in this view it held that compensation for trees which are to be dealt with under the general law can not be decreed in favour of a mere trespasser who had no rights therein.
appellant be allowed to remove them after his dispossession.
from the lands from which he was evicted he would be entitled to claim compensation for the improvements made by him.
section 9 of the act is in the following terms any person unauthorised occupying any land for which he is liable to pay a fine under section 6 and an assessment or prohibitory assessment under section 7 may be summarily evicted by the division peishkar and any crop or other product raised on the land shall be liable to forfeiture and any building or other structure erected or anything deposited thereon shall also if not removed by him after such written notice as the division peishkar may deem reasonable be liable to forfeiture.
forfeiture under this section shall be disposed of as the division peishkar may direct.
an eviction under this section shall be made in the following manner namely by serving a notice on a person reported to be in occupation or his agent requir ing him within such time as the division peishkar may deem reasonable after receipt of the said notice to vacate the land and if such notice is not obeyed by removing or deputing a subordinate to remove any person who may refuse to vacate the same and if the officer removing any such person shall be resisted or obstructed by any person the division peishkar shall hold a summary enquiry into the facts of the case and if satisfied that the resistance or obstruction still continues may issue a warrant for the arrest of the said person and on his appearance may send him with a warrant in the form of the schedule for imprisonment in the civil jail of the district for such period not exceeding 30 days as may be necessary to prevent the continuance of such obstruction or resistance provided that no person so committed or imprisoned under this section shall be liable to be prosecuted under sections 176 179 and 181 of the travancore penal code in respect of the same facts.
in these circumstances the question that would arise for determination is whether the trees come within the description of other product raised on the land.
but this is not relevant as what has to be considered is whether trees can be said to be other product raised on the land.
it was pointed out by the learned advocate that the high court was in error in equating other product raised on the land with emblements because the definition of crop in black s law dictionary does include emblements as such the words other product can not also be treated as emblements and must therefore be given a different meaning which according to him would include trees.
in this sense the term includes fructus industrials and having regard to the etymology of the word it has been held to mean only products after they have been severed from the soil.
notice of this trespass was given to the defendant.
in our view therefore trees are not included within the meaning of other products raised on the land in section 9 of the act and there is therefore no obligation on the government to give notice of forfeiture under that section.
it is then contended that even if trees are not included in section 9 and no notice of forfeiture is necessary under the general law even a trespasser on the land whether bona fide or not is entitled to compensation or damages for the improvements made by him on the land.
not applicable in india but that is not to say that a wrongful trespasser can plant trees on someone else s land and claim a right to those trees after he is evicted.
the case of vallabdas narainji v development officer bandra a i r 1929.
p c 163 1929 indlaw pc 11 which was cited by the learned counsel for the appellant does not assist him for the privy council did not think it necessary to give a decision on what it termed to be a far reaching contention.
that was a case in which the government had taken possession of the lands and had erected certain building on the land before a decision under section 6 of the land acquisition act was made as to the appellant s property arid it was contended that the appellant should be allowed the value of the land in the state in which it then was i e with buildings on it.
in his helplessness the plaintiff had even applied to government to give him the land in which he had effected improvements on kuthakapattom.
but out of the said land 160 acres were taken out of my possession and given to the 2nd defendant even without giving me the opportunity to remove the movable improvements such as cultivation cattle machines utensils houses stocked crops ripe crops etc belonging to me.
as it has now been contended before us.
which belonged to him.
it is in this connection he says that no legal procedure had been followed by government for taking them into possession which only implies that it is in respect of the items mentioned in paragraph 3.
no doubt in the evidence of the plaintiff p w 1 states that he was evicted from the lands without giving him an opportunity to remove the improvements and in cross examination he was asked whether he was not given any notice prior to the dispossession and he said that certainly no notice was received.
appeal dismissed.
