although he waxed sentimentally on this note he did not convince us on his contentions.
a compensation assessment roll containing the gross asset and net income of each estate together with the compensation payable in respect of such estate has to be prepared by him.
against the background of law just projected we may set out shri purohit s points which if we may say so are substantially the same as have been argued by him in revision before the high court with partial success.
for convenience of reference we may extract the statement by the high court of the contentions urged before it and repeated before us by the appellant.
b v of the act make it clear that the date of vesting is the last date by which the calculation of compensation should have been made.
as admittedly compensation had not been calculated by the date of vesting the compensation officer lost his statutory jurisdiction to do so.
it is this court which by its order dated 10 4 1969 in civil revisions 201 202 and 203 of 1968 conferred new jurisdiction on the compensation officer to deal freshly with the case and therefore notwithstanding anything contained in the act the compensation has to be calculated according to the directions given by the court 2 the court was fully aware of the statutory provision in section 262.
b v of the act but in spite of it the direction was that the divisional forest officer should make the appraisement.
4 assuming that section 262 b v would have full force what it contemplates is that the appraisement must be made by the d f o and it is subject to the approval by the chief conservator of forests.
but what has happened here is that the chief conservator himself made the appraisement without referring to the appraisement made by the d f o and as such the appraisement made by the chief conservator is invalid.
during the agricultural year immediately preceding the abolition the petitioners had not actually derived any income from the forests and as such they were under no obligation to pay any income tax on such income.
8 compensation money should be so calculated that the purchasing power of the amount of compensation to be paid on the date of actual payment will not be less than its purchasing power on the date of vesting and 9 interest should be calculated at not less than 12 per annum from the date of vesting till payment.
but before examining this essential issue we may dispose of the minor points pressed so that the deck may be cleared for dealing with what deserves to be dealt with.
here there is good reason to depart from the old rule of full compensation and it perhaps legitimates the reduced rate of recompense.
moreover the high court has rightly pointed out that the validity of section 373 of the act which fixes a small rate of interest on the compensation amount has been upheld by the supreme court in gajapati narayan s case.
it is more or less a world phenomenon that the erosi on in value of the unit of currency has been taking place but this invisible devaluation owing to the inflationary spiral does not affect the quantum of monetary compensation prescribed by statute.
law is sometimes blind.
the appellant challenges the slab system of compensation provided in the act which awards smaller multiples for estates yielding larger incomes on the score of violation of the fundamental rights under the constitution.
point No 6 in the list of contentions earlier reproduced is also bereft of force and we may make short shrift of it.
no income therefore no income tax and therefore no deduction is the syllogism of shri purohit.
he forgets that in the case of forests it is the assumed income and not the actual income that forms the basis of calculation of compensation.
indeed if the actual income were to be the foundation for computation of compensation on the premise that not actual income has accrued the compensation might be zero.
section 262.
gross asset when used with reference to an estate means the aggregate of the rents including all cesses which were payable in respect of the estate for the previous agricultural year b by the raiyats or any other persons cultivating the land other than the land settled with the intermediary or intermediaries under sub s 1 of section 7 and includes.
indeed preliminary to the appraisal operation the intermediary receives a notice in form d rule 13 and he is expected to furnish a return of the relevant particulars and supporting information to enable correct appraisement.
in the present case the appellant did submit the d return to the compensation officer and adduced some evidence to substantiate it.
later revision petition were filed before the high court and g k misra j set aside the order disallowing the inclusion of the income from forests for ascertainment of compensation and directed a remand to the compensation officer.
it is open to the petitioners to give evidence that after the date of vesting many of the trees and forest produce have been removed.
besides the evidence already on record would be taken into consideration.
no other evidence would be permissible as the state has not chosen to give any other evidence.
but in such a case the materials must be brought to the notice of the petitioners who would be entitled to cross examine the witnesses connected therewith and may give rebutting evidence.
but he pointed out that the forest officer had omitted to include the income from kendu leaves and added that sum to the income from forests.
even so the total figure was less than what the divisional forest officer had recommended.
the compensation officer accepted the report of the chief conservator and made the statutory calculation on that date.
a second appeal was filed by the appellant before the board of revenue without success.
having heard the appellant at some length we see no flaw in the high court s order on this aspect of the matter.
it is astonishing that anyone should urge as the appellant did that the date of vesting is the last date by which the calculation of compensation should have been made and since that had not been done the compensation officer had become functus officio in awarding compensation.
nor is it right to contend as the appellant did that the compensation officer s jurisdiction was created by the order of remand by the high court.
it follows that after the present second remand the re appraisal of the annual net income can not be done solely by the forest officer without securing the approval of the chief conservator.
nor can the compensation officer by pass the chief conservator on the misunderstood strength of the high court s first order of remand.
and this holds good after the second remand order that the forest officer will do the appraisement of the annual income forward his report to the chief conservator of forests who will take the said report into consideration and if necessary make modifications therein or approve it with such changes as he deems fit.
certainly the chief conservator can not be ignored by the compensation officer nor can the chief conservator ignore the assessment made by the forest officer and go through an independent exercise.
in this context it is perhaps not irrelevant to remember that the appellant a freedom fighter is an 83 year old man and at this stage of his life the state should show commisseration not merely in quickly disposing of the proceedings but also in not being cantankerous in awarding and disbursing the balance compensation.
