it was just the other day that our brothers ranganath misra and m m dutt jj had to give directions in a case vincent panikurbangara v union of india where a public spirited litigant had complained about the unscrupulous exploitation of the indian drug and pharmaceutical market by multinational corporations by putting in circulation low quality and even deleterious drugs.
barlagan ketone a bulk drug was not treated as an essential bulk drug under the drugs prices control.
order 1970 and was not included in the schedule to that order.
a manufacturer was under the provisions of that order free to continue to sell the drug at the price reported by him to the central government at the time of the commencement of the order but was under an obligation not to increase the price without the prior approval of the central government.
order came into force the distinction between essential and non essential bulk drugs was abolished and a maximum price had to be fixed for barlagan ketone also like other bulk drugs.
for the moment ignoring the price fixed by the government we see that the price of rs 24735 per kg.
at which the manufacturer was previously selling the drug and at which he continues to market the drug to this day because of the quashing of the order fixing the price by the high court is so unconsciously high even compared with the price claimed by himself that it appears to justify the charge that some manufacturers do indulge in profiteering.
profiteering in the scarce resources of the community much needed life sustaining food stuffs and lifesaving drugs is diabolic.
t must be remembered that article 39b enjoins a duty on the state towards securing that the ownership and control of the material resources of the community are so distributed as best to subserve the common good.
the essential commodities act is a legislation towards that end.
section 31 of the essential commodities act enables the central government if it is of opinion that it is necessary or expedient so to do for maintaining or increasing supplies of any essential commodity or for securing their equitable distribution and availability at fair price to provide for regulating or prohibiting by order the production supply and distribution thereof and trade and commerce therein.
in particular section 32c enables the central government to make an order providing for controlling the price at which any essential commodity may be bought or sold.
since prices of formulations are primarily dependent on prices of buli drugs the notifications fixing the retail prices of formulations were also quashed.
nevertheless the high court gave detailed directions regarding the manner of disposal of the review petitions by the high court.
the case for the union of india was presented to us ably by shri g ramaswami the learned additional solicitor general and the manufacturers were represented equally ably by shri anil diwan.
for example if the legislature has decreed the pricing policy and prescribed the factors which should guide the determination of the price we will if necessary enquire into the question whether the policy and the factors are present to the mind of the authorities specifying the price.
in the case of subordinate legislation it may happen that parliament may itself provide for a notice and for a hearing there are several instances of the legislature requiring the subordinate legislating authority to give public notice and a public hearing before say for example levying a municipal rate  in which case the substantial non observance of the statutorily prescribed mode of observing natural justice may have the effect of invalidating the subordinate legislation.
but where the legislature has not chosen to provide for any notice or hearing no one can insist upon it and it will not be permissible to read natural justice into such legislative activity.
in such a situation while such enquiry by the subordinate legislating body as it deems fit is a condition precedent to the subordinate legislation the nature and the extent of the enquiry is in the discretion of the subordinate legislating body and the subordinate legislation is not open to question on the ground that the enquiry was not as full as it might have been.
a legislative act is the creation and promulgation of a general rule of conduct without reference to particular cases an administrative act is the making and issue of a specific direction or the application of a general rule to a particular case in accordance with the requirements of policy.
legislation is the process of formulating a general rule of conduct without reference to particular cases and usually operating in future administration is the process of performing particular acts of issuing particular orders or of making decisions which apply general rules to particular cases.
it has also been said rule making is normally directed toward the formulation of requirements having a general application to all members of a broadly identifiable class while an adjudication on the other hand applies to specific individuals or situations.
administration and administrative adjudication may also be of general application and there may be legislation of particular application only.
again adjudication determines past and present facts and declares rights and liabilities while legislation indicates the future course of action.
a price fixation measure does not concern itself with the interests of an individual manufacturer or producer.
pricefixation may occasionally assume an administrative or quasi judicial character when it relates to acquisition or requisition of goods or property from individuals and it becomes necessary to fix the price separately in relation to such individuals.
such situations may arise when the owner of property or goods is compelled to sell his property or goods to the government or its nominee and the price to be paid is directed by the legislature to be determined according to the statutory guidelines laid down by it.
otherwise price fixation is generally a legislative activity.
after referring to hari shanker bagla v state of madhya pradesh 1955 1 scr 380 1954 indlaw sc 135 union of india v bhanamal gulzarimal 1960 2 scr 627 1959 indlaw sc 127 sri krishna rice mills v joint director food 1965 indlaw sc 93 unreported state of rajasthan v nathmal and mithamal 1954 scr 982 1954 indlaw sc 66 narendra kumar v union of india 1960 2 scr 375 1959 indlaw sc 61 panipat co operative sugar mills v union of india 1973 1 scc 129 1972 indlaw sc 155 anakapalle co operative agricultural industrial society ltd v union of india.
2 scr 526 1971 indlaw sc 291 a constitution bench of the court observed that the dominant object and the purpose of the legislation was the equitable distribution and availability of commodities at fair price and if profit and the producer s return were to be kept in the forefront it would result in losing sight of the object and the purpose of the legislation.
it was to be remembered that the mere fact that some of those were engaged in the industry trade or commerce allegedthat they were incurring loss would not render the law stipulating the price unreasonable.
it was observed the control of prices may have effect either on maintaining or increasing supply of commodity or securing equitable distribution and availability at fair prices.
the cost of production a reasonable return to the producer of the commodity are to be taken into account.
the fair price must be fair not only from the point of view of the consumer but also from the point of view of the producer.
if an essential commodity is in short supply or there is hoarding concerning or there is unusual demand there is abnormal increase in price.
the cases of panipat sugar mills and anakapalle co operative agricultural society were distinguished on the ground that they were governed by sub section 3c of sec.
the case of premier automobiles was distinguished on the ground that the decision was rendered by invitation and on the agreement of the parties irrespective of technical and legal questions.
the court quoted with approval a passage from secretary of agriculture v central reig refining company 330 us 604 stating suffice it to say that since congress fixed the quotas on a historical basis it is not for this court to reweigh the relevant factors and per chance substitute its notion of expediency and fairness for that of congress.
in saraswati industrial syndicate ltd v union of india 1974 2 scc 630 1974 indlaw sc 134 the court observed price fixation is more in the nature of a legislative measure even though it may be based upon objective criteria found in a report or other material.
it was also reiterated that the decision in shree meenakshi mills case was based on a special agreement between the parties and therefore had no relevance to the question before them.
in prag ice oil mills v union of india 1978 3 scc 459 1978 indlaw sc 472 a constitution bench of seven judges of this court had to consider the validity of the mustard oil price control.
chandrachud j speaking for the court approved the observation of beg cj.
referring to shri meenakshi mills the learned cj reaffirmed the approval accorded to the statement in secretary of agriculture v central reig refining company supra that courts of law could not be converted into tribunals for relief from the crudities and inequities of complicated experimental economic legislation.
panipat sugar and anakappalle society were again referred to and it was pointed out that those cases turned on the language of section 33c of the essential commodities act.
he also reaffirmed the proposition that price fixation was in the nature of a legislative measure and could not give rise to a complaint that natural justice was not observed.
a legislative measure does not concern itself with the facts of an individual case.
it is meant to lay down a general rule applicable to all persons or objects or transactions of a particular kind or class.
in new india sugar works v state of uttar pradesh 1981 2 scc 293 1981 indlaw sc 217 there was an indication though it was not expressly so stated that the question of observing natural justice did not arise in cases of price fixation.
in laxmi khandsari v state of uttar pradesh 1981 2 scc 600 1981 indlaw sc 558 it was held that the sugar cane control order 1966 was a legislative measure and therefore rules of natural justice were not attracted.
1 wlr 1973 that the rules of natural justice do not run in the sphere of legislation primary or delegated was cited with approval and two well known text books writers paul kackson and wades h w r were also quoted.
the former had said there is no doubt that a minister or any other body in making legislation for example by statutory instrument or by law is not subject to the rules of natural justice bates v lord hailsham of st marylebone supra  any more than is parliament itself edinburgh and dalkeith rv v wauchope per lord brougham 1842 8 cl f 700 720 british railways board v pickin 1974 1.
in sarkari sasta anaj vikreta sangh v state of madhya pradesh 1981 4 scc 471 1981 indlaw sc 607 it was pointed out that the amendment of the madhya pradesh food stuffs distribution control order was a legislative function and there was therefore no question of affording an opportunity to those who were to be affected by it.
in prag ice and oil mills were quoted with approval in connection with the fixation of prices of food stuffs served in restaurants.
panipat and anakapalle were both cases where the question was regarding the price payable to a person who was required to sell to the government a certain percentage of the quantity of sugar produced in his mill.
it will straight away be seen that an order under section 32f if a specific order directed to a particular individual for the purpose of enabling the central government to purchase a certain quantity of the commodity from the person holding it.
it provides that in calculating the amount to be paid for the commodity required to be sold regard is to be had to  a the minimum price if any fixed for sugarcane by the central government under this section b the manufacturing cost of sugar c the duty or tax if any paid or payable thereon and d the securing of a reasonable return on the capital employed in the business of manufacturing sugar.
it is further prescribed that different prices may be determined from time to time for different areas or for different factories or for different kinds of sugar.
it is to be noticed here that the payment to be made under section 33c is not necessarily the same as the controlled price which may be fixed under section 32c of the act.
section 33c provides for the determination of the price to be paid to a person who has been directed by the central government by an order made under section 32c to sell a certain quantity of an essential commodity to the government or its nominee.
if the provisions of section 32c under which the price of an essential commodity may be controlled are contrasted with section 33c under which payment is to be made for a commodity require to be sold by an individual to the government the distinction between a legislative act and a non legislative act will at once become clear.
legislation on the other hand looks to the future and changes existing conditions by making a new rule to be applied thereafter to all or some part of those subject to its power.
according to chief justice burger rulemaking is normally directed toward the formulation of requirements having a general application to all members of a broadly identifiable class.
bulk drugs were divided into essential bulk drugs which were included in the schedule and bulk drugs which were not so included.
in the case of bulk drugs which were not included in the schedule a manufacturer was entitled to continue to market the product at the same price at which he was marketing the products at the time of the commencement of the order.
he was required to report this price to the central government within two weeks of the commencement of the order and was further prohibited from increasing the price without obtaining the approval of the central government.
one of the terms of reference was to examine the measures taken so far to reduce prices of drugs for the consumer and to recommend such further measures as may be necessary to rationalise the prices of basic drugs and formulations.
it was said the concern about drug prices therefore really arises from the fact that many of them are essential to the health and welfare of the community and that there is no justification for the drug industry charging prices and having a production pattern which is based not upon the needs of the community but on aggressive marketing tactices and created demand.
order 1979 was made.
alternatively all formulations other than those marketed under generic names which have an annual sale in the country in excess of rs 15 lakhs inclusive of excise duty may be subjected to price control irrespective of whether or not the total annual turnover of the unit is in excess of rs 1 crore.
the ceiling price will be determined taking into account the production costs and a reasonable return for the units which are the market leaders.
prices control.
order 1979 defines bulk drug to mean any substance including pharmaceutical chemical biological or plant product or medicinal gas conforming to pharmacological or other standards accepted under the drugs and cosmetics act 1940 which is used as such or as in ingredient in any formulations.
the expressions free reserve leader price net worth now bulk drug pooled price pre tax return retention price are defined in the following manner free reserve means a reserve created by appropriation of profits but does not include reserves provided for contingent liability disputed claims goodwill revaluation and other similar reserves.
leader price means a price fixed by the government for formulations specified in category i category ii or category iii of the third schedule in accordance with the provisions of paras.
new bulk drug means a bulk drug manufactured within the country for the first time after the commencement of this order.
pooled price in relation to a bulk drug means the price fixed under para 7.
the distinction between an essential bulk drug included in the schedule and a bulk drug not so included in the schedule which was made in 1970 drugs prices control.
bulk drugs were however broadly divided into indigenously manufactured bulk drugs imported bulk drugs and hulk drugs which were both manufactured indigenously as also imported.
paragraph 34a requires a manufacturer commencing production of the bulk drug specified in the first or second schedule the price of which has already been notified by the government not to sell the bulk drug at a price exceeding the notified price.
paragraph 6 enables the government to fix the maximum sale price of imported bulk drugs specified in first and second schedules.
paragraph 9 empowers the government to direct manufacturers of bulk drugs to sell bulk drugs to manufacturers of formulations.
p c means packing charges worked out in accordance with such norms as may be specified by the government from time to time by notification in the official gazette in this behalf.
paragraph 16 provides that where any manufacturer importer or distributor of any bulk drug or formulation fails to furnish information as required under the order within the time specified therein the government may on the basis of such information as may be available with it by order fix a price in respect of such bulk drug or formulation as the case may be.
paragraph 17 requires the government to maintain the drugs prices equalization account to which shall be credited by the manufacturer among other items the excess of the common selling price or as the case may be pooled price over his retention price.
it is provided that the amount credited to the drugs prices equalization account shall be spent for paying to the manufacturer the shortfall between his retention price and the common selling price or as the case may be the pooled price.
formulations constituting categories i ii and iii are enumerated in the third schedule.
a note at the end of the proforma requires the exclusion from cost certain items of expenses such as bonus in excess of statutory minimum bad debts and provisions donations and charities loss gain on sale of assets brokerage and commission expenses not recognised by income tax authorities and adjustments relating to previous years.
shri g ramaswamy learned additional solicitor general on behalf of the union of india submitted that the fixation of maximum price under paragraph 3 of the drugs prices control.
he urged that relevant information was required to be furnished and was indeed furnished by all the manufacturers in the prescribed form as required by paragraph 34 of the drugs prices control order.
he further submitted that paragraph 27 of the central order gave a remedy to the manufacturers to seek a review of the order fixing the maximum price under paragraph 3.
he urged that the government had always been ready and wilting to give a proper hearing to the parties and in fact gave them a heating in connection with their review applications.
reference was made to the hathi committee report which had recommended a return of 12 to 14 post tax return on equity that is paid up capital plus reserves and the statement on drug policy which mentioned that ceiling prices may be determined by taking into account production costs and a reasonable return.
it was submitted that the provision for an enquiry preceding the determination of the price of a bulk drug the prescription in paragraph 3 cl 2 that the average cost of production of the drug manufactured by an efficient manufacturer should be taken into account and that a reasonable return on networth should be allowed and the provision for a review of the order determining the price established that price fixation under the drugs prices control.
it was stated that the applications of the manufacturers for review of the notifications fixing the prices had not been disposed of for years though time was really of the very essence of the matter.
it was suggested that the delay in disposing of the review applications had the effect of rendering the original notifications fixing the prices unreal and out of date and liable to be struck down on that ground alone.
order is not a legislative activity but a quasi judicial activity which would attract the observance of the principles of natural justice.
a provision for such enquiry as it thinks fit by a subordinate legislating body we have explained earlier is generally an enabling provision to facilitate the subordinate legislating body to obtain relevant information from any source and it is not intended to vest any right in any body other than the subordinate legislating body.
in the present case the enquiry contemplated by paragraph 3 of drugs prices control.
order is to be made for the purposes of fixing the maximum price at which a bulk drug may be sold with a view to regulating its equitable distribution and making it available at a fair price.
it is primarily from the consumer public s point of view that the government is expected to make its enquiry.
in fixing the price of a bulk drug the government is expressly required by the order to take into account the average cost of production of such bulk drug manufactured by an efficient manufacturer and allow a reasonable return on net worth.
the former is an enquiry leading to a legislative activity while the latter is an enquiry which ends in an administrative or quasi judicial decision.
the enquiry contemplated by paragraph 3 of the drug prices control.
notwithstanding that the price fixation is a legislative activity the subordinate legislation had taken care here to provide for a review.
it is a hearing which follows a subordinate legislative activity intended to provide an opportunity to affected persons such as the manufacturers the industry and the consumer public to bring to the notice of the subordinate legislating body the difficulties or problems experienced or likely to be experienced by them consequent on the price fixation whereupon the government may make appropriate orders.
any decision taken by the government can not be confined to the individual manufacturer seeking review but must necessarily affect all manufacturers of the bulk drug as well as the consumer public.
but whatever procedure is adopted it must be a procedure tuned to the situation.
from the legislative nature of the activity of the government it is clear that the government is under no obligation to make any disclosure of any information received and considered by it in making the order but in order to render effective the right to seek a review given to an aggrieved person we think that the government if so requested by the aggrieved manufacturer is under an obligation to disclose any relevant information which may reasonably be disclosed pertaining to the average cost of production of the bulk drug manufactured by an efficient manufacturer and the reasonable return on net worth.
for example the manufacturer may require the government to give information regarding the particulars detailed in form No 1 of the fourth schedule which have been taken into account and those which have been excluded.
that we think is the nature and scope of the review contemplated by paragraph 27 in relation to orders made under paragraphs 3 12 and 13.
in vrajlal manilal co v union of india anr 1964 indlaw sc 194 supra the court held that the union of india when disposing of an application for review under rule 59 of the mines concession rules functioned as a quasi judicial authority and was bound to observe the principles of natural justice.
the decision rendered without disclosing the report of the state government and without affording reasonable opportunity to the appellants to present their case was contrary to natural justice was therefore void.
in shivaii nathubhai v union of india ors 1960 indlaw sc 430 supra it was decided by the court that the power of review granted to the central government under rule 54 of the mineral concession rules required the authority to act judicially and its decision would be a quasi judicial act and the fact that rule 54 gave power to the central government to pass such order as it may deem just and proper did not negative the duty to act judicially.
in swadeshi cotton mills it was observed that in cases where owing to the compulsion of the fact situation or the necessity of taking speedy action no pre decisional hearing is given but the action is followed soon by a full post decisional hearing to the person affected there is in reality no exclusion of the audi alteram partem rule.
in most cases they are the sale manufacturers of the bulk drug and even if they are not the sole manufacturers they belong to the very select few who manufacture the bulk drug.
as we pointed out earlier these are all matters which should legitimately be raised in the review application if there is any substance in them.
despite the pressing invitation of shri diwan to go into facts and figures and his elaborate submissions based on facts and figures we have carefully and studiously refrained from making any reference to such facts and figures as we consider it outside our province to do so and we do not want to set any precedent as was supposed to have been done in premier automobiles though it was not so done and therefore needed explanation in later cases.
in particular he argued that item a bonus in excess of statutory minimum should not have been excluded so also items of expenditure coming under the other heads b to g which had been allowed by income tax authorities as legitimate expenses.
he submitted that the price of a formulation was dependant on the price of the bulk drug and it was therefore not right to fix the price of formulation when the price of bulk drug was in question in the review application and there was a prospect of the price of the bulk drug being increased.
no doubt the order as made on november 25 1981 has the manufacturers on terms but the consumer public has been left high and dry.
their interests have in no way been taken care of.
however we think that it is necessary to give a direction to the government to dispose of the review applications after giving a notice of hearing to the manufacturer.
as these petitions were filed beyond the prescribed period of limitation petitions for condoning the delay in filing the petitions for special leave to appeal had to be and were filed.
