the admitted facts are that the respondents through their agents had registered trade mark raleigh and other trade marks 12 marks under the indian merchandise marks act1889 4 of 1989 and the trade marks act1940 5 of 1940 the trade and merchandise marks act1958 43 of 1958 for short the act which came into force with effect from october 31958 has repealed the predecessor act and now the act is in operation.
pursuant thereto a company called sen raleigh limited came into existence which manufactured cycles with technical assistance by the respondents raleigh industries of u k and marketed the bicycles with a brand name and trade marks belonging to the respondents.
on april 241954sen.
raleigh was recorded as permitted users of the trade marks.
by agreement dated december 291962sen raleigh and the respondents agreed that sen raleigh was registered user for further period up to 1976 sen raleigh was taken over by the government of india on september 81975 under the idr act and the government took over the management of sen raleigh limited.
on october 241980sen raleigh was nationalized and got vested in the appellant corporation by publication of the notification under idr act.
on march 51982the respondent wrote a letter to the appellant that in the absence of a new agreement they were instructing their advocate to prevent the appellant by restraint proceedings to use the trade mark effective from april 11982.
simultaneously an application for registration of three trade marks an their favour was filed by the appellant on march 251982.
special circumstances as a defense were available to the respondent for non user even after 1979the supply technical know how by the respondent was not totally absent.
after termination of the collaboration and user agreement between the appellant and the respondents it was likely to cause confusion and deception amongst the trade and public.
the conduct of the respondents was not violative of s 32b and c the court in those circumstances declined to rectify the trade mark and strike it off from the register of trade marks.
non registration of the user agreement by sen raleigh and the appellant was due to the default of the latter.
the appellant had not taken any steps to withdraw registered user applications and as such should not be permitted to take such a contradictory stand of applying for rectification at the same time.
the power u s 46 is discretionary.
the discretion therefore was not to be extended in favour of the appellant.
thus this appeal by special leave.
shri raju ramchandran learned senior counsel for the appellant raised three fold contentions.
the appellant can not be said to be either the proprietor of the trade mark since 1976since the agreement lapsed or permitted user  the high court therefore was wrong in holding that 5 years period had not lapsed.
the division bench therefore was wrong in its conclusion that the appellant has failed to establish it.
he further contended that the special circumstances enumerated in sub s 3 of s 46 must be such that the respondents had intended to use the registered trade mark.
for over a long period the trade mark was not used by the respondents as its registered proprietor.
the division bench or the learned single judge did not record any finding as to the period up to which the bicycles could be imported into india and the period during which the ban was imposed but for which the respondent had an intention to import bicycles but were prevented to do so due to the ban.
the court while exercising its discretion u s 46 should look into not only commercial interest of the parties but also public interest.
shri ashok desai learned senior counsel for respondents resisted the contentions.
the appellant was using the same as an agent.
it would also be considered as a special circumstance for non user.
s 461b reads as under.
46 removal from register and imposition of limitations on ground of non use  1.
subject to the provisions of section 47a registered trade mark may be taken off the register in respect of any of the goods in respect of which it is registered on application made in the prescribed manner to a high court or to the registrar by any person aggrieved on the ground either a xxx xxx xxx xxx b that up to a date of one month before the date of the application a continuous period of five years or longer had elapsed during which the trade mark was registered and during which there was no bona fide use thereof in relation to those goods by any proprietor thereof for the time being.
sub s 2 of s 48 give defence to permitted user in relation to a registered trade mark.
it means the use of the trade mark by a registered user of the trade mark in relation to good with which he is connected in the course of trade and in respect of which the trade mark remains registered for the time being and for which he is registered as a registered user and which complies with any conditions or restrictions to which the registration of the trade marks is subjected to.
s 48 1 envisages that subject to the provisions of section 49a person other than the registered proprietor of a trade mark may be registered as a registered user thereof in respect of any or all of the goods in respect of which the trade mark is registered otherwise than as defensive trade mark.
the central government is empowered to prevent trafficking in trade mark.
it would therefore be clear that a permitted use of the trade mark should be done under sub s 1 of section 48 it.
should be either by the registered proprietor of the trade mark or a person other than the registered proprietor registered u s 481 to use the trade mark by operation of sub section 2 an un registered person u s 481 or a person who did not register u s 1 of s 48 shall not be deemed to be a registered user for the purpose of s 46 or any other law.
it is not in dispute that till date of filing of the application the appellant used the trade mark in passing off the bicycles under the trade mark of the respondent.
on admitted position and in the facts and circumstances we are of the view that the appellant was a ago user of the trade mark of the respondent in passing off the bicycles under the trade mark of the respondent who admittedly is a registered proprietor.
it requires to be prevented and prohibited.
the court would not lend assistance to such registered proprietors of the trade mark.
it is a question of fact in every case.
it is true that u s 431 either the registered proprietor or a permitted person is required to register as permitted user.
it appears that even an unregistered licensee so long as there is unbroken connection in the course of the trade between the licensor and the passing off lincesee s goods under the trade mark there would be sufficient connection in the course of the trade between the proprietor and bona fide user of the trade mark by unregistered user.
the appellant must be presumed by course of conduct that he is a bona fide user for the purpose of s 461b.
it is true that the burden flies on the registered proprietor of the trade mark to establish the exceptions provided under s 463 equally the applicant for rectification also prima facie shows non user for the relevant period.
it is also not necessary to go into the question whether the application filed by the appellant u s 481 and its pendency would be a special circumstance in favour of the respondent.
suffice it to hold that subs 3 of s 46.
in these circumstances we are of the view that the high court has properly exercised its discretion and refused to rectify and strike off the trade mark from the register of trade marks of the registrar.
the appeal is accordingly dismissed but in the circumstances without costs.
