members of general public are the shareholders and the shares of the company are traded in through various stock exchanges in the country.
on behalf of the appellant contention was raised that no writ would lie against the appellant inasmuch as the appellant is a company which is not an authority or a person against whom a writ would lie.
it was submitted that they do not discharge any public duty and hence the writ can not be issued.
on that basis the learned single judge granted reliefs sought for by the respondents however imposing certain restrictions with regard to the age being medically fit on the date of the writ petition had put in a minimum of three years of continuous service and such service prior to the attainment of the minimum qualifying age under the company should be ignored.
on appeal the division bench of the high court affirmed the view taken by the learned single judge.
the division bench referred to their decision in rakesh gupta vs hyderabad stock exchange ltd hyderabad ors.
air 1996 ap 430 1996 indlaw ap.
the form of the body concerned is not very much relevant.
the duty must be judged in the light of positive obligation owed by the person or authority to the affected party no matter by what means the duty is imposed.
on that basis the division bench of the high court dismissed the writ appeal.
1989 2 scc 691 1989.
n anadi muktas case the contention similar to the present case had been raised.
writ petitioners were seeking for a writ of mandamus to put them back in the college and they were claiming only a terminal benefit or arrears of salary payable to them.
the aided institutions it was noticed like government institutions discharge public function by way of imparting education to students.
in de smith woolf and jowells judicial review of administrative action5th edn.
by way of illustration it is noticed that a private company selected to run a prison although motivated by commercial profit should be regarded at least in relation to some of its activities as subject to public law because of the nature of the function it is performing.
after detailed discussion the learned authors have summarized the position with the following propositions 1 the test of whether a body is performing a public function and is hence amenable to judicial review may not depend upon the source of its power or whether the body is ostensibly a public or a private body.
2 the principles of judicial review prima facie govern the activities of bodies performing public functions.
however not all decisions taken by bodies in the course of their public functions are the subject matter of judicial review.
in the following two situations judicial review will not normally be appropriate even though the body may be performing a public function a where some other branch of the law more appropriately governs the dispute between the parties.
in such a case that branch of the law and its remedies should and normally will be applied and b where there is a contract between the litigants.
in such a case the express or implied terms of the agreement should normally govern the matter.
this reflects the normal approach of english law namely that the terms of a contract will normally govern the transaction or other relationship between the parties rather than the general law.
thus where a special method of resolving disputes such as arbitration or resolution by private or domestic tribunals has been agreed by the parties expressly or by necessary implicationthat regime and not judicial review will normally govern the dispute.
prima facie therefore a private person or an incorporated company can not be taken out of the sweep and the contemplation of article 226 of the constitution.
manufacture and sale of cigarettes will not involve any public function.
incidental to that activity there is an obligation under section 46 of the act to set up a canteen when the establishment has more than 250 workmen.
that means it is a condition of service in relation to a workman providing better facilities to workmen to discharge their duties properly and maintain their own health or welfare.
in other words it is only a labour welfare device for the benefit of its work force unlike a provision where pollution control act makes it obligatory even on a private company not to discharge certain effluents.
in such cases public duty is owed to the public in general and not specific to any person or group of persons.
further the damage that would be caused in not observing them is immense.
if merely what can be considered a part of the conditions of service of a workman is violated then we do not think there is any justification to hold that such activity will amount to public duty.
thus we are of the view that the high court fell into error that appellant is amenable to writ jurisdiction.
19996 scc.
439 1999 indlaw sc 513referred to the decisions in parimal chandra rahas case reserve bank of india vs workmen1996.
thereafter this court further examined whether the material on record would show that the workmen are employees of the management for all purposes and adopted some of the tests as follows.
the premises furniture fixture fuel electricity utensils etc have been provided for by the appellant.
the wages of the canteen workers have to be reimbursed by the appellant.
the contractor is nothing but an agent or a manager of the appellant who works completely under the supervision control and directions of the appellant.
thus these circumstances clearly indicate that the appellant has a complete control over the activities in respect of the canteen and the contractor has absolutely no discretion either in regard to the menu quality and quantity of the food items much less the rate at which the same are supplied to the workmen.
the appellant in any manner can not controvert these facts.
we do agree that the respondents have a strong case on merits.
since we have held that the high court had no jurisdiction to entertain a petition under article 226 of the constitution we would have set aside the order made by the high court.
no costs.
civil appeal nos 653397 653497.
w 49 was stated to be contradictory to the stand taken by the workmen all through.
the tribunal concluded that there was no doubt that the personnel manager modified ex.
w 50 and obtained ex.
the high court dismissed the same stating that it is covered by another matter.
the reference had been made to the tribunal and adjudication had been made by the tribunal as to the status of the workmen the nature of employment control exercised by the appellant which leave no room for doubt that they are the employees of the appellant.
however there is no material on record to show that the canteen is located in such an area where it would be hazardous to have a fire furnace source of heat or light to cook food.
in the absence of such material we find no substance in this contention.
this contention is also rejected.
