the appellant is a trust which wanted to establish a self financing engineering college and submitted an application during 1994 95 to the university of kerala as well as to all india council for technical education hereinafter called the aicte.
the abovesaid approval was subject to the fulfilment of specific conditions mentioned in annexure i and the general conditions mentioned in annexure ii to the said letter.
the appellant sent a reminder to the government on 26 8 1995 for permission for starting the college for the academic year 1995 96 and ultimately the government refused permission by informing the appellant by a letter dated 16 8 1996 as follows.
in inviting your attention to the reference cited i am to inform you that government regret their inability to comply with your request.
the government was also directed to reconsider its decision.
it is against the abovesaid judgment of the division bench that this appeal has been preferred.
sri t l vishwanatha.
in so far as institutions imparting technical education were concerned the university or the state government had no independent role to play except to the extent provided in the above said enactment in the present case the aicte had made inspections and was satisfied that the necessary infrastructure was available and that the appellant would be able to conform to the required standards of the education.
the aicte had consulted the state of kerala as well as the mahatama gandhi university.
the university had granted conditional approval as stated earlier.
according to the learned senior counsel it was indeed not necessary for the appellant to have applied to the state government for any further sanction to establish the college.
another v adhiyaman educational research institute.
othersl995 4 scc 104 1995 indlaw sc 1631.
even though the appellant trust was not seeking aid from the government and even assuming that it was financially self sufficient it would not be in the interests of the students employment to permit new engineering colleges to be established.
if more approvals were granted it might lead to commercialisation of education.
the following points arise for consideration 1.
but in the context of s 10k regarding approval for starting a technical institution certain aspects of the judgment need to be highlighted.
before we refer to the abovesaid judgment it will be necessary to refer to certain provisions of the aicte act and the relevant regulations.
the abovesaid act was an act to provide for the establishment of all india council for technical education with a view to the proper planning and coordinated development of the technical education system throughout the country the promotion of qualitative improvement of such education in relation to planned quantitative growth and the regulation and proper maintenance of norms and standards in the technical education system and for matters connected therewith.
the clause in s 101 which is important in the present case is subcl k of s 101 and it provides that the council might grant approval for starting new technical institutions and for introduction of new courses or programmes in consultation with the agencies concerned.
cl s to declare technical institutions as fit to receive grants cl t to advice for declaring institutions to be deemed as universities cl u to set up a national board of accreditation.
regulation 5 deals with the forms of the applications and regulation 6 deals with the conditions for grant of approval sub cls 1 of regulation 6 deals with the financial position.
sub cl 2 with the courses or programmes and sub cl 3 deals with the power of admissions and sub cl 4 with tuition fees etc and sub cl 5 with the staff and sub cl 6 with the governing body of the private institutions and subcl 7 with other matters.
there is a prelimi nary scrutiny of the applications by the bureau rc of the council.
sub cl 4 of regulation 8 reads as follows.
reg 84.
the bureau rc shall invite comments recommendations on the applications referred to in sub regulation 3 from the follow ing namely.
on the recommendation of the central task force the council shall decide the question of grant of approval as sought for in the application.
provided that the council may for reasons to be communicated to the applicant allow the approval with such restrictions or modifications as it may deem necessary.
the tamil nadu case.
at that time in 1984the aicte act was not on the statute book.
the government of tamil nadu granted permission to the trust for the academic year 1987 88 to start an engineering college.
the university also granted permission on 21 11 87 for the academic year 1987.
88 later on these permissions were withdrawn by the state after issuing show cause on 16 7 89 so did the university on 26 7 89 but by that date the aicte act1987 had come into force.
the said judgments were affirmed by this court.
read education included technical education medical institution and universities subject to the provisions of entries 636465 and 66 of list i vocational and technical training of labour.
the tamil nadu act was of 1976 and the university act was of 1923 and were laws referable to the list.
iii whether.
hence on the subjects covered by the statute the state could not make a law under entry 25 of list iii after the forty second amendment.
if there was any such existing law immediately before the commencement of the constitution within the meaning of art 372 of the constitution as the madras university act 1923 on the enactment of the present central act the provisions of the said law if repugnant to the provisions of the central act would stand impliedly repealed to the extent of repugnancy.
it was stated that inasmuch as the state act will overlap and will be in conflict with the provisions of the central act in various areas.
granting approval for starting new technical institution.
inspection of technical institution which are matters covered by the central act.
it is not the university act and the university but it is the central act and the council created under it which will have the jurisdiction.
all that was necessary was that under the regulations the aicte council had to consult them.
the question is as to how far the judgment in the tamil nadu case is to be applied in the state of kerala.
learned additional solicitor general stated before us that there was no statute in the state of kerala corresponding to the tamil nadu act of 1976 nor any other law which specifically required the approval of the state government.
after considering the report of the commission and the report of the local inquiry if any and after making such further inquiry as it may deem necessary the syndicate shall decide after ascer taining the view of the government also whether the affiliation be granted or refused either in whole or part.
in case affiliation is granted the fact shall be reported to the senate at its next meet ing.
sub cl 1 of cl 9 of the statute required verification of the facilities that may exist for starting the new colleges course.
the commission was to inspect the site verify the title deeds as regards the proprietary right of the management over the land and buildings if any offered building accommodation provided if any assets of the management constitution of the registered body and all other relevant matters sub cl 2 of cl 9 stated that the affiliation shall depend upon the fulfilment by the management of all the conditions for the satisfactory establishment and maintenance of the proposed institutional courses of studies and on the reports of inspection by the commission or commissions which the university may appoint for the purpose.
so far as the provisions of the mahatma gandhi university act or its statutes were concerned and in particular statute 97they merely required the university to obtain the views of the state government.
if indeed the university statute could be so inter preted such a provision requiring approval of the state government would be repugnant to the provisions of s 10k of the aicte act1987 and would again be void.
as pointed out in the tamil nadu case there were enough provisions in the central act for consultation by the council of the aicte with various agencies including the state governments and the universities concerned.
in case of difference of opinion as between the various consultees the aicte would have to go by the views of the central task force.
no doubt the question of affiliation was a different matter and was not covered by the central act but in the tamil nadu case it was held that the university could not impose any conditions inconsistent with the aicte act or its regulation or the conditions imposed by the aicte therefore the procedure for obtaining the affiliation and any conditions which could be imposed by the university could not be inconsistent with the provisions of the central act.
the university statute 97 merely required that the views of the state government be obtained before granting affiliation and this did not amount to obtaining approval.
if the university statute required approvalit would have been repugnant to the aicte act.
point 2.
on facts the position was that the aicte had granted approval on 30 4 95 expressly stating that this was on consideration of the observations made by the expert committee and the recommendations made by the central regional committee state level committee central task force as per the provisions of aicte regulations dated 31 10 94.
the aicte had granted condition approval and the conditions were specified in annexure.
the appellant had sent a reminder on 26 8 95 the state in its letter dated 16 8 96 to the appellant merely stated that government regret their inability to comply with your request.
no reasons were assigned in the said letter.
the all india council for technical education and the mahatma gandhi university have sought for the remarks of the state government.
state government s refusal to grant permission is illegal and void on merits.
as already stated in view of the judgment of this court in tamil nadu case it is obvious that there is no need to approach the state of kerala for its approval for starting the engineering colleges.
even on merits the reasons given by the state government in its counter are not tenable in law.
the secretary technical education of the state of kerala was also a member of that committee.
it is therefore not under standable how the director had given a contrary opinion to the state government.
in case there was difference between the state government university or the regional committee the central task force was to make a final recommen dation under regulation.
the letter of approval of the aicte dated 30 4 95 showed that the central task force had given its approval.
if the state government had any other valid objections its only remedy was to place its objections before the aicte council under the aicte act or before the committees e g state level committee etc.
decision of university in not granting further or fined affiliation wrong on merits.
the only requirement as per the statute 97 was for the university to obtain the views of the state government.
obtaining the views of the state government as already stated did not amount to obtaining its approval.
the appeal is allowed and disposed of as stated above.
