the accused appellant has been held guily of of fences punishable under section 302 and section 3762f of indian penal code.
the criminal reference and the criminal appeal were heard by a division bench of rajasthan high court.
in the opinion of one learned judge the circumstantial evidence on which rests the prosecution case was not sufficient to record a finding of guilty against the appellant on any of the charges framed against him.
in view of the difference of opinion the learned acting chief justice assigned the case for hearing by a third judge under section 392 of cr.
in the result the high court has declined the confirmation of death sentence but upheld the conviction on both the charges found proved and dismissed the appeal laying challenge to the conviction subject to modification in the sentence by substituting sentence of life imprisonment for death sentence under section 302 ipc.
the accused appellant has filed this appeal by special leave.
kumari s a young child aged about 5 years was last seen at about 4 p m on 18th march 1991 and thereafter she did not return home.
at about 7 a m on 19th march 1991 kishori lal pw4 informed bd pw2 the unfortunate father of s that dead body of a girl was lying near mohalla basera on the outskirts of village kotputli.
bd rushed to the place only to find that the dead body was of none else than his own daughter section blood was oozing out from her mouth and private parts.
a noose was also found around her neck.
at 7 25 a m on 19 3 1991 first information report was lodged by bd at police station kotputli.
all injuries found on the person of the victim could be around 6 of 24 hours old prior to the time of post mortem examina tion.
the clothes were removed from the dead body and seized.
slides of vaginal swab were prepared for cyto chemical analysis for blood and seminal stains.
the accused was arrested on 3 4 1991 on suspicion.
the clothes on his person did not have any blood or seminal stains.
he was a grown up male of 21 years and capable of performing sexual intercourse.
on 5 4 1991 at about 12 30 p m he gave an information exbt.
and in confirmation of the information led the police to a dry well wherefrom an underwear and baniyan wrapped in a newspaper dated 18 3 1991 were recovered.
human semen was detected on underwear.
p30 of forensic science laboratory human blood of group b was detected on the underwear.
the accused was challaned and charge sheeted for the offences as already stated hereinabove.
suffice it to observe that there is no direct evidence connecting the accused with the offences charged.
in dhananjoy chatterjee v state of west bengal 1994 2 scc 220 1994 indlaw sc 1743 wherein one of us dr a s anand j as his lordship then was spoke for the bench.
it needs no reminder that legally estab lished circumstances and not merely indignation of the court can form the basis of conviction and the more serious the crime the greater should be the care taken to scrutinize the evidence lest suspicion takes the place of proof.
she stated that accompanied by phukla another young girl a cousin of hers and s the deceased she had gone to purchase balloon from the shop of goma.
it is this testimony which has been relied upon by the trial court as also by the high court as the evidence of last seen together.
goma to whose shop the three girls had gone to buy balloon has not been examined.
he was further asked to name the witness in whose statement shalu s reference was available but the investigation officer drew a blank and could not tell the name of the witness from whom any clue as to shalu was received by him.
he and santosh.
during cross examination kalu ram stated that the accused was his neighbour previously known to him.
on a pertinent question the witness stated that while making such a query there was no change in the facial expression of the accused that is he had remained normal.
on seeing the case diary he stated that on 21 3 1991 the accused was definitely called twice on the same day though there is no mention of what enquiries were made from him.
placed in such situation if a villager unaware of the law happens to ask a person who he feels knows the things better than what he himself does as to what would be the period of incarceration to be suffered by any person for such an offence the impulse for inquiry may be outcome of a feeling of nervousness or mere inquisitiveness such an enquiry is not necessarily suggestive of the working of a criminal mind.
iii recovery of underwear stained with blood and semen strangely enough the underwear and baniyan though discovered and seized on an information given by the accused and on his pointing out apparently on a statement recorded under section 27 of the evidence act have not been produced and exhibited in the court.
insofar as baniyan is concerned it has no stains of any type on it and therefore its discovery and seizure is meaningless and irrelevant.
no evidence is available to show as to what was the blood group of the accused and therefore the possibility of blood on the underwear being of the accused himself can not be and is not ruled out.
shri sushil kumar jain the learned counsel for the accused appellant has placed reliance on shankarlal gyarasilal dixit v state of maharashtra air 1981.
sc 765 1980 indlaw sc 47.
b group is not uncommon group of blood and no effort was made to exclude the possibility that the blood of the accused belonged to the same group.
as regards the dried stain of semen on the appellant s under pant the court observed that the accused was a grown up man of 30 years and no compelling inference could arise that the stain was caused during the course of the sexual assault committed by him on the victim girl.
in the present case the age of the accused was about 21 years at the time of the incident.
on his arrest he was subjected to medical examination and found to be a potent and capable person.
presence of semen stain on underwear assuming that the underwear belonged to the accused though there is no evidence adduced in this regard is not by itself an incriminating piece of evidence connecting the accused with the crime in question.
the accused has not stated during his statement under section 313 cr.
p c and nowhere suggested during cross examination of prosecution witnesses that at the time of the incident he was at a place wherefrom he could not have reached the place of the offence on the date and at the time of its commission.
although the dead body of the victim was found on the outskirts of the village however there is no material available on record to fix the place and the likely time at which rape was committed on s and then she was murdered.
the accused appears to have been engaged as a causal not regular gate keeper at hira moti a local talkies.
the accused did not avail the opportunity and stood short by simply stating that the statement of cinema owner was not correct.
denial by an accused of an assertion made by his employer that the accused was on leave of absence from duty on the date of offence does not by any stretch of reasoning or logic amount to pleading alibi.
grave injustice has been done to the accused by holding it as a fact that the accused was absconding after the date of the incident and then treating the so called absconding as a piece of incrimi nating circumstantial evidence against the accused.
from village kotputli where the incident had taken place.
hence it could not have been held that the accused was absconding.
such offences put to test the wits of an investigating officer.
the appeals are allowed.
conviction of the accused appellant under sections 302 and 3762f of indian penal code is set aside.
