the appellant nos 1 and 2 are degree holders in civil engineering and appellant nos.
3 and 4 are diploma holders in civil engineering.
allegedly from their salary provident fund was being deducted.
an industrial dispute was raised by the appellants herein as their services were not being regularized by the respondent.
the appellants were appointed by the indore development authority.
respondents had also mentioned in their claim that there was a proposal to hand over the colony of oda project to indore municipal corporation.
aggrieved by and dissatisfied with the said award the respondent authority herein filed a writ petition before the madhya pradesh high court indore bench which was marked as writ petition no 1188 of 1997.
by reason of the impugned judgment dated 26 4 2000 the said writ petition was allowed.
it was held that the services of the appellants can not be directed to be regularized in services.
despite the same the high court went into the question of applicability of the said act and held that the 1961 act and the 1963 rules had no application.
before the high court various documents were produced by the appellants herein to show the nature of their employment but the same had not been taken on records by the high court.
it was urged that the expression clear vacancies has to be read in the context of period for which the concerned workman was required to work namely six months.
as regard the claim of equal pay for equal work the learned counsel would urge that the high court has failed to consider the same in its true perspective.
mr v r reddy learned senior counsel appearing on behalf of the respondents on the other hand would contend that indisputably the appellants were engaged by the respondent authority but such appointments were made for the purpose of the project financed by oda.
our attention was also drawn to the application dated 22 10 1991 filed by one o p mandloi before the chairman of the indore development authority disclosing his educational qualifications and enclosing therewith the mark sheets and degrees obtained by him in civil engineering and also secondary school examination certificate to show his date of birth.
it was urged that there does not exist any controversy that oda was to continue before 30 6 1997 and as such the appellants could not have been absorbed by the respondent authority.
reads as follows nothing in this act shall apply to the employees in an undertaking to whom the fundamental and supplementary rules civil services classification control and appeal rules civil services temporary service rules revised leave rules civil service regulations or any other rules or regulations that may be notified in this behalf by the state government in the official gazette apply.
classification of employees.
temporary employee means an employee who has been employed for work which is essentially of a temporary character or who is temporarily employed as an additional employee in connection with the temporary increase in the work of a permanent nature provided that in case such employee is required to work continuously for more than six months he shall be deemed to be a permanent employee within the meaning of cl.
12 of the constitution of india.
it is therefore constitutionally obliged to strictly comply with the requirements of articles 14 and 16 thereof before making any appointment.
it is also not in dispute that the state government in exercise of its rule making power conferred upon it section 85 of the adhiniyam has made rules known as m p development authority services officers and servants recruitment rules 1987.
concededly the respondent authority before making any appointment neither intimated the employment exchange about the existing vacancies if any nor issued any advertisement in relation thereto.
indisputably the conditions precedent for appointment of the officers and servants of the authority as contained in the service rules had not been complied with.
the appointments of the appellants were therefore void ab initio being opposed to public policy as also violative of articles 14 and 16 of the constitution of india.
regularisation can not be claimed as a matter of right.
in hindustan shipyard ltd and others vs dr p sambasiva rao and others 1996 7 scc 499 1996 indlaw sc 3441 a division bench of this court observed.
having regard to the rules which have been made by the appellant corporation regular appointment on the post of medical officer can only be made after the duly constituted selection committee has found the person suitable for such appointment.
it was therefore impermissible for the state to direct regularization of the services of the employees of the cooperative societies.
the appointees have no right for regularization in the service because of the erroneous procedure adopted by the concerned authority in appointing such persons.
case law relied upon by the appellant.
it was in fact held that as the petitioners therein were not regularized in accordance with the prescribed rules and regulations for regular appointments their services had to be terminated and as such there had been neither any arbitrary nor illegal action on the part of the respondents nor any violation of the fundamental rights guaranteed under articles 14 and 16.
however having regard to the facts and circumstances of the said case some directions were issued presumably in terms of article 142 of the constitution.
in hindustan shipyard ltd 1996 indlaw sc 3441 supra this court also distinguished the said decision.
in niadar and another vs delhi administration and another 1992 4 scc 112 1988 indlaw sc 244 again no law has been laid down.
it appears that there existed a scheme for regularization and some directions were issued in terms thereof.
it is furthermore not in dispute that adhiniyam came into force in 1973.
the statute rules and regulations formed by the state govern the terms and conditions of service of the employees of the respondent.
the 1973 act as noticed hereinbefore clearly mandates that all posts should be sanctioned by the state government and all appointments to the said cadre must be made by the state government alone.
it may be true that the appellants had been later on put on a monthly salary but there is nothing on record to show as to how the same was done.
the 1973 act or the rules framed there under do not provide for appointments on ad hoc basis or on daily wages.
the 1961 act itself shows that the employees are to be classified in six categories namely permanent permanent seasonal probationers badlies apprentices and temporary.
a ticket of permanent employee was thus required to be issued in terms of order 3 of the standard standing orders.
it is not the case of the appellants that they had been working as technical supervisors and clerks in respect of which service book may be maintained instead of issuance of a ticket.
it is also not the case of the appellants that their names had appeared in the service book maintained for the said purpose.
in absence of any specific directions contained in the schedule appended to the standing orders the statute and the statutory rules applicable to the employees of the respondent shall prevail.
in m p vidyut karamchari sangh vs m p electricity board 2004 9 scc 755 2004 indlaw sc 198 a three judge bench of this court held that a regulation which is not inconsistent with the provisions of the 1961 act and the rules can be issued by a statutory authority.
for the purpose of this matter we would proceed on the basis that the 1961 act is a special statute.
but in absence of any conflict in the provisions of the said act the conditions of service including those relating to recruitment as provided for in the 1973 act and the 1987 rules would apply.
if by reason of the latter the appointment is invalid the same can not be validated by taking recourse to regularization.
no case was made out by the appellants herein in their statements of claim that they became permanent employees in terms thereof.
presumably the appellants were aware of the statutory limitations in this behalf.
furthermore the labour court having derived its jurisdiction from the reference made by the state government it was bound to act within the four corners thereof.
the labour court in absence of any pleadings or any proof as regard application of the 1961 act and the 1963 rules had proceeded on the basis that they would become permanent employees in terms of order 2ii and 2vi of the annexure appended thereto.
dr dhawan is not correct in his submission that a separate ticket need not be issued and what was necessary was merely to show that the appellants had been recognized by the state as its employees having been provided with employment code.
for the purpose of obtaining a permanent status constitutional and statutory conditions precedent therefor must be fulfilled.
such a plea had expressly been rejected by this court in a umarani 2004 indlaw sc 606 supra.
project work.
if the appellants were appointed for the purpose of the project they would be deemed to have been appointed therefor and only because such appointments had been made by the respondent would by itself not entitle them to claim permanency.
such a relief would have been beyond the scope and purport of the reference made to the labour court by the state government.
however it has been seen that even services of one of them had been requisitioned only for the project work.
the high court in our opinion was right in arriving at the conclusion that the appellants were not entitled to be regularized in service.
some documents were said to have been called for from the respondents which are said to have been not produced.
one of such documents was offers of appointment.
if a document was called for in absence of any pleadings the same was not relevant.
in absence of any pleadings the appellants could not have called for any document to show that the provisions of the 1961 act and 1963 rules would apply.
before the high court as also before us the appellants have produced a large number of documents which were not filed before the labour court.
an adverse inference need not necessarily be drawn only because it would be lawful to do so.
the labour court did not draw any adverse inference.
such a plea was not even raised before the high court.
recently in m p electricity board vs hariram etc.
2004 indlaw sc 829 this court observed in such a factual background in our opinion the industrial court or the high court could not have drawn an adverse inference for the non production of the muster rolls for the year 1990 to 1992 in the absence of specific pleading by the respondents applicants that at least during that period they had worked for 240 days continuously in a given year.
presumption as to adverse inference for non production of evidence is always optional and one of the factors which is required to be taken into consideration in the background of facts involved in the lis.
it was within its jurisdiction to do so particularly having regard to the nature of the evidence adduced by the respondent.
equal pay for equal work.
no post was sanctioned by the state government.
for the reasons aforementioned we do not find any merit in these appeals which are dismissed accordingly.
