act1974.
the company was to export products of alloy steel.
he allegedly misdeclared both the value and description of goods upon procuring fake and false bills through one prabhjot singh.
it was allegedly found that non alloy steel bars rods etc of value ranging from rs 15 to rs 17 per kg were exported in the guise of alloy steel forgings bars rods etc by declaring their value thereof from rs 110 to rs 150 per kg and the export proceeds over and above the actual price were being routed through hawala channel.
the officers of the directorate of revenue intelligence dri searched the factory as well as the residential premises of appellant and that of prabhjot singh.
prabhjot singh allegedly admitted to have supplied fake bills to units owned and controlled by appellant on commission basis without actual supply of the goods.
the consul economicconsulate general of india at dubai allegedly confirmed the existence of a parallel set of export invoices.
invoices with a higher value were presented before the indian customs authorities with a view to avail depb incentives but in fact invoices with a lower value were presented for clearance.
the said writ petition was dismissed by an order dated 23 11 2005 by a learned single judge.
a letters patent appeal concededly which was not maintainable was filed thereagainst which was dismissed by reason of the impugned judgment.
in the meantime admittedly the period of detention being over appellant had been set at large.
he was released from custody on 17 5 2006.
20 12 2004the authorities of the dri stated that transactions after 11 10 2003 were not under scrutiny.
furthermore the authorities of the dri by a letter dated 28 02 2005 requested the bank to defreeze the bank accounts of appellants.
the order of detention was passed on 5 4 2005.
the learned additional solicitor general who appeared on behalf of respondent has drawn our attention to a long list of dates showing that searches were conducted and statements of a large number of persons had to be recorded.
furthermore as noticed hereinbefore the authorities of the dri by a letter dated 28 02 2005 requested the bank to defreeze the bank accounts of appellant.
the said documents in our opinion were material.
the said question has also not been examined by the authorities before issuing the order of detention.
no hard and fast rule can be precisely formulated that would be applicable under all circumstances and no exhaustive guidelines can be laid down in that behalf.
however when there is undue and long delay between the prejudicial activities and the passing of detention order the court has to scrutinise whether the detaining authority has satisfactorily examined such a delay and afforded a tenable and reasonable explanation as to why such a delay has occasioned when called upon to answer and further the court has to investigate whether the causal connection has been broken in the circumstances of each case.
delay as is well known at both stages has to be explained.
it may further be true that appellant had remained in detention for the entire period but it is one thing to say that the writ of habeas corpus in this circumstances can not issue but it is another thing to say that an order of detention is required to be quashed so as to enable the detainee to avoid his civil liabilities under safema as also protect his own reputation.
in a case of this nature we do not think in view of the admitted facts that we would not permit appellant to raise the said questions.
v by orders dated 31 8 2004 and 28 10 2004the civil judge directed release of documents to appellant.
by an order dated 18 11 2004the civil court issued contempt notice to the authorities of dri for non release of documents and the authorities of dri made a statement before the court that the documents are being returned.
on their own showing respondents admit that they were relevant documents.
the question has been considered by this court in rajinder arora 2006 indlaw sc 87 supra stating admittedly furthermore the status report called for from the customs department has not been taken into consideration by the competent authorities.
a division bench of this court in k s nagamuthu v state of tamil nadu ors 2005 9 scale 534 2005 indlaw sc 748 struck down an order of detention on the ground that the relevant material had been withheld from the detaining authority which in that case was a letter of the detenu retracting from confession made by him.
in p saravanan v state of t n and others 2001 10 scc 212it was stated when we went through the grounds of detention enumerated by the detaining authority we noticed that there is no escape from the conclusion that the subjective satisfaction arrived at by the detaining authority was the cumulative result of all the grounds mentioned therein.
in ahamed nassar v state of tamil nadu and others 1999 8 scc 473 1999 indlaw sc 778this court opined the question is not whether the second part of the contents of those letters was relevant or not but whether they were placed before the detaining authority for his consideration.
there could be no two opinions on it.
it may be that the detaining authority might have come to the same conclusion as the sponsoring authority but its contents are relevant which could not be withheld by the sponsoring authority.
the letter dated 19 4 1999 reached the sponsoring authority and reached well within time for it being placed before the detaining authority.
even the letter dated 23 4 1999 which reached the secretary concerned at 3 00 p m on 26 4 1999 was much before the formal detention order dated 28 4 1999 the secretary concerned was obliged to place the same before the detaining authority.
the respondent authority was not right in not placing it as it contains not only what is already referred to in the bail application dated 1 4 1999 but something more.
the statements of appellant and prabhjot singh were noticed by the detaining authority.
the self inculpatory statements of appellant and that of prabhjot singh were said to have been taken off the file.
respondents contended that on first information report was registered against appellant as also one sepoy narender singh.
in paragraph 36 of the order of detention the detaining authority stated in view of the facts mentioned above i have no hesitation in arriving at the conclusion that you have through your acts of omission and commission indulged in prejudicial activities as narrated above.
the same was not done.
1991 1 scc 128 1990 indlaw sc 85 the said decision was rendered in a different fact situation.
it is not sufficient to say that the detenus were not supplied the copies of the documents in time on demand but it must further be shown that the non supply has impaired the detenu s right to make an effective and purposeful representation.
in this case the statements of appellant and prabhjot singh in our opinion were material.
if original of the said documents were not available xeroxed copies thereof could have been made available to him.
in view of our findings aforementioned it is not necessary to consider the contention raised by mr mukul rohtagi that order of detention suffers from non application of mind.
the appeal is allowed.
