an fir was registered on 23 3 1996 on the statement of one prakashi devi.
that around 00 30 am the appellant again came into her house and touched her daughter in law sheela devi who woke up and raised an alarm and that the appellant immediately ran away.
prakashi devi and thereby committed an offence punishable u s 452 ipc within my cognizance.
and i hereby direct that you be tried on the above said charge by this court.
emphasis supplied.
in her cross examination prakashi devi stated that she has five sons that only her husband and one son named mahavir were staying with her that the other four sons were married and were not staying with her that on that night her husband was away in the fields and her son mahavir was also not present in the house.
however when confronted with her statement recorded in the fir she admitted having stated that when the appellant had come first time at around 11 30 pm and broke the outside bulbs her son woke up and went out of the house.
both pw1 and pw2 stated that the house of the accused was at a distance of 15 16 houses from the house of prakashi devi that the accused had never come into their house earlier that their family and the accused were not on visiting terms with each other even during functions marriages or death though they were on visiting terms with others in the village.
pw 2 also stated that she did not know the particulars of the dispute between the accused and her in laws.
the investigating officer was examined as pw 3 the accused examined a witness ex sarpanch of the village as dw 1 and he stated that there was a quarrel between the accused and complainant s son surinder about a water course and subsequently he came to know that the quarrel was converted into a false case against the accused by registering a false allegation that the accused had outraged the modesty of a woman.
the learned magistrate by judgment dated 2 2 2001held the accused guilty of offences u ss 452 and 354 cr.
pc and sentenced him for rigorous imprisonment for six months and a fine of rs 1000 in default thereof simple imprisonment for one month.
the appeal filed by the accused was dismissed by the addl.
sessions judge on 20 2 2002 the criminal revision filed by the appellant was disposed of by the high court on 16 3 2010 upholding the conviction but reducing the sentence from six to four months rigorous imprisonment.
he contended that as the charge levelled against him was not proved and as he was not required to defend himself against a charge that he assaulted and outraged the modesty of sheela devi he ought to have been acquitted.
it was held that mentioning the name of prakashi devi instead of the name of sheela devi in the charge was an error that did not prejudice the accused.
s 211 of the code relates to the contents of the charge.
it inter alia provides that every charge under the code shall state the offence with which the accused is charged.
s 464 of the code relates to effect of omission to frame or absence of or error in charge.
in willie william slaney vs state of madhya pradesh.
now here as in all procedural laws certain things are regarded as vital.
disregard of a provision of that nature is fatal to the trial and at once invalidates the conviction.
others are not vital and whatever the irregularity they can be cured and in that event the conviction must stand unless the court is satisfied that there was prejudice.
it hardly matters whether this is because prejudice is then patent or because it is so abhorrent to well established notions of natural justice that a trial of that kind is only a mockery of a trial and not of the kind envisaged by the laws of our land because either way they would be struck down at once.
other violations will not be so obvious and it may be possible to show that having regard to all that occurred no prejudice was occasioned or that there was no reasonable probability of prejudice.
in still another class of case the matter may be so near the border line that very slight evidence of a reasonable possibility of prejudice would swing the balance in favour of the accused.
the code is emphatic that whatever the irregularity it is not to be regarded as fatal unless there is prejudice.
it is the substance that we must seek.
courts have to administer justice and justice includes the punishment of guilt just as much as the protection of innocence.
neither can be done if the shadow is mistaken for the substance and the goal is lost in a labyrinth of unsubstantial technicalities.
every reasonable presumption must be made in favour of an accused person he must be given the benefit of every reasonable doubt.
if all these elements are there and no prejudice is shown the conviction must stand whatever the irregularities whether traceable to the charge or to a want of one.
but these are matters of fact which will be special to each different case and no conclusion on these questions of fact in any one case can ever be regarded as a precedent or a guide for a conclusion of fact in another because the facts can never be alike in any two cases however alike they may seem.
in shamnsaheb m multtani vs state of karnataka 2001 2 scc 577.
a conviction would be valid even if there is any omission or irregularity in the charge provided it did not occasion a failure of justice.
one of the cardinal principles of natural justice is that no man should be condemned without being heardaudi alteram partem but the law reports are replete with instances of courts hesitating to approve the contention that failure of justice had occasioned merely because a person was not heard on a particular aspect.
6 scc 554 1998 indlaw sc 1286dalbir singh v state of up 2004 5 scc 334 2004 indlaw sc 247dumpala chandra reddy vs nimakayala bali reddy 2008.
8 scc 339 2008 indlaw sc 1064 and sanichar sahni vs state of bihar 2009 7 scc 198 2009 indlaw sc 736.
the charge must also contain the particulars of date time place and person against whom the offence was committed as are reasonably sufficient to give the accused notice of the matter with which he is charged.
but there will be no prejudice or failure of justice where there was an error in the charge and the accused was aware of the error.
in judging a question of prejudice as of guilt the courts must act with a broad vision and look to the substance and not to the technicalities and their main concern should be to see whether the accused had a fair trial whether he knew what he was being tried for whether the main facts sought to be established against him were explained to him fairly and clearly and whether he was given a full and fair chance to defend himself.
the accused did not have any opportunity to meet or defend himself against the charge that he assaulted sheela devi and outraged her modesty.
nor did he proceed with his defence on the understanding that he was being charged with having committed the offence with reference to sheela devi.
one of the fundamental principles of justice is that an accused should know what is the charge against him so that he can build his defence in regard to that charge.
illustration e u s 215 of the code as contrasted from illustration d under that section throws some light on this issue.
e a was charged with murdering haidar baksh on the 20th january1882and khoda baksh who tried to arrest him for that murder on the 21 st january1882 when charged for the murder of haidar baksh he was tried for the murder of khoda baksh.
the court may infer from this that a was misled and that the error was material.
on the other hand if two persons were present in the house at the time of the incident namely prakashi devi and sheela devi and the accused is charged with trespassing into the house of prakashi devi and assaulting and outraging the modesty of the said prakashi devi and the witnesses refer only to the assault and outraging the modesty of sheela devi the court will have to infer that the accused was prejudiced if the accused had solely concentrated and focused his defence and entire cross examination to show that he did not commit the offences against prakashi devi.
in view of the specific charge the accused concentrated on showing that the charge was false.
appeal allowed.
