in view of enactment of displaced persons compensation and rehabilitation act1954 by the union of india the immovable properties left behind by muslims who had migrated to pakistan were acquired and the same was distributed to displaced persons as a compensation pool.
the facts in brief as narrated in the impugned order are that survey nos 118328 and 351 of lonavala were originally owned by one haji habib tar mohammed janu.
the said haji habib tar mohammed janu migrated to pakistan and while going to pakistan he sold his property to one smt.
it appears that in cts no 129130 a130 b and 133apart from vacant land there is a bungalow no 52 habib villa.
it appears that the regional settlement commissioner placed this property for auction through government auctioner and one gulabbai desaipurchased the said property in auction for a consideration of rs 16750 on 17 5 1956 and accordingly sale certificate was issued by the regional settlement commissioner bombay on behalf of the government.
in the said sale certificate the c t s no 129130 a130 b and 133 of village lonavala were mentioned.
the area of this cts nos were as under.
on the basis of the said sale certificate the mutation entry no 1836 was effected in the village record in favour of gulabai desai and thereby her name was entered in survey nos 1181b and 328 of village lonavala to the extent of 29 30 ares and 70 ares respectively.
thereafter gulabai sold cts no 133 admeasuring 33 gunthas on 24 4 1977 to respondent no 3 genu kadu.
the said gulabai also gifted her remaining area from this survey numbers to her grandson anil gajanan desai on 15 1 1979who in turn has sold his properties to respondent no 2.
the survey nos 1182 and 351being evacuee properties were allotted to the appellant in the year 1956 later on it was found that the appellant is in possession of more area and therefore the said order was modified on 6 5 1982 and excess area was granted to the appellant on payment of rs 31360 which appellant had paid on 17 5 1982 in government treasury and thereby the deputy collector and assistant settlement commissioner pune granted the excess land to the appellant and thereafter the dispute started between the parties.
after remand the sub divisional officer conducted inquiry and again passed an order on 29 10 1987 and confirmed the earlier order.
since the mutation entry no 1836 was cancelled by above order the talathi gave effect to these orders and effected the mutation entry no 2176 and showed the disputed properties in the name of the collector and deputy custodian of evacuee properties.
the directions were issued by the collector to the tahsildar to place the appellant in possession of the property as per the orders of the deputy collector and the deputy custodian of evacuee properties.
however instead of giving effect to those orders it appears that the revenue officers at tahsil level effected two mutations viz mutation no 2377 and 2394 by mutation entry no 2377 the name of respondent was again mutated in the record and by the mutation entry no 2394 the name of genu kadu was mutated in the record.
collector pune dismissed the said appeals and confirmed the order of the sub divisional officer maval.
the said revision was decided by the additional commissioner pune by order dated 22 11 2001 and the said revision was dismissed.
appellant challenged the order dated 19 10 2002 passed by the minister by filing a writ petition which was dismissed by learned single judge of the bombay high court.
that under section 257 of the maharashtra land revenue code more than one revision is possible.
it was again decided by the sub divisional officer on 29 10 1987 and the said mutation was set aside.
the same was dismissed.
mr huzefa ahmadi learned senior counsel appearing for the appellant mainly attacked the revisional power exercised by the minister concerned in purported exercise of jurisdiction under section 257 of the maharashtra land revenue code.
in the alternative learned senior counsel submitted that even if it were to be admitted without prejudice that second revision is maintainable the minister being the revisional authority should not have interfered with the findings recorded by all the six revenue authorities.
learned counsel relied upon the decision of this court in the case of state of kerala vs k m charia abdulla co air 1965.
1961 indlaw sc 157hiralal kapur vs prabhu choudhury1988 2 scc 172 1988 indlaw sc 342 and helper girdharbhai vs saiyed mohmad mirasaheb kadri and others1987 3 scc 538 1987 indlaw sc 28281 learned counsel also drew our attention to the decision of this court in dharampal vs ramshri1993 1 scc 435 1993 indlaw sc 1325 where this court held.
lastly mr ahmadi submitted that the second revision would not lie under section 257 of the revenue code since section 259 of the code provides an opportunity to the state government to only correct any final order while exercising power under the provisions of section 257 i e with regard to its legality and propriety.
ravindra srivastava learned senior counsel appearing for the respondent state at the very outset submitted that the appellant conceded before the high court not to decide the merit of the case.
the only point raised before the high court was with regard to the maintainability of second revision before the state government under section 257 of the revenue code.
learned counsel submitted that section 257 expressly confers power of revision on the state government which power is coupled with power of control and superintendence.
learned counsel submitted that the state government is the supreme revenue authority and existence of more than one appeal or revision to an aggrieved party is not per se abhorrent to any legal principle depends upon the statute.
the only question that falls for consideration is as to whether a second revision under section 257 is maintainable and that whether the state government exceeds its jurisdiction in entertaining the second revision.
chapter ii deals with the revenue officers their powers and duties.
sections 56 and 7 reads as under 5 chief controlling authority in revenue matters.
6 revenue officers in division.
the state government may appoint one or more additional collectors and in each district including the city of bombay and so many assistant collectors and deputy collectors with such designations such as firstsecondsuper numeraryetc.
below 11 subordination of officers.
1 all revenue officers shall be subordinate to the state government.
section 5 makes it clear that the chief controlling authority in all matters connected with the land revenue in his division shall vest with the commissioner subject to superintendence directions and control of the state government.
in the present case we noticed the scheme of the code in the matters of hearing and disposal of appeals revision and review.
the schedule preferred to in section 227 mentions the authorities before whom appeal would lie.
section 257 is the relevant provision which deals with the power of state government and of certain revenue and survey officers to call for and examine the records and proceedings of subordinate officers.
the state government and any revenue of survey officer not inferior in rank to an assistant or deputy collector or a superintendent of land records in their respective departments may call for and examine the record of any inquiry or the proceedings of any subordinate revenue or survey officer for the purpose of satisfying itself or himself as the case may be as to the legality or propriety of any decision or order passed and as to the regularity of the proceedings of such officer.
a tahsildar a naib tahsildar and a district inspector of land records.
provided further that an assistant of deputy collector shall not himself pass such order in any matter in which a formal inquiry has been held but shall submit the record with his opinion to the collector who shall pall such order thereon as he may deem fit.
a bare reading of the aforesaid provision would show that the provision uses the word and for state government but for other revenue officers.
further in view of the fact that state government itself appoints the revenue officers including the commissioner under the scheme of the code and all revenue officers are subordinate to the state government as per section 11 of the act and even the chief controlling authority in all matters connected with the land revenue in his division is vested with the commissioner they are subject to the superintendence direction and control of the state government as provided under section 5 of the code.
the power of the state government has further been widened by section 259 of the code which reads as under 259 rules as to decisions or orders expressly made final whenever in this code it is provided that a decision or order shall be final or conclusive such provision shall mean that no appeal lies from any such decision or order but it shall be lawful to the state government alone to modify annul or reverse any such decision or order under the provision of section 257.
there is nothing in the code to suggest that if these revisional powers are exercised by a revenue officer who has jurisdiction it can not be further exercised by a superior revenue officer or by the state government.
if one authority exercises revisional power the other authority logically can not have exercised such power.
hence it was argued that second revision was not maintainable.
the test is whether the two authorities with concurrent revisional jurisdiction are equal in rank.
it is therefore not correct as contended by learned counsel for the appellant that the two authorities i e the state government and the registrar are interchangeable.
we find no infirmity in the impugned order passed by the high court.
hence this appeal has no merit which is accordingly dismissed.
