the accused appellant has been held guily of of fences punishable under section 302 and section 3762f of indian penal code.
the trial court sentenced the appellant to death under section 302 ipc and to undergo rigorous imprisonment for life and pay a fine of rs 10000 in default of payment to undergo further r i for 3 years under section 3762f ipc.
while the learned additional sessions judge made a reference to the high court for confirmation of death sentence under section 366 cr.
the criminal reference and the criminal appeal were heard by a division bench of rajasthan high court.
in the opinion of one learned judge the circumstantial evidence on which rests the prosecution case was not sufficient to record a finding of guilty against the appellant on any of the charges framed against him.
in the opinion of the other learned judge the prosecution evidence was sufficient to sustain the conviction as recorded by the trial court though the case was not one of those rarest of rare cases as would warrant death sentence being awarded to the appellant.
in view of the difference of opinion the learned acting chief justice assigned the case for hearing by a third judge under section 392 of cr.
p c the third learned judge has on an independent appreciation of evidence recorded his own findings upholding the conviction of the accused on both the charges framed against him and thus agreeing with one of the two learned judges constituting the division bench in conclusion.
in the result the high court has declined the confirmation of death sentence but upheld the conviction on both the charges found proved and dismissed the appeal laying challenge to the conviction subject to modification in the sentence by substituting sentence of life imprisonment for death sentence under section 302 ipc.
at about 7 a m on 19th march 1991 kishori lal pw4 informed bd pw2 the unfortunate father of s that dead body of a girl was lying near mohalla basera on the outskirts of village kotputli.
bd rushed to the place only to find that the dead body was of none else than his own daughter section blood was oozing out from her mouth and private parts.
a noose was also found around her neck.
at 7 25 a m on 19 3 1991 first information report was lodged by bd at police station kotputli.
according to the medical opinion the probable cause of death of s was shock produced due to vaginal trauma and rupture of post fornix along with asphyxia due to ligature around the neck.
all injuries found on the person of the victim could be around 6 of 24 hours old prior to the time of post mortem examina tion.
he was a grown up male of 21 years and capable of performing sexual intercourse.
and in confirmation of the information led the police to a dry well wherefrom an underwear and baniyan wrapped in a newspaper dated 18 3 1991 were recovered.
according to report exbt.
human semen was detected on underwear.
the pieces of circumstantial evidence which have been found proved and held as forging an incriminating chain against the accused are as under i last seen together ii abnormal conduct of the accused iii recovery of underwear and baniyan which was found to be stained with semen and blood group b which is also the blood group of the deceased iv false plea of alibi and v accused absconding since the date of offence.
i last seen together on the point of last seen together there is solitary testimony of a child witness shalu pw7 aged about 4 years on 23 3 1992 the date of her examination in the court.
from the evi dence of shalu pw7 such an inference can not be drawn.
goma to whose shop the three girls had gone to buy balloon has not been examined.
s has died.
harish chand sharma the investigating officer was specifically asked how the name of this witness came to his knowledge during investigation.
he gave an evasive answer saying that the fact that shalu was accompanying s must have come in the staement of the witnesses.
he was further asked to name the witness in whose statement shalu s reference was available but the investigation officer drew a blank and could not tell the name of the witness from whom any clue as to shalu was received by him.
abnormal conduct of accused kalu ram pw5 stated that two or three days after the date of dead body of s having been found.
he and santosh.
during cross examination kalu ram stated that the accused was his neighbour previously known to him.
harish chand sharma pw21 stated that between 19th and 25th march 1991 the accused subhash was called at the police station several times for making enquiries.
he did not remember and was therefore not in a position to tell how many number of times the accused subhash was called for interrogation or making enquiries.
however the accused was not detained and was sent back.
any person even if innocent and not connected in any way with a gruesome crime which had recently occurred and was talk of the town if called by police and interrogated as a suspect would be scared and be apprehensive of the likelihood of his being implicated in the crime.
there is not investigation directed towards finding out and no evidence worth its name collected and adduced in the court to show that the underwear and baniyan were of the accused.
blood sam ple of the accused was not collected and therefore not grouped.
shri sushil kumar jain the learned counsel for the accused appellant has placed reliance on shankarlal gyarasilal dixit v state of maharashtra air 1981.
another circumstantial evidence relied on was that a stain of semen was found on the under pant of the accused.
b group is not uncommon group of blood and no effort was made to exclude the possibility that the blood of the accused belonged to the same group.
as regards the dried stain of semen on the appellant s under pant the court observed that the accused was a grown up man of 30 years and no compelling inference could arise that the stain was caused during the course of the sexual assault committed by him on the victim girl.
in the present case the age of the accused was about 21 years at the time of the incident.
false plea of alibi.
although the dead body of the victim was found on the outskirts of the village however there is no material available on record to fix the place and the likely time at which rape was committed on s and then she was murdered.
denial by an accused of an assertion made by his employer that the accused was on leave of absence from duty on the date of offence does not by any stretch of reasoning or logic amount to pleading alibi.
grave injustice has been done to the accused by holding it as a fact that the accused was absconding after the date of the incident and then treating the so called absconding as a piece of incrimi nating circumstantial evidence against the accused.
according to harish chand sharma the accused was arrested on 3 4 1991 vide exbt.
from village kotputli where the incident had taken place.
if the accused was arrested at behror there is no reason why the memo of arrest should not have been prepared at village behror.
at least this fact should have been mentioned in the memo of arrest even if the same was prepared at village kotputli.
hence it could not have been held that the accused was absconding.
conclusion.
before parting with the case we would like to place on record an observation of ours touching an aspect of the case.
a vigilant investigating officer well versed with the techniques of the job is in a position to collect the threads of evidence finding out the path which leads to the culprit.
conviction of the accused appellant under sections 302 and 3762f of indian penal code is set aside.
he is acquitted of the charges framed against him.
he shall be set at liberty forthwith if not required to be detained in connection with any other offence.
appeals allowed.
