the ratio which applies in the case of the shareholders who acquire the right title and interest of their predecessorsin interest does not apply to the labour force and the fact that the shareholders get a dividend by transfer of funds from the reserves and undistributed profits of the previous years would not entitle the workers to demand bonus out of those funds if the working of the industrial concern during the particular year has resulted in a trading loss.
the respondent thereupon appealed to the labour appellate tribunal which substantially agreed with the industrial court on questions of fact as well as the general position in law but imported considerations of social justice and treating this as a special case where social justice would demand that labour should have bonus for the year where for that very year capital had not only a reasonable return but much in excess of that allowed the appeal and directed the appellant to pay to the workmen bonus at the rate of annas 4 per rupee within six weeks of their decision.
corpus juris secundum volume xi at page 515 ascribes the following meanings to the word bonus an allowance in addition to what is usual current or stipulated a sum given or paid beyond what is legally required to be paid to the recipient something given in addition to what is ordinarily received by or strictly due to the recipient and adds it has been said to carry the idea of something uncertain and indefinite something which may or may not be paid depending on varying circumstances and under particular conditions has been said to imply a benefit accruing to him who offers it and an inducement to the offeree.
it is therefore clear that the claim for bonus can be made by the employees only if as a result of the joint contribution of capital and labour the industrial concern has earned profits.
on the 4th may 1950 the secretary of the respondent union petitioned to the provincial conciliation officer textile that there was more production in 1949 than in 1948 that there was no reason to hold that the profit in 1949 was less than in the previous year and that the rate of bonus was wrongly reduced and asked that bonus for 1949 should also be paid at the rate of annas 4 per rupee.
the workers not being members of the company would also not have any right title and interest in the reserves or the undistributed profits which would form part of the assets of the company.
on an appeal taken by the appellant to the industrial court textiles and hosiery kanpur the industrial court accepted the contention of the appellant allowed the appeal and set aside the award.
on the paid up capital.
that the dividend of 2434 per cent.
both the industrial court as well as the labour appellate tribunal found as a fact that there was a trading loss of rs 502563 1 10 during the year 1949 and also.
to the ordinary shareholders was distributed after transferring the aggregate sum of rs 1251871 13 5 from the reserves.
this formula was reiterated in textile mills m p their workmen 1952 2 l l j 625 and famous cine laboratory v their workmen 1953 1 l l j 466 and in the latter case it deprecated the idea of adjudicators importing considerations of social justice which were not comprised in that formula and what is social justice.
it is not a gift or gratuity but a sum paid for services or upon a consideration in addition to or in excess of that which would ordinarily be given 12.
indeed the full bench of the labour appellate tribunal evolved the abovequoted formula with a view to dispensing social justice between the various parties concerned.
we may before concluding refer to an argument which was addressed to us by mr isaacs the learned counsel for the respondent that this court under article 136 should not interfere with the decisions of the tribunals set up by the industrial disputes act 1947.
if the industrial concern has resulted in a trading loss there would be no profits of the particular year available for distribution of dividends much less could the employees claim the distribution of bonus during that year.
it is classified amongst the methods of wage payment.
dividend on ordinary shares being the maximum that could be paid under the public companies limitation of dividend ordinance of 1948 and also paid to the workers their full share of bonus at annas 4 in a rupee of their basic earnings.
the appeal will accordingly be allowed with costs.
this imports the conception that even though the payment be not strictly due to the recipient nor legally enforceable by him a claim to the same may be laid by the employee under certain conditions and if such claim is entertained either by an agreement with the employer or by adjudication before a properly constituted tribunal as on an industrial dispute arising.
it is thus defined by webster.
there are however two conditions which have to be satisfied before a demand for bonus can be justified and they are 1 when wages fall short of the living standard and 2 the industry makes huge profits part of which are due to the contribution which the workmen make in increasing production.
the appellant filed this appeal against that decision after obtaining special leave from this court.
during the year 1948 the appellant made a profit of rs 1197648 11 9.
no further claimed payment of bonus out of those reserves or undistributed profits can therefore survive.
social justice is not the fancy of any individual adjudicator if it were so then ideas of social justice might vary from adjudicator to adjudicator over all parts of india.
it however observed but in our opinion that should not be the universal rule.
it also gives another meaning of the word bonus viz increased compensation for services already rendered gratuitously or for a prescribed compensation where there is neither express or implied understanding that additional compensation may be granted.
the oxford concise dictionary defines it as something to the good into the bargain and as an example gratuity to workmen beyond their wages.
it is significant to observe that this principle was accepted by the labour appellate tribunal itself.
and also in great western garment co ltd v minister of national revenue 1948.
during the year 1949 the selling rates for cloth and yarn were controlled by the government and were approximately 4 per cent.
this position was recognised in sutton v attorney general 1923.
the word bonus has however acquired a secondary meaning in the sphere of industrial relations.
vide dhakeswari cotton mills ltd v commissioner of income tax west bengal 1954 indlaw sc 213.
it generally represents the cash incentive given conditionally on certain standards of attendance and efficiency being attained.
without committing ourselves to the acceptance of the above formula in its entirety we may point out that the labour appellate tribunal did not apply its own formula to the facts of the present case.
2 l l j 247as.
d l r 25 233.
below those obtained in 1948.
it is usually intended as a stimulus to extra effort but sometimes represents the desire of the employer to share with his workers the fruits of their common enterprise.
vide encyclopaedia britannica volume iii page 856.
that full bench decision stands and this tribunal and all other tribunals are bound by it.
to a similar effect are the observations in kenicott v supervisors of wayne county 1873 83 u s 452 21 l ed.
but it nevertheless may also include as here payments made because legally due but which the parties contemplate will not continue indefinitely and in national association of local government officers v bolton corporation 1943.
i do not see why this does not fall within the definition of trade dispute just as much as a dispute as to the rate of wages or salary.
