the learned advocate for the appellant has meticulously taken us through the entire documentary and oral evidence and commented at length upon the various contradictions and incongruities in the case of the prosecution with a view to establishing that when the appellant took possession of the land there was no crop standing on it that tile possession of the land was in fact delivered to telu ram contractor on 10 1 1963 that the said contractor had admitted that possession of the entire land was received by him that he carried on the construction work in extending the aerodrome that 200250 donkeys were also used for doing the work by reason of which the crop was damaged before tehsildar had put the appellant in possession of the land and as a matter of fact there was no crop thereon when he got the possession of the land.
we do not think in these circumstances there is any justification whatever for interfering with the concurrent findings of the trial court and the high court that the appellant is guilty of an offence under section 51c read with section 52 of the prevention of corruption act and consequently the appeal is dismissed.
considered for the purposes of according sanction were a that the appellant as a public servant was entrusted with crops situated on the land acquired for the extension of air field sirsa b that by abusing his position as a public servant he allowed the standing crops to be cut from the said land.
for a sanction to be valid it must be established that the sanction was given in respect of the facts constituting the offence with which the accused is proposed to be charged.
it is not the case of the appellant that acquisition of the land on which the crop was standing had taken place nor could possession of it been handed over to him because he denies that there was any crop on the land when the possession of the land was handed over to him.
we do not find that the assessment of the evidence by the trial court and the high court even in the light of such of those previous statements that have been put to the witnesses in the manner stated above is in any way unjustified.
treasury converted it to his own use and whereas the said acts of major som nath constituted offences punishable under section 52 of the prevention of corruption act read with section 5 1 c and d act No 11 of 1947 of the said act and section 409 of the i p c and whereas the central govt.
according to p w 8 telu ram he acquired possession of the land of the length from rd 4500 to rd 1200 on 10th january 1963 and that tile possession of the acquired land was not delivered to him as it had not been acquired by that time.
treasury.
it can not therefore be said that circumstances appearing against the accused which have formed the basis of the conviction had not been put to him.
he was charged with and tried for two offences under section 51 a of the act for habitually accepting or obtaining illegal gratification and under section 51d for receiving illegal gratification from pal singh.
this is further confirmed by a perusal of the letter written by the appellant to telu ram p w 8 in reply to his letter dated 28th february63 not produced that necessary possession of the runway and taxi track has already been given to you.
the receipt ex. 24 bears the signature of n l handa the tehsildar and of sukhchain lal jain p w 11 on behalf of the military estate officer and the appellant.
c that by corrupt or illegal means and by abusing his position as a public servant he obtained pecuniary advantage of rs 2500 as the value of the crops to be cut from the land andor he dishonestly or fraudulently misappropriated that sum by converting it into his own use instead of depositing the said sale price in the govt.
if so a charge under section 51c would implicate those persons also in the commission of an offence which certainly would not have been in the contemplation of the authorities granting the sanction.
as otherwise there is no meaning in the appellant saying therein that it is desirable that entire proceedings with regard to acquisition of land and determining compensation for standing crops for the total area of 39 58 acres are finalised on the 13th february.
after the completion of the first phase the second phase was to start on 10th october 1963 and completed by 9th may 1964.
it is alleged that major som nath accused who is a garrison engineer sirsa air field subsequently sometime in the months of march and april 1963 permitted the removal of the standing crop valued at rs 11073 13 by shri moti ram and kewal chand etc.
he was asked about the symbolic delivery of possession the handing over of the actual possession of the land on 13 2 63 and the existence of crops on the date when possession was delivered on 16 2 63.
it is not as if the existing airstrip ends at the boundary of rd 4500 to rd 1200 so that the work of extension can go on in the existing airstrip even before possession of the acquired land was given.
secondly the evidence that was necessary to unfold the story of the prosecution has not been produced by the prosecution but the trial court and the high court ignored this lacunas in the prosecution case.
at the most it shows that a small portion of the crops were cut but it is apparent that that has not been taken into account by the collector in assessing the value of the crop because it is on that day that crops were inspected for that purpose and subsequently the agricultural officer also had in his letter dated 18 2 63 which has been cited in the award exhibit p 26 intimated that on inspection the crops were found to be very good.
this evidence however does not assist the accused.
there is therefore no basis for sanction for a charge under section 51c.
a copy of this letter was sent to the garrison engineer the appellant.
the appellant has denied that there was any standing crop on the land acquired on any date after 13 2 63.
in the present case there is nothing on the face of the sanction and no extraneous evidence to show that the sanctioning authority knew the facts alleged to constitute a breach of the order and the sanction is invalid.
he was asked about telu ram 's evidence and also that he had given possession of the land rd 1200 to rd 00 to the contractor after the crop had been cut.
the learned advocate for the respondent also tried to support the stand taken by the high court.
february 1963 to the appellant.
that the sanction given by the govt.
this letter clearly indicates that some excavation was being done as otherwise there is no meaning in saying that final excavation can not be done.
the only question is what use can be made of such statements even where the witness admits having signed the statements made before the military authorities.
we are therefore not impressed with this argument.
of india ministry of home affairs on llth april 1966 as per exhibit p 23.
this agreement was signed both by the appellant and p w 14.
this again does not specifically refer to the land which is being acquired.
even if it were so the sanction can not be held to be had on that account.
for instance it is said that gamkhar military estate officer was not produced to prove the receipt exhibit p 24.
in support of this contention three decisions have been cited before us namely bhagat ram v state of punjab 1954 indlaw sc 188 madan mohan singh v state of u p privy council 82.
it is therefore necessary to first examine the order of sanction to ascertain on what facts it has been accorded.
as you know.
apart from this amount compensation was also awarded for standing crop amounting to rs 11073 13.
no further action is required to be taken.
bhagat ram 's case was not concerned with the sanction but only with the question whether the offence could be altered to one of abetment of an offence of section 409 i p c from one under section 409 simpliciter.
