on the same date the tribunal disposed of the application by the following order there can be no doubt that a flat increase of rs 150 to each of the employees in the category of draftsmen and of rs 100 to each employee in the other categories has been granted under my award.
the revised pay scales of all categories except the category of draughtsmen shows an increase of rs 100 in the initial pay fixed in each scale the increase in the case of the category of draughtsmen being rs 150 there was only one increase contemplated in the award in paragraph 23 of award and it is more than plain that the increase was the one incorporated in the revised pay scales pertaining to different categories.
the claim of the union was resisted by the appellant who maintained that the existing wage scales were fair and reasonable on a region cum industry basis and that it would not be possible for the appellant to bear the additional financial burden if the demands of the union were accepted.
the tribunal maintained the existing schemes of dearness allowance and house rent allowance and observed that in view of the revised basic wages there would be a resultant increase in the dearness allowance and house rent allowance.
we have already indicated that we agree with our brother pathak j that the appeal civil appeal no 2300 of 1979 filed by the workmen should also be dismissed.
it is only a clerical mistake or error which can be corrected and the clerical mistake or error must arise from an accidental slip or omission in the award.
two days after the award was made an application was made by the union stating in the said award your honour has observed at the end of para 22in view of the increase that is being allowed in the basic pay i do not propose to revise the existing scheme of dearness allowance.
further it appears that the tribunal intended to grant the increase of rs 150 to each draughtsman and rs 100 to all other workmen in their basic pay.
for the purpose of restructuring the pay scales the tribunal ruled on the paying capacity of the appellant both with reference to the profits of the preceding year as well as the prospects of the future.
the question is to what extent the relief should be given to the employees.
in the present case the industrial tribunal on a consideration of the material placed before it came to the conclusion that the company was in an undoubted position to bear the additional financial burden.
there is no order as to costs.
the tribunal also noted that after the salaries of the employees had been fixed in the respective scales senior employees would have to be given some more increments in the new scales according to their completed years of service.
the tribunal then observed the flat increase of rs 150 in the category of draftsmen and rs 100 in the case of the other categories would be fair.
considering the fitment of the workman in the revised scales it was stated in the award that a workman found drawing a salary less than the beginning of the grade would be stepped up to the beginning of the grade and if his pay fell between two steps in the reclassified pay scales the basic pay was to be fixed at the step higher in the revised scale.
the order dated december 221978 of the tribunal also does not reveal that there was any opposition by the company to the application for correcting the award.
the dearness allowance it was claimed should be granted on a slab system.
implicit and intrinsically connected with the question of revision of the wage scales were the questions of fitment of employees into the wage scales and flat or ad hoc increase of salaries of workmen wherever considered necessary.
it noted that dearness allowance was being granted by the appellant at 10 of the salary subject to a minimum of rs 50 and house rent allowance at 30 of the basic salary.
similarly the same words to each employee after the figure 100 were omitted.
in its order of 22nd.
if the dearness allowance is linked with the cost of living index the whole award will have to be reopened and the entire basis on which it has been made will have to be reconsidered.
the application before the tribunal was filed under rule 31 of the bombay industrial disputes rules 1957which is as follows.
the amendment made by the tribunal has the effect of providing a second increase this time to each individual workmen.
considering the appeal of tata consulting engineers first the contention of learned counsel for the appellant is that having regard to the financial capacity of the appellant the tribunal erred in making the wage scales retrospective and in any event in ranging the retrospectivity back to 1st january1976.
no dearness allowance was paid until the beginning of 1977 and the house rent allowance also was introduced about that time.
that the increase was pertinent to the general pay scales in the revised wage structure is patently clear from a comparison of the existing pay scales and the revised pay scales.
they are considerations which can not be ignored.
no ad hoc increase to the pay of each individual workman was intended.
in the result civil appeal no 2299 of 1979 is allowed in part insofar that the order dated 22nd december1978 of the industrial tribunal maharashtra bombay is quashed to the extent that it modifies the original award dated 20th december1978and the corrigendum made consequent thereto is also quashed.
revising the figures on that basis it computed the annual gross profits for the years 1968 to 1977 and determined the annual average at rs 26 69 lakhs.
at the end of paragraph 15 of the award the tribunal stated but there can be no doubt that the company can very well bear the additional burden.
on this application the advocate for the employer company made the following endorsement submitted to whatever this honourable tribunal desires to do.
december1978the tribunal has referred to the statement exhibit c 51 filed by the appellant when called upon to indicate the increased financial burden apprehended by it.
what is without jurisdiction will remain so.
a board court labour court tribunal or arbitrator may at any time suo moto or on an application made by any of the parties concerned may correct any clerical mistake or error arising from an accidental slip or omission in any proceedings report award or as the case may be decision.
reference was made to the political uncertainty in iran which had placed an appreciable part of the appellant 's business in jeopardy and to various other factors peculiar to an engineering consultancy business beyond the appellant 's control.
the union therefore prays the honourable tribunal to clarify the position and correct the award accordingly.
it must be remembered that although the wage scales were introduced as long ago as 1973 they were maintained at that level except for a slight revision some time thereafter.
civil appeal no 2300 of 1979 is dismissed.
after expressing himself in categoric terms about the capacity of the company to bear the additional financial burden the tribunal went on to say i only propose to modify the existing structure of the scales with flat increases in each category.
2 scr 113 1968 indlaw sc 183 now it is not a universal rule that the dearness allowance should in all cases be correlated with the cost of living index.
ii employees who have completed 4 years of service as on 1st january19762 increments.
since the award has been already signed i do not think anything further can be added to this award.
even so we propose to examine whether the correction sought by the employees union was within the bounds of the authority of the tribunal or whether it was in effect a fresh award.
the need for revising the wage scales was not disputed by the appellant.
in the result both the appeals are dismissed without any order as to costs.
there was fierce competition also it was asserted from other similar organisations.
its work force consists of engineers and supervisors and different categories of workmen.
it rejected the demand of the union for abolishing the efficiency bar but the span of 15 years for earning increment was expanded in some grades to 20 years and some adjustments were also made in specific grades.
no second flat increase was envisaged at all.
accordingly the contention raised on behalf of the appellant against retrospectivity of the wage scales must be rejected.
it is wrong in principle it is said to provide a fixed dearness allowance.
the same has been made clear in paragraph.
wage scale statements were filed by the parties before the tribunal pertaining to several engineering consultancy organisations but.
they served a charter of demands in july1974on the appellant and as their demands were not accepted and conciliation proceedings proved fruitless the state government made a reference of the dispute under s 101 dindustrial tribunal maharashtra for adjudication.
it seems from a perusal of the document exhibit c 51that it is a statement giving trial figures of the increased financial load on different bases.
reference was also made to bengal chemical pharmaceutical works limited v its workmen.
all other employees with more than one year 's service shall be given one increment.
we therefore see no ground for quashing the order dated december 221978 of the tribunal.
sd k n wani industrial tribunal.
out of 665 employees at bombay the draftsmen and the administrative staff number 306 these workmen are members of the tata consultant employees union.
however this is not clearly mentioned anywhere in the award due to accidental slip or omission.
it was urged that the efficiency bar as a feature of the wage scales should be removed.
taking all these factors into consideration it made an award dated 20th december1978 prescribing the following revision in the existing scales of wages.
the evidence contained in the award throughout provides incontrovertible proof that this flat increase was never originally intended in the award.
the cost of living had gone on increasing from 1972 onwards and as the tribunal has found the dearness allowance and house rent allowance made no appreciable impact in neutralising the increasing cost.
c 27 indicates the important projects the company was handling in india and abroad and the amount of foreign exchange earned and repatriated.
when the award is sent for publication a necessary corrigendum be made in the award and the aforesaid words after the figures rs 150 and rs 100 be added.
the amendment has resulted in the tribunal making as it were a supplementary award whereby a further relief is being granted beyond that granted in the original award.
in proceeding to revise the wage structure the tribunal took into account the two principles involved in the process the financial capacity of the industry to bear the burden of an increased wage bill and the prevailing wage structure on an industry cum region basis.
the annexures from the company to the director general posts telegraphs delhi ex.
the jurisdiction given to the tribunal by rule 31 is closely circumscribed.
the reference was numbered i t no 292 of 1975.
the tribunal in the present case considered the matter and found it sufficient and in accord with justice that the wage scales should be restructured with suitable increments provided therein.
it was open to the tribunal to adopt the position which it did.
that was the main issue between the parties.
it functions as a consulting organisation and a service industry and does not manufacture any product or carry on trade.
the copy of the letter dated july 231973alongwith.
in so construing the statement exhibit c 51the tribunal has grievously erred.
it is not possible to maintain one part of the award and supersede another.
