for the purpose of the suit no 553 of 1969 with which the appeal is concerned it is relevant to state that the appellant had raised the contention that ahmedabad fine weaving works was not the tenant of the suit premies but the suit premises was tenanted by the father of the appellant girdharlal chimalal in 1938 and he was the original tenant of the premises and appellant subsequently joined the business of his father as a partner and the name of the partnership firm was ahmedabad fine weaving works.
whether there was a partnership or not may in certain cases be a mixed question of law and fact in the sense that whether the ingredients of partnership as embodied in the law of partnership were there in a particular case or not must be judged in the light of the principles applicable to partnership.
it was emphasised that this aspect was not considered by the court of small causes and the high court therefore was justified in interfering with the findings of the court of small causes.
in the premises the appeal was allowed.
he also referred to section 4 of the partnership act about the principles of partnership namely1 there must be agreement entered into by all the persons concerned 2 the agreement must be to share the profits of a business and 3 the business must be carried on by all or any of the persons concerned acting for all.
indlaw sc 244 observed that where lower courts applied their minds properly in deciding a matter under section 132 of the bombay rent act the high court could not substitute its own finding for the one reached by the courts below on a reappraisal of evidence under section 292 of the act as substituted by the gujarat act 18 of 1965 this court reiterated that although the high court had wider power than that which could be exercised under section 115 of c p c yet its revisional power could only be exercised for a limited purpose with a view to satisfying itself that the decision was according to law.
the partnership deeds were there the appellant was not to share in the losses.
the firm started as emphasised by mr mehta on 4th of october1960 and it was only on the 24th of october1960 the second partnership deed was executed.
it was further alleged by the landlord that the appellant had unlawfully sublet the major part of the premises in question of both the suits to defendant nos 2 to 5 in the original suit and these defendants were running business in partnership for manufacturing of neon signs in the name of bharat neon signs.
we are of the opinion that these were evidence that these terms were acted upon.
the respondent had further alleged that the appellant no 1 had closed the business and he was not using the said premises for the purpose for which it was let to him.
weaving works and according to the terms of tenancy suit the suit premises were leased for manufacturing cloth in the name of ahmedabad fine weaving works.
this court was of the view that what the high court could see is that there has been no miscarriage of justice and that the decision was according to law in the sense mentioned.
the power of the high court to revise the order is contained in section 292 of the bombay rent act as applicable at the relevant time to gujarat the said provision reads as follows 292.
it may be mentioned that the partnership deed exhibit 114 was executed by six persons and at that stage the appellant or his father were not partners in the firm.
the first question therefore is whether the high court could do so in the facts of this case and secondly whether the high court was right in so doing.
no further appeal shall lie against any decision in appeal under sub section 1 but the high court may for the purpose of satisfying itself that any such decision in appeal was according to law call for the case in which such decision was taken and pass such order with respect thereto as it thinks fit.
there was an appeal before the court of small causes bombay and by judgment and order delivered by the court of small causes bombay on 18th of august1977it was held that the learned trial judge had erred in passing a decree for possession on the ground of subletting change of user and breach of terms of tenancy.
in this the appellant was not a partner.
the suit for possession is accordingly dismissed.
in the result the appeal is allowed and the judgment and order of the gujarat high court dated 21st of august1979 are set aside.
and it was a possible view to take.
1961 indlaw sc 157 supra bhagwati j observed that the ambit of section 351 of the delhi ajmer rent control act which fell for consideration in hari shanker 's case 1961 indlaw sc 157 supra was the same as section 293 of the bombay rent act and therefore he expressed the opinion that the high court could interfere only if there was miscarriage of justice due to mistake of law.
2 the work to be carried out by our partnership is of manufacturing and selling neon signs tubes and of obtaining orders therefore.
to decide this facts must be referred to.
but there is nothing illegal about it.
as mentioned hereinbefore the learned trial judge consolidated both the suits and in the instant suit being no 553 of 1969 with which this appeal is concerned it was held by the learned trial judge that there was unlawful subletting.
as we read the power the high court must ensure that the principles of law have been correctly borne in mind.
but thereafter when the partnership deed exhibit 69 was executed the appellant and his father joined the firm with an agreement to share profits only and their share was fixed at 0 03 paise in a rupee.
there was an appeal filed from that decree and that appeal was also dismissed and disposed of affirming the decree for the dissolution of the partnership inter se between the parties being the partners of the said firm.
secondly it was emphasised by mr mehta that the partnership deed was a camouflage.
if that was done in a particular case then the fact that the revisional authority or the high court might have arrived to a different conclusion is irrelevant.
the appellant claimed to be the tenant in respect of the two premises which are quite adjacent to each other one of which is involved in this appeal.
judged by that standard we are of the opinion that the high court in this case had exceeded its jurisdiction.
such a view was not an impossible one or a perverse one.
a right to appeal carries with it right of re heating on law as well as fact.
it was recited that the work of the partnership would be done by the parties of the fourth fifth sixth seventh and eighth as per advice and instructions of the first second and third.
the respondent had alleged in the two suits that the appellant was his tenant in the suit premises which were leased out to him and before him his father for conducting the business in the name of ahmedabad fine.
madras 182subba rao j as the learned chief justice then was held that there can not be a subletting unless the lessee parted with legal possession.
secondly the facts have been properly appreciated and a decision arrived at taking all material and relevant facts in mind.
he contended further that the suit premises was with him and the defendants nos 2 to 5 had not acquired any tenancy rights in the suit premises.
the first partnership deed which is exhibit 114 is dated 13th october1960 it recited that the partnership firm should be presently started at ahmedabad and the same should later be started in another city.
nos 24 and 5 in the name of respondent no 2m section bharat neon signs hereinafter referred to as respondent no 2.
all these factors were present before the court of small causes.
section 6 of the said act reiterates that in determining whether a group of persons is or is not a firm or whether a person is or is not a partner in a firm regard shall be had to the real relation between the parties as shown by all relevant facts taken together.
