a learned single judge of the high court who heard the second appeal while upheld the concurrent findings of the courts below that the deeds of mortgage executed by the plaintiff in respect of the suit properties in favour of defendant l were mortgages by conditional sale and the defendants had failed to prove that there was sale of the suit properties in their favour subsequent to the coming into existence of the said mortgages found that the defendants had raised in their written statements the plea that they were tenants not only prior to the date of suit but also at the time of the filing of the suit and having regard to that plea the suit ought to have been stayed by the civil court and the issue of tenancy should have been referred to the mamlatdar for obtaining a finding from him thereon both under section 85 a of the bt.
in the case of a lease the estate that is outstanding in the lessor is the reversion in the case of a mortgage the estate that is outstanding is the equity of redemption of the mortgagor.
furthermore section 85a as it stood prior to its amendment by gujarat amendment act no 5 in the year 1973 and as stands thereafter requires that if any suit instituted in civil court involves the question of tenancy of present or pastas the case may be the same being required to be decided or dealt with by an authority competent under the bt al act the civil court has to stay the suit and refer the issue to such competent authority for determination and after receiving the decision thereon to dispose of the suit in accordance with such decision.
questions which arise for our consideration and decision in the light of the aforesaid arguments of learned counsel for the contesting parties admit of their formulations thus 1 does the lease hold of a tenant lessee in a property merge in mortgage security if the same property is given by the landlord lessor to the tenant lessee as a mortgage security under a mortgage by conditional sale as would debar the tenant from desisting the suit of the landlord mortgagor for recovery of possession of such property by obtaining a decree for redemption of the mortgage.
70 for the purposes of this act the following shall be the duties and functions to be performed by the mamlatdar a to decide whether a person is an agriculturist b to decide whether a person is a tenant or a protected tenant or a permanent tenant c to decide such other matters as may be referred to him by or under this 85 1 no civil court shall have jurisdiction to settle decide or deal with any question which is by or under this act required to be settled decided or dealt with by the mamlatdar or tribunal a manager the collector or the maharashtra revenue tribunal in appeal or revision or the state government in exercise of their powers of control.
question 2.
accordingly there can not be a merger of a lease and a mortgage in respect of the same property since neither of them is a higher or lesser estate than the other.
the decision of this court in shah mathuradas case 1976 indlaw sc 400 supra and g appalaswamy case 1984 indlaw sc 314 supra sought to be relied upon by learned counsel for the appellant plaintiff in support of his arguments that there was a merger of the leasehold right of the tenant in the suit properties when he took mortgages of those properties from the landlord as would deny him the right to continue in possession of those properties as a tenant instead of supporting his argument would go against it as we shall presently point out.
the suit only on the basis of the finding received from the mamlatdar the civil court itself can record its finding on the issue of tenancy and if the finding to be recorded had to go against the claim of tenancy it would be permissible for the civil court to grant the decree for redemption sought by the plaintiff in the said suit.
specific case pleaded by the plaintiff in the plaint as regards possession of the suit properties held by tenants was that their possession which was with the plaintiff was given to defendant l on the execution of the deeds of mortgage by conditional sale in his favour.
if he frames his suit in a manner not warranted by the facts and goes for his relief to a court which can not grant him relief on the true facts he will have his suit dismissed.
interests of the lessee and the lessor in the whole of the property become vested at the same time in one person in the same right because of section 11 ld of the t p act.
section 85a as it stood before the amendment of this act by gujarat act no 5 of 1973 w e f 3rd march1973.
support was sought for the argument from the decision of this court in topandas case 1963 indlaw sc 379 supra.
85a 1 if any suit instituted in any civil court involves any issues which are required to be settled decided or dealt with by any authority competent to settle decide or deal with such issues under this act hereinafter referred to as the competent authority.
it instituted a suit in the bombay city civil court not the court of small causes bombay praying for a declaration that it was in lawful possession of the shop and the appellants had no right to enter into or remain in possession of the shop and for grant of an injunction restraining the appellants from interfering with the respondent 's possession.
by referring to the material portion of section 28 of the rents control act the argument made on behalf of the appellants was found by this court to be untenable by stating thus we do not think that the section says or intends to say that the plea of the defendant will determine or change the forum.
it is the judgment and order of the learned single judge of the high court by which he allowed the second appeal and remanded the suit which is appealed against in this civil appeal of the plaintiff as is stated at the outset.
since the following observations in the said case confirm the view we have taken on non merger they can be excerpted for a merger to arise it is necessary that a lesser estate and a higher estate should merge in one person at one and the same time and in the same right and no interest in the property should remain outside.
according to him when the plaintiff had not admitted that the defendants were tenants of the suit properties it was not open to the defendants to force the plaintiff who had a right to choose his forum to file a suit to go before another forum on the plea that jurisdiction lay before another forum that is mamlatdar.
but if the provisions of the bt al act which bear on the question of matters to be decided by the mamlatdar are seen they give no room for one even to think that those matters could be decided by a civil court when a question is raised in that behalf even by a defendant in a suit.
bombay tenancy and agricultural lands act1948bombay tenancy and agricultural lands act1948.
bombay had exclusive jurisdiction in dealing with the suit out of which the appeal had arisen.
when suit for redemption of the premises was filed by the respondent the appellant claimed that after redemption he was entitled to remain in possession of the premises because of the subsistence of his previous tenancy right.
it proceeds on the basis that exclusive jurisdiction is conferred on certain courts to decide all questions or claims under the act as to parties between whom there is or was a relationship of landlord and tenant.
when the landlord mortgages the lease hold property of the tenant to the tenant himself he does not part with the right of reversion which he has in respect of that property.
we shall now proceed to deal with the aforesaid questions.
appeal dismissed.
the appellants despite being asked not to visit the shop after the expiry of the period in the concerned agreement they continued to visit the shop and were preventing the respondent from having access to its various articles such as stock in trade books of account furniture fixtures etc.
the rents control actthe court of small causes.
former lessor this court dealing with the said question said that all depends upon whether there was an implied surrender of the lessee 's rights when the usufructuary mortgage was executed in his favour by the lessor mortgagor and only if an implied surrender of lossee 's rights could be inferred then the mortgagor would be entitled to have delivery of physical possession upon redemption but not otherwise.
if the jurisdiction is only one relating to territorial limits or pecuniary limits the plaint will be ordered to be returned for presentation to the proper court.
court it also made a preliminary decree in favour of the plaintiff for redemption of the suit properties.
hence the judgment and order of the high court according to him was liable to be interfered with and set aside.
however learned counsel appearing for the defendants respondents sought to refute the arguments advanced on half of the plaintiff appellant.
this act unless there is anything repugnant in the subject or context18 tenant means a person who holds land on lease and include a a person who is deemed to be tenant trader section 4 b a person who is a protected tenant and c a person who is a permanent tenant and the word landlord shall be construed accordingly.
that suit was resisted by the defendants each of them having filed separate written statements which in sub stance did not differ from each other.
act1947.
the defence in those written statements was that defendant l and his family members had become tenants of the suit properties in the year 1959 1960 and had continued to be such tenants at the time of mortgage deeds executed in respect of those properties in the year 1961 and thereafter.
in support thereof he sought to place reliance on the decisions of this court in shah mathuradas maganlal and co v. nagappa shankarappa malaga and others 1976 indlaw sc 400 and gambangi appalaswamy naldu and others v behara venkataramanayya patro.
the agreement was to remain in force for a period of four years.
on the basis of findings so recorded by the civil.
