dealing with writ petition no 598 of 1993the court after noticing that an agreement was entered into between the institution and the government of kerala according to which while 85 of the seats were to be filled by the government and the remaining 15 of the seats were left for the management to fill up in its discretion observed that since the basic principle in unni krishnan as well as the order dated august 181993 is that merit shall be the guiding principle in the matter of admission a plea for discretionary quota could not be countenanced and it was directed that the said writ petition shall also be governed by the order dated may 141993as modified by addition.
the promotees therefore are entitled to 50 per cent of the posts.
it is therefore directed that the admission for the academic session commencing in 1994 to the professional courses in the institutions which are claimed to be minority educational institutions shall be made on the following basis i in the institutions referred to in writ petitions nos 284 of 1993 and 482 of 1993 admission shall be made as per the directions given in the order dated august 1819932for the academic session commencing in 1993.
shri verma appearing for some of the later direct recruits contended that the direct recruits were appointed to the substantive vacancies as held in k c joshi case and their seniority was fixed in the judgment from the date on which they started discharging the duties of the post as asstt.
conservators forest.
in the light of the respective contentions the question arises whether the determination of the seniority is in accordance with the directions issued by this court.
as on march 11198532 more posts were created and the total posts available were 218 on.
the nris if any admitted to an extent not exceeding 5 of the total seats shall be out of the payment seats to be filled under after completing the admissions each of the colleges shall submit to the competent authority to the university to which it is affiliated and to the government concerned statements containing full particulars of the students admitted under cl ii of para 2 of this order.
similarly as regards writ petition no 482 of 1993it was observed that according to the petitioner in that case the medical college run by it at vellore in the state of tamil nadu is a well reputed institution admission to which is made on the basis of all india entrance test conducted by the petitioner and that the admissions are made on the basis of merit and the fee charged by it is not more than the fees chargeable in similar governmental institutions and that there has never been any complaint about the working of this institution and it was observed that this fact was not disputed by shri seetharaman learned counsel for the state of tamil nadu.
it is clear from the counter affidavit filed by the state that the posts are both permanent and temporary.
on so determining the direct recruits would go en block as seniors to the promotees and the promotee officers in the order of their inter se seniority be appointed by the governor under rule 5b read with rule 6 and would be placed below the direct recruits.
similarly out of the 50 of the seats to be filled up by the management in accordance of the said order half shall be payment seats and the other half free seats.
similarly as on january 11975the ratio was increased to 33 13 per cent namely66 23 per cent to the direct recruits and 33 13 per cent to the promotees.
having regard to the importance of the questions involved we consider it appropriate to issue notice to the attorney general of india as well as the advocates general for the states.
after this exercise is exhausted appointments should be made posts are to be filled up to substantive vacancies.
in the institutions referred to in writ petition no 598 of 1993 and similar minority educational institutions in the state of kerala which are governed by an agreement with the government of kerala the admissions shall be made in accordance with the terms of those agreements.
they shall also bring any such violation to the notice of this court by way of any interlocutory application.
indlaw sc 2264 unnikrishnan j p v. state of a p 1993 4 scc 111 1993 indlaw sc 1168 concerned to adjudge the merit of these candidates having regard to the relevant factors.
it is further contended that though decision was taken to give 50 per cent quota to the promotees the statutory rules have not been made.
from the averments it would appear that 100 promotee asstt.
the contempt petitions are accordingly disposed of.
conservators forest shall be counted from the respective dates of appointment to the substantive posts in their quota under rule 6 of the rules.
the system obtaining in this state appears to be that the entire fees collected by these private engineering colleges has to be made over to the government while the government bears the entire expenditure for running the colleges.
we make it clear that regarding the character of these institutions whether they are minority educational institutions we express no opinion.
insofar as non resident indians and foreign students are concerned the permissible limit would be only 5 of the total intake for a given year as per the direction contained in paragraph 6 of the order dated may 141993 as modified by order dated august 1819932 the admission against these seats shall be made on the basis of merit.
we have to consider therefore whether the procedure adopted by the sate to determine the inter se seniority is in accordance with the rules and the law laid down in k c joshi case.
in case of irregularity any of the said authorities shall be entitled to call upon the petitioner to rectify the said irregularity.
but that was not done.
by order dated october 71993 passed by the constitution bench three questions were referred for consideration by a larger bench.
it came up for hearing on august.
in the above two writ petitions to admit students to their colleges on the basis of entrance test conducted by them and on the same basis on which admissions were made by them in the said colleges in the previous academic year.
conservators forest if not already made in accordance with rule 5b read with appendix b and rule 6.
writ petitions challenging the correctness and applicability of unni krishnan filed by educational institutions which do not claim to be minority educational institutions5 writ petitions which do not fall in any of the above categories.
if the temporary posts are likely to continue for long normally as per the law laid down by this court they be treated for the purpose of counting seniority as permanent posts unless they are likely to be abolished.
candidates so selected on the basis of merit amongst the minorities shall however abide by such condition in the matter of payment of tuition and other fee as may be permitted by the state government.
their continuous length of ad hoc service from the date of their initial appointment can not be counted towards seniority.
we have heard shri soli j sorabjee learned senior counsel for the petitioners in these two writ petitions.
it is a policy matter.
since the seniority as per the direction of this court was made only to substantive posts some of the direct recruits became temporary direct recruits and the seniority was determined accordingly.
the governor was directed to make appointment by promotion to substantive vacancies to the post of asstt.
therefore they are entitled to the seniority from the respective years.
in the rejoinder the promotees have stated that as on december 311974 a total number of 140 posts of asstt.
in pursuance of the said order this bench has been constituted.
in the absence of such list they can themselves devise the method for such selection.
later when raj narayan singh and others filed writ petition civil no 641 of 1991this court on june 61991 directed to convert the writ petition as a contempt case for non implementation of the direction issued in k c joshi case which was numbered as contempt petition no 164 of 1971 when.
their appointments were dehors the rules.
such statements shall contain as full a particulars as possible.
the remaining fifty per cent of the intake may be regulated by the petitioners to admit candidates belonging to the particular religious or linguistic minority.
these directions would meet the exigencies.
all the employees are entitled to all consequential benefits.
there is no rota prescribed in the rules.
conservator forest for the years 1973 74 to 1979 80 had taken place by a regularly constituted selection committee which selected 140 candidates for appointment.
4scc276 2002.
written submissions in brief should be submitted by learned counsel by july 131994.
this order shall be shahal h musaliar v state of kerala1993 4 scc.
any such irregularity if proved may entail serious consequences.
it is open to the respondents to question this status claimed by the petitioners.
when the matters were taken up on march 161994the court felt that it was necessary to reframe the first two questions.
