the trade mark should be taken off and struck out form the register of trade marks in respect of any goods in respect of which the trade mark is registered sub s 3 enables the registered proprietor to show special circumstances for the non use of the trade mark due to which circumstances in the trade he could not use the trade mark for the above period and not with any intention to abandon the use of trade mark or not to use the trade mark in relation to good to which the application for rectification relates.
though there was a ban on impart of the raleigh cycles manufactured outside india and passed off under the registered mark of the respondents as a registered proprietor the circumstances do not attracted sub section 3 of s 46 to relieve the respondents to establish non user but on the facts of this case we have the admitted position that sen raleigh admittedly was a registered user through which the appellant had bona fide used the registered trade mark of the registered proprietor there is no discontinuance or non use of the trade mark by the respondent to establish the special circumstances in this case.
it is not in dispute that till date of filing of the application the appellant used the trade mark in passing off the bicycles under the trade mark of the respondent.
it is contended that the registered user must be understood to be the user by the proprietor or authorized user registered under section 48 the period of 5 years should be computed from that date of expiry of registered user.
according to the learned counsel the respondents have collaboration agreement with sen raleigh which was taken over by the government under idr act and the appellant came to manufacture with the technical know how supplied by the respondents the raleigh bicycles under the trade mark registered by the respondents in the register of the registrar under the act.
in these circumstances we are of the view that the high court has properly exercised its discretion and refused to rectify and strike off the trade mark from the register of trade marks of the registrar.
s 48 provides for registered users which reads thus 48 registered users 1 subject to the provisions of section 49a person other than the registered proprietor of a trade mark may be registered as the registered user thereof in respect of any or all of the goods in respect of which the trade mark is registered otherwise than as a defensive trade mark but the central government may by rules made in this behalf provide that no application for registration as such shall be entertained unless the agreement between the parties complies with the conditions laid down in the rules for preventing trafficking in trade marks 2 permitted use of a trade mark shall be deemed to be use by the proprietor thereof and shall be used by a person the proprietor for the purpose of s 46 or for any other purpose for which such use is material under this act or any other law.
it appears that even an unregistered licensee so long as there is unbroken connection in the course of the trade between the licensor and the passing off lincesee 's goods under the trade mark there would be sufficient connection in the course of the trade between the proprietor and bona fide user of the trade mark by unregistered user.
the burden is on tile respondents to prove that non user was due to special circumstance of the trade and not due to some other cause which would have operated whether special circumstances had arisen or not since the respondents were not using the trade mark since april 201954the plea of special circumstances is not available to the respondents.
the high court recorded a finding and it is not disputed across the bar that the appellant had entered into an agreement with sen raleigh which was a permitted user and used the trade mark till november 11976 and thereafter by registered user agreement dated december 201976 used trade mark for a period of 5 years.
it is also not necessary to go into the question whether the application filed by the appellant u s 481 and its pendency would be a special circumstance in favour of the respondent.
the court while exercising its discretion u s 46 should look into not only commercial interest of the parties but also public interest.
it would thus be apparent that subject to section 46for a registered trade mark up to date within one month before the date of making application for rectification for a continuous period of 5 years or longer if registered trade mark had not been use during that period there was no bona fide user in relation to those goods by the proprietor thereof for the time being.
shri raju ramchandran learned senior counsel for the appellant raised three fold contentions.
the appellant was using the same as an agent.
the construction put up by the high court renders sub s 2 of s 48 otiose or surplus age which interpretation is impermissible.
it is true that u s 431 either the registered proprietor or a permitted person is required to register as permitted user.
the division bench therefore was wrong in its conclusion that the appellant has failed to establish it.
the appellant must be presumed by course of conduct that he is a bona fide user for the purpose of s 461b.
on march 281978joint application by sen raleigh and the appellant duly signed by the respondent as proprietor and sen raleigh limited as registered user came to be made before the registrar of trade marks.
in view of the prohibition to import bicycles the respondent was prevented to use the trade mark but by collaboration agreement it was continuing to use the trade mark by the permitted user.
suffice it to hold that subs 3 of s 46.
the respondents did not prove that they were prevented to use the same for 5 years or more preceding the date of the application.
this question was considered by this court in american home products corporation vs mac laboratories pvt ltd and anr 1985 indlaw sc 464 and they need no reiteration.
it is a question of fact in every case.
on appeal the division bench in appeal no 1391 confirmed the same holding that on and from october 251980the respondent had allowed and permitted the appellant to manufacture bicycles etc according its specifications and to pass off the goods under their trade marks.
the expression therefore should not be restricted to user by the proprietor himself or any registered user but should also take into account bona fide authorized user.
we have given anxious consideration to the reasoning therein.
it would therefore be clear that a permitted use of the trade mark should be done under sub s 1 of section 48 it.
after termination of the collaboration and user agreement between the appellant and the respondents it was likely to cause confusion and deception amongst the trade and public.
46 removal from register and imposition of limitations on ground of non use 1.
special circumstances as a defense were available to the respondent for non user even after 1979the supply technical know how by the respondent was not totally absent.
simultaneously an application for registration of three trade marks an their favour was filed by the appellant on march 251982.
in k r beri and co vs the metal godds mfg.
the court would not lend assistance to such registered proprietors of the trade mark.
on april 241954sen.
the central government is empowered to prevent trafficking in trade mark.
thus this appeal by special leave.
s 461b reads as under.
the high court in our view declined for good reasons to rectify the trade mark under section act b of the act.
the harmonious construction should be put up in such a way that s 482 and s 466 by of the act could be permitted to have their full play in their operational structure.
the power u s 46 is discretionary.
it requires to be prevented and prohibited.
the learned single judge dismissed the application by his judgment dated september 131990 holding inter alia that any proprietor mentioned in s 461b of the act extends to bona fide user other than registered users.
though the collaboration and registered user agreements stood expired from october 311981no agreement came to be executes nor continued to use the specifications on technical know how.
we have heard learned counsel on both sides.
by proceedings dated june 131984the registrar of trade marks informed the appellant that the registered user 's applications were abandoned since the appellant failed to comply with the statutory requirements.
the appeal is accordingly dismissed but in the circumstances without costs.
raleigh was recorded as permitted users of the trade marks.
it is true that the burden flies on the registered proprietor of the trade mark to establish the exceptions provided under s 463 equally the applicant for rectification also prima facie shows non user for the relevant period.
the discretion therefore was not to be extended in favour of the appellant.
a continuous period of 5 years or longer had passed and the trade mark had not been bona fide used by the respondent.
sub s 2 of s 48 give defence to permitted user in relation to a registered trade mark.
