so far as the contentions raised on the basis of s 17 of the copyright act is concerned it is clear that the petitioners were not able to establish that the respondent nos 1 to 4 produced the said serial 1 as the agents of the petitioners 2 in the course of their employment with the petitioners 3 for valuable consideration paid by the petitioners to them and iv at the instance of the petitioners.
the trial court examined in detail the letter dated 19 july 1984 exhibit f 1 written by shri g k pendharkar of the petitioners and concluded that averments made in the plaint stated that the original agreement was to have 27 episodes but having regard to the popularity of the serial programme the petitioners decided to increase the said serial to 52 episodes.
it was also held that the respondents proved that the petitioners are not the owners of the copy right of the tv serial film viz. yeh jo hai zindagi within the meaning of s 17 of the copy right act and it was intended between the parties that copy rights in respect of the said film should vest exclusively with the respondents or that the rights of ownership was waived by the petitioners.
the petitioners claimed that they were the real producers and owners of the said serial yeh jo hai zindagi and the petitioners to the knowledge of the respondents have entered into an agreement assigning the video rights in the said serial to one m s esquire distributing and servicing pvt.
the plaintiffs prove that the t v serial entitled yeh jo hai zindagi was produced by the defendant nos 1 to 4 as agents and the said serial made by defendant nos 1 to 4 in the course of their employment with the plaintiffs as alleged.
the petitioners agreed to pay fixed amount to these respondents per episode for linking up their commercials with the said serial and not on the basis of the actual cost of production of each episode so that if the cost of production exceeded the said fixed amount the respondents had to bear the same.
on appeal the high court re examined the matter and on examination of the pleadings the contentions put forth before the court the evidence on record and the findings recorded by the trial court concluded that the findings recorded by the trial court are proper.
the petitioners are also pioneers in making use of doordarshan for advertising their products through the agency of the 1st respondent approached the 1st respondent to act as their agents for the purpose of producing a serial which would be shown as petitioners sponsored programme.
ltd by the respondents pursuant to letters dated 14 december 1984 and 15 november 1985 and had received royalty for the video rights and the original u matic cassettes were returned to them by esquire distributing servicing pvt. ltd as their property.
thus the respondents name was shown in the title of the said serial as the producer thereof right from the beginning of the said serial but the petitioners did not protest against the same.
2 that the petitioners had agreed to sponsor only 26 episodes whereas the respondents had agreed to produce 52 episodes and had given a firm commitment to that effect to doordarshan as is clear from the letter dated 12 july 1984 sent by the respondents to doordarshan.
9 are.
after examining the oral and documentary evidence on record it is disclosed that prior to letter sent on 11 july 1984 the petitioners were acquainted even with the format of the suit serial they did not have any connection with the suit serial till that date and relied upon the wording used therein to the effect that you and mr g k pendharkar are requested to join mr oberoi and his creative team when the format of the proposed half and hour sponsored programme shall be presented to you.
in the year 1967the 2nd respondent 's wife mrs sunanda s oberoi started the proprietary business of advertising agency in the name and style of art commercial and the 2nd respondent used to work in various capacities for the said firm.
2 the bills of cost of production.
relying upon this letter emphasis was laid on the words produced by sponsors whether two capacities sponsor and producer can co exist in one and the same person or not has been examined and the trial court noted that the wording had been borrowed from the tariff card and tariff card also indicated what are the categories of the advertisers and rates thereof.
it was also held that the respondents nos 1 to 4 are entitled to deny the ownership of the petitioners of the film yeh jo hai zindagi in view of exhibits a b and e produced in the case.
the 5th respondent thereafter decided to entertain welcome andor encourage the proposals from the private producers to produce such serials or films at their own cost and responsibility and under the said scheme the advertisers desirous of linking up their advertisements with such films or serials were required to negotiate and settle directly with the producers of such films andor serials the royalty or consideration payable to such producers for linking up their advertisements and commercials with their film serial and under the said scheme further such advertisements were offered handsome concessions in the rates of advertisements for display of their ads on tv.
thus it was found that the first 26 episodes the amount per episode paid by the petitioners was rs 120000 and each bill contained the expression service charges which was stated by the appellants that the respondents acted as agents of the petitioners for production of suit serial.
the petitioners were also not able to prove that the entire serial rights including the exclusive right to use the title thereof belonged to the petitioners as alleged.
therefore it can not be said that there is any communication between the same.
the trial court raised as many as 12 issues and they are as follows 1 is it proved that this court has no pecuniary jurisdiction to entertain and try this suit.
that letter had been addressed to respondent no 1m s art commercia.
5 contractd with esquire distributing servicing pvt ltd.
the trial court also relied on exhibit c 1 which indicated that the respondents were submitting a format for the serial which was to be registered on behalf of the client m s vicco laboratories.
thus we find absolutely no merit in this petition.
some time in may 1985the 1st respondent proposed to the petitioners that some other products should be tied up with the serial yeh jo hai zindagi.
ltd that the respondents were asked by the petitioners to issue another letter in this regard.
11 to what relief if any are the plaintiffs entitled.
the 5th respondent registered the respondent nos 1 and 2 as the producers of the said serial.
the 55th episode was telecast sometime at the end of november or beginning of december 1985 and thus there was a time gap of 78 months between the protest and the telecast of the 55th episode.
on these grounds the respondents contended that the suit of the petitioners is misconceived malicious and baseless and is liable to be dismissed.
in his further evidence mr gill stated that some time in the month of may june1984 he had met kundan shah and requested to make a comedy serial for doordarshan which clearly indicated that it is only the respondents who were dealing with doordarshan.
we are not satisfied that the petitioners have made out a case for consideration by this court.
the 2nd respondent undertook the preliminary project work on his own without loss of any time.
their contention was that there was a protest from the petitioners and as a result thereof this change took place.
about 18 years ago before filing of the suit the respondents came into contact with the petitioners initially as clients in connection with the job of advertisement of their products on all india radio theatre and films and later on television.
it was also pointed out that the name yeh jo hai zindagi is associated with the vicco laboratories and that if they wanted to obtain another sponsor they could produce a new serial under a different name.
4 that the courts below have refuted the claim of the petitioners that the bill dated 19 march 1984 establishes the fact that the production work had been started by the respondents at the behest of the petitioners.
in the meanwhile the respondents contended that m s brook bond ltd who wanted to link up their commercial with 13 episodes and agreed to pay and paid the ruling market price.
7 does.
the suit not maintainable against defendant no 5 for failure to give notice u s 80 of cpc.
the trial court proceeded thereafter to examine the payments made in regard to production of the serial.
yeh jo hai zindagi had gained popularity and had become one of the most exclusive and popular serial.
the suit suffer from non joinder of necessary parties.
4 contracts with doordarshan.
the respondents contended that on no occasion the petitioners acted as a producer and even the contract was signed by the petitioners as an advertiser and by the respondent no 1 as an approved agent.
12 what order.
in course of time the 2nd respondent and partners of the petitioners especially g k pendharkar came very close to each other and developed very intimate relations.
