dr dhawan would furthermore contend that the findings of fact had been arrived at by the labour court that the appellants of civil appeal no 337 of 2002 were appointed by the authority and not only their work was being taken in the project but also in other works and thus mere posting of the appellants to the said project would not disentitle them from the benefit of the said act.
as regard application of the doctrine of equal pay for equal work it was held to be not applicable as the appellants were not entitled to absorption or classification in terms of the 1961 act and the 1963 rules.
had the appointments of the appellants been made in terms of the provisions of the adhiniyam and rules framed thereunder the respondent authority was statutorily enjoined to make an offer of appointment in writing which was to be accepted by the appellants herein.
2004 indlaw sc 829 this court observed in such a factual background in our opinion the industrial court or the high court could not have drawn an adverse inference for the non production of the muster rolls for the year 1990 to 1992 in the absence of specific pleading by the respondents applicants that at least during that period they had worked for 240 days continuously in a given year.
we have noticed the provisions of the act and the rules.
they have also not been able to show that they had been issued any permanent ticket.
before the high court as also before us the appellants have produced a large number of documents which were not filed before the labour court.
it is also not in dispute that the respondent authority has been constituted under madhya pradesh nagar tatha gram nibesh adhiniyam 1973 adhiniyam section 47 whereof mandates that all appointments to the posts of officers and servants included in the state cadre mentioned in section 76 b of the development authority services must be made by the state government and the appointments to the posts of officers and servants included in the local cadre in the said services by the concerned town and country development authority.
a ticket of permanent employee was thus required to be issued in terms of order 3 of the standard standing orders.
the labour court did not draw any adverse inference.
the learned counsel would submit that in fact no appointment letter was issued to the appellants.
such a plea had expressly been rejected by this court in a umarani 2004 indlaw sc 606 supra.
the project was indisputably to be executed by the indore development authority and for the implementation thereof the appointments had to be made by it.
the state has not created any post nor they could do so on their own.
i a permanent employee is one who has completed six months satisfactory service in a clear vacancy in one or more posts whether as a probationer or otherwise or a person whose name has been entered in the muster roll and who is given a ticket of permanent employee vi.
apex bank ltd vs y s shetty and others 2000 10 scc 179 1999 indlaw sc 2211 and m d u p land development corporation and another vs amar singh and others 2003 5 scc 388 2003 indlaw sc 331.
a state before offering public service to a person must comply with the constitutional requirements of articles 14 and 16 of the constitution.
we have noticed hereinbefore that in the case of om prakash mondloi the ceo made an endorsement to the effect that he may be tried in daily wages and should be entrusted with the work of progress collection of oda work.
but in absence of any conflict in the provisions of the said act the conditions of service including those relating to recruitment as provided for in the 1973 act and the 1987 rules would apply.
an industrial dispute was raised by the appellants herein as their services were not being regularized by the respondent.
some documents were said to have been called for from the respondents which are said to have been not produced.
the posts of sub engineers in which the appellants were appointed.
it was therefore impermissible for the state to direct regularization of the services of the employees of the cooperative societies.
equal pay for equal work.
these appeals arising out of a judgment and order dated 26 4 2000 passed in writ petition no 1188 of 1997 by the high court of madhya pradesh indore bench involving similar questions of law and fact were taken up for hearing together and are being disposed of by this common judgment.
if by reason of the latter the appointment is invalid the same can not be validated by taking recourse to regularization.
the 1961 act itself shows that the employees are to be classified in six categories namely permanent permanent seasonal probationers badlies apprentices and temporary.
for the purpose of this matter we would proceed on the basis that the 1961 act is a special statute.
no post was sanctioned by the state government.
there is no difference in their work and the work of the employees of indore development authority.
sub s 2 of section 6 reads as under where immediately before the commencement of this act standing order are in force in respect of any undertaking such standing orders shall until standard standing orders are applied to such undertaking under sub section 1 continue in force as if they were made under this act.
it may be true that the appellants had been later on put on a monthly salary but there is nothing on record to show as to how the same was done.
presumably the appellants were aware of the statutory limitations in this behalf.
3 and 4 are diploma holders in civil engineering.
the maintenance job upon completion thereof had been taken over by indore municipal corporation.
an adverse inference need not necessarily be drawn only because it would be lawful to do so.
it is also not the case of the appellants that their names had appeared in the service book maintained for the said purpose.
classification of employees.
the life of the project came to an end on 30 6 1997.
it was within its jurisdiction to do so particularly having regard to the nature of the evidence adduced by the respondent.
if a document was called for in absence of any pleadings the same was not relevant.
in hindustan shipyard ltd 1996 indlaw sc 3441 supra this court also distinguished the said decision.
the 1973 act or the rules framed there under do not provide for appointments on ad hoc basis or on daily wages.
12 of the constitution of india.
such a plea was not even raised before the high court.
presumption as to adverse inference for non production of evidence is always optional and one of the factors which is required to be taken into consideration in the background of facts involved in the lis.
for the purpose of obtaining a permanent status constitutional and statutory conditions precedent therefor must be fulfilled.
recently in m p electricity board vs hariram etc.
they were not appointed in terms of the provisions of the statute.
regularisation can not be claimed as a matter of right.
for the reasons aforementioned we do not find any merit in these appeals which are dismissed accordingly.
however it has been seen that even services of one of them had been requisitioned only for the project work.
in absence of any specific directions contained in the schedule appended to the standing orders the statute and the statutory rules applicable to the employees of the respondent shall prevail.
case law relied upon by the appellant.
the process of regularization involves regular appointment which can be done only in accordance with the prescribed procedure.
this is what this court had to say in that regard.
allegedly from their salary provident fund was being deducted.
one of such documents was offers of appointment.
there shall however be no order as to costs.
it is furthermore not in dispute that adhiniyam came into force in 1973.
the nature of their employment continues save and except a case where a statute interdicts which in turn would be subject to the constitutional limitations.
the respondent authority is a state within the meaning of article.
it appears that there existed a scheme for regularization and some directions were issued in terms thereof.
such a relief would have been beyond the scope and purport of the reference made to the labour court by the state government.
