it makes it obligatory on the part of the officer to give notice of the date on which he will commence his duties and shall state therein the time within which the owner of any property or rights which is injuriously affected by the making of the town planning scheme shall be advertised in one or more newspapers published in the regional language and circulating within the jurisdiction of the local authority and shall be posted in prominent places at or near the area comprised in the scheme and at the office of the town planning officer.
but if the area of original plot no 178 is included in the final scheme and in exchange of the original plot held by keshav gramini of 178 and 177the final plot is already allotted and as observed earlier it was even otherwise in the ownership of the original holder and it is only on account of inter se dispute the other persons are lawfully occupying the land the tenant can not insist that his landlord must be allotted the land of final plot no 157 simultaneously when he is to be evicted or deprived of the portion of the land of original plot no 178 therefore in my view considering the peculiar facts and circumstances of the present case the decision of the apex court in case of mansukhlal1991 indlaw sc 975 supra can not be made applicable to the present case.
we would consider the effect of sub s 3 of s 65 of the act a little later but we may at this juncture notice that the respondent no 3 in whose favour plot no 165 has been allotted which includes 200 sq m of land purported to be in possession of the appellant had nothing to do with the dispute between the appellant and his landlord the respondent no 4 respondent no 4 was in possession of a contiguous plot.
rule 21 of the bombay rules provides for the procedure to be followed by the town planning officer.
it is also not in dispute that the appellant filed an objection in regard to the draft scheme but did not eventually pursue the same.
the term waiver has been described in the following words waiver is the abandonment of a right in such a way that the other party is entitled to plead the abandonment by way of confession and avoidance if the right is thereafter asserted and is either express or implied from conduct.
s 67 of the act provides that all lands required by the appropriate authority shall unless it is otherwise determined in such scheme vest absolutely in the appropriate authority free from all encumbrances with effect from the date on which the preliminary scheme comes into force.
in that context it was held the question is whether the tenant or a sub tenant is a person interested and is entitled to notice.
amended rules are in pari materia with rule 26 of the rules.
in respect of the proceedings initiated for the purpose of re allotment of the land despite a public notice the appellant did not file any objection.
we are of the opinion that even if he had any such right he waived the same.
therefore as per the gujarat town planning and urban development rules1979 rule 33 the undersigned in exercise of powers conferred below s 681 and 82 of the bombay provincial municipalities act and below the s 68 notice under the gujarat town planning and urban development act this is to inform you that as shown in the sketch on the reverse the premises marked should be vacated within 7 days from receipt of the notice and had over the possession to the surat municipal corporation.
respondent no 4 was allotted a final plot bearing no 157 and the said 200 sq m of land of plot no 178 has merged in final plot no 165 owned by the respondent no 3.
for the reasons aforementioned the appeal is dismissed.
sub rule 3 of rule 21 of the bombay rules provides for issuance of a special notice upon the person interested in any plot or in any particular plot comprised in the scheme.
it was held that he had thereby waived his right to have the caveat set aside as lapsed u s 23 the privy council held that the limitation of time contained in s 23 was introduced for the benefit of the applicant to enable him to obtain a speedy determination of his right to have the land brought under the provisions of the act and that it was competent for the applicant to waive the limit of the three months and that he did waive it by stating a case and applying for and obtaining an order upon the appellant to state her case both which steps assumed and proceeded on the assumption of the continued existence of the caveat.
statutory right however may also be waived by his conduct.
for eviction under section 68the appropriate authority shall follow the following procedure viz. a the appropriate authority shall in the first instance serve a notice upon a person to be evicted requiring him within such reasonable time as may be specified in the notice to vacate the land.
the scheme in terms of sub s 3 of s 65 of the act having become a part of the act validity thereof can not be questioned at this stage as modification of the scheme if any will have to undergo the entire process once over again which is not contemplated under the act.
the town planning scheme is notified in the official gazette.
if he intended to claim any interest in a portion of plot no 178 either for the purpose of obtaining compensation for acquisition of a part of the land or to continue to have possession over 200 sq m of land in plot no 178it was obligatory on his part to take part in the proceedings.
we may also take notice of the decision of this court in mansukhlal jadavji.
nos 177 and 178 he was therefore in his own right entitled to final allotment of some plot.
we are however not unmindful of the fact that a statute of town planning ex facie is not a statute for acquisition of a property.
what would be the quantum of payment of compensation therefor is also provided in s 82 of the act.
s 52 contemplates issuance of a notice in a prescribed manner and in the prescribed form.
but he must be in possession of the property on the crucial date i e when.
emphasis supplied see also bank of india v o p swarnakar 2003 2 scc 721 2002 indlaw sc 1562.
it may arise from a party making an election for example whether or not to exercise a contractual right.
67 effect of preliminary scheme.
it was on that legal principle this court in state of gujarat v shantilal mangaldas ors 1969 3 scr 341 1969 indlaw sc.
the action as per the s 188 of the indian penal code will be initiated against you before the criminal court pleased take note of the same.
chapter v of the act provides for town planning schemes.
a road widening project was proposed in terms of the said scheme.
notices therefor were issued both to the appellant as also the respondent No appellant objected thereto.
mr u u lalit learned senior counsel appearing on behalf of the appellant in support of this appeal inter alia would submit i. the provisions of ss 52 and 81 being imperative in character no acquisition of land is permissible without service of any notice upon the persons interested which would include a tenant in occupation and carrying on business thereon.
and now the applicant after all these proceedings have been taken by him after doubtless much expense has been incurred on the part of the caveator and after lying by and hoping to get a judgment of the court in his favour asks the court to do that which but for some reasons known to himself he might have asked the court to do before any other step in the proceedings had been taken.
there exists a distinction in the action of the planning authority as regards vesting of a property in it and one so as to enable it to create a third party interest vis vis for the purpose of re allotment thereof.
c if the person to be evicted resists or obstructs the officer or servant deputed u cl b or.
whereof inter alia enables allotment of a final plot from an original plot by transfer of any adjoining lands.
it is true that waiver can not always and in every case be inferred merely from the failure of the party to take the objection.
if a claim is not filed the person who is said to be injuriously affected does so at its own peril.
on the day on which the preliminary scheme comes into force.
before embarking upon the issue involved in this appeal we may notice the admitted fact of the matter.
it has been noticed by us hereinbefore that under rule 26 of the rules applicable in the instant case as distinguished from the bombay rules wherein special notice is requiredno special notice is mandatorily required to be served.
suffice it to say that the tenant will be at liberty to resort to appropriate proceedings against the landlord for the inter se rights and also for entitlement of the compensation.
ltd v. arvindbhai rambhai patel and ors 2006 8 scale 631 2006 indlaw sc 786this court observed the matter may be considered from another angle.
a right can be waived by the party for whose benefit certain requirements or conditions had been provided for by a statute subject to the condition that no public interest is involved therein.
and its pole demarcations were done by the town planning officer at site.
he may in a given case disentitle himself from obtaining an equitable relief particularly when he allows a thing to come to an irreversible situation.
lalit in support of his contention strongly relied upon a decision of this court in mansukhlal jadavji darji and others v ahmedabad municipal corporation and others 1992 1 scc 384 1991 indlaw sc 975 and jaswantsingh mathurasingh and another v ahmedabad municipal corporation and others 1992 supp 1 scc 5 1991 indlaw sc 972.
in halsbury 's laws of england volume 1624th edition para 907it is stated the expression waiver may in law bear different meanings.
33 procedure for eviction u s 68 1.
b he did not file objections for re allotment and did not participate in the proceedings following acquisition instituted by the authorities under the act.
a division bench of the high court dismissed an intra court appeal preferred thereagainst.
they referred with approval to the decision in phillips v martin where the chief justice said here there is abundant evidence of waiver and it is quite clear that a man may by his conduct waive a provision of an act of parliament intended for his benefit.
i think he is altogether too late.
had such a claim been filed the authority before making final allotment could have considered the competing claims wherefor a large number of factors were required to be taken into consideration viz. the location of the land the area of the land the nature of right etc.
he has no enforceable claim against the state at this juncture.
the legal principle emerging from these decisions is also stated in craies on statute law 6th edn at page 369 as follows as a general rule the conditions imposed by statutes which authorise legal proceedings are treated as being indispensable to giving the court jurisdiction.
