it is true that the high court while exercising its revisional power under section 121a of the act had set aside the concurrent findings of fact of the land tribunal as well as of the appellate authority even then examining the findings of the high court and considering the power conferred on it in the revisional jurisdiction under section 121a of the act we do not find any reason to interfere with the impugned order of the high court in the exercise of our power u art 136 of the constitution.
in the present case also the respondents 3 and 4 failed to prove that their father was cultivating the land in dispute from the year 1968 as a tenant under the respondent no 5 and that after the death of their father they continued as tenants in respect of the land in dispute.
as noted herein earlier since section 121a of the act clearly empowers the high court to look into the legality of the orders impugned therefore it would be open to the high court to consider the material evidence on record when it finds that such evidence was not at all considered by the tribunals below or when the conclusion arrived at by the tribunals below run contrary to the materials on record or when it finds that there is no evidence to support the conclusion of the tribunals below or that the reasons given by the tribunals below are absolutely perverse or a finding was such that no court would come to such a conclusion or that the decisions of the tribunals below were manifestly unjust.
when the matter stood thus the father of the respondent nos 3 and 4 gondappa who is the uncle of the 5th respondent rajashankar filed form no 7 before the land tribunal claiming occupancy rights in respect of the land in dispute contending that he is the tenant of the said land under the 5th respondent from the year 1968i e subsequent to the date of mortgage.
in our view so far as the decision in the case of mohan balaku patil ors vs by lrs 2000 1 scc 518 1999 indlaw sc 941 is concerned it is difficult to conceive how this decision could be of any help to the appellants.
while considering such entries the high court had rightly held that from the entries in the rtc record for the years 1968 to 1974the name of the appellants was not shown as the person in cultivation of the land in dispute and also the nature of cultivation of the scheduled land was not shown as that of the tenants in the said rtc record.
we have already considered the findings made by the high court while setting aside the concurrent orders of the tribunals below and found that the same appear to be well merited and in accordance with the material evidence on record therefore this court would not interfere with the order of the high court u art 136 of the constitution.
he has not produced any geni receipts or any lease agreement to show that the 5th respondent has leased out the land in dispute in his favour on crop share basis and that he paid the geni to the 5th respondent.
in support of his contention he had relied on a decision of this court in the case of dahya lal ors vs rasul mohammed abdul rahim 1963 3 scr 1 1962 indlaw sc 366.
feeling aggrieved the respondent no 4 filed an appeal before the appellate authority which was also dismissed.
a revision petition thereafter was moved before the high court and the high court by the impugned judgment had set aside the concurrent findings of fact and rejected the application filed by the father since deceased of the appellants holding inter alia that the appellants or their father had failed to prove the tenancy in respect of the scheduled land.
so it is not possible to presume that the father of the respondent nos 3 and 4 gondappa who is the uncle of respondent no 5 was not the member of the family of the mortgagee respondent no 5.
mr raju the learned counsel appearing on behalf of the appellants however contended before us that it was not open to the high court in the exercise of its revisional jurisdiction under section 121a of the act to interfere with the concurrent findings of fact arrived at by the appellate authority and the land tribunal.
thus the r t c extracts produced by him do not support his contention that he was cultivating the land in dispute as a tenant.
in view of the aforesaid we are therefore of the view that this is not a fit case where this court shall interfere with the order passed by the high court under section 121a of the act 19 for the reasons aforesaid this appeal fails and is dismissed without any order as to costs.
in that decision it has been made clear that the high court was entitled to interfere with the orders of the appellate authority only on question of law or irregularity in procedure and on no other aspect.
the land tribunal after remand relying on the entries in the rtc record and some other materials on record granted occupancy rights in favour of the appellants.
still we may not interfere if the justice of the case on facts does not require interference or if we feel that the relief could be moulded in a different fashion.
one of the main criteria for deciding whether a particular person is a tenant or not is to see whether there was payment of rent either in cash or in kind.
even in respect of the said claim he failed to produce any documentary evidence evidencing the said lease of land in dispute from gundu rao.
they alleged that they were cultivating the scheduled land from 1968 till the notified date under the act on wara basis giving 13rd of the share in the foodgrains to respondent no 4 accordingly the appellants prayed for an order of occupancy right in respect of the scheduled land alleging that they and their father were cultivating the scheduled land as occupancy.
there is another aspect of this matter.
by lrs 2000 1 scc 518 1999 indlaw sc 941 and krishtappa yellappa pujar ors vs ram samsthan beladhadi 1999 1 scc 74 1998 indlaw sc 1197.
the appellants in this appeal claiming to be the tenants of agricultural land bearing survey no 1251measuring 3 acres 11 gunthas.
finally in taherakhatoon d by lrs.
the case of tenancy as made out by the appellants or their father was denied.
in our view although the high court had set aside the concurrent findings of fact arrived at by the tribunals below under the karnataka land reforms.
salambin mohammad 1992 2 scc 635 1992 indlaw sc 355this court at paragraph 20 has observed as follows in view of the above decisions even though we are now dealing with the appeal after grant of special leave we are not bound to go into merits and even if we do so and declare the law or point out the error.
s 4 of the act makes it clear that a member of the owner 's family can not be considered as a deemed tenant even if he is lawfully cultivating the land belonging to owner.
again in jai mangal oraon vs mira nayak smt ors 2000 5 scc 141.
