when the charge was that the accused attempted to commit trespass into the house of prakashi devi with intent to outrage the modesty of prakashi devi the conclusion of the appellate court and the high court that there was no failure of justice if he is punished for the offence of having assaulted sheela devi and outraging her modesty is opposed to principles of fair play and natural justice embodied in sections 211212215 and 464 of the code.
s 212 of the code provides that the charge shall contain the particulars as to the time and place of the alleged offence and the person if any against whom or the thing if any in respect of which it was committed as are reasonably sufficient to give the accused notice of the matter with which he is charged.
in judging a question of prejudice as of guilt the courts must act with a broad vision and look to the substance and not to the technicalities and their main concern should be to see whether the accused had a fair trial whether he knew what he was being tried for whether the main facts sought to be established against him were explained to him fairly and clearly and whether he was given a full and fair chance to defend himself.
prakashi devi was examined as pw 1 she reiterated what was recorded in the fir that the appellant came into the house around 11 30 pm and broke the bulbs that he came again around 00 30 am and touched her daughter in law sheela devi and when her daughter in law woke up and raised an alarm the appellant ran away.
sub s 2 of sec 464 provides that if the court of appeal confirmation or revision is of opinion that failure of justice has in fact been occasioned it may a in the case of an omission to frame a charge order that a charge be framed and that the trial be recommended from the point immediately after the framing of the charge b in case of an error omission or irregularity in the charge direct a new trial to be had upon a charge framed in whatever manner it thinks fit.
on the other hand if two persons were present in the house at the time of the incident namely prakashi devi and sheela devi and the accused is charged with trespassing into the house of prakashi devi and assaulting and outraging the modesty of the said prakashi devi and the witnesses refer only to the assault and outraging the modesty of sheela devi the court will have to infer that the accused was prejudiced if the accused had solely concentrated and focused his defence and entire cross examination to show that he did not commit the offences against prakashi devi.
the court may infer from this that a was misled and that the error was material.
e a was charged with murdering haidar baksh on the 20th january1882and khoda baksh who tried to arrest him for that murder on the 21 st january1882 when charged for the murder of haidar baksh he was tried for the murder of khoda baksh.
this court reversed the decision of the high court on the ground that a special court under the act being a sessions court it continued to have jurisdiction to try the case for the offence u s 376.
the accused did not have any opportunity to meet or defend himself against the charge that he assaulted sheela devi and outraged her modesty.
the code is emphatic that whatever the irregularity it is not to be regarded as fatal unless there is prejudice.
prakashi devi and thereby committed an offence punishable u s 452 ipc within my cognizance.
but there will be no prejudice or failure of justice where there was an error in the charge and the accused was aware of the error.
8 scc 339 2008 indlaw sc 1064 and sanichar sahni vs state of bihar 2009 7 scc 198 2009 indlaw sc 736.
in her cross examination prakashi devi stated that she has five sons that only her husband and one son named mahavir were staying with her that the other four sons were married and were not staying with her that on that night her husband was away in the fields and her son mahavir was also not present in the house.
the appeal filed by the accused was dismissed by the addl.
nor did he proceed with his defence on the understanding that he was being charged with having committed the offence with reference to sheela devi.
one of the fundamental principles of justice is that an accused should know what is the charge against him so that he can build his defence in regard to that charge.
pc this court held thus the crux of the matter is this would there be occasion for a failure of justice by adopting such a course as to convict an accused of the offence under section 304 b ipc when all the ingredients necessary for the said offence have come out in evidence although he was not charged with the said offence.
every reasonable presumption must be made in favour of an accused person he must be given the benefit of every reasonable doubt.
it hardly matters whether this is because prejudice is then patent or because it is so abhorrent to well established notions of natural justice that a trial of that kind is only a mockery of a trial and not of the kind envisaged by the laws of our land because either way they would be struck down at once.
pw 2 also stated that she did not know the particulars of the dispute between the accused and her in laws.
but these are matters of fact which will be special to each different case and no conclusion on these questions of fact in any one case can ever be regarded as a precedent or a guide for a conclusion of fact in another because the facts can never be alike in any two cases however alike they may seem.
s 211 of the code relates to the contents of the charge.
in willie william slaney vs state of madhya pradesh.
pc and sentenced him for rigorous imprisonment for six months and a fine of rs 1000 in default thereof simple imprisonment for one month.
on that basis the following charge was framed by the judicial magistrate first class karnal against the appellant that on 23 3 1996after having made preparation for causing hurt or assault you committed house trespass into the house of smt.
courts have to administer justice and justice includes the punishment of guilt just as much as the protection of innocence.
the respondent was chargesheeted for an offence u s 376 ipc and s 3 of the scheduled castes and scheduled tribes prevention of atrocities.
and i hereby direct that you be tried on the above said charge by this court.
now here as in all procedural laws certain things are regarded as vital.
in view of the specific charge the accused concentrated on showing that the charge was false.
2001 indlaw sc 19904this court considered the meaning of the expression failure of justice occurring in s 464 of cr.
it is the substance that we must seek.
their evidence was that he touched caught the hand of sheela devi and when she raised an alarm he ran away.
emphasis supplied.
illustration e u s 215 of the code as contrasted from illustration d under that section throws some light on this issue.
appeal allowed.
if all these elements are there and no prejudice is shown the conviction must stand whatever the irregularities whether traceable to the charge or to a want of one.
an fir was registered on 23 3 1996 on the statement of one prakashi devi.
the learned magistrate by judgment dated 2 2 2001held the accused guilty of offences u ss 452 and 354 cr.
disregard of a provision of that nature is fatal to the trial and at once invalidates the conviction.
