47a registered trade mark may be taken off the register in respect of any of the goods in respect of which it is registered on application made in the prescribed manner to a high court or to the registrar by any person aggrieved on the ground either a that the trade mark was registered without any bona fide intention on the part of the applicant for registration that it should be used in relation to those goods by him or in a case to which the provisions of section 45 apply by the company concerned and that there has in fact been no bona fide use of the trade mark in relation to those goods by any proprietor thereof for the time being up to a date one month before the date of the application or b that up to a date one month before the date of the application a continuous period of five years or longer had elapsed during which the trade mark was registered 18 and during which there was no bona fide use thereof in relation to those goods by any proprietor thereof for the time being provided that except where the applicant has been permitted under sub section 3 of section 12 to register an identical or nearly resembling trade mark in respect of the goods in question or where the tribunal is of opinion that he might properly be permitted so to register such a trade mark the tribunal may refuse an application under clause a or clause b in relation to any goods if it is shown that there has been before the relevant date or during the relevant period as the case may be bona fide use of the trade mark by any proprietor thereof for the time being in relation to goods of the same description being goods in respect of which the trade mark is registered.
the applications having been transferred to the ipab in terms of section 100 of the 1999 act the ipab examined the matter in light of the issues that were framed by the high court although in the written submissions before it the objection was raised that the first respondent has ceased to have locus standi in view of the subsequent events particularly change of the name of the first respondent from jupiter infosys ltd to jupiter international ltd the question is whether in these circumstances it was incumbent upon the ipab to consider and satisfy itself about the locus standi of the first respondent to be heard as a person aggrieved.
that the first respondent filed composite applications under sections 46 and 56 of the 1958 act for rectification removal of the trade mark infosys registered in classes 79 and 16 is not in dispute.
mr akhil sibal learned counsel for the appellant argued that an application for rectification whether under section 46 or section 56 of the 1958 act can only be preferred by a person aggrieved the applicant must not only be a person aggrieved on the date of the application but must continue to remain a person aggrieved until such time as the rectification application is finally decided.
the first respondent is jupiter infosys limited.
any person aggrieved by the absence or omission from the register of any entry or by any entry made in the register without sufficient cause or by any entry wrongly remaining on the register or by any error or defect in any entry in the register may apply in the prescribed manner to a high court or to the registrar and the tribunal may make such order for making expunging or varying the entry as it may think fit.
section 46 deals with the removal of a registered trade mark from the register on the ground of non use.
learned counsel heavily relied upon two decisions of this court 1 hardie trading ltd anr v. addisons paint chemicals ltd 2003 11 scc 92 2003 indlaw sc 756 and 2 kabushiki kaisha toshiba v tosiba appliances company ors 2008 10 scc 766 2008 indlaw sc 1395.
the appellant also prayed for an interim order in the suit.
with reference to the affidavit dated july 142004 filed by the first respondent before the court of additional district judge he submitted that the said affidavit has no relevance in consideration as to whether the first respondent is an aggrieved person as section 46 1 of the 1958 act relates only to the period upto the date of the filing of the rectification application and the rights of the parties crystallized at that stage itself.
these three appeals by special leave are directed against the order dated september 92004 passed by intellectual property appellate board for shortipab whereby it ordered the removal of appellant 's mark infosys from the register of trade marks in respect of computer stationery computer manuals printed matter for computer instructional and teaching materials computer hardware and peripherals and machine and machine tools.
limited was changed to infosys technologies pvt. ltd and thereafter on june 21992the name was changed to the present name i e. infosys technologies limited.
we accept the above statement of law.
learned counsel would submit that the appellant has for the first time argued before this court that the first respondent is not a person aggrieved andor not capable of maintaining the rectification proceedings with respect to each and every good for which the appellant has been registered since the first respondent has not been registered for all the goods.
in this regard he relied upon a decision of the madras high court in nestle 's products india.
in view of the above these appeals are allowed in part and the impugned order dated september 92004 is set aside.
it was in this sense that the house of lords defined person aggrieved in the matter of powell 's trade mark although they were no doubt inserted to prevent officious interference by those who had no interest at all in the register being correct and to exclude a mere common informer it is undoubtedly of public interest that they should not be unduly limited inasmuch as it is a public mischief that there should remain upon the register a mark which ought not to be there and by which many persons may be affected who nevertheless would not be willing to enter upon the risk and expense of litigation.
we heard mr akhil sibal learned counsel for the appellant and mr vaibhav gaggar learned counsel for the first respondent at quite some length.
he also placed reliance upon some more decisions viz ritz hotel ltd 1989.
this is so because the pre requisite for exercise of power under section 461 is that the applicant is a person aggrieved.
we are afraid this is hardly an objection about maintainability.
the vacation judge of the delhi high court on december 272002 passed an order of temporary injunction against the first respondent as follows notice for 24th march2003 before the joint registrar.
based on this affidavit the suit was partially decreed in favour of the appellant on november 102004.
applications under sections 46 and 56 may be made to the registrar who is competent to grant the relief.
he contended that the ipab erred in holding that software was a service and the subject registrations were in relation to goods without considering the wide definition of goods provided under section 2g of the 1958 act.
on september 132000the calcutta high court restrained the department of company affairs and registrar of companies from incorporating any company bearing the name infosys without the permission of the appellant.
b whether the respondent had a bonafide intention to use the mark applied for under section 18 of the trade and merchandise marks act.
s 56 power to cancel or vary registration and to rectify the register 1.
15 rpc 677which has been reproduced in the report.
in our considered view it was.
the interpretation of the expression person aggrieved occurring in sections 46 and 56 has come up for consideration before this court on more than one occasion.
the non user does not by itself render the entry incorrect but it gives a right to a person whose interest is affected to apply for its removal.
the ad interim order was confirmed on november 291996.
the said suit was transferred to the court of the additional district judge tis hazari court delhi.
private ltd v. m s eagle flask industries pvt.
on october 111996the appellant instituted a suit in the calcutta high court for perpetual injunction inter alia restraining the first respondent from infringing the appellant 's mark infosys by using the mark infosys by itself or in combination with other marks in course of its trade.
the parties shall bear their own costs.
an applicant must therefore show that in some possible way he may be damaged or injured if the trade mark is allowed to stand and by possible i mean possible in a practical sense and not merely in a fantastic view.
heard.
on august 122003the madras high court framed the following issues.
the appellant opposed these applications on diverse grounds by filing counter affidavits.
this court stated that section 46 speaks for private interest while section 56 speaks of a public interest.
fwhether the registered trade mark has lost its distinctiveness and is liable to be removed under section 32c.
rpc 333 and australian wine importers trade mark.
three sections viz sections 4656 and 69 of the act contain the phrase.
apart from it on september 122005 after hearing both parties special leave was granted by this court.
it certainly is not sufficient reason that they are at loggerheads with the respondents or desire in some way to injure them.
insofar as section 56 is concerned it provides for varying situations in which the person aggrieved may apply for rectification of the registered trade mark from the register.
assailing the finding of the ipab as regards non use by the appellant during the relevant period learned counsel for the appellant argued that the said finding was erroneous on legal as well as factual premise.
perused the averments made in the suit and application which are duly supported by documents on record.
section 56 on the other hand deals with situations where the initial registration should not have been or was incorrectly made.
the applications being tra nos 25 to 27 of 2003 op nos 764 to 766 of 2001 are restored to the file of intellectual property appellate board chennai for hearing and disposal afresh in accordance with law.
1976 indlaw mad 380.
g whether the respondent has committed fraud while obtaining registration of the mark and.
in any case learned counsel would submit that the expression infosys is not descriptive expression.
it was incorporated and registered under the companies act1956 on july 21981 in the name of infosys consultants private limited.
keystone knitting mills trade mark1929 1 ch.
compliance of order xxxix rule 3 cpc within three days.
