x 3 cm with punctured wound 6 incised wound over right costal region of size 3 cm x 2 cm x 1 cm.
we have carefully examined the manner in which the identification parade was conducted and the manner in which the boy anil kumar pw 21 identified the accused in court and we have no reason to doubt the identification of the accused which assumes importance in this case since the boy did not know the accused before the incident.
in such a situation it is considered a safe rule of prudence to generally look for corroboration of the sworn testimony of witness in court as to the identity of the accused who are strangers to them in the form of earlier identification proceeding as observed by this court in budhsen 's case 1970 indlaw sc 136 supra.
devendra choubey accused no 4 has filed criminal appeal no 822 of 2012 the appellant mahesh accused no 3 has filed criminal appeal no 867 of 2013 the appellant beenu.
he did not even act as a guard because when the witness anil kumar pw 21 came to the house he was not even stopped by the accused from entering the house.
the accused devendra kumar was arrested on 22 12 2003 and his identification parade was conducted on 26 12 2003 within four days there is no evidence on record to show that the child witness had an opportunity to see and study the features of the accused between their arrest and test identification parade to enable a tutored identification.
the prosecution has found it difficult to pinpoint the motive but shashi tripathi 's husband dr sharda prasad tripathi pw 1 deposed before the court that she tried to create a hindrance in the marriage of his son jitendra since she wanted her daughter abhilasha to marry him however he went ahead with the marriage of jitendra to bhavna whereupon shashi tripathi remained silent.
x 1 cm 13 incised wound on ulna region of left hand on lower 13rd region of size 1 cm.
bhavna was murdered on 25 11 2003 at about 1830 hours in the house where she resided with shashi tripathi.
there is no evidence of his having played any part in the crime.
the accused raju.
chandra prakash were arrested on 29 11 2003 a bloodstained knife was taken into possession.
he deposed before the court that shashi didi accused brought him to village jevra from bilaspur.
the credibility of the evidence of anil kumar pw 21 was attacked by the learned counsel for the appellants who submitted that the boy is a tutored witness who has been influenced by the police with whom he spent a lot of time.
x 1 cm.
the incident occurred in the courtyard and shashi didi was present in the passage.
jitendra is her step son and the deceased bhavna is the wife of jitendra.
on 25 11 2003when pw 1 dr. sharda prasad tripathi came home from his clinic found that his daughter in law bhavna tripathi has been murdered.
having regard to the role attributed to him and the absence of incriminating factors we find that it is not safe to convict mahesh of the offence of murder with the aid of ss 34 and 120b.
this court has not laid down the requirement in general that all identification parades must be under the supervision of a magistrate as in budhsen 's case 1970 indlaw sc 136 supra the learned counsel for the appellants also relied upon the judgments of this court in subash and shiv kumar vs state of u p 1987 3 scc 331 1987 indlaw sc 28887and mohd abdul hafeez vs state of andhra pradesh air 1983.
there is no reference to a third person in the fir no evidence that he came with the other accused or left with them.
he referred to bhavna as bhabhi.
these appeals have been taken up for disposal together since they arise from a common judgment of the high court deciding the appeals of the accused.
the identification to be of value should also be held without much delay.
the accused chandra prakash had threatened him not to disclose anything about the incident to anyone.
shashi tripathi mahesh and binu.
they do not constitute substantive evidence.
he was merely seen by the witness as standing outside the house when the witness came home.
the sole eyewitness was a boy of 13 years of age anil kumar pw 21who worked as a servant with the family.
the observations of this court undoubtedly lay down the correct law and we have no reason to doubt them.
bhavna was dead.
he ate his food there and studied in a school.
9 scc 696 2012 indlaw sc 343.
shashi didi thereafter started shouting.
in view of the above criminal appeal no 867 of 2013 is allowed and criminal appeal nos 822 of 2012589 of 2014 and criminal appeal arising out of slp criminal no 3737 of 2014 are dismissed.
it is not possible for us to accept this contention.
he had no grouse against her neither any ulterior motive in identifying the accused who were not acquainted to him.
he participated in the identification parade which was held in sub jail bemetara and identified the accused persons in the court by touching them.
the purpose of a prior test identification therefore seems to be to test and strengthen the trustworthiness of that evidence.
about the assault he deposed that devendra caught bhavna and chandra prakash attacked her with knife 3 to 4 times and she fell down.
his brother shivendra studies at calcutta.
there were numerous injuries including incised wounds on bhavna none on shashi.
these parades are of the essentially governed by section 162criminal procedure code.
after committal the trial court framed charges u s 302 read with ss 34 and 120b of the ipc the prosecution examined 32 witnesses.
liver kidney and spleen were pale.
it is settled law that common intention and conspiracy are matters of inference and if while drawing an inference any benefit of doubt creeps in it must go to the accused vide baliya vs state of m p 2012.
the deceased was carrying fetus of two months.
she engaged the other accused for murdering bhavna.
identification proceedings in their legal effect amount simply to this that certain persons are brought to jail or some other place and make statements either express or implied that certain individuals whom they point out are persons whom they recognise as having been concerned in the crime.
dr m deodhar who conducted the postmortem opined that cause of her death was neurogenic and hemorrhagic shock.
his presence is not doubted since he resided with the family for whom he worked.
in the present case the child witness has been found to be reliable.
no weapon was seized from him nor was any property connected with the crime seized.
the identification parades belong to the investigation stage.
devendra choubey accused no 4 by paying them money.
his bail bonds stand cancelled and sureties are discharged.
those proceeding should not make it impossible for the identifiers who after all have as a rule only fleeting glimpses of the person they are supposed to identify.
leave granted in slp crl.
in fact he even came to the court in the company of a police constable after being served summons at allahabad.
