premises.
41 and 401 grey street and appointed his brother jogendra the sole executor thereof.
probate of the will of dwarka nath was also obtained by jogendra on the 31st august 1909.
and nagendra then a minor the three sons of rajendra filed a suit being suit No 969 of 1909on.
the idol was not made a party to this suit.
the arbitrator made his award dated the 12th october 1920 whereby he allotted premises No 41 a grey street exclusively to nagendra as his share of the family properties.
nagendra died in june 1931 and the said premises were ultimately put up for sale in execution of the mortgage decree and were purchased on the 9th december 1936 by hari charan dutt.
written statements were filed by the appellants and by susilabala and the two sons of jogendra denying the claims of the idol and contending inter alia that there was no valid or absolute dedication of the suit properties i to the idol and that the said premises had been respectively acquired by them by adverse possession and that the title of the idol thereto had been extinguished.
No 41 a. grey street to be the absolute property of the idol and made the other declarations in favour of the idol as prayed for.
the idol filed on the 20th november 1950 cross objections against the decree for rs 19000 and interest thereon as also the dismissal of the suit in regard to the premises.
the appeal and the cross objections came on for hearing before harries c j and section n banerjee j who delivered judgment on the 5th march 1951 dismissing the said appeal and allowing the cross objection in regard to rs 19000 filed by the idol against the appellants.
the appellants filed on the 31st may 1951 an application for leave to prefer an appeal to this court against the said judgment and decree of the high court at calcutta.
on the 22nd november 1951 the idol applied to the high court for leave to file cross objections against that part of the judgment and decree of the high court which dismissed its claims with regard to the premises no 402 a grey street.
by an order made by this court on the 24th may 1953 the petition of the idol for filing cross objections in this court was allowed to be treated as a petition for special leave to appeal against that part of the decree which was against it subject to any question as to limitation.
the petition for special leave was therefore allowed to be withdrawn and no objection now survives in regard to the decree passed by the trial court dismissing the idol 's claim to the premises No 402 a. the appeal is concerned only with the premises.
it was contended on behalf of the appellants that the dedication of the premises.
41 grey street made by dwarka nath under the terms of his will was a partial dedication and that his sons rajendra and jogendra and his widow golap sundari who were appointed sevayats of the idol were competent to deal with premises.
grey street and that his possession of the said premises thereafter became adverse which adverse possession continued for upwards of 12 years extinguishing the right of the idol to the said premises.
3 of the said will provided with a view to provide a permanent habitation for the said deity i do by means of this will dedicate the aforesaid immovable property the said house.
grey street No 401.
of the said sri sri issur sridhar jew salagram sila thakur and on the death of my said two sons their representatives successors and heirs shall successively perform the sheba in the aforesaid manner and the executors appointed by this will of mine having got the said two properties registered in the calcutta municipality in the name of the said sri sri issur sridhar jew thakur shall pay the municipal taxes etc.
3 of the will is an absolute dedication of the premises.
of the said premises.
the first contention of the appellants therefore fails and we hold that the dedication of the premises.
41 grey street to the idol was an absolute dedication.
regards the second contention viz the adverse possession of nagendra it is to be noted that under the terms of cl 3 of the will of dwarka nath the representatives successors and heirs of his two sons rajendra and jogendra were successively to perform the seva in the manner therein mentioned and nagendra was one of the heirs and legal representatives of rajendra.
so far as nagendra is concerned there is a clear finding of fact recorded by mr justice bose on a specific issue raised in that behalf viz did nagendra act as shebait of the plaintiff deity under the wills of dwarka nath ghosh and rajendra nath ghosh.
if nagendra was thus a sevayat of the idol it could not be urged that his possession could in any manner whatever be adverse to the idol and his dealings with the said premises in the manner he purported to do after the 12th october 1920 could not be evidence of any adverse possession against the idol.
