pursuant to this agreement it is said that symbolic possession of the land which was acquired was taken over by the tehsildar on 1st february 1963 after which at any rate it appears from exhibit p 24 that actual possession of this land was handed over by the said tehsildar on 13th.
the case of the prosecution initially was that after the land so acquired with the standing crop was taken possession of by the appellant.
it is alleged that major som nath accused who is a garrison engineer sirsa air field subsequently sometime in the months of march and april 1963 permitted the removal of the standing crop valued at rs 11073 13 by shri moti ram and kewal chand etc.
the facts disclose the commission of the offence of criminal misconduct as defined in section 51d read with section 52 of the prevention of corruption act 1947 by major som nath accused.
the special judge acquitted the appellant of the second charge namely that being a public servant he had by corrupt or illegal means or by otherwise abusing his position as a public servant obtained for himself a sum of rs 2500 from moti ram of sirsa for cutting the crops and thereby committed offence under section 51d punishable under section 52.
the accused was however convicted under the first charge for an offence under section 51c in that he being a garrison engineer incharge of the air field.
and which had been valued at rs 11073 13 by the revenue authorities dishonestly or fraudulently allowed moti ram of sirsa to misappropriate the said standing crop and thereby contravened section 51c of the prevention of corruption act punishable with section 52 of that act.
the learned advocate for the appellant has meticulously taken us through the entire documentary and oral evidence and commented at length upon the various contradictions and incongruities in the case of the prosecution with a view to establishing that when the appellant took possession of the land there was no crop standing on it that tile possession of the land was in fact delivered to telu ram contractor on 10 1 1963 that the said contractor had admitted that possession of the entire land was received by him that he carried on the construction work in extending the aerodrome that 200250 donkeys were also used for doing the work by reason of which the crop was damaged before tehsildar had put the appellant in possession of the land and as a matter of fact there was no crop thereon when he got the possession of the land.
it was also contended that the high court had not considered the contradictions in the earlier statement made by some of the witnesses to the military authorities and that it relied on many of the documents for affirming the conviction of the appellant without their actually being put to him under section 342.
it may be mentioned that though a complaint was made in the application for a certificate for leave to appeal to this court that the learned single judge of the high court should have acquitted the appellant on the sole ground that there was no proper sanction for the prosecution of the appellant under section 51 c of the prevention of the corruption act this question does not seem to have been urged before the high court.
that the sanction given by the govt.
of india does not cover the trial of the charge under section 51c of the prevention of corruption act.
for a sanction to be valid it must be established that the sanction was given in respect of the facts constituting the offence with which the accused is proposed to be charged.
whereas it is alleged that major som nath while functioning as garrison engineer m e s air field at sirsa from 13 2 63 to 54 1963 by corrupt or illegal means or by otherwise abusing his position as such public servant obtained pecuniary advantage of rs 2500 for allowing the standing crops to be cut from the land acquired for the extension of air field.
treasury converted it to his own use and whereas the said acts of major som nath constituted offences punishable under section 52 of the prevention of corruption act read with section 5 1 c and d act No 11 of 1947 of the said act and section 409 of the i p c and whereas the central govt.
considered for the purposes of according sanction were a that the appellant as a public servant was entrusted with crops situated on the land acquired for the extension of air field sirsa b that by abusing his position as a public servant he allowed the standing crops to be cut from the said land.
it would be seen therefore that under section 51c a public servant will be said to commit the offence of misconduct in hi duties if he dishonestly allows any other persons to convert to his own use property which is entrusted to the said public servant the facts which have been set out in the order granting the sanction certainly are sufficient to indicate that the authorities granting the sanction had the offence under section 51c also in their contemplation.
there is therefore no basis for sanction for a charge under section 51c.
for instance it is quite possible that the person whom he allowed to cut the crop may be his own relation or friend in whom he may be interested and who may however not know that the accused was doing something dishonest in permitting him to cut the crop.
in any case the facts which have been stated in the sanction clearly indicate that the appellant has dishonestly allowed the crops to be cut so that there is no question of any inference or implication that the persons cutting the crops were abetting him in the offence.
gokulchand dwarkadas 's case also is of no assistance to the appellant because in that case the sanction did not disclose the facts on which it was given but merely sanctioned the prosecution for a breach of certain provisions sir john beamont delivering the judgement of the judicial committee observed at page 84 but if the facts constituting the offence charged are not shown on the face of the sanction the prosecution must prove by extraneous evidence that those facts were placed before the sanctioning authority.
while in appeal the high court held that the appellant could neither be tried nor convicted of the offence under 51a as no sanction had been given in respect of it but upheld the conviction under section 51d for which sanction had been given.
the prosecution for offence under section 51d therefore is not barred because the proceedings are not without previous sanction which was validly given for the offence of receiving a bribe from pal singh but the offence of habitually receiving illegal gratification could not be taken cognizance of and the prosecution and trial for that offence was void for want of sanction which is a condition precedent for the courts taking cognizance of the offence alleged to be committed and therefore the high court has rightly set aside the conviction for that offence.
these cases instead of supporting the contention of the learned advocate amply demonstrate that the facts which formed the basis of the sanction and which was accorded after the sanctioning authority had fully applied its mind to them should be correlated to the particular offence or offences with which the accused is charged or convicted.
thirdly the judgments show that there was utter confusion in respect of the date on which possession of the acquired land was given to the appellant and the date on which it was given to the contractor for carrying on the work as also in respect of the fact whether there was any crop standing when the appellant took possession of the land and at what period of time the crop was cut and the work commenced.
according to p w 8 telu ram he acquired possession of the land of the length from rd 4500 to rd 1200 on 10th january 1963 and that tile possession of the acquired land was not delivered to him as it had not been acquired by that time.
there is however nothing in this document to show what is the site of which possession was handed over to and taken by telu ram on 10th january 63.
