the order of the court was as follows.
in these matters relating to admission to professional courses in medicine engineering pharmacy nursing etc in educational institutions which are claimed to be minority educational institutions the petitioners have questioned the applicability of the scheme framed by this court in j p unni krishnan v state of a p 1993.
i as well as the applicability of the rules and orders made by several state governments on the basis of the said decision.
issue rule.
there will be an interim order in the following terms i fifty per cent of the total intake in the petitioners educational institutions shall be permitted to be filled up by candidates selected by the agencies of the state government on the basis of a competitive examination test.
however the selection shall be made strictly on the basis of merit among the candidates seeking admission to the institutions.
it is made clear that this order is made on the assumption that the petitioners are minority institutions.
writ petitions challenging the correctness and applicability of unni krishnan filed by educational institutions which do not claim to be minority educational institutions5 writ petitions which do not fall in any of the above categories.
it was directed that the order dated may 141993would not apply to educational institutions falling in categories 4 and 5 and the institutions referred to in paragraph 18 of the order dated august 181993 the order dated may 141993was made applicable to the institutions falling in categories 12 and 3 with the modification that following were added in continuation of the said order in continuation it is made further clear that whether any of the petitioner institutions is a mei or not is a matter for the government to verify and determine.
the nris if any admitted to an extent not exceeding 5 of the total seats shall be out of the payment seats to be filled under after completing the admissions each of the colleges shall submit to the competent authority to the university to which it is affiliated and to the government concerned statements containing full particulars of the students admitted under cl ii of para 2 of this order.
the fees charged in the government colleges and that the admission to these institutions is made on the basis of an all india common entrance test separately conducted by the petitioner and admissions are made on the basis of merit as determined in the said test and further that in view of the reputation of these institutions thousands of students apply for and appear in the entrance test every year.
similarly as regards writ petition no 482 of 1993it was observed that according to the petitioner in that case the medical college run by it at vellore in the state of tamil nadu is a well reputed institution admission to which is made on the basis of all india entrance test conducted by the petitioner and that the admissions are made on the basis of merit and the fee charged by it is not more than the fees chargeable in similar governmental institutions and that there has never been any complaint about the working of this institution and it was observed that this fact was not disputed by shri seetharaman learned counsel for the state of tamil nadu.
in the above two writ petitions to admit students to their colleges on the basis of entrance test conducted by them and on the same basis on which admissions were made by them in the said colleges in the previous academic year.
the said authorities shall verify whether the admissions have been made by the petitioners in accordance with the directions given herein.
it shall also be open to the competent authority university and the government of karnataka tamil nadu to bring any such irregularity to the notice of this court by way of an interlocutory application for appropriate orders in that behalf.
dealing with writ petition no 598 of 1993the court after noticing that an agreement was entered into between the institution and the government of kerala according to which while 85 of the seats were to be filled by the government and the remaining 15 of the seats were left for the management to fill up in its discretion observed that since the basic principle in unni krishnan as well as the order dated august 181993 is that merit shall be the guiding principle in the matter of admission a plea for discretionary quota could not be countenanced and it was directed that the said writ petition shall also be governed by the order dated may 141993as modified by addition.
by order dated october 719933 the constitution bench having regard to the fact that the year 1993 being a year of transition and adjustment and also in view of the orders of the government of india permitting admission of foreign students to the extent of as much as 50 of the seats as well as the time that had already elapsed permitted the private professional colleges to admit non resident indians and foreign students up to a maximum extent of 15 of the intake capacity of that year.
in the aforesaid order dated october 719933with reference to the minority educational institutions in the state of kerala such as those covered by writ petition no 598 of 1993 it has been observed the system obtaining in kerala appears to be altogether different which was unfortunately not brought to our notice on august 181993 there are only two private engineering colleges in the state said to be minority educational institutions.
we have heard learned counsel for the parties and we are of the view that except for the minority educational institutions in kerala which are governed by the terms of the agreements with the government of kerala the directions given by this court with regard to admissions for the academic session 1993 can continue and govern admissions for the next academic session commencing in 1994 as regards the institutions in the state of kerala which are governed by the terms of agreements with the government of kerala the admissions to such institutions would be made in accordance with those agreements.
it is therefore directed that the admission for the academic session commencing in 1994 to the professional courses in the institutions which are claimed to be minority educational institutions shall be made on the following basis i in the institutions referred to in writ petitions nos 284 of 1993 and 482 of 1993 admission shall be made as per the directions given in the order dated august 1819932for the academic session commencing in 1993.
in the institutions referred to in writ petition no 598 of 1993 and similar minority educational institutions in the state of kerala which are governed by an agreement with the government of kerala the admissions shall be made in accordance with the terms of those agreements.
since the entire expenditure of the colleges is borne by the state the entire fees collected are also made over to the state these colleges must be required to draw the students even with respect to the seats to be filled by the management from out of the state merit list if any.
we make it clear that regarding the character of these institutions whether they are minority educational institutions we express no opinion.
in rest of the minority educational institutions falling in categories 12 and 3 indicated in paragraph 5 of the order dated august 1819932admission shall be made in accordance with the directions contained in the order dated may 141993 in writ petitions nos 350 and 355 of 1993 as modified by order dated august 1819932but the directions would not apply to the institutions referred to in paragraph 18 of the order dated august 1819932 in this context we would like to impress upon the managements of the institutions concerned that while assessing the merit of a candidate for admission the objective should be to promote the excellence of the institution as a vehicle of general secular education.
the matters be listed for hearing on july 201994 notice be issued to the attorney general of india and the advocates general for the states on the questions as reframed.
the contempt petition nos 65100 and 126 of 1992 arise out of the judgment of this court in keshav chandra joshi v union of india 1990 indlaw sc 270 in which this court had directed to determine inter se seniority of the direct recruits and promotee asstt.
the direct recruits were appointed in accordance with rule 5a read with appendix a of u p forest service rules1952 for short the rules.
conservators forest and the seniority of direct recruits shall accordingly be fixed.
the governor was directed to make appointment by promotion to substantive vacancies to the post of asstt.
conservators forest shall be counted from the respective dates of appointment to the substantive posts in their quota under rule 6 of the rules.
the inter se seniority of the direct recruits and promotees shall be determined in accordance with rules 56 and 24 as per the judgment in k c joshi case.
later when raj narayan singh and others filed writ petition civil no 641 of 1991this court on june 61991 directed to convert the writ petition as a contempt case for non implementation of the direction issued in k c joshi case which was numbered as contempt petition no 164 of 1971 when.
