a dispute arose as to whether all the appellants were employed for the purpose of the said project or the appellants in civil appeal no 337 of 2002 were appointed in the year 1991 by the authority for its own job.
an industrial dispute was raised by the appellants herein as their services were not being regularized by the respondent.
the appellants were appointed by the indore development authority.
work has been taken by the respondent from all the appellants except four.
the high court accepted the contention of the respondent authority that the appellants were not appointed against the sanctioned posts and their services were taken on account of the said oda project which was implemented through the agency of the respondent authority.
it was held that the services of the appellants can not be directed to be regularized in services.
as regard the application of the madhya pradesh industrial employment standing orders act 1961 for short the 1961 act and the rules framed there under known as m p industrial employment standing order rules 1963 for short the 1963 rules it was observed that although there was no specific pleadings raised in this behalf by the respondents therein nor any question having been referred to the labour court by the state government touching the said issue it committed an error in granting relief to them on the basis thereof on its own motion.
despite the same the high court went into the question of applicability of the said act and held that the 1961 act and the 1963 rules had no application.
before the high court various documents were produced by the appellants herein to show the nature of their employment but the same had not been taken on records by the high court.
as regard application of the doctrine of equal pay for equal work it was held to be not applicable as the appellants were not entitled to absorption or classification in terms of the 1961 act and the 1963 rules.
dr rajiv dhawan learned senior counsel appearing on behalf of the appellants in civil appeal no 337 of 2002 and mr m n rao learned senior counsel appearing on behalf of the appellants in civil appeal no 335 of 2002 took us through materials on records and contended that the appellants herein became permanent employees of the respondents having regard to the provisions contained in section 2 of the 1961 act and order 2i and 2vi of the standard standing orders as set out in the annexure appended to the 1963 rules defining permanent employees and the temporary employees.
dr dhawan would furthermore contend that the findings of fact had been arrived at by the labour court that the appellants of civil appeal no 337 of 2002 were appointed by the authority and not only their work was being taken in the project but also in other works and thus mere posting of the appellants to the said project would not disentitle them from the benefit of the said act.
the learned counsel would submit that the sufficient materials were brought on records to show that vacancies were available and as the appellants worked for a period of more than six months they became permanent employees in terms of the act.
it was further contended that as the respondents despite direction to produce documents including the offers for appointment did not produce the same an adverse inference should have been drawn against them by the high court.
mr v r reddy learned senior counsel appearing on behalf of the respondents on the other hand would contend that indisputably the appellants were engaged by the respondent authority but such appointments were made for the purpose of the project financed by oda.
drawing our attention also to the pleadings as also the reliefs claimed for by the appellants before the labour court the learned counsel would contend that no contention was raised therein by the appellants as regard their entitlement of permanency in terms of the provisions of the 1961 act and the 1963 rules.
temporary employee means an employee who has been employed for work which is essentially of a temporary character or who is temporarily employed as an additional employee in connection with the temporary increase in the work of a permanent nature provided that in case such employee is required to work continuously for more than six months he shall be deemed to be a permanent employee within the meaning of cl.
the respondent authority is a state within the meaning of article.
the posts of sub engineers in which the appellants were appointed.
a state before offering public service to a person must comply with the constitutional requirements of articles 14 and 16 of the constitution.
see state of u p others vs ajay kumar 1997 4 scc 88 1997 indlaw sc 833 jawaharlal nehru krishi viswa vidyalaya jabalpur m p vs bal kishan soni and others 1997 5 scc 86 1997 indlaw sc 928.
jt 2004 8 sc 531 2004 indlaw sc 729 a division bench of this court opined no person illegally appointed or appointed without following the procedure prescribed under the law is entitled to claim that he should be continued in service.
however having regard to the facts and circumstances of the said case some directions were issued presumably in terms of article 142 of the constitution.
it appears that there existed a scheme for regularization and some directions were issued in terms thereof.
by reason of the provisions of the said act application of standard standing orders to undertakings has been provided in terms whereof the matters to be provided in the standard standing orders have been specified.
the statute rules and regulations formed by the state govern the terms and conditions of service of the employees of the respondent.
the 1973 act as noticed hereinbefore clearly mandates that all posts should be sanctioned by the state government and all appointments to the said cadre must be made by the state government alone.
had the appointments of the appellants been made in terms of the provisions of the adhiniyam and rules framed thereunder the respondent authority was statutorily enjoined to make an offer of appointment in writing which was to be accepted by the appellants herein.
a ticket of permanent employee was thus required to be issued in terms of order 3 of the standard standing orders.
the standing orders governing the terms and conditions of service must be read subject to the constitutional limitations wherever applicable.
the matter relating to recruitment is governed by the 1973 act and the 1987 rules.
in m p vidyut karamchari sangh vs m p electricity board 2004 9 scc 755 2004 indlaw sc 198 a three judge bench of this court held that a regulation which is not inconsistent with the provisions of the 1961 act and the rules can be issued by a statutory authority.
but in absence of any conflict in the provisions of the said act the conditions of service including those relating to recruitment as provided for in the 1973 act and the 1987 rules would apply.
no case was made out by the appellants herein in their statements of claim that they became permanent employees in terms thereof.
the labour court in absence of any pleadings or any proof as regard application of the 1961 act and the 1963 rules had proceeded on the basis that they would become permanent employees in terms of order 2ii and 2vi of the annexure appended thereto.
they have also not been able to show that they had been issued any permanent ticket.
dr dhawan is not correct in his submission that a separate ticket need not be issued and what was necessary was merely to show that the appellants had been recognized by the state as its employees having been provided with employment code.
project work.
if the appellants were appointed for the purpose of the project they would be deemed to have been appointed therefor and only because such appointments had been made by the respondent would by itself not entitle them to claim permanency.
the high court in our opinion was right in arriving at the conclusion that the appellants were not entitled to be regularized in service.
in absence of any pleadings the appellants could not have called for any document to show that the provisions of the 1961 act and 1963 rules would apply.
before the high court as also before us the appellants have produced a large number of documents which were not filed before the labour court.
