since the impugned order is passed by a learned single judge.
an appeal shall lie from a judgment or order passed by the one judge of the high court in exercise of original jurisdiction u art 226 of the constitution of india to a division bench comprising of two judges of the same high court.
this court in hari vishnu kamath v syed ahmad ishaque and ors air 1955 sc 233 1954 indlaw sc 212 held that the high court while issuing writ of certiorari u art 226 of the constitution can only annul a decision of a tribunal whereas u art 227 of the constitution it can issue further directions as well.
to say that the words finally disposed of mean finally disposed of so far as the high court is concerned is illogical because rules 14 and 7 use the words be heard and disposed of by a divisional bench and were the reasoning of the full bench correct it would mean that so far as the high court is concerned when a single judge hears a matter and disposes it of it is finally disposed of and when a division bench disposes it of it is not finally disposed of.
if under the rules of the high court a matter is heard and disposed of by a single judge an appeal lies against his judgment unless it is barred either under the letters patent or some other enactment.
as we have seen above an intra court appeal against the judgment of a single judge in a petition u art 226 is not barred while cl 15 itself bars an intra court appeal against the judgment of a single judge in a petition u art 227.
for determining the question of maintainability of an appeal against such a judgment of the single judge the division bench has to find out whether in substance the judgment has been passed by the learned single judge in exercise of the jurisdiction u art 226 of the constitution.
even when the learned single judge 's order has been passed under both the articles for deciding the maintainability against such an order what would be relevant is the principal or main relief granted by the judgment passed by learned single judge and not the ancillary directions given by him.
u art 226 or u art 227 in.
the event in his judgment the learned single judge himself had mentioned the particular article of the constitution under which he was passing his judgment in an appeal under cl 15 against such a judgment it may not be necessary for the appellate bench to elaborately examine the question of its maintainability.
when without mentioning the particular article the learned single judge decided on merits the application in order to decide the question of maintainability of an appeal against such a judgment the division bench might examine the relief granted by the learned single judge for maintainability of an appeal the determination would be the main and not the ancillary relief.
when a combined application u arts 226 and 227 of the constitution is summarily dismissed without reasons the appeal court may consider whether the facts alleged warranted filing of the application u art 226 or u art 227 of the constitution.
thereafter this court explained the ratio laid down in the case of umaji 's case1986 indlaw sc 651 supra and expressed thus in umaji case it was clearly held that where the facts justify a party in filing an application either u art 226 or 227 of the constitution of india and the party chooses to file his application under both these articles in fairness of justice to party and in order not to deprive him of valuable right of appeal the court ought to treat the application as being made under article 226and if in deciding the matter in the final order the court gives ancillary directions which may pertain to article 227this ought not to be held to deprive a party of the right of appeal under cl 15 of the letters patent where the substantial part of the order sought to be appealed against is u art 226 rule 18 of the bombay high court appellate side rules read with cl 15 of the letters patent provides for appeal to the division bench of the high court from a judgment of the learned single judge passed on a writ petition u art 226 of the constitution.
thus in the totality of the facts and circumstances of the case the pleadings of the parties in the writ petition and the judgment of the learned single judge leaves no manner of doubt that it was an order passed u art 226 of the constitution and in that view of the matter the letters patent appeal was maintainable before the high court.
after taking the aforesaid view one course open was to set aside the order of the division bench and to remand the matter for being disposed of on merits by the division bench of the high court.
