for short the rules is in question in this appeal which arises out of a judgment and order dated 27 12 2006 passed by a division bench of the high court of gujarat at ahmedabad in letters patent appeal no 1611 of 2006 arising out of a judgment and order dated 23 11 2006 passed by a learned single judge of the said court in sca no 7092 of 2001.
before embarking upon the issue involved in this appeal we may notice the admitted fact of the matter.
notices therefor were issued both to the appellant as also the respondent No appellant objected thereto.
in respect of the proceedings initiated for the purpose of re allotment of the land despite a public notice the appellant did not file any objection.
respondent no 4 was allotted a final plot bearing no 157 and the said 200 sq m of land of plot no 178 has merged in final plot no 165 owned by the respondent no 3.
the scheme was notified in the year 1999 respondent no 1 herein which is the statutory agency in terms of the act for the purpose of implementation of the scheme issued a notice u s 67 of the act upon the respondent no 4 on or about 15 01 2000 as he did not respond thereto a notice u s 68 of the act was served on him on 31 03 2000 stating as per the said approved preliminary scheme the plot no 157 is allotted to you.
the validity and or legality of the said notice was questioned by the appellant by filing a writ petition in the high court of gujarat inter alia contending that the purported final allotment of plot no 165 in favour of the respondent no 3 and allotment of final plot no 157 in favour of the respondent no 4 were made without issuing any notice as envisaged u ss 52 and 53 of the act.
a learned single judge of the high court dismissed the said writ petition inter alia opining that the interest of landlord and tenant being common and in absence of any inter se dispute between them even if any portion of the land which remained in possession of the tenant was included in the scheme the proper remedy would be to claim compensation to that extent holding it appears that in the said decision the apex court while considering the scheme on the touch stone of the mandatory procedure to be followed by the authority under the bombay town planning rules has given directions to provide alternative accommodation based on the earlier decision in case of jaswantsingh mathurasingh and upheld the scheme.
such is not the issue in the present case nor there is any complaint by the tenant that any special notice was not served or that the mandatory procedure for finalization of the scheme is not followed.
further it appears that if the interest of the landlord and of the tenant is common and in absence of any inter se dispute between the landlord and tenant even if any portion of the land which is in possession of the tenant is included in the scheme the proper remedy for the tenant would be to claim for compensation to that extent and if such compensation is not received by him he may resort to proper remedy available for recovery of the compensation to the extent of the area in his occupation.
but if the area of original plot no 178 is included in the final scheme and in exchange of the original plot held by keshav gramini of 178 and 177the final plot is already allotted and as observed earlier it was even otherwise in the ownership of the original holder and it is only on account of inter se dispute the other persons are lawfully occupying the land the tenant can not insist that his landlord must be allotted the land of final plot no 157 simultaneously when he is to be evicted or deprived of the portion of the land of original plot no 178 therefore in my view considering the peculiar facts and circumstances of the present case the decision of the apex court in case of mansukhlal1991 indlaw sc 975 supra can not be made applicable to the present case.
a tenant having regard to the provisions of the transfer of property act or otherwise having an interest in the property can not be deprived therefrom without following the procedure established by law and without initiation of any proceedings for acquisition of land.
the tenant 's interest being distinct and separate could not have been held to be merged with the interest of the landlord either for the purpose of allotment of a final plot or otherwise in favour of the landlord.
appellant having a right over the remaining 200 sq m of the land of original plot no 178 should be allowed to continue thereupon and final allotment made in favour of the respondent no 3 to that extent should be cancelled.
i public notices having been issued in terms of the rule 26 of the rules an objection which would nullify the scheme can not be entertained at this stage.
ii respondent no 1 corporation merely being interested in the implementation of the scheme is entitled to obtain vacant possession from him so as to enable it to deliver it to the respondent no 3 in whose favour plot no 165 has been finally allotted.
the scheme in terms of sub s 3 of s 65 of the act having become a part of the act validity thereof can not be questioned at this stage as modification of the scheme if any will have to undergo the entire process once over again which is not contemplated under the act.
the act was enacted to consolidate and amend the law relating to the making and execution of development plans and town planning schemes in the state of gujarat.
chapter v of the act provides for town planning schemes.
it inter alia provides for giving of a notice by the town planning officer as follows 1 in a preliminary scheme the town planning officer shall.
i after giving notice in the prescribed manner and in the prescribed form to the persons affected by the scheme define and demarcate the areas allotted to or reserved for any public purpose or for a purpose of the appropriate authority and the final plots ii after giving notice as aforesaid determine in a case in which a final plot is to be allotted to persons in ownership in common the shares of such persons.
a all lands required by the appropriate authority.
shall unless it is otherwise determined in such scheme vest absolutely in the appropriate authority free from all encumbrances b all rights in the original plots which have been re constituted into final plots shall determine and the final plots shall become subject to the rights settled by the town planning officer.
68 power of appropriate authority to evict summarily on and after the date on which a preliminary scheme comes into force any person continuing to occupy any land which he is not entitled to occupy under the preliminary scheme.
rules 261263 and 33 of the rules read as under 26 procedure to be followed by town planning officer u s 51 and under sub s 1 of s 52 1.
for the purpose of preparing the preliminary scheme and final scheme the town planning officer shall give notice in form h of the date on which he will commence his duties and shall state the time as provided in rule 37 within which the owner of any property or right which is injuriously affected by the making of a town planning scheme shall be entitled u s 82 to make a claim before him.
such notice shall specify the matters which are proposed to be decided by the town planning officer and state that all persons who are interested in the plots or are affected by any of the matters specified in the notice shall communicate in writing their objections to the town planning officer within a period of twenty days from the publication of notice in the official gazette.
rule 21 of the bombay rules provides for the procedure to be followed by the town planning officer.
it makes it obligatory on the part of the officer to give notice of the date on which he will commence his duties and shall state therein the time within which the owner of any property or rights which is injuriously affected by the making of the town planning scheme shall be advertised in one or more newspapers published in the regional language and circulating within the jurisdiction of the local authority and shall be posted in prominent places at or near the area comprised in the scheme and at the office of the town planning officer.
sub rule 3 of rule 21 of the bombay rules provides for serving of a special notice of at least three clear days upon the person interested in any plot or in any particular area comprised in the scheme before the town planning officer proceeds to deal in detail with the portion of the scheme relating thereto.
it prescribes service of notice in form h a copy of the notice in the said form is kept at the office of the town planning officer during office hours.
any person affected by the proposal of the town planning scheme is entitled to inspect the scheme in the office where arrangements for explaining the scheme proposals are made.
it furthermore provides that any person entitled to claim damages in terms of s 82 of the act should communicate the details of his claim to the town planning officer.
a town planning scheme therefore envisages calling for objection from the persons concerned for three purposes i in regard to draft scheme ii lodging of any claim for payment of compensation iii participation in the matter of allotment of final plots.
we may however notice that rule 21 of the bombay rules provides for notice under sub rule 3 thereof and a reasonable opportunity of hearing under sub rule 5 thereof.
sub rule 3 of rule 21 of the bombay rules provides for issuance of a special notice upon the person interested in any plot or in any particular plot comprised in the scheme.
darji1991 indlaw sc 975 supra wherein this court opined that sub rule 3 of rule 21 of the bombay rules was mandatory in nature subject of course to the condition that on the crucial date viz when the town planning scheme is notified in the official gazette he whether an owner or tenant or sub tenant must be in possession of the property.
therefore a tenant or a sub tenant in possession of a tenement in the town planning scheme is a person interested within the meaning of rules 213 and 4 of the rules.
every owner or tenant or a sub tenant in possession on that date alone shall be entitled to a notice and opportunity.
appellant was a tenant in respect of plot no 178 plot no 177 was not a plot contiguous thereto.
the draft scheme was approved 867 sq m of land had been acquired for public purpose out of the said plot no 178 while the proceedings relating to allotment of final plot were in progress he even did not file any objection thereto.
if he intended to claim any interest in a portion of plot no 178 either for the purpose of obtaining compensation for acquisition of a part of the land or to continue to have possession over 200 sq m of land in plot no 178it was obligatory on his part to take part in the proceedings.
