devendra choubey accused no 4 has filed criminal appeal no 822 of 2012 the appellant mahesh accused no 3 has filed criminal appeal no 867 of 2013 the appellant beenu.
chandra prakash accused no 2 has filed criminal appeal no 589 of 2014 the appellant smt.
shashi tripathi accused no 1 has filed criminal appeal arising out of special leave petition criminal no 3737 of 2014.
chandra prakash were arrested on 29 11 2003 a bloodstained knife was taken into possession.
a test identification was conducted by the executive magistrate in the sub jail bemetara on 13 12 2003 a similar identification parade of raju.
no defence witness was examined after the statements of the accused were recorded u s 313 of the criminal procedure code1973.
according to the prosecution the accused shashi tripathi is the step mother in law of deceased bhavna tripathi.
bhavna was married to her step son jitendra kumar in july2003 shashi tripathi used to be annoyed with bhavna tripathi on account of some domestic dispute.
bhavna was murdered on 25 11 2003 at about 1830 hours in the house where she resided with shashi tripathi.
x 1 cm 3.
internal injuries brain membrane pale lungs trachea pale punctured wound on right and left lungs of size 2 cm x 1 cm2 cm and 1 cm.
shashi tripathi had brought him home from bilaspur.
he participated in the identification parade which was held in sub jail bemetara and identified the accused persons in the court by touching them.
we have carefully examined the manner in which the identification parade was conducted and the manner in which the boy anil kumar pw 21 identified the accused in court and we have no reason to doubt the identification of the accused which assumes importance in this case since the boy did not know the accused before the incident.
he lived in the house of shashi didi.
she resided with shashi didi.
he stated that shashi didi and bhavna sometimes used to quarrel.
the incident occurred in the courtyard and shashi didi was present in the passage.
this deposition clearly implicates accused nos 12 and 4 the picture that emerges is that shashi tripathi caused bhavna to be killed and for this purpose engaged chandra prakash accused no 2 and raju.
the credibility of the evidence of anil kumar pw 21 was attacked by the learned counsel for the appellants who submitted that the boy is a tutored witness who has been influenced by the police with whom he spent a lot of time.
the learned counsel submitted that the evidence of a child witness must be carefully scrutinized before acceptance since a child can be easy prey for tutoring and the court must insist on corroboration from other evidence.
he was brought to the house by shashi tripathi accusedwho apparently took care of him and sent to school and gave him food and residence.
the incident occurred within the four walls of the house of the accused shashi tripathi and the only witness was the boy anil.
his presence in the house is entirely natural and we have no reason to discard his testimony.
the learned counsel for the appellants forcefully attacked the conviction of the other accused viz mahesh chandra prakash and devendra kumar who admittedly were not known to the child witness anil kumar.
it was submitted that the test identification parade were delayed and the identification of these accused by the witness in court was not reliable.
mahesh and chandra prakash were arrested on 29 11 2003their identification parade was conducted on 13 12 2003 within a fortnight or so.
the accused devendra kumar was arrested on 22 12 2003 and his identification parade was conducted on 26 12 2003 within four days there is no evidence on record to show that the child witness had an opportunity to see and study the features of the accused between their arrest and test identification parade to enable a tutored identification.
in any case the period between the arrest and the identification parade was not large enough to constitute inordinate delay.
as a general rule the substantive evidence of a witness is a statement made in court.
they are generally held during the course of investigation with the primary object of enabling the witnesses to identify persons concerned in the offence who were not previously known to them.
it is for this reason that the identification parades in this case seem to have been held under the supervision of a magistrate.
those proceeding should not make it impossible for the identifiers who after all have as a rule only fleeting glimpses of the person they are supposed to identify.
generally speaking the magistrate must make a note of every objection raised by an accused at the time of identification and the steps taken by them to ensure fairness to the accused so that the court which is to judge the value of the identification evidence may take them into consideration in the appreciation of that evidence.
the observations of this court undoubtedly lay down the correct law and we have no reason to doubt them.
in such a situation it is considered a safe rule of prudence to generally look for corroboration of the sworn testimony of witness in court as to the identity of the accused who are strangers to them in the form of earlier identification proceeding as observed by this court in budhsen 's case 1970 indlaw sc 136 supra.
sc 367 1982 indlaw sc 63 the facts and circumstances of the cases are however different and it is not necessary to consider those cases in detail while dealing with the present case.
he did not even act as a guard because when the witness anil kumar pw 21 came to the house he was not even stopped by the accused from entering the house.
there is no evidence of his having played any part in the crime.
he was merely seen by the witness as standing outside the house when the witness came home.
mahesh did not even act as a guard he did not prevent anil kumar pw 21 from entering the house.
there is no reference to a third person in the fir no evidence that he came with the other accused or left with them.
