the military estate officer secunderabad of.
the property in question was taken possession of on or about 12th of september1963.
in this appeal we are concerned with the claim for compensation for the said acquisition by one abdul khader who was a flower picker.
he had claimed rights as a tenant during the requisition.
his claim for compensation for requisition was settled by sharing the rent in or about 1969 the appellant is one of the owners of the property in question deriving their title and right from the said sail nawaz jung.
on or about 3rd february1970 the collector issued notice for acquisition of the property u s 71 of the requisitioning and acquisition of immovable property act1952 being act 30 of 1952.
hereinafter called the central act the gazette notification for the acquisition was issued on 12th march1970 the controversy in this case relates to the question whether abdul khader was a protected tenant under the andhra pradesh telangana area.
tenancy and agricultural lands act1950 being.
act no xxi of 1950.
the purpose of the said act as the preamble states was inter alia to enable the land holders to prevent the excessive sub division of agricultural holdings and empower government to assume in certain circumstances the management of agricultural lands to provide for the registration of co operative farms and to make further provision for matters incidental thereto.
s 2r states that the expression protected means a person who is deemed to be a protected tenant under the provisions of the said act.
sub s 2 of s 34 of the said act also deals with to be deemed to be a protected tenant in respect of any landfor certain purposes.
s 36 of the said act deals with the recovery of possession by protected tenant.
s 38 of the said act deals with right of protected tenant to purchase land.
s 40 of the said act makes rights of protected tenant heritable.
sub s 2 of s 40 of the said act indicates who are the heirs who would be entitled to hold the tenancy on the death of the protected tenant and on what terms.
the explanation to sub s 3 of s 40 of the said act provides who should be deemed to be the heirs of a protected tenant.
s 8 deals with principles and method of determining compensation either for requisitioning or acquisition of the property and inter alia provides for appointment of an arbitrator in certain contingencies in case there was no agreement for determining compensation.
suspecting that the entry in the protected tenancy register might not be genuine on or about 24th of october1970 the tahsildar passed an order cancelling that entry.
hence i suspect the entry and order to cancel the copy of the tenancy issued in favour of sri modh.
this order of cancellation was challenged by abdul khadar by filing a writ petition in the high court of andhra pradesh being w p no 1786 of 197 1 and by judgment and order passed on 27th august197.
in the appeal of abdul khader the proceedings of revenue divisional officer while questioning entry of the name of abdul khader in the register is a genuine one or net and while it is stated that it was entered in the register in such suspicious way by giving serial no 1 a between serial nos 1 and 2 of register being exhibit a 106 and exhibit a 107it ultimately held that abdul khader was a protected tenant under section 37a of the andhra pradesh act.
the order was passed by the district revenue officer who held that abdul khader was not a protected tenant.
he held further that khasra pahani which is the basic record of occupancy period after spot inspections does not find the name of abdul khader and further held that all entries except this entry in the protected tenancy register prepared under section 37a of the andhra pradesh act was supported by an enquiry.
in civil revision petition no 1006 of 1972 which was filed by abdul khader as against others justice r ramachandra raju of the andhra pradesh high court on or about 19th august1974 held that abdul khader was not a protected tenant and directed deletion of entry made in the final record of tenancies as a spurious one.
not only that in the writ petition filed by the present petitioner in this court it was held that it is not necessary to go into the question whether the petitioner is a protected tenant or whether he has any prima facie interest in the property because they are the matters entirely within the sole jurisdiction of the arbitrator who has to be appointed under s 8 of the act.
now as the arbitrator has already been appointed he will go into the matter as to whether the petitioner was a protected tenant of the lands or not and if he was the protected tenant to what share in the compensation amount he would be entitled to.
under these circumstances the c r p is dismissed with a direction that the entry made in the final record of tenancies that the petitioner was the protected tenant for the lands in question which is spurious as found by both the revenue divisional officer and the district revenue officer should be deleted.
claim petition was filed by the appellant before the arbitrator claim petition was also filed by abdul khader claiming 60 of compensation as a protected tenant.
there was an award by the arbitrator holding that as this court had left it open to decide whether abdul khader was a protected tenant.
despite the objection exercising the jurisdiction of the arbitrator to go into the question of protected tenant the arbitrator held that abdul khader was a protected tenant.
aggrieved by the aforesaid award the appellant claiming as one of the owners of the property filed a statutory appeal to the high court.
the appellant objected to that application but the high court on 1st april1985.
the appellant filed the objection reserving the right of raising the jurisdiction of the arbitrator to go into the question whether abdul khader was a protected tenant in the light of the act 21 of 1950 three civil appeals were filed before this court against the order of the high court on 15th may1985 this court passed the order on 19th august1985 the said order is important and reads as follows special leave are granted.
dr chitale learned counsel for the appellants submitted that the high court should be directed to consider the issues relating to the jurisdiction of the arbitrator appointed and functioning under the requisitioning and acquisition of immovable property act195 i to decide whether a person is protected tenant of an agricultural land or not in the light of ss 99 and 102 of the andhra pradesh telangana area.
the high court shall decide the question of jurisdiction referred to above in light of the submissions to be made by both the parties.
fruits.
