brief facts a the appellant accused was working as a head clerk in the traffic cadre section in the office of the senior divisional personnel officer south central railway vijayawada during the period from april1992 to november1997 the nature of duties of the appellant accused included dealing with and processing of the matters like promotions transfers seniority list roster list pay fixation on promotions retirements resignations etc of the personnel.
one k rama rao the complainant who was examined as pw 1was posted as yard points man grade a under station superintendent south central railway tanuku from december1995 to june1997 in june1997due to excess staff at tanuku.
as the appellant accused was dealing with the transfers the complainant pw 1 met him on 05 11 1997 at his office to pursue about the issuance of the said transfer order.
on the same daypw 1 reported the matter in writing to the inspector of police central bureau of investigation in short the cbivijayawada.
on 14 11 1997a trap was laid by the cbi officials along with panchas and when the accused demanded and accepted a sum of rs 200 as illegal gratification he was caught red handed along with the money which was recovered from the right hand side pocket of his pant.
rc 20a97 vsp after recording the statements of the witnesses inspector of police cbi visakhapatnam filed charge sheet being no 298 ytr dated 29 04 1998 against the appellant accused for an offence punishable under sections 7131dii read with s 132 of the prevention of corruption act1988 hereinafter referred to as the act in the court of special judge for cbi cases at visakhapatnam.
the special judge cbi by order dated 19 03 2001convicted the appellant and sentenced him to undergo rigorous imprisonment for a period of six months and to pay a fine of rs 500 and in default to suffer simple imprisonment for one month for the offence punishable u s 7 of the act and one year rigorous imprisonment with a fine of rs 500 and in default to suffer simple imprisonment for one month for the offence punishable u ss 131d ii.
g against the said order the appellant accused filed criminal appeal no 436 of 2001 before the high court of andhra pradesh.
the high court by impugned judgment dated 03 10 2007 dismissed the appeal filed by the appellant accused and confirmed the conviction passed by the trial court.
hence the appellant accused has preferred this appeal by way of special leave petition before this court.
notice only on quantum of sentence hearing on all aspects.
permissibility.
on 28 01 2008this court consisting of three honourable judges issued notice in this matter confining to the quantum of sentence only.
as stated in the narration of facts the appellant was convicted u s 7 of the act for which he was sentenced to undergo rigorous imprisonment for six months and to pay a fine of rs 500 in default simple imprisonment for one month.
he was also convicted for the offence under s 131dii read with s 132 of the act and sentenced to undergo rigorous imprisonment for one year and fine of rs 500 in default simple imprisonment for one month.
the trial court ordered that both the sentences of imprisonment shall run concurrently.
the said conviction and sentence was affirmed by the high court.
in the reported case the appeal was against the concurrent finding of both the courts convicting the appellant u s 302 ipc and sentencing him to suffer imprisonment for life.
at the slp stage this court by order dated 27 07 2009issued notice confined only to the question as to whether the petitioner was guilty of commission of an offence under any of the parts of s 304 indian penal code1860 in short ipc and not u s 302 ipc similar request was made before the bench that the appellant was entitled to urge all the questions including his right to urge that he should have been acquitted in the facts and circumstances of the case.
this court referred to the supreme court rules1966 which have been framed u art 145 of the constitution and also considered scope of its power u art 142 as well as order 47.
rule 6 of the code of civil procedure1908.
in short the code while deciding the said question the bench has also considered the scope of s 100 of the code for entertaining the second appeal.
it further shows that the court considered the plea of the appellant therein for acquittal despite the fact that the notice was limited in terms of the order dated 27 07 2009 it is relevant to point out that the bench in para 18clarified the position and reopened the case in its entirety even though notice was issued confining to a particular aspect.
emphasis supplied.
in the case on hand it is to be noted that on appreciation of oral and documentary evidence led in by the prosecution and the defence and on appreciation of entire materials the court of first instance i e the trial court convicted the appellant and sentenced him as mentioned above.
the high court as an appellate court once again analysed all the material discussed the oral and documentary evidence and finding that the prosecution had proved the guilt of the accused beyond reasonable doubt concurred with the conclusion arrived at by the trial court and dismissed the appeal of the appellant.
it is not in dispute that the provisions of the prevention of corruption act1988 alone are applicable since the incident occurred on 14 11 1997 i e subsequent to the act.
s 7 of the act relates to public servant taking gratification other than legal remuneration in respect of an official act.
while holding office as a public servant obtains for any person any valuable thing or pecuniary advantage without any public interest or e if he or any person on his behalf is in possession or has at any time during the period of his office been in possession for which the public servant can not satisfactorily account of pecuniary resources or property disproportionate to his known sources of income.
explanation.
for the purposes of this section known sources of income means income received from any lawful source and such receipt has been intimated in accordance with the provisions of any law rules or orders for the time being applicable to public servant.
it is useful to refer that in the prevention of corruption act1947 the same criminal misconduct which is available in s 13 of the 1988 act had been dealt with in s 5 of the 1947 act.
however proviso to sub s 2 of s 5 gives power to the court that for any special reasons to be recorded in writing impose a sentence of imprisonment of less than one year.
in order to substantiate the claim with the regard to the above learned senior counsel for the appellant has relied on the decision of this court in bechaarbhai s prajapati vs state of gujarat2008 11 scc 163 2008 indlaw sc 297 and based on the same requested this court to modify the sentence to the extent of period already undergone.
it is true that even in the cited decision the appellant accused demanded only rs 250 and it was paid and accepted.
finally the special judge framed charges for offence punishable under sections 712131d read with s 132 of the act.
the appellant therein was convicted for offence u s 72 of the act and appeal before the high court was also dismissed.
this court after holding that the conclusion of the trial court and high court does not suffer from any infirmity considered the alternative submission which related to harshness of sentence.
since the appellant therein was convicted only u s 7 and s 161 cr.
pc the minimum sentence being six months and of the fact that he had suffered custody for more than six months the course adopted by this court is perfectly in order and the same can not be applied to the case on hand wherein the appellant had undergone only 52 days when the minimum sentence was six months u s 7 and one year u s 13.
after a gap of 14 years there is no need to retain the same sentence and the court is not justified in directing the appellant to serve the remaining period after such a long time.
there is no dispute as regards the date of occurrence and the date of conviction passed by the trial court and affirmed by the high court.
it was further contended that the amount alleged to have been received by the appellant accused is only rs 200 and he also lost his job after conviction by the trial court.
the parties filed an application under section 13 b1 of the hindu marriage act1955 before the family court delhi seeking divorce by mutual consent.
decree of divorce has been granted to put quietus to all litigations between the parties and to save them from further agony as it is evident from the judgments in romesh chander v savitri.
in anil kumar jain this court held that an order of waiving the statutory requirements can be passed only by this court in exercise of its powers u art 142 of the constitution.
generally no court has competence to issue a direction contrary to law nor can the court direct an authority to act in contravention of the statutory provisions.
a constitution bench of this court in prem chand garg v excise commr.
emphasis supplied.
the constitution benches of this court in supreme court bar assn v.
in teri oat estates p ltd v.
the power u art 142 of the constitution is a constitutional power and hence not restricted by statutory enactments.
however it is to be made clear that this power can not be used to supplant the law applicable to the case.
in supreme court bar association v union of india 1998 4 scc 409.
the high court in exercise of its jurisdiction u s 482 of the criminal procedure code and this court.
when both the trial court as also the high court have found that the charge leveled against the appellant under the act has been made out and proved by the prosecution by placing acceptable evidence.
g in exercise of the power u art 142 of the constitution this court generally does not pass an order in contravention of or ignoring the statutory provisions nor is the power exercised merely on sympathy.
