the lands which were acquired belonged to several land holders including moti ram and p w 12 kewal chand.
the collector gave his award on 26 2 63 in respect of these lands which actually measured 49 47 acres at rs 1350 per acre amounting to rs 66784 50 np.
apart from this amount compensation was also awarded for standing crop amounting to rs 11073 13.
he had in anticipation of acquisition and execution of the work appointed a b ranadive p w 14 as assistant garrison engineer who was to be responsible for all the matters connected with the acquisition of land demarcation of boundaries as an engineer inching for execution of the contract and responsible for the maintenance of the air field.
this agreement was signed both by the appellant and p w 14.
after the completion of the first phase the second phase was to start on 10th october 1963 and completed by 9th may 1964.
pursuant to this agreement it is said that symbolic possession of the land which was acquired was taken over by the tehsildar on 1st february 1963 after which at any rate it appears from exhibit p 24 that actual possession of this land was handed over by the said tehsildar on 13th.
february 1963 to the appellant.
the receipt ex.
24 bears the signature of n l handa the tehsildar and of sukhchain lal jain p w 11 on behalf of the military estate officer and the appellant.
from this receipt it is evident that possession of 50 12 acres was handed over by the tehsildar and taken over by the appellant and the military estate officer sukhchain lal jain.
in respect of this allegation the first information report exhibit p 29 was issued on 14 1 64 in which the following statement is relevant.
it is alleged that major som nath accused who is a garrison engineer sirsa air field subsequently sometime in the months of march and april 1963 permitted the removal of the standing crop valued at rs 11073 13 by shri moti ram and kewal chand etc.
after accepting illegal gratification of rs 3000 from them.
major som nath did not account for this amount in the govt.
he thus.
abused his position as a public servant and caused pecuniary advantage to said shri moti ram and kewal chand by giving them standing crops worth rs 13000 for a consideration of.
rs 3000 only which amount he accepted for his personal use and thereby also abused his official position and obtained pecuniary advantage for himself in a sum of rs.
a regular case is therefore registered and entrusted to inspector baldev rai handa for investigation.
after this f i r certain statements were recorded by the military authorities being da to de dm dm 1 dn dl of mani gain mulkh raj ganpat ram telu ram kewal chand and sukhchain lal jain.
the special judge acquitted the appellant of the second charge namely that being a public servant he had by corrupt or illegal means or by otherwise abusing his position as a public servant obtained for himself a sum of rs 2500 from moti ram of sirsa for cutting the crops and thereby committed offence under section 51d punishable under section 52.
the accused was however convicted under the first charge for an offence under section 51c in that he being a garrison engineer incharge of the air field.
and which had been valued at rs 11073 13 by the revenue authorities dishonestly or fraudulently allowed moti ram of sirsa to misappropriate the said standing crop and thereby contravened section 51c of the prevention of corruption act punishable with section 52 of that act.
the learned advocate for the appellant has meticulously taken us through the entire documentary and oral evidence and commented at length upon the various contradictions and incongruities in the case of the prosecution with a view to establishing that when the appellant took possession of the land there was no crop standing on it that tile possession of the land was in fact delivered to telu ram contractor on 10 1 1963 that the said contractor had admitted that possession of the entire land was received by him that he carried on the construction work in extending the aerodrome that 200250 donkeys were also used for doing the work by reason of which the crop was damaged before tehsildar had put the appellant in possession of the land and as a matter of fact there was no crop thereon when he got the possession of the land.
if this contention is valid then the conviction of the accused can not stand and therefore it is necessary to deal with this matter first.
in any case we do not think that there is any validity in the submission.
that the sanction given by the govt.
for a sanction to be valid it must be established that the sanction was given in respect of the facts constituting the offence with which the accused is proposed to be charged.
the sanction that has been accorded is in the following terms 11th april 1966.
now therefore the central govt both hereby accord sanction under section 197 code of criminal procedure act No 5 of 1898 and section 61a of the prevention of corruption act 1947 act ii of 1947 for the prosecution of maj.
by order and in the name of the president.
sd a p veera raghavan.
deputy secretary to the govt of india.
from the above order it is apparent that the facts which the central govt.
considered for the purposes of according sanction were a that the appellant as a public servant was entrusted with crops situated on the land acquired for the extension of air field sirsa b that by abusing his position as a public servant he allowed the standing crops to be cut from the said land.
on these facts and after applying its mind as spoken to by p w 10 kalra the government accorded its sanction for prosecution of the offences punishable under section 52 read with section 51c and 51d.
the question therefore would be whether these facts were sufficient to sustain the sanction under 51c even if the charge under 51d had failed.
it would be seen therefore that under section 51c a public servant will be said to commit the offence of misconduct in hi duties if he dishonestly allows any other persons to convert to his own use property which is entrusted to the said public servant the facts which have been set out in the order granting the sanction certainly are sufficient to indicate that the authorities granting the sanction had the offence under section 51c also in their contemplation.
in fact the order specifically mentions thisprovision while granting sanction.
even if it were so the sanction can not be held to be had on that account.
a person could not be charged merely with the breach of a particular provision of the order he must be charged with the commission of certain acts which constitute a breach and it is to that prosecution that is for having done acts which constitution breach of the order that the sanction is required.
in that case sanction was given under section 6 of the prevention of corruption act 47 for the prosecution of the appellant for having received illegal gratification from one pal singh.
he was charged with and tried for two offences under section 51 a of the act for habitually accepting or obtaining illegal gratification and under section 51d for receiving illegal gratification from pal singh.
the session judge had found that both charges were proved.
the contention that a trial for two offences requiring sanction is wholly void where the sanction is granted for one offence and not for the other is in our opinion unsustainable.
secondly the evidence that was necessary to unfold the story of the prosecution has not been produced by the prosecution but the trial court and the high court ignored this lacunas in the prosecution case.
before we deal with the contentions urged on behalf of the appellant it is necessary to have a clear picture of certain broad features of the case.
the acquired land extended from rd 1200 to rd 00.
in this letter he says 12th feb 1963.
my dear mr nagpal i am writing to you with regard to.
acquisition of land for sirsa airfield.
as you know.
in fact as we have noticed earlier this is what telu ram says in his evidence namely that on loan january63 no delivery of possession of the remaining land other than rd 4500 to 1200 the land in which there is the existing run way was given.
a copy of this letter was sent to the garrison engineer the appellant.
the extension of the airstrip would mean that the existing airstrip is being extended so that the initial work can be started and continued on the existing airstrip.
p w 14 says that symbolic possession was delivered to him in respect of the acquired land on the 1st february63.
it would however appear from exh.
as otherwise there is no meaning in the appellant saying therein that it is desirable that entire proceedings with regard to acquisition of land and determining compensation for standing crops for the total area of 39 58 acres are finalised on the 13th february.
the khasra girdawari exhibit p 3 would show that there was a crop of sargon mustard gram and lusan at any rate on 20th march 63 at a time when the land has been shown therein to have been in possession of the military authorities.
he may please be asked to complete this formality without any loss of time.
in reply the appellant states in his letter exhibit p 12 dated the 10th april.
the matter has already been discussed with you and finalised.
no further action is required to be taken.
it can be seen from the above that the appellant is reluctant to reply in writing as to what he is asking the contractor to do under verbal orders while the contractor for safeguarding his position is insisting on having it in writing.
the trial court as well as the high court are in our view justified in holding that crops of sarson gram and lusan were standing on the land acquired by the military for extension of the aerodrome.
it 1is true that when a witness has admitted having signed his previous statements that is enough to prove that some statement of his was recorded and he had appended his signature thereto.
the only question is what use can be made of such statements even where the witness admits having signed the statements made before the military authorities.
if it is intended to contradict the witness by the writing the attention of the witness should be called before the writing can be proved to those parts of it which are to be used for the purpose of contradicting him.
the whole of the previous statement however can not be treated as substantive evidence.
as already noticed is the letter of telu ram jain to the assistant garrison engineer and p 10 is the letter of telu ram jain to the garrison engineer.
both these related to possession of the acquired land not being given to him.
he was asked about the symbolic delivery of possession the handing over of the actual possession of the land on 13 2 63 and the existence of crops on the date when possession was delivered on 16 2 63.
the letter exhibit p 13 was also put to him and he was asked about the existence of the crops.
it can not therefore be said that circumstances appearing against the accused which have formed the basis of the conviction had not been put to him.
on the other hand he emphatically asserted that at the time when the possession was delivered to him on 13 2 63 there was also no crops standing on the acquired land.
it is also incorrect because the contractor did not work on the acquired land since 1 2 63 that position is reflected in the review report initiated by the a g e on 9 2 63 vide exhibit dq.
it is lastly contended that certain witnesses who would be necessary to unfold the prosecution story have not been called and in spite of the court directing the production of the usufruct register it was not produced.
for instance it is said that gamkhar military estate officer was not produced to prove the receipt exhibit p 24.
similarly it is said that the tehsildar n l handa has not been produced.
the nonexamination of other witnesses without anything more can not be treated as defect in the prosecution.
on a careful consideration of the evidence both oral and documentary it is established that the appellant who was in charge of the expansion work on the air strip was given possession of the land acquired for that purpose on 13 2 63 that there was standing thereon a bumper crop of sarson gram and lusan on that day that he was therefore entrusted with this crop that he postponed giving delivery of the land to the contractor till at any rate after the 23rd march 1963 and before the 6th april 1963 and that he allowed the crop to be cut and taken away without in any way accounting for it which shows that it was done dishonestly and raudulently.
the fact that otwithstanding overwhelming evidence particularly of his own admission at the time he denies that there were ever any crops when delivery of possession of the land acquired was taken by him further reinforces the conclusion that he allowed the crops to be cut away with dishonest or fraudulent motive.
appeal dismissed.
