its work force consists of engineers and supervisors and different categories of workmen.
house rent allowance was also paid.
dearness allowance became payable at 10 of the basic wage subject to a minimum of rs 50 and house rent allowance at 30 of the basic salary.
it was pointed out that the dearness allowance and house rent allowance granted by the appellant made little impact in neutralising the cost of living.
in the absence of pertinent information concerning the strength of their labour force the extent of their business the financial position for some years the capital invested the precise nature of the business the position regarding reserves dividends declared and future prospects of the company the tribunal found that it was unable to rely on them as comparable concerns.
having regard to the net profits earned by the appellant from 1968 to 1977 it found that the acceptance of the demands of the union would result in an increased burden of rs 7 crores a burden which would dry up the appellant s resources and would be impossible for it to bear.
for the purpose of determining the financial capacity of the appellant the tribunal followed unichem laboratories v their workmen 1972 indlaw sc 181 where it was held that the gross profits should be computed without making deductions on account of taxation development rebate and depreciation.
it decided also that there was no ground for deducting the notional value of gratuity.
it also observed that the category of draughtsmen needed a special increase.
but it rejected the demand of the union for dearness allowance on the basis of a slab system because that would have imposed an unacceptable burden on the appellant s financial capacity and there was no reason why the existing scheme of dearness allowance should be disturbed when a substantial increase was being made in the level of the basic wage.
it rejected the demand of the union for abolishing the efficiency bar but the span of 15 years for earning increment was expanded in some grades to 20 years and some adjustments were also made in specific grades.
further it appears that the tribunal intended to grant the increase of rs 150 to each draughtsman and rs 100 to all other workmen in their basic pay.
however this is not clearly mentioned anywhere in the award due to accidental slip or omission.
no 23but it appears that the words to each employee after the figure rs 150 were omitted.
i do not think that any problem would arise for interpretation of the award.
considering the appeal of tata consulting engineers first the contention of learned counsel for the appellant is that having regard to the financial capacity of the appellant the tribunal erred in making the wage scales retrospective and in any event in ranging the retrospectivity back to 1st january1976.
no dearness allowance was paid until the beginning of 1977 and the house rent allowance also was introduced about that time.
during all these years the appellant had continued to enjoy increasing profits nonetheless the emoluments received by the workmen did not receive the impress of the appellant s growing prosperity.
it is urged that the amendment results in the inclusion of a flat increase of rs 150 to each workman in the case of draughtsman and rs 100 to each workman in the case of other categories a result wholly unwarranted it is said by the intent of the original award and therefore falling beyond the jurisdiction of the tribunal.
in making the application of 22nd.
it is only a clerical mistake or error which can be corrected and the clerical mistake or error must arise from an accidental slip or omission in the award.
an accidental slip or omission implies that something was intended and contrary to that intention what should not have been included has been included or what should have been included has been omitted.
it must not be a mistake or error which calls for rectification by modification of the conscious adjudication on the issues involved.
is the instant case one where the amendment made by the tribunal in the original award can be said to correct a mere clerical mistake or error arising from an accidental slip or omission.
it would do well to recall that the claim of the union filed before the tribunal also centered on the need to revise the wage scales.
for the purpose of restructuring the pay scales the tribunal ruled on the paying capacity of the appellant both with reference to the profits of the preceding year as well as the prospects of the future.
no ad hoc increase to the pay of each individual workman was intended.
and that is confirmed by what was stated in paragraph 23 of the award considering this outgoing the flat increase of rs 150 in the category of draughtsman and rs 100 in the case of the other categories would be fair.
it will be noted that the pay scales of different categories were being restructured and the flat increase envisaged there related to an increase in the general pay scales of different categories.
no second flat increase was envisaged at all.
conspicuous by its absence is any reference to a flat increase in the pay of an individual workmen.
even when considering the range of permissible retrospectivity the tribunal stated in the award in view of the revision of the wage scales there would be consequent increase in the dearness allowance and the house rent allowance.
and the clinching circumstances of all is that the award was made on the basis that the overall financial load according to paragraph 33 of the award would be to the tune of about rs 5 lakhs.
it can not be the case of the union that the figure of rs 5 lakhs mentioned in paragraph 33 of the award represented the result of adding a flat increase to the pay of each workman in addition to the benefits conferred by the revised pay scales and other awarded reliefs.
in its order of 22nd.
in so construing the statement exhibit c 51the tribunal has grievously erred.
it seems from a perusal of the document exhibit c 51that it is a statement giving trial figures of the increased financial load on different bases.
it seems that the tribunal was betrayed by a curious confusion in accepting the plea of the union that a flat increase to the pay of each workman was intended in the original wage and consequently it fell into the error of amending the award.
in the circumstances the order of 22nd december1978 is invalid so far as it amends paragraph 23 of the original award.
i shall now consider civil appeal no 2300 of 1979 filed by the workmen.
it is wrong in principle it is said to provide a fixed dearness allowance.
2 scr 113 1968 indlaw sc 183 now it is not a universal rule that the dearness allowance should in all cases be correlated with the cost of living index.
it noted that dearness allowance was being granted by the appellant at 10 of the salary subject to a minimum of rs 50 and house rent allowance at 30 of the basic salary.
having regard to the not inconsiderable improvement in the level of the basic wage it observed that there would be a consequent increase in the dearness allowance and house rent allowance.
in view of the increase so secured the tribunal rejected the suggestion that a slab system should be introduced in the dearness allowance or that there should be any other modification of the principle on which dearness allowance was being presently granted.
if the dearness allowance is linked with the cost of living index the whole award will have to be reopened and the entire basis on which it has been made will have to be reconsidered.
in the result civil appeal no 2299 of 1979 is allowed in part insofar that the order dated 22nd december1978 of the industrial tribunal maharashtra bombay is quashed to the extent that it modifies the original award dated 20th december1978and the corrigendum made consequent thereto is also quashed.
civil appeal no 2300 of 1979 is dismissed.
it is needless to recapitulate all the basic facts which have been set out in the judgment of pathak j the award of the industrial tribunal was made on december 201978 on december 221978 that is to say two days after the award was made and when everything must have been fresh to the minds of the tribunal the respective parties and their advocates the employees union made an application under rule 31 of the industrial disputes bombay rules1957 seeking a correction of an error which it was claimed had crept into the award.
further it appears that the tribunal intended to grant the increase of rs 150 to each draughtsman and rs 100 to all other workmen in their basic pay.
on this application the advocate for the employer company made the following endorsement submitted to whatever this honourable tribunal desires to do.
even so we propose to examine whether the correction sought by the employees union was within the bounds of the authority of the tribunal or whether it was in effect a fresh award.
it can not possibly be doubted that an industrial tribunal deciding upon the wage scales of the employees of an establishment would have full liberty to propose ad hoc increase of salaries as part of the revision of wages.
at the end of paragraph 15 of the award the tribunal stated but there can be no doubt that the company can very well bear the additional burden.
at the end of paragraph 18 of the award the tribunal said a mere reading of exhibit u 15 will immediately dispel the misgivings about the future of the present company.
for some years to come this is likely to be one of the few consulting engineers who will be securing major contracts.
again in paragraph 19 it was said i have no doubt that the present company would be able to bear the additional burden for the years to come.
c 27 indicates the important projects the company was handling in india and abroad and the amount of foreign exchange earned and repatriated.
i will therefore proceed on the ground that the present company can bear the additional financial burden.
finally at the end of paragraph 21.
after expressing himself in categoric terms about the capacity of the company to bear the additional financial burden the tribunal went on to say i only propose to modify the existing structure of the scales with flat increases in each category.
if the pay of an employee does not coincide with any step in the revised pay scale and falls between two steps in the reclassified pay scales the basic pay of that employee shall be fixed at the step higher in the revised scale.
after fixing the salary of the employees in the scales as above the employees should be given increments in the new scales as noted below i employees who have completed 5 years or more as on 1st january19763 increments.
ii employees who have completed 4 years of service as on 1st january19762 increments.
all other employees with more than one year s service shall be given one increment.
in the case of several senior employees the revised scale would yield but a very small and almost a token increase in the size of the pay packet whereas the junior employees would get a large benefit.
it was clearly so intended by the tribunal as is evident from the reference to flat increase of rs 150 in the category of draftsmen and rs 100 in the case of the other categories.
immediately after the award was pronounced while the iron was still hot as it were the employees apparently realised that the employer might take advantage of the circumstance that it was not clearly mentioned in the award that all the employees were to get additional pay of rs 150 and rs 100 respectively and might contend that the tribunal had only revised the wage scales by increasing the salary on entry into the service and restructuring the scale of pay and never granted any ad hoc increase of salary to all employees.
as it has now turned out what the employees apparently suspected the employer might contend is precisely what the employer is not contending though the employer did not choose to so contend before the industrial tribunal itself when the employees filed the application for rectification.
in view of the opinion of the majority both the appeals are dismissed and there is no order as to costs.
