10 years ri and a fine of rs 5000 each for the offence under section 307149 ipc 2 years ri for the offence under section 324149 ipc and life imprisonment and fine of rs 5000 each for the offence under section 3 of tada in default of payment of fine on each of the counts the appellants were to undergo further ri for two years each.
for the sake of convenience the accused shall be referred to hereinafter by the number assigned to them in the trial court judgment as accused i e a 5a 8a 10 etc.
according to the prosecution case on 11th august1990 at about 3 00 p m anna shety band patte mukesh ramesh and prakash band patte had gone to the vrindavan video parlour for watching a movie.
pw both the prosecution witnesses as well as.
the accused party left the video parlour threatening each other.
at about 4 00 p m the appellants and other accused persons allegedly armed with swords satturs and sticks arrived there in two auto rickshaws and one jeep.
out of the accused a 5a 6a 8a 10 and a 11 were carrying swords while a 7 and a 9 had satturs and the remaining accused were armed with sticks.
on the arrival of accused party anna shetty ran away.
appellants a 5a 10 and a 11 thereafter assaulted bajrang band patte pw 14 on his head in front of the hotel.
it is alleged that a 5a 10 and a 11 assaulted popat deceased with the swords on his head and thighs and when baban tried to intervene he was also assaulted and he received a blow with the sattur near his knee.
he ran away to conceal himself.
bajrang pw 14 was taken to the hospital by waman pw 15ramesh pw 11 and prakash pw 2whereas popat deceased who was seriously injured and had fallen down unconscious after receipt of the injuries was removed to the hospital by the police when it arrived at the spot a little later.
all the injured persons were admitted to the hospital.
on receipt of information asstt.
police inspector joshi arrived at the hospital and baban karpe pw 9 narrated the occurrence to him which was reduced into writing.
on the basis of the said report an fir for offences under section 302307149147148 ipc was registered vide cr no 101 of 1990 at about 6 00 p m the inquest on the dead body of popat was conducted and the body was sent for post mortem examination.
bajrang pw 14 regained consciousness during the night intervening 11th and 12th august1990 and made a statement to the police in respect of the incident which took place in front of jagdamba hotel and on the basis of that statement cr no 10290 was registered.
an auto rickshaw bearing registration no mwq 5624 belonging to manik bhende gavali was found abandoned in a damaged condition with broken glasses.
it was also taken into possession vide a panchnama.
on a disclosure statement made by a 11 before the police and the panches under section 27 of the evidence act and on his pointing out a sword was recovered from the field at korti where it lay buried.
a 10 also made a disclosure statement under section 27 of the evidence act to the effect that he had buried a sword behind yamai tukai temple and could get it recovered.
on the pointing out by a 10the said sword was also recovered and taken into possession through a panchnama.
during the investigation an identification parade was got conducted through the executive magistrate pw 32 when baban karpe pw 9 and other prosecution witnesses identified the assailants.
samples of blood of the accused were collected for ascertaining their blood groups and sent for chemical analysis.
after completion of the investigation two charge sheets arising out of crime no 10190 and crime no 10290 were filed before the designated court.
during the pendency of the two charge sheets the addl.
public prosecutor through an application ex.
at the trial the prosecution alleged that the accused party with an intent to commit terror in the wadar community had committed the murder of popat and injured pw 9 and pw 14by using lethal weapons and had thereby committed terror in the wadar community and thus committed an offence under section 3 of tada besides the other offences as already noticed.
baloba a 1 died during the pendency of the trial and therefore the proceedings against him abated.
p c was one of total denial and false implication.
according to a 2a 3a 5a 6 and a 7 they had been identified by pw 9during the identification parade at the instance of the police.
from the post mortem report prepared by dr a p khiste.
pw 22we find that the deceased had four incised injuries which had caused extensive damage to his internal organs also.
cms above right ear fracture of right parietal bone with laceration of brain.
3 verticle incised wound 5 x 1 x 1 cms.
bone deep at centre of vertex fracture of skull with laceration of brain.
pw 22 opined that these injuries individually as well as collectively were sufficient in the ordinary course of nature to cause death.
edges were clean out.
2 abraded contusion below right knee and front of right leg5 x 5 cm.
pw 14 bajrang was also medically examined and the following injuries were found on him 1.
injury was bleeding fresh.
2 multiple abraded contusion all over the back.
so far as the first incident is concerned that merely provided the motive for the assault near the jagdamba hotel and the math.
in view of the altercation the complainants left the video parlour and went towards jagdamba hotel.
near the jagdamba hotel it was bajrang pw 14 who received the injuries at the hands of the accused.
pw 19 was declared hostile by the prosecution and was cross examined by the addl.
out of the remaining witnesses mentioned above pw 9 and pw 14 are the injured witnesses.
his testimony receives ample corroboration from the testimony of pw10pw11pw14 and pw15 waman the proprietor of jagdamba hotel besides the medical evidence.
an identification parade had been held by shri shrikant chimanaji jahagirdar pw 32executive magistrate.
from our independent analytical appreciation of the evidence on the record we are of the opinion that the designated court rightly found the participation of a 1a 5a 8a 9 and a 11in the assault to have been positively established.
in so far as the remaining appellants are concerned the evidence of the eye witnesses and particularly of pw 3 and pws 9 to 14 unmistakably connects them with the assault on the complainant party near the jagdamba hotel and at the math resulting in the death of popat and injuries being caused to pw9 and pw14 despite searching cross examination nothing has been brought out in their cross examination from which any doubt may arise about the participation of a 1a 5a 8a 9 and a 11 in the assault or discredit the testimony of any of these witnesses.
from our independent examination of the material on the record we are satisfied that the prosecution has been able to establish its case against a 5a 8a 9 and a 11 and the deceased a 1 beyond a reasonable doubt.
prosecution has led no evidence in that behalf either.
it appears to be a mere coincidence that pw9pw14 and the deceased all belong to the wadar community.
by no stretch of imagination.
prosecution has led no evidence nor brought any circumstances on the record from which any inference may be drawn that the appellants intended to strike terror amongst the wadar community.
in hitendra vishnu thakur and others vs.
state of maharashtra.
and others 1994 4 scc602.
1994 indlaw sc 1706 this court opined that the criminal activity in order to invoke tada must be committed with the requisite intention as contemplated by section 31 of the act by use of such weapons as have been enumerated therein and which cause or are likely to result in the commission of offences as mentioned in that section.
in fairness to the learned counsel for the state mr madhav reddy sr advocate we must also record that he conceded that in the facts and circumstances of the case and keeping in view the law laid down by the constitution bench in kartar singh s case 1994.
5 a 11 had alongwith the deceased accused a 1 and some others about whose identity there has been some doubt formed an unlawful assembly and in furtherance of the common object of that assembly committed the murder of popat deceased besides causing injuries to pw9 and pw14.
in the result the appeal succeeds insofar as a 10 appellant no 4 is concerned.
he shall be released from custody forthwith if not required in any other case.
before we part with the judgment we would also like to deal with a submission made on behalf of the appellants by their learned counsel that since the offence under section 3 of tada is not made out the criminal appeal filed in this court may be transferred to the high court for its disposal in exercise of our jurisdiction under article 142 of the constitution of india for the reason that a first appeal against conviction and sentence recorded for various offences under the indian penal code by the sessions court lies to the high court.
learned counsel submitted that the appellants should not be denied the opportunity to get the first hearing in the high court because in the event of their failure in the high court they still have a chance to approach this court under article 136 of the constitution of india.
section 19 1 and 2 of tada read as follows.
19 appeal 1 notwithstanding anything contained in the code an appeal shall lie as a matter of right from any judgment sentence or order not being an interlocutory order of a designated court to the supreme court both on facts and on law.
2 except as aforesaid no appeal or revision shall lie to any court from any judgment sentence or order including an interlocutory order of a designated court.
a bare perusal of the above section shows that an appeal against the judgment sentence or order of the designated court except an interlocutory order shall lie on facts and on law to the supreme court and that no appeal or revision shall lie to any other court.
