prior to the passing of the aforesaid order on april 181979 while granting special leave petition on 10 11 1978 this court had directed that the state of west bengal will be made a party to the proceeding and further the collector parganas was appointed as receiver in respect of the fisheries owned by the sarkar family.
pursuant to the aforesaid order appointing collector 24 parganas as receiver.
it may be noted that nalban fishery had been requisitioned by the state of west bengal under the provisions of requisition act since 5 11 1969 and possession thereof had been taken on 8 11 1969 and the sarkar family had challenged the said order unsuccessfully which final by the dismissal of the special leave petition by this court on 17 11 1972 on 25 5 1979 the collector 24 parganas who had been appointed as receiver realised that he could not have taken possession of nalban fishery as receiver since the said fishery had already been in possession of the state of west bengal pursuant to requisition order dated 5 11 1969 obviously the earlier compliance report dated 20 11 1978 that the receiver has taken possession of the nalban fishery was a symbolic one inasmuch as the state of west.
bengal was in fact in possession of the said fishery.
it may be noticed at this stage that bansilal farms appellant in appeal arising out of slp c no 13314 of 1992 was the highest offerer for running the boating complex on the surface water of nalban fishery and had been granted licence for that purpose and in fact had started the operation of the boating complex since 1991 but on the application of mrs dhira mitra one of the co sharers of the sarkar family the high court having issued an order of injunction the farm is no longer operating.
mr harish salve the learned senior counsel for the state of west bengal.
s s ray the learned senior counsel appearing for bansilal farms and mr g ramaswamy the learned senior counsel appearing for the state fishery development corporation ltd contended that a compromise decree between the parties in a suit for partition will not in army way affect the rights of the state in respect of the fisheries whether such rights the state acquires by virtue of an order of requisition under the requisition act or by virtue of any other statutory provisions under which the fisheries right vest in the state.
it was further contended that this court while giving affect to the compromise arrived at between the sarkar family made it explicitely clear that the said compromise will not in any way affect the rights of the state over the fisheries even if those fisheries agreed to be divided between the parties and in that view of the matter and the state of west bengal having already requisitioned the nalban fishery and having taken possession of the same the receiver could not have taken possession of the said nalban fishery pursuant to the order of this court appointing the collector 24 parganas as receiver and.
he further contended that nalban fishery having been vested in the state of west bengal under the provisions of west bengal under the provisions of west bengal acquisition act1955the state can not get rid of the direction given by the supreme court to the receiver to handover possession of the various fisheries covered by the final decree to the parties to whom they have been allotted under the decree and the nalban fishery being one such fishery the possession thereof was required to be given to the person in whose favour the said fishery has been allotted and therefore the learned single judge as well as the division bench in appeal have rightly issued the directions.
judged from this view there is no infirmity with the direction issued by the learned single judge as well as division bench of the calcutta high court warranting interference by this court.
gupta also contended that the order of the high court of honourable mr justice deepak kumar sen dated 23 9 1980 directing the receiver to allow m s ghose and saha surveyors to make proper demarcation in the nalban fishery dividing the same in two lots and thereafter carry out the directions of the supreme court in respect thereof has become final the same not having been challenged by the state of west.
gupta contended that the validity of the said act has been challenged and is pending before the calcutta high court an interim order has been passed in the said proceeding and therefore until that matter is decided it can not be said.
that the tank fishery vested with the state of west bengal.
in this connection he had further urged that this question had not been raised before the high court.
in view of the rival submissions at the bar the first question that arises for consideration is whether in the suit for partition amongst the members of the sarkar family which was ultimately disposed of by a compromise decree in this court nalban fishery had been allotted to some members of the sarkar family and whether such decree would affect the rights of the state and bind the state of west.
the aforesaid order directing impleadment of the state of west bengal as a 7 party was obviously intended for the purpose that the interest of the state and the rights of the state in relation of the state and the rights of the state in relation of the state and the rights of the state in relation to several fisheries could be protected.
bengal in any manner whatsoever to the fisheries in question if they are vested in the state under the provisions of west bengal estates acquisition act1953.
further while directing the receiver to handover possession of the various fisheries covered by the final decree to the parties to whom they have been allotted under the decree this court also protected the interest of the state by observing we made it quite clear that this will not in any manner prejudice or affect the right of the state to its claim over the fisheries under the west bengal acquisition act 1955 west bengal act 1 of 1954 or under any other statute.
bengal ca nt be bound down by the so called allotment of fisheries in favour of some members of the sarkar family under the compromise decree in question.
the receiver appointed by a court is an officer of the court.
as has been stated earlier the possession which was taken by the earlier receiver was a symbolical one and factually the state had not been divested of its possession which it took on 8 11 1969 in our considered opinion the succeeding receiver rightly took into account the directions of this court passed on 18 4 1979 and 24 4 1979 and rightly took the view that the rights and interest of the state in relation to nalban fishery is not affected in any manner by the so called allotment of the fishery in the partition decree amongst the members of the sarkar family.
after such demarcation is made the commissioner of partition is directed to approve the same and carry out the direction of the honble supreme court in respect thereof.
bengal which is otherwise protected by the supreme court while passing the compromise decree.
it is no doubt true that a writ petition has been filed challenging the validity of the aforesaid act and notification issued there under in relation to vary nalban fishery which is still pending and therefore it would not be proper for us to examine the provisions of the emended west bengal land reforms act and to express any opinion thereon.
since we have been informed that the writ petition challenging the amended act is still pending in the calcutta high court we may observe that our conclusion hereunder in relation to applicability of the amended provisions of the west bengal land reforms act so far as nalban fishery is concerned would be subject to the constitutionality itself to be decided by the high court in the pending writ petition.
in view of our aforesaid conclusions the impugned directions of the learned single judge as well as of the division bench are set aside and these appeals are allowed.
order accordingly.
