appasaheb son of sheshrao palaskar about two and half years prior to the date of incident which took place on 15 september 1991.
according to the case of prosecution a sum of rs 5000 and some gold ornaments had been given at the time of marriage of bhimabai.
for about six months bhimabai was treated well but thereafter the accused started asking her to bring rs 1000 1200 from her parents to meet the household expenses and also for purchasing manure.
her father pw 1 tukaram along with some of his relatives went to the house of the accused and tried to persuade them not to ill treat bhimabai.
a few days before nag panchami festival bhimabai came to her parental home and complained that the accused were not giving her proper food clothing and even footwear.
she also told her parents that her husband had asked her to bring an amount of rs 1000 1200 for the purpose of household expenses and manure.
the case of the prosecution futher is that in the evening of 15 september 1991 a person came from village palshi on a motorcycle and informed pw 1 tukaram that bhimabai was unwell.
pw 1 then immediately went to the house of the accused along with some of his relatives.
the police patil of the village pw 3 sandu mohanrao patil lodged an accidental death report at 9 00 p m on 15 september 1991 at the police station.
pw 1 tukaram lodged the fir of the incident at 7 00 p m on 16 september 1991 at p s chikalthana on the basis of which case crime No 144 of 1991 was registered against the appellants under sections 498 a 306 and 304 b ipc.
the prosecution in order to establish its case examined six wintesses and filed some documentary evidence.
1 tukaram father of the deceased has given details of the prosecution version of the incident in his statement in court.
the last time she visited her parental home was during the festival of nag panchami and at that time she looked depressed.
he then went to village palshi along with other persons of his family where he reached after sun set.
he saw that bhimabai was lying dead and froth was coming out of her mouth which was smelling of thimet insecticide.
in his cross examination he has admitted that his statement that he had given rs 20000 in dowry at the time of marriage was incorrect and in fact he had given rs 5000 as dowry and the total expenses incurred in the marriage was about rs 20000.
pw 5 sumanbai is the mother of the deceased bhimabai.
the last time bhimabai visited her parental home was on the occasion of the festival of nag panchami and she had complained that she was being ill treated and was sometimes given beating for bringing money from her parents.
she has further stated that she did not make any enquiry as to how bhimabai had died.
in her statement under section 161 cr.
p c which was recorded very next day of the incident i e on 16 september 1991 she did not state that cause of ill treatment was a demand for money and a consequent beating.
she replied that she did not know why there was no mention in the said statement that the cause for ill treatment was a demand for money and a consequent beating.
she further stated that it will be correct to say that her daughter was receiving ill treatment as a result of domestic cause.
and that was the cause.
in the very next paragraph she stated as under it is not true to suggest that in my statement before the police i never said that ill treatment was as a result of demand for money from us and its fulfillment.
pw 5 sumanbai has deposed that bhimabai was receiving ill treatment as a result of domestic cause and to a specific question put by the court as to what she meant by domestic cause she gave a reply that there was a demand for money for defraying expenses of manure etc.
the evidence on record does not indicate that the police had any reason to favour the accused and deliberately omitted to mention about the alleged demand of money while recording the statement of pw 5 sumanbai under section 161 cr.
the evidence shows that the accused come from very humble background and they could not have exerted any kind of influence financial or otherwise upon the police so as to manage a statement favourable to them when in the course of investigation the statements of witnesses were being recorded under section 161 cr.
sc 558 1991 indlaw sc 861.
a demand for money on account of some financial stringency or for meeting some urgent domestic expenses of for purchasing manure can not be termed as a demand for dowry as the said word is normally understood.
learned counsel for the appellants has also submitted that there is absolutely no evidence either direct or circumstantial to show that bhimabai committed suicide.
he has submitted that the insecticide thimet is extensively used by the farmers for preservation of crop and is kept stored in their houses and it could be a case where thimet accidentally got mixed with some food item and was consumed by bhaimabai.
he shall be released forthwith unless wanted in some other case.
the sureties and bail bonds furnished by her are discharged.
appeal allowed.
