leave granted in slp crl.
no 37372014.
the appellant raju.
shashi tripathi accused no 1 has filed criminal appeal arising out of special leave petition criminal no 3737 of 2014.
pw 1 dr.
sharda prasad tripathi is the husband of accused shashi tripathi.
on 25 11 2003when pw 1 dr.
sharda prasad tripathi came home from his clinic found that his daughter in law bhavna tripathi has been murdered.
he lodged a first information report f i r on 25 11 2003 at about 2045 hours.
the crime was registered.
he deposed in court that on 25 11 2003when he returned home he found servant anil kumar pw 21 was weeping.
bhavna was dead.
shashi was unconscious.
after registration of the crime inquest was conducted over the dead body of bhavna on 26 11 2003 post mortem was conducted by dr naresh tiwari and dr m deodhar who gave their report which is marked as exhibit p18 spot map was prepared by the inquiry officer io bloodstained cloth of accused shashi tripathi was taken into possession along with broken bangles bloodstained cement mortar and plain cement mortar were also taken into possession.
shashi tripathi mahesh and binu.
chandra prakash were arrested on 29 11 2003 a bloodstained knife was taken into possession.
the accused raju.
devendra choubey was taken into custody on 22 12 2003 and a suzuki motorcycle was also taken into possession.
devendra choubey was conducted on 26 12 2003 after his arrest.
a sealed packet containing hair found in the grip of the deceased and another sealed packet containing bloodstained cloth of the deceased were taken into possession vide exhibit p35.
according to the prosecution the accused shashi tripathi is the step mother in law of deceased bhavna tripathi.
bhavna was married to her step son jitendra kumar in july2003 shashi tripathi used to be annoyed with bhavna tripathi on account of some domestic dispute.
she engaged the other accused for murdering bhavna.
bhavna was murdered on 25 11 2003 at about 1830 hours in the house where she resided with shashi tripathi.
dr m deodhar who conducted the postmortem opined that cause of her death was neurogenic and hemorrhagic shock.
the injuries found on person of the deceased were as follows external injuries 1 incised wound on left scapular region of size 3 cm x 1 cm 2 incised wound on left scapular region of size 4 cm x 1  cm.
4 incised wound on lower costal region left of size.
3  cm x 2 cm x 1 cm 5 incised wound on lower costal region right side on right epigestic region of size 3  cm.
cm x cm x  cm 10 incised wound on forearm left hand radial side dorsal aspect on lower 23rd region 11 incised wound on left forearm middle l3rd region radial side and posterior aspect of size 2.
x 1  cm.
internal injuries brain membrane pale lungs trachea pale punctured wound on right and left lungs of size 2 cm x 1 cm2  cm and 1 cm.
incised wound was also present on the right lobe of size 3 cm x 13 cm x 3 cm.
liver kidney and spleen were pale.
the deceased was carrying fetus of two months.
shashi tripathi had brought him home from bilaspur.
he participated in the identification parade which was held in sub jail bemetara and identified the accused persons in the court by touching them.
he deposed before the court that shashi didi accused brought him to village jevra from bilaspur.
he lived in the house of shashi didi.
he ate his food there and studied in a school.
she resided with shashi didi.
his brother shivendra studies at calcutta.
he referred to bhavna as bhabhi.
he stated that shashi didi and bhavna sometimes used to quarrel.
the incident occurred in the courtyard and shashi didi was present in the passage.
mahesh the fourth accused was standing outside the house.
he further deposed that shashi didi took him upstairs to the terrace and asked him not to disclose the truth to anyone but to say that thieves came into the house and committed the crime.
shashi didi thereafter started shouting.
devendra choubey accused no 4 by paying them money.
the credibility of the evidence of anil kumar pw 21 was attacked by the learned counsel for the appellants who submitted that the boy is a tutored witness who has been influenced by the police with whom he spent a lot of time.
he had no grouse against her neither any ulterior motive in identifying the accused who were not acquainted to him.
merely because he has been some time in the company of the police at the police station his testimony can not be discarded as untrue.
the incident occurred within the four walls of the house of the accused shashi tripathi and the only witness was the boy anil.
it is not possible for us to accept this contention.
the learned counsel for the appellants relied upon the judgment of this court in budhsen and anr.
state of u p 1970 2 scc 128 1970 indlaw sc 136 where this court made the following observations 7 now facts which establish the identity of an accused person are relevant u s 9 of the indian evidence act.
identification proceedings in their legal effect amount simply to this that certain persons are brought to jail or some other place and make statements either express or implied that certain individuals whom they point out are persons whom they recognise as having been concerned in the crime.
it is for this reason that the identification parades in this case seem to have been held under the supervision of a magistrate.
in the present case the child witness has been found to be reliable.
he became the unfortunate witness of a gruesome murder and fearlessly identified the accused in court.
state of u p 1987 3 scc 331 1987 indlaw sc 28887and mohd abdul hafeez vs.
suffice it to say that those cases do not create any doubt as regards the conviction in this case.
he did not even act as a guard because when the witness anil kumar pw 21 came to the house he was not even stopped by the accused from entering the house.
the learned counsel for mahesh accused no 3 relied on several decisions of this court in suresh sakharam nangare vs.
state of m p 2012.
9 scc 696 2012 indlaw sc 343.
he was merely seen by the witness as standing outside the house when the witness came home.
mahesh did not even act as a guard he did not prevent anil kumar pw 21 from entering the house.
no weapon was seized from him nor was any property connected with the crime seized.
his bail bonds stand cancelled and sureties are discharged.
appeals disposed of.
