additionally madan and rakesh attacked the complainant with lathi blows on shoulder and left elbow respectively and caused several other injuries to the complainant party.
jagdish and his injured sons raised alarm hearing which rajesh and usha came to rescue them and on seeing them the accused persons fled away.
injured sukhbir was vomiting in the hospital and later on he was referred to general hospital gurgaon as his condition deteriorated.
a ct scan disclosed that large extra dural haematoma was found in the frontal region with mass effect and sukhbir needed urgent surgery and he was operated upon and the large extra dural haematoma was removed.
dr pardeep kumar pw 2 also examined the other injured persons pw 5 jagdish and pw.
6 mange ram.
pw 8 ramesh kumar asi had taken up the investigation.
he examined the witnesses and after completion of investigation challan was filed under sections 307 325 324 read with section 34 ipc.
in the trial court prosecution examined nine witnesses including jagdish pw5 mange ram pw6 and dr prem kumar pw2 and dr hiiol kanti pal pw9.
neuro surgeon pw8 investigating officer and other witnesses.
p c about the incriminating evidence and circumstances.
first accused jage ram pleaded that on the date of occurrence complainant party jagdish and his sons mange ram and sukhbir forcibly trespassed into the land belonging to the accused and attempted to forcibly cut the pullas.
jagdish further claims that he along with rakesh caused injuries to the complainant party in exercise of right of private defence of property.
he has denied that rajesh and usha had seen the incident.
both the sentences were ordered to run concurrently.
ms vibha datta makhija learned senior counsel appearing for the appellants contended that the evidence of the witnesses suffers from material discrepancy and is self contradictory.
it was submitted that injured witness sukhbir was not examined in the court and neither ct scan nor x ray nor operational notes of sukhbir were produced before the court and in the absence of such material evidence courts below erred in convicting the second accused section.
additionally the learned counsel contended that the defence plea of private defence was not considered by the courts below in proper perspective.
per contra learned counsel appearing for the respondent state contended that the evidence of all the witnesses satisfactorily establishes the overt act of the accused persons and jagdish pw 5 and mange ram pw 6 being the injured witnesses the veracity of these witnesses can not be doubted.
in the wordy altercation second accused rajbir.
raju gave pharsi blows on the head of sukhbir.
raju attacked on the head of sukhbir with pharsi.
evidence of pws 5 and 6 is amply corroborated by medical evidence.
pws 5 and 6 being injured witnesses their evidence is entitled to great weight.
cogent and convincing grounds are required to discard the evidence of injured witnesses.
in the light of the fact that pws 5 and 6 were injured witnesses courts below tested their evidence for its credibility and recorded concurrent findings that pws 5 and 6 are trustworthy witnesses.
appellants have raised the contention that the prosecution failed to adduce evidence that a 2 rajbir attempted to commit murder of sukhbir.
dr pardeep kumar pw 2 who examined sukhbir found during his medico legal examination a lacerated wound in the middle of the top of the skull.
injured sukhkbir was found vomiting in the hospital and he was examined by a neuro surgeon dr hilol kanti pal pw 9 of safdarjung hospital delhi on 19 11 1994 i e the day after the incident.
further pw 9 has stated that during the ct scan it was revealed that a large extra dural haemotoma was present in the frontal region with mass effect and to avoid further deterioration of his condition he was operated upon by frontal trephine craniopmy an haemotoma measuring about 125 ml was evacuated.
as noted by the high court it is thus brought on evidence that had not surgical assistance been given to sukhbir he would have definitely died.
although the nature of injury actually caused may be of assistance in coming to a finding as to the intention of the accused such intention may also be adduced from other circumstances.
it is sufficient to justify a conviction section 307 if there is present an intent coupled with some overt act in execution thereof.
having regard to the weapon used for causing the head injuries to sukhbir nature of injures situs of the injury and the severity of the blows courts below recorded concurrent findings convicting the 2nd appellant section in our considered view the conviction of the second appellant rajbir.
307 ipc is unassailable.
learned counsel for the appellants contended that the second appellant is in custody for more than three years and since the occurrence was in the year 1994 prayed for reduction of the sentence imposed on the second appellant to the period already undergone.
for the conviction section 307 ipc courts below imposed upon the 2nd appellant rigorous imprisonment of five years while imposing punishment courts have an obligation to award appropriate punishment.
he surrendered on 5 1 2012 and is stated to be in custody since then for more than three years.
having regard to the facts and circumstances of the case in our considered view the period of sentence of five years may be reduced to three years apart from directing the second appellant rajbir.
learned counsel for the injured witness submitted that for quite some time injured sukhbir was unconscious and thereafter suffering from mental trauma.
a 3 and a 4 have also given lathis blows to pw 5 and were convicted section 323 ipc and sentenced to undergo rigorous imprisonment for three months by the high court.
the appeal is allowed to the above said extent.
appeal allowed.
