three civil appeals stemming from three revision petitions to the high court of orissa under the orissa estates abolition act 1951 orissa act i of 1952 for short the act have reached this court thanks to special leave granted to the appellant who is common in all the cases.
the high court after deciding various issues remanded the cases to the compensation officer under the act after over ruling most of the contentions pressed before it by the appellant.
shri achutananda purohit appellant was the intermediary in respect of vast forests and other lands comprised in the estate of jujumura in the district of sambalpur.
the appellant has received around rs 300000 but much more according to him is due and this controversy can be settled by examining his specific points.
shri purohit appellant is an advocate by profession and is 83 years old.
the compensation officer passed an order adverse to the appellant where upon he filed an appeal to the collector which was rejected.
a second appeal followed before the board of revenue which was dismissed.
later revision petition were filed before the high court and g k misra j set aside the order disallowing the inclusion of the income from forests for ascertainment of compensation and directed a remand to the compensation officer.
the appraisement can be scientifically done by looking to the age of the trees as they stand now.
besides the evidence already on record would be taken into consideration.
the compensation officer accepted the report of the chief conservator and made the statutory calculation on that date.
this estate vested in the state on april 1 1960 by force of the act and the crucial question agitated before us consequentially turns on the quantum of compensation awardable under chapter v of the act.
we are directly concerned with the issue of compensation which is dealt with as earlier stated in chapter v of the act.
the meat of the matter the primary question agitated in the appeal lopping off the fringe issues of lesser import consists in the statutory methodology and functionaries prescribed by the act for quantifying the compensation and the compliance therewith by the statutory machinery in the case of the appellant.
he has argued in person and with passion.
while his arguments did not impress us we were touched by his concluding words that he had been born and had grown in an adivasi village in the only brahmin family and in his evening years of life proposed to give a substantial part of the compensation the state would give him for adivasi welfare.
a similar principle applies to the award of interest which may sometimes be notional when feudal interests are puffed out.
we can not import the notion of prevailing bank rates in such situations.
the dynamic rule of law with a social mission makes a meaningful distinction between rights steeped in the old system and compensation for deprivation of those interests on the one hand and the ordinary commercial transactions or regulation of rights untinged by social transformation urges on the other.
this gives rationality to the seeming disparity.
so it was laid down in the time of henry iv.
moreover the high court has rightly pointed out that the validity of section 373 of the act which fixes a small rate of interest on the compensation amount has been upheld by the supreme court in gajapati narayan 's case.
it is more or less a world phenomenon that the erosi on in value of the unit of currency has been taking place but this invisible devaluation owing to the inflationary spiral does not affect the quantum of monetary compensation prescribed by statute.
moreover article 31a repels the applicability of articles 14 19 and 31 to the acquisition by the state of any estate or of any rights therein etc.
here again the flaw in the submission consists in mis reading section 27 of the act which expressly states that the net income from an estate shall be computed by deducting from the gross assets of such estate any sum which was payable by the intermediary as income tax in respect of any income derived from such estate for the previous agricultural year.
the statutory scheme of compensation for forest lands consists of machinery for assessment of the net income which is multiplied on a sliding scale and the method of challenge to the determination by the aggrieved owner of state.
so the first step is for the government to appoint forest officers from out of d f os in the forest department for the purposes of the act.
indeed preliminary to the appraisal operation the intermediary receives a notice in form 'd rule 13 and he is expected to furnish a return of the relevant particulars and supporting information to enable correct appraisement.
therefore there is no substance in the functus officio argument.
technicality can be frightened away by technicality.
nor can the compensation officer by pass the chief conservator on the misunderstood strength of the high court 's first order of remand.
the true legal drill is.
this will among other things save time.
there are a few other s s in chapter vi which deal with payment of compensation.
the policy of the law of agrarian reform postulates the extinguishment of ancient privileges and cornering of land resources and the socioeconomic yardstick is different from what applies to ordinary purchases of real estate and this is manifest in the special provisions contained in article 31a and article 31b of the constitution.
the argument is that for certain reasons the appellant could not derive and actual income from the forests taken over by the state from him and therefore there was no income tax payable on any agricultural income from these forests.
the contention is that therefore in arriving at the next income the deduction of income tax is not permissible.
we are in agreement with the course adopted by the high court and the reasoning which has prevailed with it.
the direction given by the learned judge in the remand order is correct although it may require a little clarification.
the force of these observations constrains us to direct that the proceedings before the compensation officer shall be completed within six months from today.
with these directions and observations we affirm the orders under appeal but while dismissing the appeals direct the parties to bear their costs in this court.
