this appeal by special leave which is directed against the judgment and order dated april 241974 of the letters patent bench of the high court of judicature at madras reversing the judgment and order dated april 191971 of the single judge of that court passed in writ petition no 3822 of 1969 presented u art 226 of the constitution raises a complex but an interesting question relating to the construction of the phrases maternity benefit for the period of her actual absence immediately preceding and including the day of her delivery and for the six weeks immediately following that day occurring in s 51 of the maternity benefits act1961.
act liii of 1961 hereinafter referred to as the act which in view of s 21 of the act is the law applicable even to women workers employed in plantations.
as her demand did not evoke a favourable response the respondent applied to the labour court coimbatore under section 33c2 of the industrial disputes act for redress of her grievance.
we have heard mr pai learned counsel for the appellant as also mr bhatt who in view of the default in appearance of respondent no 2 and the importance of the point involved in the case was appointed as amicus cruaie.
we place on record our deep appreciation of the valuable assistance rendered to us by both of them.
in support of his contention.
mr pai has referred us to the full bench decision of the kerala high court in malayalam plantations ltd.
i c 848  a i r 1975.
for a proper determination of the question involved in the appeal it would we think be useful to refer to certain provisions of the act which have a bearing on the subject matter of the controversy before us.
the provisions of s 5 of the act quoted above make it clear that a woman worker who expects a child is entitled to maternity benefit for a maximum period of twelve weeks which is split up into two periods viz prenatal and post natal.
it has next to be ascertained as to what were the cash wages paid or payable to her in terms of the definition contained in s 3 n of the act for the days on which she worked during the period of three calendar months immediately preceding the date of delivery reckoned according to the british calendar month.
after thus finding out the average daily wage the liability of the employer in respect of the maternity benefit has to be calculated in terms of s 5 of the act for both ore natal and post natal period indicated above.
in the shorter oxford english dictionary third editionthe word week has been described as meaning the cycle of seven days recognized in the calendar of the jews and thence adopted in the calendars of christian mohammedan and various other peoples.
seven days as a term for periodical payments of wagerrent or the likeor as a unit of reckoning for time of work or service.
a week according to halsbury 's laws of england.
third edi tion volume 37 at p 84 is strictly the time between midnight on saturday and the same hour on the next succeeding saturday but the term is also applied to any period of seven successive days.
weekwe think that in the context of sub ss 1 and 3 of s 5 of the act the term has to be taken to signify a cycle of seven days including sundays.
again the word period occurring in s 51 of the act is a strong word.
it has also to be borne in mind in this connection that in interpreting provisions of beneficial pieces of legislation like the one in hand which is intended to achieve the object of doing social justice to women workers employed in the plantations and which squarely fall within the purview of art 42 of the constitution the beneficent rule of construction which would enable the woman worker not only to subsist but also to make up her dissipated energy nurse her child preserve her efficiency as a worker and maintain the level of her previous efficiency and output has to be adopted by the court.
s 21 of the act makes the act applicable to every establishment being a factory mine or plantation including any such establishment belonging to government and to every establishment wherein persons are employed for the exhibition of equastrain acrobatic and other performance.
sub s 2 of s 2 of the act specifically excludes the applicability of the provisions of the act to any factory or other establishment to which the provisions of the employees state insurance act1948 apply for the time being s 3n of the act defines wages as under 3n   wages means all remuneration paid or payable in cash to a woman if the terms of the contract of employment express or implied were fulfilled and includes 1 such cash allowances including dearness allowance and house rent allowance as a woman is for the time being entitled to.
2 incentive bonus and 3 the money value of the concessional supply of food grains and other articles but does not include.
i any bonus other than incentive bonus ii over time earnings and any deduction or payment on account of fines iii any contribution paid or payable by the employer to any pension fund or provident fund or for the benefit of the woman under any law for the time being in force and iv any gratuity payable on the termination of service.
s 5 of the act which confers right to payment of maternity benefit on a woman worker provisions.
s 6 of the act which deals with notice of claim for maternity benefit and payment thereof is to the following effect 6 notice of claim for maternity benefit and payment thereof.
according to the explanation appended to s 51 of the act the average daily wage has to be computed taking into consideration the average of the woman 's wager payable to her for the days on which she has worked during the period of three calendar months immediately preceding the date from which she absents herself on account of maternity or one rupee a day whichever is higher.
the interpretation placed by us on the phraseology of sub ss 1 and 3 of s 5 of the act appears to us to be in conformity not only with the legislative intendment but also with paragraphs 1 and 2 of art 4 of convention no 103 concerning maternity protection convention.
revised1952 adopted by the general conference of the international labour organisation which are extracted below for facility of reference art 4.
2 the rates of cash benefit shall be fixed by national laws or regulations so as to ensure benefit sufficient for the full and healthy maintenance of herself and her child in according with a suitable standard of living.
the real though difficult question that calls for determination by us is as to what is the connotation of the term week occurring in sub ss 1 and 3 of s 5 of the act and whether the computation of the maternity benefit prescribed by the act for the a foresaid two periods has to be made taking a week as signifying a cycle of seven days including a sunday or a cycle of seven days minus a sunday which is said to be a wageless day as the act does not contain any definition of the word weekit has to be understood in its ordinary dictionary sense.
thus we are of opinion that computation of maternity benefit has to be made for all the days including sundays and rest days which may be wageless holidays comprised in the actual period of absence of the woman extending upto six weeks preceding and including the day of delivery as also for all the days falling within the six weeks immediately following the day of delivery thereby ensuring that the woman worker gets for the said period not only the amount equalling 100 per cent of the wages which she was previously earning in terms of s 3 n of the act but also the benefit of the wages for all the sundays and rest days falling within the aforesaid two periods which would ultimately be conducive to the interests of both the woman worker and her employer.
in the result the appeal fails and is hereby dismissed.
although costs have to be paid by appellant to respondent no 2 in terms of the court 's order dated october 301975yet in view of the fact that the said respondent has not chosen to appear at the hearing of the case and mr k n bhat has assisted the court as amicus curiae we direct the appellant to pay rs 1000 to mr bhat as his fee.
