this appeal is directed against the judgment and order of the high court of gujarat dated 28 2 1986 allowing the respondent 's writ petition and quashing order of discharge from service and directing his reinstatement in service.
the respondent joined service as technical assistant with the gujarat state electricity board hereinafter refined to as the board he was promoted to the post of deputy engineer.
while he was posted at surat as deputy engineer he was transferred to ukai subdivision under the order of the superintending engineer dated 29th march1974 pursuant to the order of transfer he was relieved from his duties at surat on 30th march1974 to enable him to join at ukai.
he made representation to the additional chief engineer for cancelling his transfer order on the ground that his mother aged 70 years was ailing and it would cause great inconvenience to him if he was required to join at ukai.
his representation was rejected and he was directed to join at ukai but he did not do so instead he filed a civil suit at baroda challenging validity of the order of transfer.
meanwhile the chief engineer by his order dated 27th may1974 discharged the respondent from service with effect from 31st march1974 in accordance with service regulation no 113 the respondent challenged the validity of the order of his discharge from service by means of a writ petition under article 226 of the constitution before the high court of gujarat.
a learned single judge of the high court quashed the order of termination on the findings that the order of discharge was issued m violation of the basic principles of natural justice as no opportunity was afforded to the respondent before discharging him from services under regulation no 113.
the learned single judge granted a declaration in respondent 's favour holding the order void and illegal but having regard to recalcitrant attitude of the appellant and his continued conduct of disobedience of the orders of his superior authorities he refused to grant consequential reliefs regarding reinstatement or payment of back wages.
this appeal came up for hearing before us on 28th january1988 and on that day.
sh b k mehta advocate appearing for the appellants and sh.
the hearing was adjourned to enable sh.
vimal dave to obtain instructions from the respondent.
the appeal came up for hearing before us on 16 2 1988 when another counsel appeared to argue the appeal on behalf of the respondent on merits.
chief engineer who discharged the respondent 's services exercised his power under service regulation no 113which runs as under 113 the continued absence from duty or overstay m spite of warning to return to duty shall render the employee liable to summarily discharge from service without the necessity of proceedings under the gujarat electricity board conduct discipline and appeal procedure.
march 301974 to may 271974.
no 113 the letter is as under gujarat electricity board o m division nana varchha road surat.
to shri a s pohani junior engineer ukai 37gurunagar society near jakat naka surat 3.
sub transfer from surat to ukai.
you have been relieved on 30 3 1974 a n on account of your transfer from surat to ukai but you have not reported to ukai till today and remained on unauthorised absence on relief which is breach of s r no 112 and 113 please submit your explanation as to why action should not be taken against you for disobeying order of superior and breach of s r no 112 and 113 within 7 days from receipt of this letter.
i ve engineer o m surat copy f w c s to.
thereupon the respondent himself appeared in person and sought permission to make his submissions personally.
thereafter the case was listed several times but no written submissions were filed instead the respondent adopted an unusual course by sending an application by post expressing his no confidence in us with a prayer to transfer the case to some other bench.
no government servant or employee of public undertaking has legal tight for being posted at any particular place.
transfer from one place to other is generally a condition of service and the employee has no choice in the matter.
transfer from one place to other is necessary in public interest and efficiency in the public administration.
there is no dispute that the respondent received the aforesaid letter as he sent a reply to the superintending engineer on april 201974a copy of which was annexed as annexure j by the petitioner to his petition before the high court.
the sequence of events and the correspondence which ensued between the officers of the board and the respondent clearly show that the respondent disobeyed the order of transfer and he remained absent from duty in an unauthorised manner without obtaining sanction of leave.
the aforesaid documents leave no room for any doubt that the respondent was reminded of his failure to join his duties at ukai and he was further reminded that his unauthorised absence had exposed him to disciplinary action.
a warning need not be in any particular form.
the object and purpose of the warning as contemplated by the regulation is to remind the delinquent employee that his continued unauthorised absence from duties was liable to result in discharge of his service.
apart from denying the postal endorsement the respondent placed no material before the court in support of his pleading.
the burden to rebut the presumption lies on the party challenging the factum of service.
in view of the above discussion we therefore hold that the respondent 's failure to join his duties at ukai resulted in unauthorised absence and his failure to join his duties in spite of the repeated reminders and letters issued to him constituted sufficient valid ground for taking action under regulation no 113 we further hold that before issuing the order of discharge the respondent was not only warned but he was also afforded an opportunity to explain as to why disciplinary action should not be taken against him.
we accordingly allow the appeal set aside the order of the single judge as well as division bench and dismiss the respondent 's petition.
there would be no order as to costs.
the respondent has been paid a sum of rs 104170 towards salary under the interim orders of this court.
now since the order of discharge is held to be valid the amount paid to the respondent is liable to be recovered from him but having regard to the facts and circumstances of the case and the hardship which could be caused to the respondent we direct the appellant not to recover the amount already paid to the respondent.
