the order of the court was as follows.
by order dated october 71993 passed by the constitution bench three questions were referred for consideration by a larger bench.
in pursuance of the said order this bench has been constituted.
for admission in the last academic session 1993 94an interim order in the following terms was made by a bench comprising honourable the chief justice and one of us justice b p jeevan reddy on may 141993 in writ petition nos 350 and 355 of 1993.
we have heard shri soli j sorabjee learned senior counsel for the petitioners in these two writ petitions.
there will be an interim order in the following terms i fifty per cent of the total intake in the petitioners educational institutions shall be permitted to be filled up by candidates selected by the agencies of the state government on the basis of a competitive examination test.
the candidates so selected and admitted shall pay scales of fee as applicable to this class of students as determined by the state government from time to time.
it is optional for the petitioners to adopt any one of these three modes and apply it uniformally.
candidates so selected on the basis of merit amongst the minorities shall however abide by such condition in the matter of payment of tuition and other fee as may be permitted by the state government.
minority educational institutions which are in receipt of state funds by way of aid3 minority educational institutions in respect of which it is not clear from the averments in the writ petitions whether they are aided or unaided institutions4.
writ petitions challenging the correctness and applicability of unni krishnan filed by educational institutions which do not claim to be minority educational institutions5 writ petitions which do not fall in any of the above categories.
we do not more particularly at this stage make any pronouncement in that behalf.
this order shall be shahal h musaliar v state of kerala1993 4 scc.
in other words out of the 50 seats to be filled up by government half will be payment seats and half will be free seats.
such statements shall contain as full a particulars as possible.
they shall also bring any such violation to the notice of this court by way of any interlocutory application.
any such irregularity if proved may entail serious consequences.
this information should be furnished to the competent authority to the university to which the said colleges are affiliated and to the secretary education department government of karnataka tamil nadu.
it is made clear that any violation of the directions given herein by the petitioners shall entail serious consequences inasmuch as the above orders are made based upon their representations and even before a counter affidavit has been filed by the respective respondents in view of the urgency expressed by them.
i e 1993with the direction that the basis of the said selection would be as indicated in order dated may 1419934 on the basis of merit leaving to the management of the college t m a pai foundation v state of karnataka1993.
under this system the colleges were allowed to admit students of their own choice to the extent of 15.
in respect of the seats which are left for management to fill in its discretion merit shall be the guiding principle.
later when raj narayan singh and others filed writ petition civil no 641 of 1991this court on june 61991 directed to convert the writ petition as a contempt case for non implementation of the direction issued in k c joshi case which was numbered as contempt petition no 164 of 1971 when.
231991this court observed thus we are told by the counsel for the state of u p that for the purpose of working out the seniority draft list has been prepared and was in circulation inviting objections.
in these matters relating to admission to professional courses in medicine engineering pharmacy nursing etc in educational institutions which are claimed to be minority educational institutions the petitioners have questioned the applicability of the scheme framed by this court in j p unni krishnan v state of a p 1993.
1 scc 645 1993 indlaw sc 1056.
i as well as the applicability of the rules and orders made by several state governments on the basis of the said decision.
the claim of being a minority whether based on religion or language and the claim of being a minority educational institution put forward by the petitioners can not be pronounced upon without first ascertaining what the said expressions connote and signify.
having regard to the importance of the questions involved we consider it appropriate to issue notice to the attorney general of india as well as the advocates general for the states.
it would therefore not be feasible to take up the hearing of these matters before the court closes for the long vacation.
in the absence of such list they can themselves devise the method for such selection.
we make it clear that regarding the character of these institutions whether they are minority educational institutions we express no opinion.
that is a matter between the institutions and the government of kerala.
written submissions in brief should be submitted by learned counsel by july 131994.
the contempt petition nos 65100 and 126 of 1992 arise out of the judgment of this court in keshav chandra joshi v union of india 1990 indlaw sc 270 in which this court had directed to determine inter se seniority of the direct recruits and promotee asstt.
conservators forest working in the forest department.
we are informed that till date no appointments in terms thereof have been made.
all the employees are entitled to all consequential benefits.
in the rejoinder the promotees have stated that as on december 311974 a total number of 140 posts of asstt.
therefore as on march ii1985the total posts available were.
thereby the action of the state is in defiance of the direction issued by this court.
there is no rota prescribed in the rules.
it is a policy matter.
these directions would meet the exigencies.
in k c joshi case it was concluded that the promotees were appointed on ad hoc basis as a stop gap arrangement in 7ubstantive posts.
their appointments were dehors the rules.
until they are appointed by the governor according to the rules they do not become the members of the service in a substantive capacity.
their continuous length of ad hoc service from the date of their initial appointment can not be counted towards seniority.
the direct recruits were appointed in accordance with rule 5a read with appendix a of u p forest service rules1952 for short the rules.
shri r k garg for the promotees contended that as on august 311982 selection of the promotees on regular basis to fill up the posts of asstt.
conservator forest for the years 1973 74 to 1979 80 had taken place by a regularly constituted selection committee which selected 140 candidates for appointment.
therefore they are entitled to the seniority from the respective years.
conservators forest as they were initially appointed to the substantive vacancies.
shri verma appearing for some of the later direct recruits contended that the direct recruits were appointed to the substantive vacancies as held in k c joshi case and their seniority was fixed in the judgment from the date on which they started discharging the duties of the post as asstt.
treating them to be temporary as shown in the seniority list prepared by the state is in utter contempt of the directions in joshi case1.
the permanent posts are 102 and temporary posts are 173 and the total would come to 275 as per rules 5 and 24 only permanent posts should be counted as substantive posts and temporary posts can not be counted for fixation of the seniority.
it is further contended that though decision was taken to give 50 per cent quota to the promotees the statutory rules have not been made.
therefore they are entitled to only 33 13 per cent quota.
in the light of the respective contentions the question arises whether the determination of the seniority is in accordance with the directions issued by this court.
in the light of the background scenario we can not strictly take it to be a case of contempt but in working out the directions issued by this court the state government committed a mistake in law.
we have to consider therefore whether the procedure adopted by the sate to determine the inter se seniority is in accordance with the rules and the law laid down in k c joshi case.
it would be open to the state government to fix tentatively the inter se seniority in the temporary posts according to the ratio between the direct recruits and the promotees in the same manner of filling the substantive posts as indicated above.
as and when the temporary posts are converted either into permanent posts or the vacancies arise due to superannuation of the senior officers they should be fixed in the respective vacancies and fitment made.
after exhausting the exercise the remaining candidates awaiting appointment would continue to be temporary until they get due placement or fixation of their seniority.
the state government is directed to undertake fresh exercise in the light of the above directions and complete the same within a period of four months from the date of the receipt of the order.
the contempt petitions are accordingly disposed of.
