twelve accused persons were tried for offences under section 302307149324147148 and section 3 of terrorist and disruptive activites.
prevention act1987 hereinafter referred to as tada by the learned designated judge pune.
out of the said twelve accused6 accused were acquitted of all the charges while the five appellants herein namely bonkya alias bharat shivaji mane a 5mandu baliba dombe a 8ashok baloba dombe a 9ranjar bhausaheb dombe a 10 and kaka alias pandurang baloba dombe a 11 were convicted for offences under section 302307149 ipc and section 3 of tada and sentenced to suffer life imprisonment and to pay a fine of rs 5000 each for the offence under section 302149 ipc.
10 years ri and a fine of rs 5000 each for the offence under section 307149 ipc 2 years ri for the offence under section 324149 ipc and life imprisonment and fine of rs 5000 each for the offence under section 3 of tada in default of payment of fine on each of the counts the appellants were to undergo further ri for two years each.
the substantive sentences of imprisonment were however directed to run concurrently.
one accused died during the pendency of the trial.
for the sake of convenience the accused shall be referred to hereinafter by the number assigned to them in the trial court judgment as accused i e a 5a 8a 10 etc.
according to the prosecution case on 11th august1990 at about 3 00 p m anna shety band patte mukesh ramesh and prakash band patte had gone to the vrindavan video parlour for watching a movie.
the accused a 6a 10 and a 11 alongwith one other person were also present at the video parlour.
there was an altercation between the accused and the complainant party when the leg of kaka dombe a 11 dashed against the leg of anna shety band patte.
the complainant party went towards jagdamba hotel owned by waman band patte pw at that time baban karpe bajrang band patte sanjay mane ramesh pawar were also present near the hotel.
at about 4 00 p m the appellants and other accused persons allegedly armed with swords satturs and sticks arrived there in two auto rickshaws and one jeep.
on the arrival of accused party anna shetty ran away.
it is alleged that a 5a 10 and a 11 assaulted popat deceased with the swords on his head and thighs and when baban tried to intervene he was also assaulted and he received a blow with the sattur near his knee.
while receiving the treatment popat succumbed to his injuries.
on receipt of information asstt.
police inspector joshi arrived at the hospital and baban karpe pw 9 narrated the occurrence to him which was reduced into writing.
on the basis of the said report an fir for offences under section 302307149147148 ipc was registered vide cr no 101 of 1990 at about 6 00 p m the inquest on the dead body of popat was conducted and the body was sent for post mortem examination.
an auto rickshaw bearing registration no mwq 5624 belonging to manik bhende gavali was found abandoned in a damaged condition with broken glasses.
it was also taken into possession vide a panchnama.
they were subsequently arrested on different dates.
on a disclosure statement made by a 11 before the police and the panches under section 27 of the evidence act and on his pointing out a sword was recovered from the field at korti where it lay buried.
samples of blood of the accused were collected for ascertaining their blood groups and sent for chemical analysis.
after completion of the investigation two charge sheets arising out of crime no 10190 and crime no 10290 were filed before the designated court.
public prosecutor through an application ex.
p 35requested the court for holding trial in respect of both the chargesheets together which application was allowed by the designated court vide order dated 5 december 1992 and that is how both the cases were tried together by virtue of the provisions of section 220 1 cr.
p c as the series of acts in both the cases were so inter connected as to form one transaction.
pw 9 was examined by dr khiste pw 22 who noticed the following two injuries on his person 1 transverse superficial incised wound 10x12 cm on posterior of left knee in popliteal.
2 abraded contusion below right knee and front of right leg5 x 5 cm.
transverse lacerated would on occipital region3 x 1 cm.
2 multiple abraded contusion all over the back.
the trial court for the purposes of consideration of the evidence divided the prosecution case into three parts namely i the incident at vrindavan video parlour ii incident near jagdamba hotel and iii the incident at the math.
to connect the accused with the incidents near the jagdamba hotel and the math the prosecution has examined pw3pw4pw9pw10pw11pw12pw13 and pw14 besides pw7pw20 and pw21 the last three witnesses however turned hostile at the trial and were cross examined by the addl.
public prosecutor with the permission of the court.
these are thus the stamped witnesses whose presence admits of no doubt and being themselves the victims they would not leave out the real assailants and substitute them with innocent persons.
an identification parade had been held by shri shrikant chimanaji jahagirdar pw 32executive magistrate.
through this appeal under section 19 of tada the appellants have called in question their conviction and sentence.
baloba a 1 died during the pendency of the trial and therefore the proceedings against him abated.
the plea of the remaining accused in their statements under section 313 cr.
p c was one of total denial and false implication.
a 4 alleged false implication at the instance of pw 15 waman while a 8 alleged false implication at the hands of the police with a view to pressurise him to withdraw a complaint concerning the murder of his brother and 5 others allegedly committed by the police.
learned counsel submitted that the appellants should not be denied the opportunity to get the first hearing in the high court because in the event of their failure in the high court they still have a chance to approach this court under article 136 of the constitution of india.
pw 22we find that the deceased had four incised injuries which had caused extensive damage to his internal organs also.
according to pw 22the internal injuries on the deceased were a result of the following external injuries 1 incised wound transverse on left groin at centre medial to left public symphysis and left superior iliac crest all muscles vessels cut both femoral vessels vein artery cut dimension 4 x 2 x 5 cms.
transverse incised wound on right parital region bone deep4 x 2 x 1 cms.
3 verticle incised wound 5 x 1 x 1 cms.
bone deep at centre of vertex fracture of skull with laceration of brain.
pw 22 opined that these injuries individually as well as collectively were sufficient in the ordinary course of nature to cause death.
his testimony receives ample corroboration from the testimony of pw10pw11pw14 and pw15 waman the proprietor of jagdamba hotel besides the medical evidence.
their evidence establishes the manner in which the assault originated as well as the role played by each one of them.
there is no basis for such an assumption.
prosecution has led no evidence in that behalf either.
it appears to be a mere coincidence that pw9pw14 and the deceased all belong to the wadar community.
by no stretch of imagination.
prosecution has led no evidence nor brought any circumstances on the record from which any inference may be drawn that the appellants intended to strike terror amongst the wadar community.
he shall be released from custody forthwith if not required in any other case.
a bare perusal of the above section shows that an appeal against the judgment sentence or order of the designated court except an interlocutory order shall lie on facts and on law to the supreme court and that no appeal or revision shall lie to any other court.
under section 12 of tada the designated court has the jurisdiction not only to try the cases under tada but also to try offences under the indian penal code if the offence under tada is connected with such other offences.
the amplitude of powers available to this court under article 142 of the constitution of india is normally speaking not conditioned by any statutory provision but it can not be lost sight of that this court exercises jurisdiction under article 142 of the constitution with a view to do justice between the parties but not in disregard of the relevant statutory provisions.
in hitendra vishnu thakur and others vs.
and others 1994 4 scc602.
1994 indlaw sc 1706 this court opined that the criminal activity in order to invoke tada must be committed with the requisite intention as contemplated by section 31 of the act by use of such weapons as have been enumerated therein and which cause or are likely to result in the commission of offences as mentioned in that section.
the argument is fallacious and runs in the teeth of the express provisions of section 19 of tada.
section 19 1 and 2 of tada read as follows.
the submission of the learned counsel is thus devoid of merits and is consequently rejected.
