the appellant is a trust which wanted to establish a self financing engineering college and submitted an application during 1994 95 to the university of kerala as well as to all india council for technical education hereinafter called the aicte.
there was an inspection by a team of professors of the university and it recommended favourably when it stated that the facilities provided by the appellant would be sufficient for establish ing an engineering college.
the abovesaid approval was subject to the fulfilment of specific conditions mentioned in annexure i and the general conditions mentioned in annexure ii to the said letter.
in the event of contravention of the conditions guidelines norms and regula tions of the aicte the aicte could withdraw the approval at any time.
under the impression that the state govt was to grant permission the appellant requested the state government by letter dated 24 6 1995 for permission to start the college.
in inviting your attention to the reference cited i am to inform you that government regret their inability to comply with your request.
the government was also directed to reconsider its decision.
against the said judgment of the learned single judge the commis sioner and secretary of the government higher education department filed writ appeal no 1024 of 1997 the division bench of the high court allowed the appeal and set aside the order of the government and dismissed the writ petition.
the division bench however observed that the appellant was at liberty to make a fresh application to the government of kerala for according sanction for setting up the engineering college or to request the government to consider the earlier application for a future academic year.
state government was directed by the aicte to announce admission in accordance with regulation notified on 20 5 94 and based on the judgment of the supreme court in unnikrishnan v state of andhra pradesh1993 1 scc.
no reasons were assigned in the said letter.
the all india council for technical education and the mahatma gandhi university have sought for the remarks of the state government.
learned senior counsel for the appellant.
in so far as institutions imparting technical education were concerned the university or the state government had no independent role to play except to the extent provided in the above said enactment in the present case the aicte had made inspections and was satisfied that the necessary infrastructure was available and that the appellant would be able to conform to the required standards of the education.
the aicte had consulted the state of kerala as well as the mahatama gandhi university.
the university had granted conditional approval as stated earlier.
therefore the aicte consti tuted a task force and obtained its opinion and thereafter granted its approval on 13 11 1995 subject to various conditions.
sri t l viswanatha iyer also contended that though the state government stated in its counter affidavit filed in the high court that the policy of the government was not to grant approval to self financing engineering colleges to be established such a policy could not come in the way of the appellant in view of what this court has stated in similar circumstances in thirumuruga kirupan variyar thavathiru sundara swamigal medical education charitable trust v state of tamil nadu others1996 3 scc 15 1996 indlaw sc 858.
on the other hand learned additional solicitor general sri mukul rohtagi contended on behalf of the state of kerala that the policy of the state of kerala at the relevant time was not to grant approval for establish ment of more engineering colleges in the state.
the government had clarified in the counter affidavit filed in the high court that the government was not in a position to take a decision to start new engineering colleges without properly assessing the necessity of more engineering graduates from the state and without exploring the possibility of employment opportunities in the country as a whole.
also there were four engineering colleges at kannur trichur kottayam and thiruvananthapuram districts and three private aided engineering colleges at palakkad ernakulam kothamangalam and kollam districts.
the model engineering college emakulam was a selffinancing engineering college and others were the colleges at changannur and pathansamthitta and there was a self financing engineering college at kasargode.
there were also two unaided engineering colleges at mallappuram and thiruvananthapuram.
even though the appellant trust was not seeking aid from the government and even assuming that it was financially self sufficient it would not be in the interests of the students employment to permit new engineering colleges to be established.
thus the government policy was not to grant fresh approvals.
if more approvals were granted it might lead to commercialisation of education.
othersl995 4 scc 104 1995 indlaw sc 1631.
as stated earlier the above provisions of the aicte act came up for consideration in state of tamil nadu v adhiyaman educational research institute1995 4 scc 104 1995 indlaw sc 1631.
after the constitutional amendment 42 amendment act1976 entry 25 of list iii in the concurrent list.
in thirwnuruga kirupan and variyar thavathiru sundara swamigal medical education charitable trust v state of tamil nadu others1996 3 scc 15 1996 indlaw sc 858which was a case relating to medical education and which also related to the effect of a central law upon a law made by the state under entry 25 list iii it was held that the essentiality certificate can not be withheld by the state government on any policy consideration because the policy in the matter of establishment of a new medical college now vests with the central government alone.
the following points arise for consideration 1.
whether in view of the judgment of this court in state of tamil nadu another v adhiyaman educational research institute others1995 4 scc 104 1995 indlaw sc 1631the provisions of the aicte act1987 occupied the field and it was not necessary to obtain the further approval of the government or other authority.
whether any statute in the state of kerala if it required such approval would be void.
2 whether the orders of rejection passed by the state government were valid on merits and whether the university should have granted further orders to continue the affiliation solely on the basis of the aicte permission.
but in the context of s 10k regarding approval for starting a technical institution certain aspects of the judgment need to be highlighted.
this court then referred to the madras university act1923 it was held that s 10 of the central act dealt with various matters including granting approval for starting new technical institutionsand that so far as these matters were concerned.
the commission was to inspect the site verify the title deeds as regards the proprietary right of the management over the land and buildings if any offered building accommodation provided if any assets of the management constitution of the registered body and all other relevant matters sub cl 2 of cl 9 stated that the affiliation shall depend upon the fulfilment by the management of all the conditions for the satisfactory establishment and maintenance of the proposed institutional courses of studies and on the reports of inspection by the commission or commissions which the university may appoint for the purpose.
the state level committee and the central regional committees contained various experts and state representatives.
factual position and pleadings in this case.
the state government in its counter then gave the names of the existing colleges and their location.
we have already referred to these details.
state government 's refusal to grant permission is illegal and void on merits.
the aicte 's approval dated 30 4 95 showed that the approval had been given by the state level com mittee of which they were obviously members.
in case there was difference between the state government university or the regional committee the central task force was to make a final recommen dation under regulation.
the university was also one of the agencies consulted by the council of the aicte under regulation 8 once that was over and approval was granted by the aicte if there was any default on the part of the college in compliance with the conditions of approval the only remedy for the univer sity was to bring those facts to the notice of the aicte so that the latter could take appropriate action.
the petitioner was not a party in the high court of kerala and this special leave petition was filed with leave of this court.
therefore this special leave petition is dismissed as premature.
u s 10 of the act it is stated that it is the duty of the council constituted under the act to take all steps as the said council might think fit for ensuring coordinated and integrated develop ment of technical education and maintenance of standards.
for the purposes of performing its functions under the act the council may a undertake survey in various fields of technical education collect data on all related matters and make forecast of the needed growth and development in technical education b coordinate the development of technical education in the country at all levels c allocate and disburse out of the fund of the council such grants on such terms and conditions as it may think fit to i technical institutions and ii universities imparting technical education in coordination with the commission d promote innovations research and development in established and new technologies generation adoption and adaptation of new technologies to meet developmental requirements and for overall improve ment of educational processes e formulate schemes for promoting technical education for women handicapped and weaker sections of the society f promote an effective link between technical education system and other relevant systems including research and development organisations industry and the community g evolve suitable performance appraisal systems for technical institutions and universities imparting technical education incorpo rating norms and mechanisms for enforcing accountability h formulate schemes for the initial and in service training of teachers and identify institutions or centres and set up new centres for offering staff development programmes including continuing education of teachers i lay down norms and standards for courses curricula physical and instructional facilities staff pattern staff qualifications quality instructions assessment and examinations j fix norms and guidelines for charging tuition and other fees.
the clause in s 101 which is important in the present case is subcl k of s 101 and it provides that the council might grant approval for starting new technical institutions and for introduction of new courses or programmes in consultation with the agencies concerned.
sub cl 1 permits the council to advice the central government in certain respects sub cl m lay down norms for granting autonomy subcl n to take necessary steps to prevent commercialisation of technical education cl o to provide guidelines for admission of students to technical institutions and universities imparting technical education cl p to inspect or cause inspection to any technical institution cl q to withhold or discontinue grant cl r to strengthen the existing organisa tions etc.
s 11 of the act deals with inspection.
regulations have been framed on 31st october1994 by the aicte in exercise of powers conferred on it by s 231 of the aicte act.
d no approved intake capacity of seats shall be increased or varied except with the approval of the council.
there is a prelimi nary scrutiny of the applications by the bureau rc of the council.
sub cl 4 of regulation 8 reads as follows.
i the state government concerned ii the affiliating university state board of technical education iii bureaus mpcd iv bureau bos v bureau ra vi the regional office.
on the recommendation of the central task force the council shall decide the question of grant of approval as sought for in the application.
in case affiliation is granted the fact shall be reported to the senate at its next meet ing.
thus we hold in the present case that there was no statutory require ment for obtaining the approval of the state government and even if there was one it would have been repugnant to the aicte act.
the appeal is allowed and disposed of as stated above.
there will be no order as to costs.
