the appellant is a company incorporated under the companies act1956 with the object of manufacture and sale of cigarettes.
members of general public are the shareholders and the shares of the company are traded in through various stock exchanges in the country.
he thus rejected the contention.
on that basis the learned single judge granted reliefs sought for by the respondents however imposing certain restrictions with regard to the age being medically fit on the date of the writ petition had put in a minimum of three years of continuous service and such service prior to the attainment of the minimum qualifying age under the company should be ignored.
the division bench referred to their decision in rakesh gupta vs hyderabad stock exchange ltd hyderabad ors.
air 1996 ap 430 1996 indlaw ap.
302that a writ in the nature of mandamus certiorari and prohibition are recognised as public law remedies and are not available to enforce private law rights.
the premises furniture fixture fuel electricity utensils etc have been provided for by the appellant.
the wages of the canteen workers have to be reimbursed by the appellant.
the contractor is nothing but an agent or a manager of the appellant who works completely under the supervision control and directions of the appellant.
w12 and w14 from 1 april 1979 with all consequential and attendant benefits of arrears of pay etc together with counting of entire service for the purpose of terminal benefits.
the canteen is provided in the factory premises of the appellant pursuant to section 46 of the factories act1948 hereinafter referred to as the actwhich obliges a factory employing more than 250 workmen to provide such a canteen.
vst the appellant and benefits arising under the employees provident funds act are also provided similarly that the appellant has also provided a building along with furniture utensils cutlery gas electricity water supply and other facilities that the contractor is engaged only to prepare the food and serve it to the employees and that the quality of the food and the rates are controlled by the management of the appellant.
it was submitted that they do not discharge any public duty and hence the writ can not be issued.
on the merits of the matter the appellant disputed various questions of fact and urged that the decision of this court in parimal chandra raha vs life insurance corporation of india1995 supp 2 scc 611 1995 indlaw sc 183would not be applicable to the appellant in the facts and circumstances of the case.
shri s ganesh learned counsel for the appellant pressed into service the decision of this court in anadi mukta sadguru shree muktajee vandas swami survarna jayanti mahotsav smarak trust ors vs v r rudani ors.
1989 2 scc 691 1989.
indlaw sc 589to contend that mere running of a factory to manufacture and sell of cigarettes can never be considered to be a public duty much less an incident thereto such as providing a canteen to its workmen.
the contesting respondents contended that the workmen in the canteen had been working right from its inception that is since 1967 that from 1976 onwards after expiry of the contract with the industrial catering services they had been directly working with the appellant without any contractor that they sought for regularization of their services by letter dated 28 february 1978 that the said letter was corrected and redrafted by the personnel manager to indicate the idea of floating an association society to run the canteen that this modified request contained in ex.
w 49 was stated to be contradictory to the stand taken by the workmen all through.
the tribunal concluded that there was no doubt that the personnel manager modified ex.
w 50 and obtained ex.
w 49 in the modified form.
a contention is also sought to be made that it is not possible to run a canteen in the refinery area.
it is contended that under the petroleum rules framed under the petroleum act1934there are certain hazardous areas where there can not be a canteen as no fire furnace source of heat or light capable of igniting inflammable vapours shall be allowed except in the firing spaces or stills and boilers.
n anadi muktas case the contention similar to the present case had been raised.
in that case the respondent was managing the affiliated college to which public money is paid as government aid which played a major role in the control maintenance and working of educational institutions.
the aided institutions it was noticed like government institutions discharge public function by way of imparting education to students.
employment in such institutions therefore is not devoid of any public character inasmuch as the service conditions of the academic staff were controlled by the university particularly in regard to their pay scales and the protection by university decisions creating a legal right or duty relationship between the staff and the management.
in de smith woolf and jowells judicial review of administrative action5th edn.
this is because the prisoners for whose custody and care it is responsible are in the prison in consequence of an order of the court and the purpose and nature of their detention is a matter of public concern and interest.
after detailed discussion the learned authors have summarized the position with the following propositions 1 the test of whether a body is performing a public function and is hence amenable to judicial review may not depend upon the source of its power or whether the body is ostensibly a public or a private body.
2 the principles of judicial review prima facie govern the activities of bodies performing public functions.
in such a case the express or implied terms of the agreement should normally govern the matter.
thus where a special method of resolving disputes such as arbitration or resolution by private or domestic tribunals has been agreed by the parties expressly or by necessary implicationthat regime and not judicial review will normally govern the dispute.
the high court has relied very strongly on the decision of a learned single judge in t gattaiahs case wherein it was stated that a writ may lie under article 226 of the constitution against a company incorporated under the companies act1956 as it is permissible to issue a writ against any person.
incidental to that activity there is an obligation under section 46 of the act to set up a canteen when the establishment has more than 250 workmen.
in other words it is only a labour welfare device for the benefit of its work force unlike a provision where pollution control act makes it obligatory even on a private company not to discharge certain effluents.
thus we are of the view that the high court fell into error that appellant is amenable to writ jurisdiction.
this court in indian petrochemicals corporation ltd anr vs.
439 1999 indlaw sc 513referred to the decisions in parimal chandra rahas case reserve bank of india vs workmen1996.
3 scc 267and m m r khan vs union of india1990 supp.
scc 191 1996 indlaw sc 618and held that the workmen of a statutory canteen as in the present case would be workmen of an establishment for the purposes of the act only and not for other purposes.
that the management exercises control over the standard in quality quantity and the rate of the food items supplied to the workmen for whose benefit the canteen is established.
in the absence of such material we find no substance in this contention.
these facts are brought to our notice by an affidavit filed on 21 november 2000 but these factors do not come in the way of the award made by the tribunal as it is possible to locate the canteen in an appropriate place where there is no hazard of the kind envisaged under the petroleum rules.
the appeal therefore stands dismissed subject to what is stated in regard to writs to be issued by the high court in respect of persons or authorities exercising public duty or otherwise.
civil appeal nos 653397 653497.
in the circumstances aforesaid the contention vis vis the findings recorded by the tribunal we find absolutely no merit in these appeals and the same shall stand dismissed.
in these appeals on a reference made on the question whether certain persons employed in the canteen should be treated as employees of the appellant and if so in what category they are to be fitted in and to what wages they are entitled to the industrial tribunal hyderabadhereinafter referred to as the tribunal inquired into the matter.
