municipal corporation of delhi aggrieved against the judgment and final order dated 26 03 2004 passed by the high court delhi in criminal revision petition no 185 of 2004 by which order the high court gave the benefit of probation under section 4 of the probation of offenders act1958.
herein after referred to as pob act to the second respondent gurcharan singh but maintained the conviction preferred the above appeal.
the brief facts leading to the filing of the above appeal are as under.
one mr m k verma.
pw 4junior engineer civil line zone visited 189 prem gali punja sharif mori gate where he found unauthorized construction going at the first floor of the said plot.
f i r was prepared on the report of mr m k verma who forwarded the f i r before zonal engineer who ordered to issue notice under section 343344 of the delhi municipal corporation act1957 for short the dmc act subsequently the second respondent along with kuldeep singh were prosecuted for commission of offences under sections 332 and 461 of the dmc act before the designated municipal court.
the appellate court held that no interference is required in the order passed by the trial court regarding point of sentence.
in the said case the accused respondent was convicted under section 332461 of the dmc act and sentenced to six months simple imprisonment with a fine of rs 5000.
learned senior counsel appearing for the appellant further submitted that there was no good reason for letting the respondent off by granting to him the said benefit of pob act particularly keeping in view the large scale irregularity and unauthorized constructions carried by the builders in delhi despite strict direction of the municipal authorities and courts passing various orders from time to time against the unauthorized constructions.
it was further submitted that the high court should not have waived off the payment of fine amount by the accused respondent and that the high court ought to have taken into consideration that the respondent has been in jail for only three days and had not put in substantial period in custody.
it was further submitted by learned senior counsel appearing for the appellant that the court shall not direct release of offender unless it is satisfied that the offender or his surety if any has a fixed place of abode or regular occupation in the place over which the court exercises jurisdiction or in which the offender is likely to live during the period for which he enters into the bond.
therefore learned senior counsel appearing for the appellant prayed that order dated 26 3 2004 in crl.
no 185 of 2004 be set aside and appropriate orders be passed in this appeal.
it was therefore submitted that the high court passed the said order in the presence of the counsel of all the parties.
it was therefore submitted that the sentence imprisonment awarded by the metropolitan magistrate has been suspended under section 389 of the criminal procedure code by the court of additional sessions judge delhi in view of the pendency of the appeal against the order of conviction is a continuation of proceedings and therefore there is no conviction against the answering respondent so long as the same is not decided by the court of sessions.
it was also submitted that the requirement of calling of a report from the probationer officer under section 42 of the pob act has been waived off by the counsel for the state of delhi and that the counsel for the mcd also did not raise any objection before the high court.
it was further contended that the respondent has not contested the revision in the high court on merits and confined his submission to the benefit of section 4 of the pob act being extended to him.
therefore there is no occasion for the high court to go into the issue of extent of constructions being raised by the answering respondent.
concluding his arguments he submitted that the respondent has been released after compliance of the order passed by the high court by furnishing the bone of good conduct and security to the satisfaction of the additional court of metropolitan magistrate delhi and there is no report of any misconduct or breach of the bond of good conduct by the answering respondent since the date of the order of the high court therefore the order of the high court is not liable to be interfered with.
it is the specific case of the appellant herein that the high court has not afforded to the appellant an opportunity to file counter affidavit.
thus the contesting respondent has come to the high court with unclean hands and withholds a vital document in order to gain advantage on the other side.
a person whose case is based on falsehood can be summarily thrown out at any stage of the litigation.
in the instant case non production of the order and even non mentioning of the conviction and sentence in the criminal case no 202 of 1997 tantamounts to playing fraud on the court.
we however part with this case with heavy heart expressing our strong disapproval of the conduct and behaviour but direct that the second respondent to pay a sum of rs 10000 by way of cost to the appellant herein.
while extending benefit of this case the discretion of the court has to be exercised having regard to the circumstances in which the crime was committed the age character and antecedents of the offender.
such exercise of discretion needs a sense of responsibility.
the second respondent is a previous convict as per the records placed before us.
we therefore have no hesitation in setting aside the order impugned and remit the matter to the high court for fresh disposal strictly in accordance with law.
in the above background two questions of law arise for consideration by this court 1 whether the high court was correct in extending the benefit of the probation of offenders act1958 to the accused respondent without calling for a report from the authorities relating to the conduct of the respondent as per section 4 of the act.
the high court was correct in passing the impugned judgment in view of the fact that the respondent has been convicted in another criminal case no 202 of 1997 by the trial court new delhi.
before proceeding further it would be beneficial to reproduce section 4 of the probation of offenders act1958 which is extracted below for ready reference.
it applied to all kinds of offenders whether under or above 21 years of age.
the word shall in sub section 2 of section 4 is mandatory and the consideration of the report of the probationer officer is a condition precedent to the release of the accused as reported in the case of state v naguesh g shet govenkar and anr air 1970.
in the case of ram singh and ors v.
state of haryana1971 3 scc 914 1970 indlaw sc 513a bench of two judges of this court in paragraph 16 of the judgment observed as under counsel for the appellants invoked the application of probation of offenders act.
this plea can not be entertained in this court.
in the case of r mahalingam v g padmavathi and anr.
the appeal is accordingly allowed with costs of rs 10000 to be paid by the second respondent to the appellant as indicated in paragraph supra.
