this appeal by special leave has been preferred against the judgment and order dated 23 february 2005 of bombay high court aurangabad bench by which the appeal preferred by the appellants was dismissed and their conviction under section 304 b read with section 34 ipc and sentence of 7 years ri imposed thereunder by the learned sessions judge aurangabad was affirmed.
the deceased bhimabai was daughter of pw 1 tukaram eknath tambe resident of village sanjkheda.
and she was married to appellant No 1.
appasaheb son of sheshrao palaskar about two and half years prior to the date of incident which took place on 15 september 1991.
the appellant No 2 kadubai is the mother of the appellant No 1 and both the appellants were residing in the same house in village palshi.
according to the case of prosecution a sum of rs 5000 and some gold ornaments had been given at the time of marriage of bhimabai.
thereafter the accused treated bhimabai properly but after about four months they again started harassing her.
a few days before nag panchami festival bhimabai came to her parental home and complained that the accused were not giving her proper food clothing and even footwear.
she also told her parents that her husband had asked her to bring an amount of rs 1000 1200 for the purpose of household expenses and manure.
the police patil of the village pw 3 sandu mohanrao patil lodged an accidental death report at 9 00 p m on 15 september 1991 at the police station.
on the basis of the said accidental death report pw 6 sandeepan kamble police sub inspector visited the house of the accused held inquest on the dead body of bhimabai and thereafter sent the same for post mortem examination.
after completion of investigation charge sheet was submitted against the appellants and in due course the case was committed to the court of sessions.
we have heard learned counsel for the appellants learned counsel for the state of maharashtra and have perused the records.
the post mortem examination on the body of deceased bhimabai was conducted by a team of two doctors of department of forensic medicine and toxicology medical college aurangabad namely dr s m jawale and dr h v godbole on 16 september 1991.
the doctors did not find any sign of external or internal injury on the body of the deceased and in their opinion the cause of death was insecticide poisoning.
the viscera were preserved for chemical analysis.
he then went to village palshi along with other persons of his family where he reached after sun set.
there used to be some bickering in the marital life of bhimabai and her husband on trifling matters.
pw 2 babaji is real brother of father in law of pw 1 tukaram.
she has stated in her examination in chief that bhimabai was being ill treated by the appellants and the reason for ill treatment was that they were demanding money to be brought from her parental home.
in her cross examination pw 5 sumanbai has stated that after news about the condition of bhimabai was given by a man from village palshi she along with her husband and some other relations went there and noticed that bhimabai was lying dead in the house and froth was coming out of her mouth.
in her statement under section 161 cr.
the learned trial judge then sought clarification from the witnesses by putting the following question.
what i meant was that there was demand for money for defraying expenses of manure etc.
being a penal provision it has to be strictly construed.
dowry is a fairly well known social custom or practice in india.
it is well settled principle of interpretation of statute that if the act is passed with reference to a particular trade business or transaction and words are used which everybody conversant with that trade business or transaction knows or understands to have a particular meaning in it then the words are to be construed as having that particular meaning.
see union of india v garware nylons ltd air 1996.
sc 3509 1996 indlaw sc 2404 and chemicals and fibres of india v union of india air 1997.
sc 558 1991 indlaw sc 861.
the evidence adduced by the prosecution does not therefore show that any demand for dowry as defined in section 2 of the dowry prohibition act was made by the appellants as what was allegedly asked for was some money for meeting domestic expenses and for purchasing manure.
two essential ingredient of section 304 b ipc apart from others are i death of women is caused by any burns or bodily injury or occurs otherwise than under normal circumstances and ii women is subjected to cruelty or harassment by her husband or any relative of her husband for or in connection with any demand for dowry.
the explanation appended to sub section 1 of section 304 b ipc says that dowry shall have the same meaning as in section 2 of dowry prohibition act 1961.
section 2 of dowry prohibition act reads as under 2.
learned counsel for the appellants has also submitted that there is absolutely no evidence either direct or circumstantial to show that bhimabai committed suicide.
he has submitted that the insecticide thimet is extensively used by the farmers for preservation of crop and is kept stored in their houses and it could be a case where thimet accidentally got mixed with some food item and was consumed by bhaimabai.
it has been held in state of andhra pradesh v thadi narayan air 1962.
sc 240 1961 indlaw sc 171 that section 4231bi of code of criminal procedure 1898 which corresponds to section 386bi of code of criminal procedure 1973 is clearly confined to cases of appeals preferred against orders of conviction and sentence the powers conferred by this clause can not be exercised for the purpose of reversing an order of acquittal passed in favour of a party in respect of an offence charged in dealing with an appeal preferred by him against the order of conviction in respect of another offence charged and found proved.
in view of the discussion made above the appeal is allowed.
the judgment and order dated 23 february 2005 of the high court and the judgment and order dated 04 january 1993 of the learned sessions judge convicting the appellants under section 304 b ipc are set aside and the appellants are acquitted of the said charge.
the appellant no 1 is in custody.
he shall be released forthwith unless wanted in some other case.
the appellant No 2 is on bail.
the sureties and bail bonds furnished by her are discharged.
