ujjagar singh the appellant herein a resident of village bangawali tehsil malerkotla was tried and convicted by the additional sessions judge sangrur for the murder of his niece mukhtiar kaur and was awarded the death penalty.
in addition he was convicted for an offence punishable section 376 of the ipc and sentenced to undergo rigorous imprisonment for 10 years and to a fine of rs 5 000 and in default of payment to undergo further r i for one year and section 309 of the ipc to a sentence of simple imprisonment for one year.
the aforesaid convictions and sentences have been maintained by the high court and the matter is before us in these proceedings by way of special leave.
the facts of the case are as under.
satnam singh conveyed this information to sarpanch jora singh pw1 who was attending a marriage at that time.
jora singh also met inspector harjinder pal singh pw14 at 4 40 p m near the hospital who recorded his statement at that place and with his endorsement exhibit p a sent it to police station dhuri where the formal fir was registered at about 4 45 p m with the special report being delivered to the illaka magistrate at dhuri itself at 6 20 p m the same evening.
after completion of the investigation at the spot mukhtiar kaur 's dead body was sent for its post mortem examination.
during the trial jora singh pw1 satnam singh pw2 gurdeep singh pw3 and kulwant singh pw4 resiled from their statements given to the police and were declared hostile.
pw10 karam singh aforesaid confirmed the story given by balwinder singh.
p c in reply to question 33 he stated as under i am innocent.
false allegations have been levelled against me.
my house kothi is situated on the outer skirts of village bangawali and door planks had not been fixed so far to rooms.
i regained consciousness in hospital.
we first take up for consideration the question of the conviction section 376 of the ipc.
No 4 an abrasion near the right eye do not indicate any attempt to rape or the commission of rape.
mr goburdhan has also cited mahmood v state of u p 1976 1 scc 542 1975 indlaw sc 643 shankarlal gyarasilal dixit v state of maharashtra 1981 2 scc 35 1980 indlaw sc 47 sharad birdhichand sarda v state of maharashtra 1984 4 scc 116 1984 indlaw sc 432 omwati smt and ors v mahendra singh.
1998 9 scc 81 1997 indlaw sc 1403 sudama pandey ors v state of bihar 2002 1 scc 679 2001 indlaw sc 21243 and r r khanna reddy anr.
v state of a p 2006 10 scc 172 2006 indlaw sc 144 in support of his plea relating to the evaluation of circumstantial evidence.
the motive is in the mind of the accused and can seldom be fathomed with any degree of accuracy.
there could perhaps be some truth in this suggestion as it is significant that though the appellant had an extended family living with him i e mother wife son living in the village and two young daughters who were studying outside and residing in a hostel but were frequent visitors home yet none of them has come forth to depose in his favour.
it must be emphasized that but for this self serving statement made by the appellant there is nothing on record to support his positive stance.
even otherwise we are of the opinion that had the shot been fired by some intruder the direction would have been more or less horizontal and parallel to the ground and not from down upwards with the pellets hitting the jaw skirting the cheek and hitting the roof at point.
e in modi 's medical jurisprudence and toxicology 23rd edition at page 765 while dealing with identification of homicidal and suicidal injuries it has been observed that a suicidal firearm wound is usually a contact wound situated on the side of the temple depending on which hand was used to shoot himself in the centre of the forehead the roof of the mouth in the chest or epigastrium in front or the left side and some times under the chin.
sometimes the firing is done by pulling a string tied to the trigger by the big toe.
the skin around the entry wound shows characteristic blackening scorching and tattooing.
homicidal shooting by dacoits is not uncommon in india and they are known to make their own firearms.
sometimes firearm wounds may look like knife slashes or a bullet hole may resemble a penetrating stab wound if the bullet strikes the head of shoulder at an angle or when an unstable bullet registers a broadside hit.
with knife throat and wrist are the favourite sites.
mr goburdhan the learned counsel for the accused has raised several arguments in the course of hearing.
it has finally been submitted that the land had been transferred in the name of ujjagar singh 's sons in the year 1994 by gurmail kaur mother of mukhtiar kaur by a collusive decree and there was no evidence to show that mukhtiar kaur had ever displayed any unhappiness or made any complaint to any person or any authority with regard to the decree and as such the very basis of the prosecution story did not exist.
the learned state counsel has however supported the judgment of the courts below.
he has further emphasized that the prosecution 's case stood proved from various factors including the medical evidence the reports of the forensic science laboratory the chemical examiner from the post mortem reports and the recovery of the gun and cartridges.
reliance for this argument has been placed on the decision of raj kumar prasad tamarkar v state of bihar anr 20071.
scale 19 2007 indlaw sc 5.
he has in this connection referred us to the statement of dr ripan miglani pw15 and the wound found on the appellant at the time of his medical examination in the department of surgery of the dayanand medical college hospital ludhiana which was about 15 x 8 cm curvilinear wound present on the left half of face extending upto bone.
no blackening or foreign body was visible.
underlying muscles were exposed and contamination was present.
the learned state counsel has however relied on the statement of pw16 dr sanjay uppal who was apparently the first doctor to have examined the appellant wherein he clearly testified that the blackened portion around the firearm injury had been removed by him.
the learned state counsel has emphasized that in the light of the admitted position that the accused and the deceased were the only ones present at the time of incident and that the accused had projected a counter story some credible explanation was also expected from him.
there was no other person.
the cause of death of the deceased usha devi i e by a gun shot injury is not disputed.
the fact that the terrace and the bedroom are adjoining each other is not in dispute.
blackening or charring is possible when a shot is fired from a distance of about 2 feet to 3 feet.
the place of injury is also important.
the lacerated wound was found over grabella middle of forehead.
there was thus a remote possibility of causation of such type of injury by any other person who was not in the terrace.
once the prosecution has been able to show that at the relevant time the room and terrace were in exclusive occupation of the couple the burden of proof lay upon the respondent to show under what circumstances death was caused to his wife.
the onus was on him.
he failed to discharge the same.
in this case this court held that the omission of the prosecution inter alia to have the finger prints found on the alleged murder weapon was fatal to the prosecution story.
there is not only a grammatical but a legal distinction between may be proved and must be or should be proved as was held by this court in shivaji sahabrao bobade v state of maharashtra 1973 indlaw sc 181 where the following observations were made.
we accordingly acquit the appellant of the charge section 376 of the ipc but maintain his conviction for the other offences but commute his death sentence to life.
with this modification the appeal is dismissed.
