for the sake of convenience we refer to the facts mentioned in civil appeal no of 2008 arising out of s l p c no 15729 of 2008 filed by j mitra co pvt ltd.
this matter is a classic illustration of the confusion which has emerged on account of the postponement of in part commencement of patents amendment act2005.
quite often the commencement of an act is postponed to some specified future date or to such date as the appropriate government may by notification in the official gazette appoint.
provision is also at times made for appointment of different dates for coming into force of different parts of the same act.
this is what has exactly happened in this case resulting into utter confusion with regard to pending fao no 29306 filed by respondent no 3 in the high court u s 116 of the indian patents.
act1970 as amended by the patents amendment act1999 w e f 26 3 99.
span diagnostics limited respondent no 3 herein is a public limited company established in 1972 to indigenously develop and manufacture a comprehensive range of ready made diagnostic reagents made by clinical pathology laboratories.
on 14 6 2000 j mitra company pvt ltd.
3 appellant herein filed its application for grant of patent.
after scrutiny the said application stood notified by the patent office on 20 11 2004.
in 2002the legislature desired an amendment to the law and intended to create an appellate forum to hear appeals against orders passed by the controller consequently patents amendment.
act2002 was promulgated on 25 6 2002 however it was not brought into force immediately.
it may be noted that in the said amendment act2002no provision was made pertaining to post grant opposition.
the provisions of the said amendment act2002however were not simultaneously brought into force.
suffice it to note that ss 116 and 117a were not brought into force.
without giving effect to the amendments to ss 116 and 117a suggested by s 47 of the patents amendment.
2 where any such notice of opposition is duly given the controller shall notify the applicant and shall give to the applicant and the opponent an opportunity to be heard before deciding the case.
under the said amendment act1999as stated above vide.
ss 116 and 117a were reworded which read as under s 116 1 subject to the provisions of this act the appellate board established u s 83 of the trade marks act1999 shall be the appellate board for the purposes of this act and the said appellate board shall exercise the jurisdiction power and authority conferred on it by or under this act.
provided that the technical member of the appellate board for the purposes of this act shall have the qualifications specified in sub s 2.
b has for at least ten years functioned as a registered patent agent and possesses a degree in engineering or technology or a masters degree in science from any university established under law for the time being in force or equivalent or c has for at least ten years been an advocate of a proven specialized experience in practicing law relating to patents and designs.
every appeal under this section shall be in prescribed form and shall be verified in such manner as may be prescribed and shall be accompanied by a copy of the decision order or direction appealed against any by such fees as may be prescribed.
the substituted s 25 reads as under 25 opposition to the patent 1.
e that the invention so far as claimed in any claim of the complete specification is obvious and clearly does not involve any inventive step having regard to the matter published as mentioned in cl b or having regard to what was used in india before the priority date of the claim h that the patentee has failed to disclose to the controller the information required by s 8 or has furnished the information which in any material particular was false to his knowledge i that in the case of a patent granted on convention application the application for patent was not made within twelve months from the date of the first application for protection for the invention made in a convention country or in india by the patentee or a person from whom he derives title j that the complete specification does not disclose or wrongly mentions the source and geographical origin of biological material used for the invention k that the invention so far as claimed in any claim of the complete specification was anticipated.
b on receipt of such notice of opposition the controller shall by order in writing constitute a board to be known as the opposition board consisting of such officers as he may determine and refer such notice of opposition along with the documents to that board for examination and submission of its recommendations to the controller.
c every opposition board constituted under cl b shall conduct the examination in accordance with such procedure as may be prescribed.
5 while passing an order under sub s 4 in respect of the ground mentioned in cl d or cl e of sub section.
2the controller shall not take into account any personal document or secret trial or secret use.
sub section 2for the words and figures section 20section 25section 27section 28the words figures and brackets section 20sub s 4 of section 25section 28 shall be substituted.
section 117 g of the principal act was substituted vide patents amendment act2005 it reads as under section 117g transfer of pending proceedings to appellate board  all cases of appeals against any order or decision of the controller and all cases pertaining to revocation of patent other than on a counter claim in a suit for infringement and rectification of register pending before any high court shall be transferred to the appellate board from such date as may be notified by the central government in the official gazette and the appellate board may proceed with the matter either de novo or from the stage it was so transferred.
similarly under the patents amendment act2005appeal was restricted to the post grant opposition orders and that appeal lay before the appellate board and not to the high court.
here also s 25 of the patents act1970 as amended by patents amendment act2005.
on 19 10 2006 when fao no 29306 was filed in the high court chapter xix of the parent act as amended vide patents amendment.
act2005 as the amended ss 116 and 117a were brought into force only vide notification dated 2 4 07 one more point needs to be noted.
that amended s 117 g is consequential to the enforcement of the jurisdiction of the appellate board u s 64 which results to revocation of patent.
vide cl 47 of notes on clauses attached to the statement of objects and reasons it has been clarified that s 64 is also amended vide patents amendment act2005 to confer wider jurisdiction on the appellate board in matters of revocation of patent therefore amended section 117 g which is brought into force only from 3 4 2007 dealt with transfer of pending proceedings from the high court to the appellate board.
an act can not be said to commence or to be in force unless it is brought into operation by legislative enactment or by the exercise of authority by a delegate empowered to bring it into operation.
by reason of patents amendment act2005the kind of opposition available under the said 1970 act is different from what existed earlier.
therefore the courts had evolved the rule of caution as the patent had not faced any challenge at the hands of interested parties.
there is however a radical shift due to incorporation of s 252 where an interested party is granted the right to challenge the patent after its grant.
the main difference between s 251 and s 252as brought about by patents amendment.
act2005is that even after a patent is grantedpost grant opposition can be filed under s 25 2 for a period of one year.
in relation to patents that are of recent origin a higher scrutiny is necessary.
this is the main rationale underlying s 252 of the said 1970 act.
therefore the legislature intended an appeal under section 117a2 to the appellate board from any decision order or direction of the controller inter alia under s 254 which refers to the power of the controller to maintain amend or revoke the patent.
the legislature intended to obliterate appeal from pre grant proceedingswhich existed earlier.
however it was left to the executive to bring the enacted law into force vide notification.
no 29306 we have to decide the fate of these pending appeals.
no 29306would remain in the high court.
no 3 can not be let without remedy.
moreover it may be noted that even section 117g which refers to transfer of pending proceedings to the appellate board is also brought into force vide notification dated 3 4 07 keeping in mind the peculiar nature of the problem in hand we are of the view that ends of justice.
the legislature intended to provide for only one statutory appeal to the appellate board but by not bringing s 61 into force till 2 4 07appeals filed during the interregnum as in this case became vulnerable and liable to be dismissed as misconceived as is contended by the appellant.
this is the controversy which needs to be resolved in this case.
the question which arises for determination in this batch of civil appeals is whether fao no 29206 and fao no 29306 filed by respondent no 3 herein in the high court were liable to be dismissed.
according to the appellant with the change in s 25 brought about by patents amendment act2005a dichotomy was introduced in the patents act1970 according to the appellant that dichotomy was between pre grant opposition and post grant opposition.
according to the appellant this was a structural change in the principal act.
according to the appellant on 23 8 06 the controller rejected its pre grant opposition and on that day post grant opposition avenue was open to respondent no 3 vide s 252 according to the appellant under the amended s 25 on rejection of pre grant opposition it was open to respondent.
accordingly the two civil appeals filed by the appellant herein stand disposed of with no order as to costs.
