from a careful examination of the findings given by the high court as quoted hereinabove in upsetting the concurrent findings of fact arrived at by the tribunals below we are not in a position to hold that the high court was not justified in setting aside the concurrent orders of the tribunals below in the exercise of its revisional power under section 121a of the act.
from a plain reading of section 121a of the act under which revisional jurisdiction can be exercised it would be clear that the high court while exercising such power is entitled to re appreciate the evidence when it finds that the conclusion arrived at by the appellate authority runs contrary to the materials on record and when it finds that there is no evidence to support the conclusion of the appellate authority or when it finds that the reasons given by the appellate authority are absolutely perverse and can not be supported by the evidence on record.
it would also be clear from a plain reading of section 121a of the act that the high court is also entitled to interfere with the orders of the tribunals below when the material evidence on record was ignored or a finding was such that no court would come to such conclusion or that the decision of the tribunals below was manifestly unjust.
we have carefully examined the provisions under section 121a of the act which is the revisional power under the act and also the provisions u s 115 of the code of civil procedure for short the code so far as s 115 of the code is concerned it has been made clear that it is only in case of a jurisdictional error or when the courts below had acted with material irregularity in the exercise of their jurisdiction that the question of interfering with such an order can arise otherwise the high court is not entitled to interfere with any other order which does not satisfy the conditions laid down for interference u s 115 of the code.
on the other hand in our view under section 121a of the act it would be open to the high court to interfere with the orders of the tribunals below as the high court is empowered to look into the legality of the order or regularity of the proceedings although in the exercise of revisional jurisdiction u s 115 of the code the high court is not entitled to look into the legality of the order or the regularity of the proceedings but only entitled to interfere with the orders of the tribunals or the courts below when it finds that they have a exercised a jurisdiction not vested in them by law or b failed to exercise a jurisdiction so vested or c acted in the exercise of their jurisdiction illegally or with material irregularity.
section 121a of the act and s 115 of the code we have no hesitation in our mind to hold that the revisional power exercised by the high court under section 121a of the act is wider than the one exercised by the high court in its revisional jurisdiction u s 115 of the code.
as noted herein earlier since section 121a of the act clearly empowers the high court to look into the legality of the orders impugned therefore it would be open to the high court to consider the material evidence on record when it finds that such evidence was not at all considered by the tribunals below or when the conclusion arrived at by the tribunals below run contrary to the materials on record or when it finds that there is no evidence to support the conclusion of the tribunals below or that the reasons given by the tribunals below are absolutely perverse or a finding was such that no court would come to such a conclusion or that the decisions of the tribunals below were manifestly unjust.
therefore under section 121a of the act in the presence of any of the abovementioned circumstances the high court is empowered to look into the legality of the orders impugned in deciding the question whether the appellants could be held to be the tenants under the respondent nos 3 or 4.
keeping the aforesaid principles in mind as to when the high court would be justified in the exercise of its power under section 121a of the act to examine the legality of the orders of the tribunals below in an appropriate case let us now examine the findings of the high court while setting aside the concurrent findings of fact of the tribunals below.
in our view on a careful examination of the findings of the high court which were based on consideration of the material evidence on record it is difficult for us to hold that the high court was not justified in setting aside the concurrent findings of fact of the tribunals below in the exercise of its jurisdiction under section 121a of the act.
considering the above aspect of the matter and after considering the scope of section 121a of the act we are therefore unable to agree with the learned counsel for the appellants that in the exercise of revisional jurisdiction under section 121a of the act the high court was not entitled to set aside the concurrent findings of fact arrived at by the appellate authority and the land tribunal.
such being the position we do not find any reason to interfere with the judgment of the high court although the high court in the exercise of its power under section 121a of the act had set aside the concurrent orders of the appellate authority as well as the land tribunal.
so far as krishtappa yellapa pujar ors vs.
rasul mohammed abdul rahim 1963 3 scr 1 1962 indlaw sc 366 need not be discussed.
even assuming that the high court was not justified in setting aside the concurrent findings of fact in the exercise of its revisional jurisdiction under section 121a of the act then also we are of the view that it is not a fit case where this court should interfere with the impugned judgment of the high court in the exercise of our power u art 136 of the constitution.
the appellants in this appeal claiming to be the tenants of agricultural land bearing survey no 1251measuring 3 acres 11 gunthas.
right holders relying inter alia on the entries under the rtc record.
the power conferred on the high court to revise the orders of the tribunals below has been provided in section 121a of the act which runs as under the high court may at any time call for the records of any order or proceeding recorded by the appellate authority under this act or any other law for the purpose of satisfying itself as to the legality of such order or as to the regularity of such proceeding and may pass such order with respect thereto as it thinks fit.
ram samsthan beladhadi 1999 1 scc 74 1998 indlaw sc 1197.
in our view so far as the decision in the case of mohan balaku patil ors vs.
again in jai mangal oraon vs mira nayak smt ors 2000 5 scc 141.
finally in taherakhatoon d by lrs.
in view of the aforesaid we are therefore of the view that this is not a fit case where this court shall interfere with the order passed by the high court under section 121a of the act 19 for the reasons aforesaid this appeal fails and is dismissed without any order as to costs.
