interpretation and or application of the provisions of the gujarat town planning and urban development act1976 for short the act and the rules framed thereunder known as the gujarat town planning and urban development rules1979.
for short the rules is in question in this appeal which arises out of a judgment and order dated 27 12 2006 passed by a division bench of the high court of gujarat at ahmedabad in letters patent appeal no 1611 of 2006 arising out of a judgment and order dated 23 11 2006 passed by a learned single judge of the said court in sca no 7092 of 2001.
the government of gujarat in exercise of its power conferred upon it u s 65 of the act made a scheme in respect of the town of umra surat on 1 06 1999.
suffice it to say that chapter iv of the act deals with control of development and use of land included in the development plans.
chapter v of the act provides for town planning schemes.
s 40 of the act empowers the appropriate authority to make one or more schemes.
a declaration of intention to make a scheme is to be notified whereafter a draft scheme may be published.
s 52 contemplates issuance of a notice in a prescribed manner and in the prescribed form.
a town planning scheme therefore envisages calling for objection from the persons concerned for three purposes i in regard to draft scheme ii lodging of any claim for payment of compensation iii participation in the matter of allotment of final plots.
darji1991 indlaw sc 975 supra wherein this court opined that sub rule 3 of rule 21 of the bombay rules was mandatory in nature subject of course to the condition that on the crucial date viz when the town planning scheme is notified in the official gazette he whether an owner or tenant or sub tenant must be in possession of the property.
it had also not been contended that the said rule is ultra vires s 52 of the act.
we would consider the effect of sub s 3 of s 65 of the act a little later but we may at this juncture notice that the respondent no 3 in whose favour plot no 165 has been allotted which includes 200 sq m of land purported to be in possession of the appellant had nothing to do with the dispute between the appellant and his landlord the respondent no 4 respondent no 4 was in possession of a contiguous plot.
the bangalore development authority act1976 provides that every person whose name appears in the assessment list or land revenue records shall be served with notice see sureshchandra c mehta v state of karnataka and others 1994 supp 2 scc 511 1993 indlaw sc 538.
in west bengal housing board etc v.
brijendra prasad gupta and others etc air 1997 sc 2745it was opined that the authority is not required to make a roaming enquiry as to who is the person entitled to notice.
every step taken by the state does not involve application of the doctrine of eminent domain.
existence of a public purpose and increase in the valuation of the property was admitted.
it was on that legal principle this court in state of gujarat v shantilal mangaldas ors 1969 3 scr 341 1969 indlaw sc.
m g makwana ors 1967 3 scr 65 1967 indlaw sc 138.
it is not a case where the state by its acts of omissions and commissions was unjustly enriching itself.
what is in dispute is the distribution of quantum thereof between two competing claimants viz landlord and tenant.
in halsbury 's laws of england volume 1624th edition para 907it is stated the expression waiver may in law bear different meanings.
it may arise from a party making an election for example whether or not to exercise a contractual right.
such conduct precludes and operates as estoppel against him with respect to asserting a right over a portion of the acquired land in a situation where the scheme in question has attained finality following as a result of the appellant 's inaction.
plot nos 177 and 178 were owned by respondent no 4 herein.
appellant was a tenant under the said respondent in respect of plot no 178 admeasuring 1067 sq m.
he used to run a business of marble and stone therein.
a road widening project was proposed in terms of the said scheme.
notices therefor were issued both to the appellant as also the respondent No appellant objected thereto.
he however did not pursue his case in regard to the proposal for widening of the road.
for the said public purpose viz.
widening of the road867 sq m of land was taken over leaving only 200 sq m of land.
and its pole demarcations were done by the town planning officer at site.
the said final plot original plot is allotted in lieu of your no 177178 paiki land.
thereafter the notice below s 67 for the change in occupation was issued on 15 1 2000 to you.
in spite of this you have not handed over the possession.
in the said writ petition it was prayed on the facts and circumstances mentioned herein above the petitioner prays to your lordships that a be pleased to issue writ of mandamus or writ in the nature of mandamus or appropriate writ order or direction quashing and setting aside the impugned action of acquiring and demolishing the structures available on the land in question i e original plot no 17 a r s no 17 p situated at umra surat.
mr u u lalit learned senior counsel appearing on behalf of the appellant in support of this appeal inter alia would submit i.
the provisions of ss 52 and 81 being imperative in character no acquisition of land is permissible without service of any notice upon the persons interested which would include a tenant in occupation and carrying on business thereon.
a tenant having regard to the provisions of the transfer of property act or otherwise having an interest in the property can not be deprived therefrom without following the procedure established by law and without initiation of any proceedings for acquisition of land.
appellant having a right over the remaining 200 sq m of the land of original plot no 178 should be allowed to continue thereupon and final allotment made in favour of the respondent no 3 to that extent should be cancelled.
lalit in support of his contention strongly relied upon a decision of this court in mansukhlal jadavji darji and others v ahmedabad municipal corporation and others 1992 1 scc 384 1991 indlaw sc 975 and jaswantsingh mathurasingh and another v ahmedabad municipal corporation and others 1992 supp 1 scc 5 1991 indlaw sc 972.
prashant g desai learned counsel appearing on behalf of the respondent no 1on the other hand would submit.
the scheme in terms of sub s 3 of s 65 of the act having become a part of the act validity thereof can not be questioned at this stage as modification of the scheme if any will have to undergo the entire process once over again which is not contemplated under the act.
s 52 of the act provides for the contents of preliminary and final scheme.
further sub s 3 of section 65ss 67 and 68 of the act read as under 65 power of government to sanction or refuse to sanction the scheme and effect of sanction.
c if the person to be evicted resists or obstructs the officer or servant deputed u cl b or.
if he re occupies the land after eviction.
the appropriate authority shall prosecute him under s 188 of the indian penal code.
it prescribes service of notice in form h a copy of the notice in the said form is kept at the office of the town planning officer during office hours.
it furthermore provides that any person entitled to claim damages in terms of s 82 of the act should communicate the details of his claim to the town planning officer.
s 81 of the act enables the state to transfer of right from original to final plot or extinction of such right.
s 67 of the act provides that all lands required by the appropriate authority shall unless it is otherwise determined in such scheme vest absolutely in the appropriate authority free from all encumbrances with effect from the date on which the preliminary scheme comes into force.
what would be the quantum of payment of compensation therefor is also provided in s 82 of the act.
the location of the land the area of the land the nature of right etc.
in jaswantsingh mathurasingh1991 indlaw sc 972 suprait was reiterated that a tenant or a sub tenant is a person interested and is entitled to notice.
indlaw sc 138 suprait was held therefore having due regard to the substantive and procedural aspects we are satisfied that the act imposes only reasonable restrictions in which case it is saved u art 195 of the constitution.
state of gujarat anr 2008 4 scale 278 2008 indlaw sc 527.
as early as 1957the concept of waiver was articulated in a case involving the late assertion of a claim regarding improper constitution of a tribunal in manak lal v dr prem chand air 1957 sc 425 1957 indlaw sc 159 in the following terms.
as sir johan romilly m r has observed in vyvyan v vyvyan.
in the director of inspection of income tax investigationnew delhi and another v pooran mal sons and another 1975 4 scc 568 1974 indlaw sc 354 the issue was regarding waiver of benefits under a statute of limitation.
it was stated we may in this connection refer to the decision in wilson v mcintosh.
they referred with approval to the decision in phillips v martin where the chief justice said here there is abundant evidence of waiver and it is quite clear that a man may by his conduct waive a provision of an act of parliament intended for his benefit.
the caveator was not brought into court in any way until the caveat had lapsed.
significantly a similar conclusion was reached in the case of krishna bahadur v purna theatre 2004 8 scc 229 2004.
indlaw sc 681though the principle was stated far more precisely in the following terms the principle of waiver although is akin to the principle of estoppel the difference between the two however is that whereas estoppel is not a cause of action it is a rule of evidence waiver is contractual and may constitute a cause of action it is an agreement between the parties and a party fully knowing of its rights has agreed not to assert a right for a consideration.
emphasis supplied see also bank of india v o p swarnakar 2003 2 scc 721 2002 indlaw sc 1562.
in ramdev food products pvt.
arvindbhai rambhai patel and ors 2006 8 scale 631 2006 indlaw sc 786this court observed the matter may be considered from another angle.
if the first respondent has expressly waived his right on the trade mark registered in the name of the appellant company could he claim the said right indirectly.
the term waiver has been described in the following words waiver is the abandonment of a right in such a way that the other party is entitled to plead the abandonment by way of confession and avoidance if the right is thereafter asserted and is either express or implied from conduct.
we therefore are of the opinion that in this case no relief can be granted to the appellant.
he may however take recourse to such remedy which is available with him in law including one by filing a suit or making a representation before the state.
for the reasons aforementioned the appeal is dismissed.
