these appeals have been preferred from the judgment and order of the high court dated 25 11 2009 in writ petitions civil no 464572009.
the appellants challenge the acquisition of their agricultural lands by the state of uttar pradesh for the construction of the district jail of shahjahanpur.
the appellants themselves are bhumidar with transferable rights and are residents of village murchha tehsil puwayan in the district of shahjahanpur uttar pradesh.
after conducting its second and final meeting on 10th.
january2005the said committee recommended to the state government the shifting of the district jails from congested areas to outside the city limits within the district.
prisons in the districts of lucknow moradabad were added to the list.
one admeasuring 25 89 hectares 63 93 acres in village morchha tehsil puwayan in the district of shahjahanpur.
thereafter the district magistrate shahjahanpur forwarded the proposal to the commissioner and director directorate of land acquisition revenue board uttar pradeshfor the issuance of notifications u ss 41 and 17 of the act which in turn approved of it and further forwarded the recommendation to the state government vide letter dated 2 07 2008.
before this court the appellants broadly raised the following arguments 1 whether or not the state government was justified in acquiring the said pieces of fertile agricultural land when there were alternative sites of unfertile banjar land available.
2 whether or not the state government was justified in dispensing with the inquiry which is mandated to be conducted under section 5a of the act especially when one year elapsed between the notifications u s 4 and the one u s 6 they further stated that the high court had erred insofar as it upheld the factum of urgency in the absence of a categorical finding an enquiry under section 5a would have been detrimental to public interest.
it was urged that it was clear from the counter of the respondent that the contemplation of a new prison was under consideration of the state government for several years.
committee was formed matter was discussed at a leisurely pace at various levels and there is no material fact to justify the abridgement of the appellants right of raising an objection to acquisition and of a hearing under section 5a of the act.
admittedly the land acquisition act a pre constitutional legislation of colonial vintage is a drastic law being expropriatory in nature as it confers on the state a power which affects person 's property right.
the concept even though sought to be defined u s 3f of the act is not capable of any precise definition.
by judicial interpretation the contents of these part iii rights are constantly expanded.
therefore the concept of public purpose on this broad horizon must also be read into the provisions of emergency power u s 17 with the consequential dispensation of right of hearing under section 5a of the said act.
in other words public purpose must be viewed through the prism of constitutional values as stated above.
the aforesaid principles in our jurisprudence compel this court to construe any expropriartory legislation like the land acquisition act very strictly.
in the background of the aforesaid discussion this court proceeds to examine the scope of a person 's right under section 5a of the act.
initially section 5a was not there in the land acquisition act1894 but the same was inserted long ago by the land acquisition amendment act1923 vide s 3 of act 38 of 1923.
this slow pace at which the government machinery had functioned in processing the acquisition clearly evinces that there was no urgency for acquiring the land so as to warrant invoking s 17 4 of the act.
but such acquisition can be made only by strictly following the mandate of the said act.
in the facts of this case such acquisition can not be made by invoking emergency provisions of s 17 if so advised government can initiate acquisition proceeding by following the provision of section 5a of the act and in accordance with law.
ayyar and others reported in 1979 3 scc 466 1979 indlaw sc 224wherein this court held it is true that judges are constitutional invigilators and statutory interpreters but they are also responsive and responsible to part iv of the constitution being one of the trinity of the nation 's appointed instrumentalities in the transformation of the socio economic order.
this caveat has become necessary because the judiciary is not a mere umpire as some assume but an activist catalyst in the constitutional scheme.
in dlf qutab enclave complex educational charitable trust vs state of haryana and ors 2003 5 scc 622 2003 indlaw sc 124this court construed the statute on town planning law and held expropriatory statute as is well known must be strictly construed.
b e billimoria and ors 2003 7 scc 336 2003 indlaw sc 618 in the context of ceiling law.
these principles again found support in the decision of this court in chairman indore vikas pradhikaran vs pure industrial coke and chemicals.
the history behind insertion of section 5a in the act of 1894 seems to be a decision of the division bench of calcutta high court in j e d ezra vs the secretary of state for india and ors reported in 7 c w n 249 in that case the properties of ezra were sought to be acquired under the pre amended provision of the act for expansion of the offices of the bank of bengal.
air 1964 sc 1217 1963 indlaw sc 141 speaking through justice k n wanchoo as his lordship then was.
in hindustan petroleum corporation limited vs darius shahpur chennai and ors.
in a recent judgment of this court in essco fabs 2008 indlaw sc 2494 supra2009 2 scc 377this court after considering previous judgments as also the provisions of s 17 of the act held whereas sub s 1 of s 17 deals with cases of urgencysub s 2 of the said section covers cases of sudden change in the channel of any navigable river or other unforeseen emergency.
acceptance of such contention or upholding of this argument will make sub s 4 of s 17 totally otiose redundant and nugatory.
this court also held that in view of the ratio in union of india vs mukesh hans2004 8 scc 14 2004 indlaw sc 1413sub s 4 of s 17 can not be pressed into service by officers who are negligent and lethargic in initiating acquisition proceedings.
in order to remedy this shortcoming in the act of 1894an amendment by way of incorporation of section 5a was introduced on 11th july1923 the statement of objects and reasons for the said amendment is as follows the land acquisition act i of 1894 does not provide that persons having an interest in land which it is proposed to acquire shall have the right of objecting to such acquisition nor is government bound to enquire into and consider any objections that may reach them.
the said amendment was assented to by the governor general on 5th august1923 and came into force on 1st january1924.
for the reasons aforesaid we hold that the state government was not justified in the facts of this case to invoke the emergency provision of s 174 of the act.
the valuable right of the appellants under section 5a of the act can not flatten and steamrolled on the ipsi dixit of the executive authority.
the impugned notifications u ss 4 and 6 of the act in so far as they relate to the appellants land are quashed.
the possession of the appellants in respect of their land can not be interfered with except in accordance with law.
no order as to costs.
