this is an appeal on a certificate article 1331 of the constitution from a judgment and decree passed by the appellate bench of the high court of calcutta.
one dwarka nath ghose was the owner of considerable moveable and immoveable properties.
on the 10th june 1891 he made and published his last will and testament whereby he dedicated to this family idol.
shree shree iswar sridhar jew his two immoveable properties to wit.
premises.
no 41 and no 401.
grey street in the city of calcutta.
he appointed his two sons rajendra and jogendra executors of ms will and provided that his second wife golap sundari and the two sons rajendra and jogendra should perform the seva of the deity and on their death their heirs and successors would be entitled to perform the seva.
dwarka nath died on the 16th march 1892 leaving him surviving his widow golap sundari and his two sons rajendra and jogendra.
on the 19th july 1899 rajendra made and published his last will and testament whereby he confirmed the dedication made by dwarka nath with regard to premises nos.
41 and 401 grey street and appointed his brother jogendra the sole executor thereof.
he died on the 31st january1900 and jogendra obtained on the 24th april 1900.
probate of his said will.
probate of the will of dwarka nath was also obtained by jogendra on the 31st august 1909.
on the 4th september 1909 bhupendra jnanendra.
and nagendra then a minor the three sons of rajendra filed a suit being suit no 969 of 1909on.
the original side of the high court at calcutta against jogendra golap sundari and padma dassi the widow of sidheswar another son of rajendra for the construction of the wills of dwarka nath and rajendra for partition and other reliefs.
the idol was not made a party to this suit.
41 grey street was allotted to the branch of rajendra and the remaining portion was allotted to jogendra absolutely and in consideration of a sum of rs 6500 to be paid to the plaintiffs jogendra was declared entitled absolutely to the premises.
No 401.
grey street.
the portions allotted to jogendra were subsequently numbered 402 a grey street and the portion of the premises.
41 grey street allotted to the branch of rajendra was subsequently numbered 41 a grey street.
jogendra died on the 5th august 1911 leaving a will whereby he appointed his widow sushilabala the executrix thereof.
she obtained probate of the will on the 6th august 1912.
disputes arose between bhupendra jnanendra and nagendra the sons of rajendra and one kedar nath ghosh was appointed arbitrator to settle those disputes.
the arbitrator made his award dated the 12th october 1920 whereby he allotted premises No 41 a grey street exclusively to nagendra as his share of the family properties.
nagendra thereafter executed several mortgages of the said premises.
the first mortgage was created by him in favour of snehalata dutt on the 19th may 1926.
on the 23rd february 1927 nagendra executed a deed of settlement of the said premises by which he appointed his wife labanyalata and his wife s brother samarendra nath mitter trustees to carry out the directions therein contained and in pursuance of the deed of settlement he gave up possession of the said premises in favour of the trustees.
snehalata dutt filed in the year 1929 a suit being suit No 1042 of 1929 against nagendra the trustees under the said deed of settlement and the puisne mortgagees for realisation of the mortgage security.
hari pada.
dutt and durga charan dutt for a sum of rs 19000.
haripada dutt died on the 3rd june 1941 leaving him surviving his three sons pashupati nath dutt shambhunath dutt and kashinath dutt the appellants before us.
andor rajendra relating to the said premises or any of them purporting to affect its rights in the said premises were invalid and inoperative in law and not binding on it for an account of the dealings with the said premises for a scheme of management of the debutter properties and for its worship for discovery receiver injunction and costs.
written statements were filed by the appellants and by susilabala and the two sons of jogendra denying the claims of the idol and contending inter alia that there was no valid or absolute dedication of the suit properties i to the idol and that the said premises had been respectively acquired by them by adverse possession and that the title of the idol thereto had been extinguished.
the said suit was heard by mr justice bose who declared the premises.
No 41 a.
grey street to be the absolute property of the idol and made the other declarations in favour of the idol as prayed for.
the idol was declared entitled to possession of the said premises with mesne profits for three years prior to the institution of the suit till delivery of possession but was ordered to pay as a condition for recovery of possession of the said premises a sum of rs 19000 to the appellants with interest thereon at the rate of 6 per cent.
the learned judge however dismissed the suit of the idol in regard to the premises.
No 402 a grey street as in his opinion sushilabala as executrix to her husband s estate and her two sons had acquired title to the said premises by adverse possession and the title of the idol thereto had been extinguished.
the appeal and the cross objections came on for hearing before harries c j and section n banerjee j who delivered judgment on the 5th march 1951 dismissing the said appeal and allowing the cross objection in regard to rs 19000 filed by the idol against the appellants.
in regard however to the cross objection relating to premises.
grey street which was directed against sushilabala and the two sons of jogendra the learned judges held that the cross objection against the co respondents was not maintainable and dismissed the same with costs.
the said cross objections were however printed as additional record.
by an order made by this court on the 24th may 1953 the petition of the idol for filing cross objections in this court was allowed to be treated as a petition for special leave to appeal against that part of the decree which was against it subject to any question as to limitation.
the appeal as also the petition for special leave to appeal mentioned above came on for hearing and final disposal before us.
the appeal was argued but so far as the petition for special leave to appeal was concerned the parties came to an agreement whereby the idol asked for leave to withdraw the petition on certain terms recorded between the parties.
the petition for special leave was therefore allowed to be withdrawn and no objection now survives in regard to the decree passed by the trial court dismissing the idol s claim to the premises No 402 a.
the appeal is concerned only with the premises.
it was contended on behalf of the appellants that the dedication of the premises.
41 grey street made by dwarka nath under the terms of his will was a partial dedication and that his sons rajendra and jogendra and his widow golap sundari who were appointed sevayats of the idol were competent to deal with premises.
No 41.
grey street after making the due provision for the idol as they purported to do by the terms of settlement dated the 24th november 1910.
it was further contended that nagendra by virtue of the award dated the 12th october 1920 claimed to be absolutely entitled to the premises.
grey street and that his possession of the said premises thereafter became adverse which adverse possession continued for upwards of 12 years extinguishing the right of the idol to the said premises.
3 of the said will provided with a view to provide a permanent habitation for the said deity i do by means of this will dedicate the aforesaid immovable property the said house.
No 41 grey street together with land thereunder to the said sri sri issur sridhar jew.
with a view to provide for the expenses of his daily and periodical sheba and festivals etc.
the 3 12 cattahs three and half cattahs of rent free land more or less that i have on that very.
grey street No 401.
and shall take the municipal bills in his name.
t is quite true that a dedication may be either absolute or partial.
the property may be given out and out to the idol or it may be subjected to a charge in favour of the idol.
what we find here in cl.
of the deity.
of the said premises.
41 grey street to the idol was an absolute dedication.
cal 54 1932 indlaw cal 59.
adverse possession in such circumstances is a notion almost void of content.
appeal dismissed.
