the respondent No.
i was tried before the court of sessions visakhapatnam for offences under section 120 b indian penal code section 409 section 477 a and section 471 read with section 467 i p c while respondent No 2 was tried for an offence under section 120 b and for offences under sections 409 read with section 109 477 a and 471 read with section 467 i p c each of the respondents was convicted of the first two offences but.
the respondent No i alone was convicted of the other two offences.
various sentences were passed against them by the additional sessions judge visakhapatnam who presided over the court.
the respondents preferred appeals before the high court challenging their convictions and sentences.
the state on the other hand preferred an application for revision under section 439 cr.
the state of andhra pradesh has come up before this court in appeal by obtaining special leave under article 136 of the constitution.
we shall refer to this company throughout as the aeco.
it obtained licences from the government under the electricity act for supply of electrical energy to visakhapatnam anakapalli and some other places.
some time later other industrial concerns the andhra cements ltd vi jayawada and the east coast ceremics.
a mention may be made of the fact that in june 1952 the vesco undertaking was acquired by the government under the provisions of the electricity undertaking acquisition act but nothing turns on it.
the vesco had its own board of directors while the aeco had also its own separate board of directors.
the vesco had no managing director but at each meeting of its board of directors one of the directors used to be elected chairman.
the same practice was followed at the meeting of the general body of the shareholders.
the aeco on the other band always had a managing director first of whom was d l n raju.
this person however did not shift to visakhapatnam on his becoming the managing director but continued to stay most of the time at rajahmundry.
according to the prosecution both these concerns were running smoothly and efficiently during the lifetime of d l n raju because he was personally attending to their affairs.
eventually many of those ventures failed.
according to the prosecution the second raju was not bestowing sufficient care and attention on the affairs of vesco.
he was succeeded by t visweswara rao p w 6 an employee of the aeco.
the respondent No 1.
all this is not disputed.
the respondent No 1 even after his appointment on two posts connected with vesco continued to work with the aeco also whose business had by then been confined only to that of managing agents of the four companies floated by d l n raju.
he was thus all important with respect to the every day affairs of vesco.
his dual capacity enabled the respondent No i to earn the confidence not only of the directors of aeco but also of those of vesco.
the accounts maintained by the vesco used to be explained by him not only to the directors but also to the shareholders.
the knowledge of the financial position of vesco obtained by them used to be derived essentially from the respondent No 1.
as secretary of vesco it was his duty to convene the meetings of the board of directors to present before them the periodical statement of receipts and expenditure of vesco to convene meetings of the general body to prepare the managing agents report and the director s report as also to see to the presentation of auditors report and the statement of accounts.
the explanations of the managing agents and the directors of vesco with respect to the items mentioned in the orders of the board used also to be placed by him before the shareholders.
it was also his duty to have the accounts of vesco audited by the auditors elected by the general body and to produce before the auditors the relevant accounts vouchers bank statements and so on.
till the year 1945 messrs c p rao co a firm of chartered accountants were the auditors of vesco but after the respondent No i became secretary.
one b rajan was elected auditor not only for vesco but for all the other four concerns including aeco.
this person was auditor for greenlands hotel at visakhapatnam.
of which the respondent No i was a director.
srinivasa rao originally a stores boy.
laksbminarayana rao was appointed the cashier.
i continued to be the secretary of vesco and resident representative of the managing agents throughout the period of conspiracy.
by cheques.
in that book payments which used to be made by respondent No 2 on the basis of slips issued by the respondent No i used to be noted and the amount totalled up at the end of the day.
on the basis of the entries in the handover book the final accounts were written up.
it may be mentioned that subba raju used to visit visakhapatnam twice a month and check up the account books.
the interim report showed that there was a shortage of about rs 90 000 for this period.
on may 13 1954 a chargesheet was filed against the two respondents as well as murti and the approver ramana.
then according to the high court offences under.
section 409 and section 471467 are of different kinds and are not capable of joint commission.
the high court has further stated that inadmissible evidence was taken on record by the additional sessions judge namely account books of billimoria brothers maintained in gujrati and further that the additional sessions judge was in error in allowing the prosecution to use those account books for establishing absence of entries with regard to certain payments alleged in the vesco books to have been made to them.
it is thus apparent that offences committed within a space of 12 months were tried along with offences committed beyond that period.
it thus lays down the normal rule to be followed in every case.
section 234.
sub s 2 of section 235 deals with a case where an offence falls within two definitions and sub s 3 deals with a case in which a number of acts are alleged against an accused person different com binations of which may constitute different offences.
let us therefore examine closely the provisions of section 239.
obviously section 233 does not override the provisions of section 239.
it could not have been the intention of the legislature to create such a situation.
again as already stated section 2341 does not override the provisions of section 2351 which permits trial of a person for more offences than one committed during any period provided they are so connected together as to form one transaction.
unless we read section 2341 as not enacting a fetter on section 2351 it may not be possible to give full effect to the latter.
thus he points out that where several persons are accused of more offences than one of the same kind committed by them jointly within a period of 12 months the number of offences for which they could be tried can not exceed three.
in our opinion the words within the meaning of section 234 indicate that what was meant by the words offence of the same kind persons accused of more offences than one of the same kind not exceeding three in numberor may have used the words person accused of more than one offence of the same kind to the extent permissible under section 234.
the provisions of sub s 2 and 3 of section 235 are enabling provisions and quite plainly can have no overriding effect.
apart from this the question whether the provisions of sections 233 to 236 have or have no overriding effect on section 239.
is not strictly germane to the question considered by the high court that is clubbing together all the provisions of the various clauses of section 239.
we have already indicated how those clauses may be grammatically read.
where however several offences are alleged to have been committed by several accused persons it may be more reasonable to follow the normal rule of separate trials.
no reason has been stated in support of this view.
a and b.
a says that persons accused of the same offence committed in the course of the same transaction may be charged and tried together.
under cl.
mody v the state of bombay.
be said to vitiate the charge.
