the appellant had filed a suit on october 24 1942 for the recovery of rs 2 lakhs and interest thereon from the date of suit and for costs originally against the state of travancore now the state of kerala the respondent and three others who however were not made parties in the appeal before the high court.
it has alleged in the plaint that the plaintiff appellant was wrongfully dispossessed from 160 acres of land along with the improvements which had been effected by him and as the state had appropriated those improvements without any right or title thereto he claimed the value of those improvements.
it was the appellant s case that he had been in occupation of the said 160 acres of cherikkal land unregistered dry lands in hilly tracts about which and the adjoining lands there was a dispute as to whether the same belonged to a jenmi family known as koodalvalli illom hereinafter called the illom or to the government of the erstwhile travancore state.
the appellant s father and the appellant had occupied these lands made improvement thereon by planting coconut trees arecanut palms peppervines rubber trees jack trees other trees and by constructing bungalow huts wells etc.
in the bona fide belief that the lands belonged to the illom.
it may be mentioned that in respect of the 160 acres of land of the illom which were occupied by the appellant s father and the appellant there was a dispute between the illom and the travancore state from about 1848.
while this dispute was pending it appears the appellant applied to the conservator of forests for registration of the lands in his name but the application was rejected on june 14 1919 stating that the land applied for can not be registered ext.
a while the application for registration was pending the dispute between the illom and the state of travancore had reached a stage when the illom had to institute a suit o section No.
126 of 1096.
in that suit the appellant after his application for registration was rejected sought to get himself impleaded but that application also was rejected.
it may here be mentioned that while the suit of the illom i e o s No 126 of 1096 m e was pending in the district court quilon the government of travancore had initiated proceedings in ejectment against the appellant by l c case.
112 of 1100 1925 a d as the suit of the illom had been finally disposed of and the title of the illom to the lands was not established the appellant apprehending that he might be ejected in the above l c case filed a suit.
a rubbers state and a large number of other valuable trees like jack trees mango trees coconut trees etc.
the appellant pursuant to this order was dispossessed from the lands and possession of these lands was given to the second defendant nair service society ltd in august 1939.
thereafter the suit out of which this appeal arises was filed against the government on october 24 1942.
the respondent state contended that the appellant encroached on the suit lands that proceedings were taken against him in l c case.
112 of 1100 m e and the appellant was therefore not entitled to claim any value for improvements as it was his duty to remove any building before he was evicted.
it pointed out that the plaintiff appellant had applied to get himself impleaded on 0 s No 126 of 1096 m e but his application was rejected and after that suit was dismissed the appellant again applied for registry but that was also rejected.
with respect to the allegation that an order of forfeiture was not served on the appellant under section 9 of the act the court observed that though the state had in its written statement contended that such an order had been passed no order was produced in evidence and consequently it was conceded by the government pleader that no such order was passed.
the high court accepted the finding of the trial court on issue.
12 6 1094 the petitioner knew that the land was government land and had then applied for assignment of the land.
accordingly the high court found that at no time the occupation of the land by the appellant was under a bona fide claim of title.
in this view it held that compensation for trees which are to be dealt with under the general law can not be decreed in favour of a mere trespasser who had no rights therein.
it was also of the view that the claim for compensation for trees which has to be dealt with under the general law under which a mere trespasser would have no rights to the payment of compensation nor could be.
a and also to the fact that after the application for registration was rejected the appellant tried to get himself impleaded in the suit filed by the illom against the state which application was also rejected and so the claim that his possession was bona fide or that he was a bona fide trespasser has no validity.
registration in his name on the basis that it was government land.
before dealing with this aspect we will first consider the question whether trees are included within the meaning of section 9 so as to entitle the appellant to a notice of forfeiture there under.
section 9 of the act is in the following terms any person unauthorised occupying any land for which he is liable to pay a fine under section 6 and an assessment or prohibitory assessment under section 7 may be summarily evicted by the division peishkar and any crop or other product raised on the land shall be liable to forfeiture and any building or other structure erected or anything deposited thereon shall also if not removed by him after such written notice as the division peishkar may deem reasonable be liable to forfeiture.
it was pointed out by the learned advocate that the high court was in error in equating other product raised on the land with emblements because the definition of crop in black s law dictionary does include emblements as such the words other product can not also be treated as emblements and must therefore be given a different meaning which according to him would include trees.
the products of a farm may include the increase of cattle on the premises.
but the learned advocate for the appellant submits that it was not his case nor is it under the general law necessary for a person who trespassed on the land to trespass with a claim of bona fide title.
which belonged to him.
p w 4 the manager was asked in cross examination whether he had been given any priorinformation or notice about eviction and this witness also said that there was no prior information or notice.
appeal dismissed.
