this appeal by special leave which is directed against the judgment and order dated april 241974 of the letters patent bench of the high court of judicature at madras reversing the judgment and order dated april 191971 of the single judge of that court passed in writ petition no 3822 of 1969 presented u art 226 of the constitution raises a complex but an interesting question relating to the construction of the phrases maternity benefit for the period of her actual absence immediately preceding and including the day of her delivery and for the six weeks immediately following that day occurring in s 51 of the maternity benefits act1961.
it appears that in october1967subbammal respondent no 2 herein who is a woman worker employed in mount stuart estate hereinafter referred to as the establishmentwhich is carrying on plantation industry was allowed leave of absence by the establishment on the basis of a notice given by her of her expected delivery which actually took place on december 161967 after her delivery the respondent was paid by her employers on account of maternity benefit an amount equivalent to what she would have earned on the basis of her average daily wage in 72 working days falling within twelve week s of the maternity period.
while calculating the aforesaid amount of maternity benefit the establishment admittedly excluded twelve sundays being wageless holidays which fell during the period of the respondent s actual absence immediately preceding and including the day of her delivery and the six weeks immediately following that day.
dissatisfied with this computation the respondent made a representation to her employers claiming maternity benefit for the entire period of twelve weeks under the act i e for 84 days on the plea that a week consisted of seven days.
as her demand did not evoke a favourable response the respondent applied to the labour court coimbatore under section 33c2 of the industrial disputes act for redress of her grievance.
the claim preferred by the respondent was resisted by the appellant herein who contended that the respondent was admittedly working and was being paid only for six days in a week and that a pregnant woman worker is entitled to maternity benefit for 72 days which are the normal working days in twelve weeks and not for 84 days as no wage is payable for the seventh day of the week i e sunday which is a nonworking wageless holiday.
by its order dated february 261969the labour court allowed the claim of the respondent.
thereupon the establishment moved the high court at madras u art 226 of the constitution challenging the decision of the labour court.
contending that the claim made by the respondent was untenable as normally a worker works only for six days in a week and the maternity benefit had to be computed only for 72 days.
as against this the respondent pleaded that the computation had to be made not with reference to the actual number of working days but with reference to total number of days covered by twelve weeks i e 84 days.
aggrieved by this decision the respondent filed an appeal u cl 15 of the letters patent which as already stated was allowed by the letters patent bench of the high court observing that the maternity benefit which the respondent was entitled to receive was for the period of her absence before delivery including the day of delivery and also six weeks thereafter each week consisting of seven days including sundays.
dissatisfied with this decision the establishment has already stated come up in appeal to this court by special leave.
we place on record our deep appreciation of the valuable assistance rendered to us by both of them.
assailing the judgment and order under appeal mr pai has urged that since legislative intent as revealed from the scheme of s 51 of the act is to compensate the woman worker who expects delivery for the loss that her forced absence from work on account of pregnancy and confinement may entail the liability which has to be imposed on her employer can not exceed the amount that she would have earned if she had not been compelled to avail of the maternity leave and since sunday is a non working wageless day the employer can not be made to pay for that day.
in support of his contention.
cochin v.
inspector of plantation mundakayam.
1975.
i c 848  a i r 1975.
for a proper determination of the question involved in the appeal it would we think be useful to refer to certain provisions of the act which have a bearing on the subject matter of the controversy before us.
s 21 of the act makes the act applicable to every establishment being a factory mine or plantation including any such establishment belonging to government and to every establishment wherein persons are employed for the exhibition of equastrain acrobatic and other performance.
s 4 of the act which prohibits the employment of or work by woman during certain period lays down 4 employment of or work by woman prohibited during certain period 1 no employer shall knowingly employ a woman in any establishment during the six weeks immediately following the day of her delivery or her mis carriage.
5 right to payment of maternity.
explanation.
provided that the qualifying period of one hundred and sixty days aforesaid shall not apply to a woman who has immigrated into the state of assam and was pregnant at the time of the immigration.
provided that where a woman dies during this period the maternity benefit shall be payable only for the days up to and including the day of her death.
s 6 of the act which deals with notice of claim for maternity benefit and payment thereof is to the following effect 6 notice of claim for maternity benefit and payment thereof.
the first one i e prenatal or ante natal period is limited to the period of woman s actual absence extending upto six weeks immediately preceding and including the day on which her delivery occurs and the second one which is postnatal compulsory period consists of six weeks immediately following the day of delivery.
the benefit has to be calculated for the aforesaid two periods on the basis of the average daily wage.
for fixing the average daily wage it has therefore first to be ascertained whether the wages with were paid or were payable to the woman was for time work or for piece work.
it has next to be ascertained as to what were the cash wages paid or payable to her in terms of the definition contained in s 3 n of the act for the days on which she worked during the period of three calendar months immediately preceding the date of delivery reckoned according to the british calendar month.
in the shorter oxford english dictionary third editionthe word week has been described as meaning the cycle of seven days recognized in the calendar of the jews and thence adopted in the calendars of christian mohammedan and various other peoples.
a space of seven days irrespective of the time from which it is reckoned.
seven days as a term for periodical payments of wagerrent or the likeor as a unit of reckoning for time of work or service.
a week according to halsbury s laws of england.
bearing in mind the above mentioned dictionary or popular meaning of the term.
the language in which the aforesaid sub s s are couched also shows that the legislature intended that computation of maternity benefit is to be made for the entire period of the woman worker s actual absence i e for all the days including sundays which may be wageless holidays falling within that period and not only for intermittent periods of six days thereby excluding sundays falling within that period for if it were not so the legislature instead of using the words for the period of her actual absence immediately preceding and including the day of her delivery and for the six weeks immediately following that day would have used the words for the working days falling within the period of her actual absence immediately preceding and including the day of her delivery and the six weeks immediately following that day but excluding the wageless days.
again the word period occurring in s 51 of the act is a strong word.
revised1952 adopted by the general conference of the international labour organisation which are extracted below for facility of reference art 4.
appeal dismissed.
