in this group of cases we are faced with a different problem of alleged exploitation by big manufacturers of bulk drugs.
by way of illustration we may straightaway mention a glaring instance of such high pricing which was brought to our notice at the very commencement of the hearing.
barlagan ketone a bulk drug was not treated as an essential bulk drug under the drugs prices control.
a manufacturer was under the provisions of that order free to continue to sell the drug at the price reported by him to the central government at the time of the commencement of the order but was under an obligation not to increase the price without the prior approval of the central government.
the government however fixed the price at rs 1810 per kg.
for the moment ignoring the price fixed by the government we see that the price of rs 24735 per kg.
at which the manufacturer was previously selling the drug and at which he continues to market the drug to this day because of the quashing of the order fixing the price by the high court is so unconsciously high even compared with the price claimed by himself that it appears to justify the charge that some manufacturers do indulge in profiteering.
profiteering by itself is evil.
profiteering in the scarce resources of the community much needed life sustaining food stuffs and lifesaving drugs is diabolic.
it is a menance which had to be lettered and curbed.
before we turn to the terms of the drugs prices control.
we concern ourselves neither with the policy nor with the rates.
but our examination will stop there.
we will go no further.
we will not deluge ourselves with more facts and figures.
the assembling of the raw materials and the mechanics of price fixation are the concern of the executive and we leave it to them.
and we will not revaluate the considerations even if the prices are demonstrably injurious to some manufacturers or producers.
the court will of course examine if there is any hostile discrimination.
that is a different cup of tea altogether.
in the case of subordinate legislation it may happen that parliament may itself provide for a notice and for a hearing there are several instances of the legislature requiring the subordinate legislating authority to give public notice and a public hearing before say for example levying a municipal rate  in which case the substantial non observance of the statutorily prescribed mode of observing natural justice may have the effect of invalidating the subordinate legislation.
the right here given to rate payers or others is in the nature of a concession which is not to detract from the character of the activity as legislative and not quasijudicial.
but where the legislature has not chosen to provide for any notice or hearing no one can insist upon it and it will not be permissible to read natural justice into such legislative activity.
occasionally the legislature directs the subordinate legislating body to make such enquiry as it thinks fit before making the subordinate legislation.
in such a situation while such enquiry by the subordinate legislating body as it deems fit is a condition precedent to the subordinate legislation the nature and the extent of the enquiry is in the discretion of the subordinate legislating body and the subordinate legislation is not open to question on the ground that the enquiry was not as full as it might have been.
it is the sort of enquiry which the legislature itself may cause to be made before legislating an enquiry which will not confer any right on anyone.
the third observation we wish to make is price fixation is more in the nature of a legislative activity than any other.
it is true that with the proliferation of delegated legislation there is a tendency for the line between legislation and administration to vanish into an illusion.
administrative quasi judicial decisions tend to merge in legislative activity and conversely legislative activity tends to fade into and present an appearance of an administrative or quasi judicial activity.
any attempt to draw a distinct line between legislative and administrative functions it has been said is difficult in theory and impossible in practice.
though difficult it is necessary that the line must sometimes be drawn as different legal fights and consequences may ensue.
the distinction between the two has usually been expressed as one between the general and the particular.
it has also been said rule making is normally directed toward the formulation of requirements having a general application to all members of a broadly identifiable class while an adjudication on the other hand applies to specific individuals or situations.
administration and administrative adjudication may also be of general application and there may be legislation of particular application only.
the object of the rule the reach of its application the rights and obligations arising out of it its intended effect on past present and future events its form the manner of its promulgation are some factors which may help in drawing the line between legislative and non legislative acts.
the right of the citizen to obtain essential articles at fair prices and the duty of the state to so provide them are transformed into the power of the state to fix prices and the obligation of the producer to charge n6 more than the price fixed.
pricefixation may occasionally assume an administrative or quasi judicial character when it relates to acquisition or requisition of goods or property from individuals and it becomes necessary to fix the price separately in relation to such individuals.
such situations may arise when the owner of property or goods is compelled to sell his property or goods to the government or its nominee and the price to be paid is directed by the legislature to be determined according to the statutory guidelines laid down by it.
in such situations the determination of price may acquire aquasi judicial character.
beg cj.
panipat and anakapalle were both cases where the question was regarding the price payable to a person who was required to sell to the government a certain percentage of the quantity of sugar produced in his mill.
it will straight away be seen that an order under section 32f if a specific order directed to a particular individual for the purpose of enabling the central government to purchase a certain quantity of the commodity from the person holding it.
it is further prescribed that different prices may be determined from time to time for different areas or for different factories or for different kinds of sugar.
the order made under section 32c controlling the price of an essential commodity may itself prescribe the manner in which price is to be fixed but that will not make the fixation of price a non legislative activity when the activity is not directed towards a single individual or transaction but is of a general nature covering all individuals and all transactions.
we may refer at this juncture to some illuminating passages from schwrtz s book on administrative law.
he said if a particular function is termed legislative or rulemaking rather than judicial or adjudication it may have substantial effects upon the parties concerned.
if the function is treated as legislative in nature there is no right to notice and hearing unless a statute expressly requires them.
the key factor in the holmes analysis is time a rule prescribes future patterns of conduct a decision determines liabilities upon the basis of present or past facts.
he was required to report this price to the central government within two weeks of the commencement of the order and was further prohibited from increasing the price without obtaining the approval of the central government.
a committee on drugs and pharmaceutical industry popularly known as the hathi committee was appointed by the government of india to enquire into the various facets of the drug industry in india.
one of the terms of reference was to examine the measures taken so far to reduce prices of drugs for the consumer and to recommend such further measures as may be necessary to rationalise the prices of basic drugs and formulations.
the hathi committee had recommended that a return post tax between 12 to 14 on equity that is paid up capital plus reserves may be adopted as the basis for price fixation depending on the importance and complexity of the bulk drug.
the hathi committee considered that units other than mrtp units having only turnover of less than rs 1 crore may be exempted from price control.
alternatively all formulations other than those marketed under generic names which have an annual sale in the country in excess of rs 15 lakhs inclusive of excise duty may be subjected to price control irrespective of whether or not the total annual turnover of the unit is in excess of rs 1 crore.
on the basis of cost analysis in respect of those units maximum prices may be prescribed and all other units may be free to fix their prices within this ceiling.
on balance the hathi committee was of the view that this particular variant selectivity may be administratively simpler.
paragraph 34a requires a manufacturer commencing production of the bulk drug specified in the first or second schedule the price of which has already been notified by the government not to sell the bulk drug at a price exceeding the notified price.
to be furnished.
however the interests of the manufacturers are not to be ignored.
nor is it desirable to seek analogies and look to distant cousins for guidance.
