this civil appeal by special leave is directed against the judgment and decree dated 29th november1977 rendered by a single judge of the gujarat high court in second appeal no 348 of 1973which arose out of regular civil suit no 921 of 1966 filed in the court of joint civil judge baroda civil court by the appellant herein as plaintiff against respondents 1 and 2 herein.
defendants 1 and 2 for redemption of suit properties which were mortgaged as security for certain monies borrowed by the plaintiff from defendant l under two deeds of mortgage executed in the year 1961.
plaintiff filed the suit for redemption of the said mortgages in the year 1966 defendant 2brother of defendanti had been joined in that suit on the allegation that the latter was put in possession of mortgage properties by the former subsequent to the coming into existence of the mortgages.
that suit was resisted by the defendants each of them having filed separate written statements which in sub stance did not differ from each other.
it was also claimed therein that they had become owners of the said properties when the plaintiff in the year 1962 sold those properties to defendant 1 by receiving a sum of rs 4400 as consideration for the sale.
even if the sale of said properties in favour of defendant l it was asserted therein was not proved they continued to be tenants of the said properties on the date of suit as they were tenants even before the date of coming into existence of the mortgages.
the issue relating to their claim that they were tenants of the said properties the agricultural lands as urged therein had to be referred by the civil court to the mamlatdar under section 85 a of the bombay tenancy and agricultural lands act1948 the bt al act for recording his finding thereon and the suit had to be stayed pending receipt of the finding thereon so that the suit may be finally disposed of on the basis of such finding.
the civil court notwithstanding the defence of the defendants taken in their written statements that the suit had to be stayed for obtaining the finding on their claim of tenancy under the bt al act framed the issues in the suit on the basis of the pleadings of the parties and after trial recorded its findings thereon.
such findings were firstly that the defendants had failed to prove that the suit properties were sold in favour of defendant l subsequent to the giving of security of those properties in his favour under the mortgage deeds secondly that the defendants had failed to prove the past tenancy of the suit properties on its view that what was pleaded by them in the written statements was tenancy prior to the date of filing of the suit and thirdly that the mortgages of the suit properties were mortgages by conditional sale.
on the basis of findings so recorded by the civil.
however the defendants questioned the judgments and decrees of the trial court and the appellate court by filing a second appeal against the same in the high court of gujarat.
a learned single judge of the high court who heard the second appeal while upheld the concurrent findings of the courts below that the deeds of mortgage executed by the plaintiff in respect of the suit properties in favour of defendant l were mortgages by conditional sale and the defendants had failed to prove that there was sale of the suit properties in their favour subsequent to the coming into existence of the said mortgages found that the defendants had raised in their written statements the plea that they were tenants not only prior to the date of suit but also at the time of the filing of the suit and having regard to that plea the suit ought to have been stayed by the civil court and the issue of tenancy should have been referred to the mamlatdar for obtaining a finding from him thereon both under section 85 a of the bt.
al act as it stood before its amendment at the time of filing of the suit and as it stood after its amendment after the filing of the suit.
consequently the learned single judge set aside the judgments and decrees of the trial court and the appellate court relating to the issue of tenancy raised by the defendants in the suit and remanded the case to the civil court trial court directing it to refer the issue of such tenancy to the mamlatdar baroda for his determination and to stay all further proceedings in the suit till he got the finding from the mamlatdar on that tenancy issue and thereafter to proceed to dispose of that suit in the light of that finding and the other findings recorded by the appellate court district judge.
nagappa shankarappa malaga and others 1976 indlaw sc 400 and gambangi appalaswamy naldu and others v behara venkataramanayya patro.
however learned counsel appearing for the defendants respondents sought to refute the arguments advanced on half of the plaintiff appellant.
as the said questions could be dealt with appropriately with reference to the statutory provisions which bear upon them it would be convenient to advert to such statutory provisions here.
85a i.
we shall now proceed to deal with the aforesaid questions.
question 1.
what is enunciated in section 111 d of the t p act can not be doubted is the doctrine of merger.
merger takes place when a lesser estate is merged or drowned in a greater estate.
lease hold held by a tenant or a lessee being a lesser estate and the right of reversion of the landlord lessor being a higher estate the lessee s lease hold right in respect of the property merges in reversion when that right of reversion i e.
the landlord s lessor s right of reversion comes to the tenant or lessee which happens when the landlord having a right to sell his reversion to the tenant holding the lease hold sells the whole of it to the tenant lessee but in view of the arguments advanced on behalf of the plaintiff appellant what has to be seen is if the landlord of a property the lease hold of which is already with the tenant gives that very property as mortgage security to the tenant lessee by executing a mortgage by a conditional sale for the amount borrowed by him from the latter does merger of lease hold right in that mortgage security occur.
if that be so merger of lease hold estate in reversion can not arise inasmuch as there can not be any inconsistency or incompatibility in one person being the tenant and also the mortgagee of the same property for in that event instead of the tenant paying rent to the landlord he may adjust it against the amount claimable by him as a mortgagee from the landlord.
al act even if the plaintiff could obtain a decree for redemption of the suit properties which relief was sought in the suit.
when suit for redemption of the premises was filed by the respondent the appellant claimed that after redemption he was entitled to remain in possession of the premises because of the subsistence of his previous tenancy right.
question 2.
act1947.
