the respondents entered into an agreement with sudhir kumar sen on november 31948 to render technical know how to the indian company to be formed which would manufacture bicycles and market them under raleigh s indian trade marks.
pursuant thereto a company called sen raleigh limited came into existence which manufactured cycles with technical assistance by the respondents raleigh industries of u k and marketed the bicycles with a brand name and trade marks belonging to the respondents.
on april 241954sen.
by agreement dated december 291962sen raleigh and the respondents agreed that sen raleigh was registered user for further period up to 1976 sen raleigh was taken over by the government of india on september 81975 under the idr act and the government took over the management of sen raleigh limited.
the agreement dated december 291962 was modified and the respondents were given option to terminate the agreement.
an agreement dated december 201976 was entered into between the appellant as registered user and the respondent in respect of 12 trade marks for a period of 5 years.
on march 281978joint application by sen raleigh and the appellant duly signed by the respondent as proprietor and sen raleigh limited as registered user came to be made before the registrar of trade marks.
on october 241980sen raleigh was nationalized and got vested in the appellant corporation by publication of the notification under idr act.
on march 241982the appellant made an application under sections 3246 and 56 of the act against the respondents in the high court of calcutta in suit no 26692 pleading inter alia that the respondents had failed to provide technical assistance by passing the technical know how to sen raleigh after november 11976 neither the appellant nor sen raleigh were registered users of the trade mark after november 11976.
a continuous period of 5 years or longer had passed and the trade mark had not been bona fide used by the respondent.
having regard to the extended nature of non user of the concerned trade mark after november 11976any further use of the said trade marks by the respondents was likely to deceive and cause confusion to the trade and public alike in india.
simultaneously an application for registration of three trade marks an their favour was filed by the appellant on march 251982.
after termination of the collaboration and user agreement between the appellant and the respondents it was likely to cause confusion and deception amongst the trade and public.
the conduct of the respondents was not violative of s 32b and c the court in those circumstances declined to rectify the trade mark and strike it off from the register of trade marks.
there is no specific bar for an unregistered lincesee to use registered trade mark so long as there is a connection in the course of trade between the licenser and the lincesee.
the appellant was unable to prove that there had been no such user of the trade mark for a continuous period of 61 months or longer and the lack of bona fide intention the expression by any registered proprietors in s 461b should not be restricted to user by proprietor or registered user who should also include bona fide or authorized users the legislature did not intend to register proprietor to be deprived of their property at the instance of user whose use is unregistered.
the expression therefore should not be restricted to user by the proprietor himself or any registered user but should also take into account bona fide authorized user.
non registration of the user agreement by sen raleigh and the appellant was due to the default of the latter.
in view of the appellant s conduct it was taking advantage of its own wrong.
shri raju ramchandran learned senior counsel for the appellant raised three fold contentions.
the respondents admittedly did not use the same.
the appellant can not be said to be either the proprietor of the trade mark since 1976since the agreement lapsed or permitted user  the high court therefore was wrong in holding that 5 years period had not lapsed.
the construction put up by the high court renders sub s 2 of s 48 otiose or surplus age which interpretation is impermissible.
the burden is on tile respondents to prove that non user was due to special circumstance of the trade and not due to some other cause which would have operated whether special circumstances had arisen or not since the respondents were not using the trade mark since april 201954the plea of special circumstances is not available to the respondents.
the court while exercising its discretion u s 46 should look into not only commercial interest of the parties but also public interest.
according to the learned counsel the respondents have collaboration agreement with sen raleigh which was taken over by the government under idr act and the appellant came to manufacture with the technical know how supplied by the respondents the raleigh bicycles under the trade mark registered by the respondents in the register of the registrar under the act.
the operation of s 482 must be construed in such a way that the bona fide user even by a non registered user so long as there exist a rational connection between the proprietor of the trade mark and passes off the goods in the market manufactured by the appellant is construed to be a bona fide user for and on behalf of the registered proprietor namely the respondents.
in view of the prohibition to import bicycles the respondent was prevented to use the trade mark but by collaboration agreement it was continuing to use the trade mark by the permitted user.
the metal godds mfg.
