there was an inspection by a team of professors of the university and it recommended favourably when it stated that the facilities provided by the appellant would be sufficient for establish ing an engineering college.
the aicte sent a communication on 30 4 1995 stating that on the basis of the observations made by the expert committee and the recommendations made by the central regional committee state level committee and central task force as per the provisions of the aicte regulation dated 30 1 1994the aicte was granting conditional approval for establishing an engineering and technical college.
the abovesaid approval was subject to the fulfilment of specific conditions mentioned in annexure i and the general conditions mentioned in annexure ii to the said letter.
in the event of contravention of the conditions guidelines norms and regula tions of the aicte the aicte could withdraw the approval at any time.
under the impression that the state govt was to grant permission the appellant requested the state government by letter dated 24 6 1995 for permission to start the college.
meanwhile the mahatama gandhi university by their letter dated 31 5 1995 forwarded to the government a list of colleges and courses for affiliation during the academic year 1995 96 the appellant s college was shown as one of the colleges among the affiliated colleges for the said period.
in inviting your attention to the reference cited i am to inform you that government regret their inability to comply with your request.
thereafter the appellant filed writ petition o p no 4612 of 1996 for quashing the said order and for a direction to sanction and establish an engineering college.
the direction to pass a fresh order of affiliation was issued in view of the fact that the university contended before the learned single judge that unless the government granted approval permanent affiliation could not be granted.
the government was also directed to reconsider its decision.
the division bench however observed that the appellant was at liberty to make a fresh application to the government of kerala for according sanction for setting up the engineering college or to request the government to consider the earlier application for a future academic year.
it is against the abovesaid judgment of the division bench that this appeal has been preferred.
learned senior counsel for the appellant.
sri t l vishwanatha.
iyer contended that the division bench erred in reversing the well considered judgment of the learned single judge and according to him after the coming into force of the aicte act1987the statutes conferring power on the state or university to the extent they were inconsistent with the central act were void.
in so far as institutions imparting technical education were concerned the university or the state government had no independent role to play except to the extent provided in the above said enactment in the present case the aicte had made inspections and was satisfied that the necessary infrastructure was available and that the appellant would be able to conform to the required standards of the education.
the aicte had consulted the state of kerala as well as the mahatama gandhi university.
the university had granted conditional approval as stated earlier.
according to the learned senior counsel it was indeed not necessary for the appellant to have applied to the state government for any further sanction to establish the college.
it might be that under the relevant statutes of the university the university was required to obtain the views of the state government but that did not amount to requiring any approval of the state government and indeed if any such statute required the approval of the state government it would be void in view of what was stated by this court in state of tamil nadu.
on the other hand learned additional solicitor general sri mukul rohtagi contended on behalf of the state of kerala that the policy of the state of kerala at the relevant time was not to grant approval for establish ment of more engineering colleges in the state.
the government had clarified in the counter affidavit filed in the high court that the government was not in a position to take a decision to start new engineering colleges without properly assessing the necessity of more engineering graduates from the state and without exploring the possibility of employment opportunities in the country as a whole.
also there were four engineering colleges at kannur trichur kottayam and thiruvananthapuram districts and three private aided engineering colleges at palakkad ernakulam kothamangalam and kollam districts.
the model engineering college emakulam was a selffinancing engineering college and others were the colleges at changannur and pathansamthitta and there was a self financing engineering college at kasargode.
there were also two unaided engineering colleges at mallappuram and thiruvananthapuram.
even though the appellant trust was not seeking aid from the government and even assuming that it was financially self sufficient it would not be in the interests of the students employment to permit new engineering colleges to be established.
thus the government policy was not to grant fresh approvals.
if more approvals were granted it might lead to commercialisation of education.
the following points arise for consideration 1.
whether any statute in the state of kerala if it required such approval would be void.
2 whether the orders of rejection passed by the state government were valid on merits and whether the university should have granted further orders to continue the affiliation solely on the basis of the aicte permission.
point 1.
this point is more or less covered by the judgment of this court in state of tamil nadu.
but in the context of s 10k regarding approval for starting a technical institution certain aspects of the judgment need to be highlighted.
u s 10 of the act it is stated that it is the duty of the council constituted under the act to take all steps as the said council might think fit for ensuring coordinated and integrated develop ment of technical education and maintenance of standards.
reg 42.
reg 84.
sub cl 6 of regulation 8 states that the state level committee constituted under regulation 94 is to consider the recommendations of the state government and others mentioned in regulation 84 and that it is to make its recommendations to the central task force constituted under regulation 95 and consider the recommendations of the state level committee and send its recommendations to the member secretary of the council.
sub cl 10 of regulation 8 states that the decision of the council shall be communicated to the state government concerned or the ugc as the case may be the concerned university or the state board the regional office and the applicant before 30th april in case the application was made before the preceding 31st december.
in the above matter the state of tamil nadu granted permission on 17 4 84 to all private managements to start private engineering colleges without financial commitment to government but subject to conditions.
88 later on these permissions were withdrawn by the state after issuing show cause on 16 7 89 so did the university on 26 7 89 but by that date the aicte act1987 had come into force.
i of the constitution of india relating to coordination and determination of standards in institutions for higher education or research and scientific and technical institutions.
thus the state law under entry 23 of list iii would be repugnant to any law made by the parliament under entry 66 of list i to the extent of inconsistency.
iii whether.
hence on the subjects covered by the statute the state could not make a law under entry 25 of list iii after the forty second amendment.
such repugnancy would have to be adjudged on the basis of the tests which are applied for adjudging repugnancy u art 254 of the constitution.
it was stated that inasmuch as the state act will overlap and will be in conflict with the provisions of the central act in various areas.
granting approval for starting new technical institution.
the question is as to how far the judgment in the tamil nadu case is to be applied in the state of kerala.
learned additional solicitor general stated before us that there was no statute in the state of kerala corresponding to the tamil nadu act of 1976 nor any other law which specifically required the approval of the state government.
it reads as follows grant of affiliation 1.
it will be noticed that cl 97 of the statute required that before the university took a decision on affiliationit had to ascertain the views of the state government.
sub cl 1 of cl 9 of the statute required verification of the facilities that may exist for starting the new colleges course.
the commission was to inspect the site verify the title deeds as regards the proprietary right of the management over the land and buildings if any offered building accommodation provided if any assets of the management constitution of the registered body and all other relevant matters sub cl 2 of cl 9 stated that the affiliation shall depend upon the fulfilment by the management of all the conditions for the satisfactory establishment and maintenance of the proposed institutional courses of studies and on the reports of inspection by the commission or commissions which the university may appoint for the purpose.
so far as the provisions of the mahatma gandhi university act or its statutes were concerned and in particular statute 97they merely required the university to obtain the views of the state government.
that could not be characterised as requiring the approval of the state government.
if indeed the university statute could be so inter preted such a provision requiring approval of the state government would be repugnant to the provisions of s 10k of the aicte act1987 and would again be void.
the state level committee and the central regional committees contained various experts and state representatives.
these were sufficient safeguards for ascertaining the views of the state governments and the universities.
the university could not therefore in any event have sought for approval of the state government.
the university statute 97 merely required that the views of the state government be obtained before granting affiliation and this did not amount to obtaining approval.
point 2.
on facts the position was that the aicte had granted approval on 30 4 95 expressly stating that this was on consideration of the observations made by the expert committee and the recommendations made by the central regional committee state level committee central task force as per the provisions of aicte regulations dated 31 10 94.
the aicte had granted condition approval and the conditions were specified in annexure.
i to the order and the general conditions were enlisted in annexure ii the.
state government was directed by the aicte to announce admission in accordance with regulation notified on 20 5 94 and based on the judgment of the supreme court in unnikrishnan v state of andhra pradesh1993 1 scc.
645 1993 indlaw sc 1168 the mahatma gandhi university had included this appellant in the list of colleges and courses which were granted affiliation during 1995 96 and the university had written to the state government on 31 5 95 that as per statute 97the views of the government were to be sent before granting affili ation.
the letter said that for that reason the proposals of the university were being submitted to the government for necessary action.
the appellant had sent a reminder on 26 8 95 the state in its letter dated 16 8 96 to the appellant merely stated that government regret their inability to comply with your request.
no reasons were assigned in the said letter.
but the state in its counter filed in the high court tried to explain that the director of technical education had opined that during the year 1995 96it might not be practicable to start the college for the director could not ascertain the details of the facilities available.
it was stated he could not ascertain the infrastructural facilities provided by the appellant as per the norms prescribed by the all india council of technical education.
the all india council for technical education and the mahatma gandhi university have sought for the remarks of the state government.
para 4 of the counter affidavit had further stated that the government was not in a position to take a decision to start new engineering college without properly assessing the necessity of more engineering gradu ates in the state and exploring the possibility of employment oppor tunity in the country to the extent possible.
the state government in its counter then gave the names of the existing colleges and their location.
these are stated to be the reasons for the government s rejection by letter dated 16 8 96.
84 here.
