the appellant is a company incorporated under the companies act1956 with the object of manufacture and sale of cigarettes.
members of general public are the shareholders and the shares of the company are traded in through various stock exchanges in the country.
a petition was filed under article 226 of the constitution by respondent no 1 seeking for a writ of mandamus to treat the members of the respondent union who are employees working in the canteen of the appellants factory as employees of the appellant and for grant of monetary and other consequential benefits.
the canteen is provided in the factory premises of the appellant pursuant to section 46 of the factories act1948 hereinafter referred to as the actwhich obliges a factory employing more than 250 workmen to provide such a canteen.
vst the appellant and benefits arising under the employees provident funds act are also provided similarly that the appellant has also provided a building along with furniture utensils cutlery gas electricity water supply and other facilities that the contractor is engaged only to prepare the food and serve it to the employees and that the quality of the food and the rates are controlled by the management of the appellant.
on behalf of the appellant contention was raised that no writ would lie against the appellant inasmuch as the appellant is a company which is not an authority or a person against whom a writ would lie.
it was submitted that they do not discharge any public duty and hence the writ can not be issued.
on the merits of the matter the appellant disputed various questions of fact and urged that the decision of this court in parimal chandra raha vs life insurance corporation of india1995 supp 2 scc 611 1995 indlaw sc 183would not be applicable to the appellant in the facts and circumstances of the case.
the learned single judge who decided the matter in the first instance held that a writ would lie against a company under a private management following the decision in t gattaiah vs commissioner of labour1981 ii llj 54 1981 indlaw ap 26in which it was held that establishment of a canteen and its maintenance is a statutory requirement under section 46 of the act a public duty is imposed on the company to establish and maintain the canteen inasmuch as members of the respondent union are working in the canteen they are entitled to seek a mandamus.
he therefore held that when a public duty is called upon to be discharged by a private management a writ of mandamus would lie and could be issued under article 226 of the constitution.
he thus rejected the contention.
on the merits of the matter the learned single judge followed the decision in parimal chandra rahas case holding that when the duty had been enjoined on the appellant to provide and maintain a canteen facility under the factories act it becomes the obligation of the appellant to establish a canteen and that is what the appellant had done.
therefore when that work is got done through somebody else by providing the necessary infrastructure and other facilities when the personnel did not change though the contractors changed from time to time he held that they become employees of the appellant.
on that basis the learned single judge granted reliefs sought for by the respondents however imposing certain restrictions with regard to the age being medically fit on the date of the writ petition had put in a minimum of three years of continuous service and such service prior to the attainment of the minimum qualifying age under the company should be ignored.
on appeal the division bench of the high court affirmed the view taken by the learned single judge.
the division bench referred to their decision in rakesh gupta vs hyderabad stock exchange ltd hyderabad ors.
302that a writ in the nature of mandamus certiorari and prohibition are recognised as public law remedies and are not available to enforce private law rights.
however noticing that the expression any person or authority used in article 226 of the constitution should not be confined only to statutory authorities and instrumentalities of state but would cover any other person or body performing public duty.
the form of the body concerned is not very much relevant.
what is relevant is the nature of the duty imposed on that body.
on that basis the division bench of the high court dismissed the writ appeal.
on behalf of the appellant contention put forth at the forefront is that a writ would not lie against the appellant inasmuch as the appellant is engaged in the manufacture and sale of cigarettes and as an incident thereto has provided a canteen to its workmen pursuant to an obligation under section 46 of the act.
n anadi muktas case the contention similar to the present case had been raised.
writ petitioners were seeking for a writ of mandamus to put them back in the college and they were claiming only a terminal benefit or arrears of salary payable to them.
in that case the respondent was managing the affiliated college to which public money is paid as government aid which played a major role in the control maintenance and working of educational institutions.
the aided institutions it was noticed like government institutions discharge public function by way of imparting education to students.
employment in such institutions therefore is not devoid of any public character inasmuch as the service conditions of the academic staff were controlled by the university particularly in regard to their pay scales and the protection by university decisions creating a legal right or duty relationship between the staff and the management.
when there is existence of such relationship mandamus could not be refused to such an aggrieved party.
it was further explained in that decision that the term authority used in article 226 of the constitution should receive a liberal meaning unlike the term in article 12which is only for the purpose of enforcement of fundamental rights under article 32 the words any person or authority used in article 226 are therefore not be confined only to statutory authorities or instrumentalities of the state but would cover any other person or body performing public duty.
in de smith woolf and jowells judicial review of administrative action5th edn.
by way of illustration it is noticed that a private company selected to run a prison although motivated by commercial profit should be regarded at least in relation to some of its activities as subject to public law because of the nature of the function it is performing.
this is because the prisoners for whose custody and care it is responsible are in the prison in consequence of an order of the court and the purpose and nature of their detention is a matter of public concern and interest.
after detailed discussion the learned authors have summarized the position with the following propositions 1 the test of whether a body is performing a public function and is hence amenable to judicial review may not depend upon the source of its power or whether the body is ostensibly a public or a private body.
2 the principles of judicial review prima facie govern the activities of bodies performing public functions.
however not all decisions taken by bodies in the course of their public functions are the subject matter of judicial review.
in the following two situations judicial review will not normally be appropriate even though the body may be performing a public function a where some other branch of the law more appropriately governs the dispute between the parties.
the high court has relied very strongly on the decision of a learned single judge in t gattaiahs case wherein it was stated that a writ may lie under article 226 of the constitution against a company incorporated under the companies act1956 as it is permissible to issue a writ against any person.
in the present case the appellant is engaged in the manufacture and sale of cigarettes.
thus we are of the view that the high court fell into error that appellant is amenable to writ jurisdiction.
shramik sena ors.
19996 scc.
the canteen has been there since the inception of the appellants factory.
the workmen have been employed for long years and despite a change of contractors the workers have continued to be employed in the canteen.
the premises furniture fixture fuel electricity utensils etc have been provided for by the appellant.
the wages of the canteen workers have to be reimbursed by the appellant.
the supervision and control on the canteen is exercised by the appellant through its authorised officer as can be seen from the various clauses of the contract between the appellant and the contractor.
the contractor is nothing but an agent or a manager of the appellant who works completely under the supervision control and directions of the appellant.
the workmen have the protection of continuous employment in the establishment.
that the management exercises control over the standard in quality quantity and the rate of the food items supplied to the workmen for whose benefit the canteen is established.
when the management of the appellant exercises such a complete control the canteen shall be deemed to be run by the management itself.
the appellant in any manner can not controvert these facts.
no costs.
the tribunal concluded that there was no doubt that the personnel manager modified ex.
w 50 and obtained ex.
w 49 in the modified form.
the tribunal held against them as there was no material to show that the management had discussed on each point and thereafter an agreement had been drafted.
the tribunal recorded the findings that the canteen had been working for the benefit of the workmen within the premises provided by and with the equipment supplied by the appellant that the appellant supplies the provisions for the preparation of foodstuffs that the appellant issues token to the employees who on production of the same obtain foodstuffs from the canteen that the committee appointed by the appellant decides the menu and as per the directions and supervision of the catering officer the canteen functions that the quality and quantity of the foodstuffs is supervised by him who functions under the committee.
the contributions like esi provident fund etc had also been categorically specified to be provided by the appellant and esi code for the permanent establishment and for the present workmen was the same that after the evidence was tendered by the workmen the appellant got the code changed and the appellant transferred the workmen from one place to another and that the amount to be surrendered by way of unpaid salaries had to be remitted back to the management.
thus the tribunal held that these facts clearly indicated that the appellant exercised administrative financial and disciplinary control over the workmen in question.
the tribunal held that no other material is required to hold them to be employees of the appellant.
in those circumstances the tribunal passed an award that these workmen should be treated as employees of the appellant and they are entitled to payment of appropriate scales and designations in terms of ex.
w12 and w14 from 1 april 1979 with all consequential and attendant benefits of arrears of pay etc together with counting of entire service for the purpose of terminal benefits.
against this award a writ petition was filed before the high court.
it is unnecessary to examine the contention whether the matter is covered by a subsequent decision or not as the facts of the present case stand on its own.
the reference had been made to the tribunal and adjudication had been made by the tribunal as to the status of the workmen the nature of employment control exercised by the appellant which leave no room for doubt that they are the employees of the appellant.
a contention is also sought to be made that it is not possible to run a canteen in the refinery area.
it is brought to our notice that a fire had taken place on a tank on 14 september 1997 and that it was extinguished after 14 days which severely damaged all the building including the canteen and that food and beverages being provided to its employees by making an arrangement to obtain the same from outside the premises of the appellant.
these facts are brought to our notice by an affidavit filed on 21 november 2000 but these factors do not come in the way of the award made by the tribunal as it is possible to locate the canteen in an appropriate place where there is no hazard of the kind envisaged under the petroleum rules.
