these two appeals involve identical questions and therefore are disposed of by this common judgment after noticing the factual position so far as they are relevant.
the appellants question correctness of the judgment rendered by a division bench of the madras high court which held that the withdrawal of benefits extended to the appellants as subsidy was in order.
the appellants questioned legality or the g o ms No 989 dated 1 9 1988 directing discontinuance of purchase tax exemption in case of mills which exceeded the ceiling of rs 300 lakes during the period of five years and government letter dated 28 12 1988 which made the aforesaid g o ms No 989 of 1 9 1988 operative retrospectively from 1 4 1988.
initially the writ petitions were filed before the high court but after constitution of the tamil nadu taxation special tribunal hereinafter referred to as the tribunal the writ petitions were transferred to the tribunal which held that on application of the principles of promissory estoppel and legitimate expectation the withdrawal of benefit was not sustainable in law.
the state questioned correctness of the judgment before the high court which as noted above held the g o ms and the govt.
letter to be valid reversing the conclusions arrived at by the tribunal.
the judgment forms subject matter of challenge in these appeals.
in support of the appeals the primary stands raised by the appellants are.
there was no material to show existence of any overriding public interest to rule out application of the aforesaid doctrine there was no scope for retrospective withdrawal.
in any event before withdrawal of the benefits no opportunity of hearing was granted.
the high court erroneously came to hold that the state government had not filed any counter.
the materials which were produced before the high court and on the basis of which it is decided that the decision of the government is in order were not even pleaded in the pleadings and during arguments.
the appellants were taken by surprise by production of materials which were not even disclosed to the appellants.
the contents of the files which were produced before the high court and on which reliance was placed to hold against the appellants are not known to the appellants.
in other words there was clear violation of the principles of natural justice.
in any event the retrospective withdrawal of the benefit on the basis of an executive decision is impermissible.
in response learned counsel for the respondent state submitted that the appellants have failed to adduce any evidence or material to show that were in any way induced by any governmental action to set up industries.
in fact the government of tamil nadu vide g o ms.
there was no scope for any mis understanding that it applied to any private sector participation in the sphere of sugar manufacturing.
the commercial productions were started in case of appellants in c a No 86062002 i e ponni sugars erode ltd v govt.
on 22 1 1986.
the appellants only made representation to government subsequently claiming exemption at par with the cooperative and public sector mills.
so far as legitimate expectation aspect is concerned it is too well known that the benefit extended can be withdrawn and with this knowledge if the units are set up the principle of legitimate expectation does not apply.
the high court recorded the following findings on the factual aspects.
the respondents have established their units prior to the government orders granting the subsidy and they have no vested right to claim exemption.
no inducement was made in the government orders to establish the units.
the respondents have not acted on the basis of the government orders for establishing the units.
the grant of subsidy is a concession and the government has got good reasons for modifying the scheme in public interest.
no prejudice is caused to the respondents since the scheme was interested to make the units viable and the modified scheme provides for safeguards to that extent.
the order granting subsidy can be withdrawn in public interest.
the government has exercised their right to modify the scheme in the interest of public revenue.
the stand taken by the present appellants before the tribunal and the high court was rejected.
with reference to the files produced certain factual conclusions were arrived at the correctness of those form the core challenge in these appeals.
estoppel is a rule of equity which has gained new dismensions in recent years.
the doctrine of promissory estoppel has assumed importance in recent years though it was dimly noticed in some of the earlier cases.
the leading case on the subject is central london property trust ltd v high trees house ltd 1947 1 k b 130.
but that principle does not create any cause of action which did not exist before so that where a promise is made which is not supported by any consideration the promise can not bring an action on the basis of that promise.
all e r 657 1955 1 w l r 761.
doctrine of promissory estoppel has been envolved by the courts on the principles of equity to avoid injustice.
although substantially such a statement is correct and leads to no misunderstanding it does not bring out clearly the basal purpose of the doctrine.
this principle has been evolved by equity to avoid injustice.
it is nether in the realm of contract nor in the realm of estoppel.
if any concession has been given it can be withdrawn at any time and no time limit should be insisted upon before it was withdrawn.
the rule of promissory estoppel can be invoked only if on the basis of representation made by the government the industry was established to avail benefit if of exemption.
it was held that the doctrine of promissory estoppel represents a principle evolved by equity to avoid injustice.
the doctrine of legitimate expectation has an important place in the developing law of judicial review.
in other words where a person s legitimate expectation in not fulfilled by taking a particular decision then decision maker should justify the denial of such expectation by showing some overriding public interest.
see union of india and others.
sc 9981993 indlaw sc 1085.
the wide sweep of article 14 and the requirement of every state action qualifying for its validity on this touchstone irrespective of the field of activity of the state is an accepted tenet.
the basic requirement of article 14 is fairness in action by the state and non arbitrariness in essence and substance is the heart beat of fair play.
the meaning and true import and concept of arbitrariness is more easily visualized than precisely defined.
something overwhelming must appear before the court will intervene.
as professor wade points out in administrative law by h w r wade 6th edition there is ample room within the legal boundaries for radical differences of opinion in which neither side is unreasonable.
the decision maker has the choice in the balancing of the pros and cons relevant to the change in policy.
it is therefore clear that the choice of police is for the decision maker and not the court.
a claim based on merely legitimate expectation without anything more can not ipso facto give a right.
its uniqueness lies in the fact that it covers the entire span of time present past and future.
it is a well meant caution.
otherwise a resourceful litigant having vested interest in contract licences etc can successfully indulge in getting welfare activities mandated by directing principles thwarted to further his own interest.
if the state acts within the bounds of reasonableness it would be legitimate to take into consideration the national priorities and adopt trade policies.
clause 1 requires that all executive action of the state government shall have to be taken in the name of the governor.
air 1964.
similar view was expressed in m s pawan alloys and casting pvt ltd meerut etc.
1999 1 scc 573 1997 indlaw sc 1219 it was further held that the government could change its industrial policy if the situation so warranted and merely because the resolution was announced for a particular period it did not mean that the government could not amend and change the policy under any circumstances.
the doctrine of promissory estoppel had no application to the facts of the case at that stage.
contrary to what the high court has stated it appears from record that counter affidavits were filed.
the same also needs to be examined.
it is to be noted that no privilege was claimed from production of the file as the files were produced before the high court and in fact the high court referred to the materials on the files to affirm state s action.
the appeals are disposed of accordingly without any order as to costs.
appeals disposed of.
