aggrieved by the decision of customs excise and gold control appellate tribunal cegat dated 11 4 2000the appellants assessee have come by way of civil appeals under section 35l of the central excise act1944.
the biscuits were sold under the brand name meghraj.
the above show cause notices were issued by the department demanding differential duty for the period april 1994 to june 1994 amounting to rs 374948 plus short paid duty for the period april 1995 to may 1995 amounting to rs 92992 the said demand was based on an agreement detected by the department.
that agreement was between madan verma director of a company known as m s.
kay aar biscuits p.
ltd ghaziabad and m s rich food products p ltd noida.
under the said agreement m s kay aar biscuits p ltd was.
party no 1 under the agreement.
under the agreement.
it was stated that m s kay aar biscuits p ltd was using the aforestated trade mark meghraj for the manufacture of biscuits.
under the agreement there was a recital under which it was stated that m s.
rich food products p.
ltd had put up a unit for manufacture of wafers in noida which it sought to manufacture under the brand name meghraj.
the said agreement m s kay aar biscuits p ltd gave permission to m s rich food products pvt.
ltd to use its trade mark for the manufacture of wafers alone.
meghraj biscuits industries ltd or meghraj.
the assistant commissioner ghaziabad examined the printed wrappers.
he came to the conclusion vide his orders that the trade name meghraj was in the form of a logo printed on the wrapper of the biscuits and therefore the appellants were not entitled to the benefit of notification no 193 ce dated 28 2 93 as amended by notification no 5994 dated 1 3 94 consequently the adjudicating authority called upon the appellants to pay differential duty for the period april 1994 to june 1994 amounting to rs 374948 plus short paid duty for the period april 1995 to may 1995 amounting to rs 92992.
it was held that the word meghraj was printed on all the printed wrappers and therefore it was wrong to say that the appellants were not using the brand name meghraj on its products.
in this connection reliance was placed by the commissioner a on the said agreement dated 22 11 89 before the commissioner a the appellants herein contended that they had used the name m s meghraj biscuits industries ltd on the wrapper and not on the product.
and therefore they were entitled to exemption.
according to the commissioner athe appellants used the trade name meghraj in the form of a logo which was printed on the wrapper.
kay aar biscuits p ltd.
this contention was rejected by the commissioner a on the ground that under the notification no 193 ce as amended exemption was not available to the specified goods bearing brand name or trade name registered or not of another person.
to complete the chronology of events it may be pointed out that after the impugned decision of the tribunal dated 11 4 2000the appellants herein moved an application for rectification on 12 5 2000 rom no 722000 in that application it was urged on behalf of the appellants herein that the said brand name meghraj did not belong to m s kay aar biscuits p ltd that the department has failed to discharge its burden to prove that the trade name meghraj belonged to m s kay aar biscuits p ltd that a mere agreement between m s.
ltd and m s.
rich food products p ltd would not be sufficient to prove that m s kay aar biscuits p ltd was the lawful owner of the brand name.
meghraj.
in the rectification application.
it was further pointed out that in fact the appellants had applied for ownership of the brand name meghraj vide application dated 30 9 91 to the registrar trade marks under the trade marks act and that the said application for registration was pending before the competent authority and since the above arguments were not recorded in the impugned order of the cegat dated 11 4 2000 the same warranted rectification.
by order dated 8 12 2000cegat rejected the above rectification application made by the appellants.
notification no 193 ce dated 28 2 93 was issued to help the ssi units to survive in the market dominated by brand name trade name.
the object of the notification therefore was to help the ssi units and thereby increased industrial production.
under para 4 of the said notification the benefit of exemption was not available for excisable goods bearing brand name or trade name registered or not of another person.
the same is quoted hereinbelow.
in the present case as stated above m s kay aar biscuits p ltd entered into an agreement on 22 11 89 with m s rich food products p ltd under that agreement the director of m s kay aar biscuits p ltd declared that his company was the owner of the registered trade mark meghraj.
the name of that director is madan verma.
he is the director of the appellants company also.
ltd v.
applying the ratio of the above judgment to the present case it is clear that grant of registration certificate under the trade marks act will not automatically provide benefit of exemption to the ssi unit.
he has filed an affidavit enclosing the registration certificate dated 30 6 2000.
however in that affidavit he has not stated as to on what basis in the agreement of 23 11 89 signed by him he had declared that m s ltd is the owner of the registered trade mark meghraj.
in the present case there is no evidence from the side of the appellants indicating abandonment of the trade mark by m s although madan verma the director of m s kay aar biscuits p ltd has filed his affidavit enclosing the registration certificate he has nowhere stated that m s ltd has abandoned the trade mark.
the burden is on the appellants particularly when the department is relying upon the agreement dated 23 11 89 between m s lastly we are required to examine the retrospective effect of the registration certificate dated 30 6 2000 with effect from 30 9 91 at the outset we may reiterate that the object of the exemption notification was neither to protect the owners of the trade mark nor the consumers from being misled.
the trade marks act1999 has been enacted to amend and consolidate the law relating to trade marks to provide for registration and better protection of trade marks and for prevention of the use of fraudulent marks.
it is correct to say that the registrar trade marks can issue registration certificate u s 28 of the trade marks act with retrospective effect.
emphasis supplied.
on reading the above quoted paragraphs from the above judgment with which we agree it is clear that the effect of making the registration certificate applicable from retrospective date is based on the principle of deemed equivalence to public user of such mark.
rang 343.
now once again turning to the provisions of s 18 sub section iit is clear that only a person claiming to be the proprietor of a trade mark used by him or proposed to be used by him could make an application to the registrar for the registration thereof.
appeals dismissed.
