one shri a j tayeng was the revenue commissioner of government of manipur.
the state of manipur had not framed any recruitment rules for appointment inter alia in the revenue department and in particular the field staff thereof.
the commissioner of revenue department was conferred with a power of being the cadre controlling authority for non ministerial post of the revenue department.
he was also to be the chairman of the departmental promotion committee for non ministerial post of the revenue department.
the commissioner allegedly made certain appointments in the posts of mandols process servers and zilladars which was not within the knowledge of the state.
the said appointments were made on temporary basis.
no record in regard to the said recruitments was maintained.
an inquiry was therefore made to find out the authority which had issued the said offers of appointments.
shri tayeng by a uo note dated 12 01 1998 denied to have made such an appointment stating confidential u o no 21593 com r pt.
with reference to the u o letter no 21593 comr pt.
dated 6th january1998 regarding the alleged appointment of ad hoc regular appointment to the post of lambus mandols.
etc of.
on the other hand md.
a r khan secretary revenue has made many appointments of mandols process servers zilladars in the recent months against which i have been complaining that the secretary revenue has no power or authority to make any appointments of field staff as per rules provided under m l r act1960 in this regard i have apprised the matter to the honourable minister revenue already and also informed the chief secretary manipur explaining that the secretary revenue can not make such appointments of field staffs even if he wanted to do so all the relevant files should have been routed through the undersigned so that the same may be brought to the notice of the honourable minister revenue his action has created lots of misunderstanding and confusion.
i still deny that i have made any appointment of field staffs of revenue department during the recent months.
submitted for information and consideration.
commissioner revenue.
govt of manipur minister revenue.
temp i dated 17 2 1998.
in civil appeal arising out of slp c no 19375 19376 of 2005the respondents were appointed on ad hoc basis for a period of six months.
the said shri tayeng retired on 28 02 1998 despite the fact that he in his uo note dated 12 02 1998 addressed to the minister of revenue denied to have made any appointment when approached by the writ petitioners respondents he affirmed in their support an affidavit in the high court stating 3 that while i was functioning as revenue commissioner manipur matters relating to appointment on the recommendation of the d p c transfer etc were put up to me in files and i used to pass order on the basis of facts presented to me in file.
i also issued appointment order under my signature.
after my retirement from service i have no access to such files.
com rev dated 11 9 97 annexure a1 to the writ petition appointing 3 persons to the post of mandol and no 11497 com rev.
dated 11 9 97 annexure a2 to the writ petition appointing 4 persons to the post of mandol are perused by me minutely.
i submit that these appointment orders annexures a1 and a2 bear my signature initial and appear to have been issued under my signature.
chief election commissioner delhi and ors air 1978 sc 851 1977 indlaw sc 53.
so far as the matter relating to civil appeal arising out of slp c no 19375 19376 of 2005 is concerned it was directed that as the appointment of the respondents were made for a period of six months the employees were only entitled to the salary for the said period.
s b sanyal learned counsel appearing on behalf of the respondents on the other hand would submit that the question as to whether the appointments of the respondents were nullities or not having not been raised before the high court this court should not permit the appellants to raise the said contention at this stage.
the state while offering appointments having regard to the constitutional scheme adumbrated in arts 14 and 16 of the constitution of india must comply with its constitutional duty subject to just and proper exceptions to give an opportunity of being considered for appointment to all persons eligible there for.
the posts of field staffs of the revenue department of the state of manipur were thus required to be filled up having regard to the said constitutional scheme.
we would proceed on the assumption that the state had not framed any recruitment rules in terms of the proviso appended to art 309 of the constitution of india but the same by itself would not clothe the commissioner of revenue to make recruitments in violation of the provisions contained in arts 14 and 16 of the constitution of india.
the offers of appointment issued in favour of the respondents herein were cancelled inter alia on the premise that the same had been done without the knowledge of the revenue department of the state.
no records there for were available with the state.
as noticed hereinbefore an inquiry had been made wherein the said shri tayeng the then commissioner of revenue stated that no such appointment had been made to his knowledge.
the state proceeded on the said basis.
the purported appointment letters were fake ones.
they were not issued by any authority competent therefor.
if the offers of appointments issued in favour of the respondents herein were forged documents the state could not have been compelled to pay salaries to them from the state exchequer.
any action which had not been taken by an authority competent therefor and in complete violation of the constitutional and legal framework would not be binding on the state.
the action of the state did not thus lack bonafide.
moreover it was for the respondents who had filed the writ petitions to prove existence of legal right in their favour.
he was only a cadre controlling authority.
he was merely put a chairman of the dpc for non ministerial post of the revenue department.
the term dpc would ordinarily mean the departmental promotion committee.
it was held 34 in our opinion the wide sweep of art 14 undoubtedly takes within its fold the impugned circular issued by the state of u p in exercise of its executive power irrespective of the precise nature of appointment of the government counsel in the districts and the other rights contractual or statutory which the appointees may have.
this distinction between the state and a private individual in the field of contract has to be borne in the mind.
the shortcomings in the work are required to be brought to the notice of the legal remembrancer.
the people are interested in their continuance for the period of their contracts and in their non substitution by those who may come in through the spoils system.
cl 2 protects government servants against being dismissed or removed or reduced in rank without being given a reasonable opportunity of showing cause against the action proposed to be taken in regard to them.
1991 pl64.
the appeals are allowed.
no costs.
appeal allowed.
