act1974 in shortthe act in the exercise of its revisional jurisdiction under section 121a of the act even then this is not a fit case where this court in the exercise of its power u art 136 of the constitution would interfere with such an order of the high court.
hereinafter called as the scheduled land situated in lingabahalli village madhugiri taluk in the state of karnataka filed form no 7 before the land tribunal praying for a declaration that they had acquired occupancy rights in respect of the scheduled land.
right holders relying inter alia on the entries under the rtc record.
accordingly they prayed for rejection of the application filed by the father of the appellants claiming occupancy rights under the act.
initially the land tribunal allowed the application of the father of the appellants and feeling aggrieved a writ petition was filed against the said order.
the land tribunal after remand relying on the entries in the rtc record and some other materials on record granted occupancy rights in favour of the appellants.
feeling aggrieved the respondent no 4 filed an appeal before the appellate authority which was also dismissed.
a special leave petition was filed against the judgment of the high court setting aside the concurrent orders allowing the application in respect of which leave has already been granted.
we have heard mr raju learned counsel appearing on behalf of the appellants and mr s n bhat learned counsel appearing on behalf of the respondents.
we have examined the impugned judgment of the high court as well as the orders of the tribunals below.
it is true that the high court while exercising its revisional power under section 121a of the act had set aside the concurrent findings of fact of the land tribunal as well as of the appellate authority even then examining the findings of the high court and considering the power conferred on it in the revisional jurisdiction under section 121a of the act we do not find any reason to interfere with the impugned order of the high court in the exercise of our power u art 136 of the constitution.
when the matter stood thus the father of the respondent nos 3 and 4 gondappa who is the uncle of the 5th respondent rajashankar filed form no 7 before the land tribunal claiming occupancy rights in respect of the land in dispute contending that he is the tenant of the said land under the 5th respondent from the year 1968i e subsequent to the date of mortgage.
but it is significant to note that the nature of cultivation of the land is not shown as that of a tenant in the said r t c extracts.
in one year the nature of cultivation is described as swanthaand in the years the column is left blank.
he has not produced any geni receipts or any lease agreement to show that the 5th respondent has leased out the land in dispute in his favour on crop share basis and that he paid the geni to the 5th respondent.
thus he has no documentary evidence in respect of his claim that he came in possession of the land in dispute as a tenant under the 5th respondent and that he was cultivating the land in dispute as a tenant.
it is further significant to note that in the evidence given by the respondent no 3 before the land tribunal he claimed that his father has taken the land in dispute on lease in the year 1962from the father of the petitioners gundu rao.
even in respect of the said claim he failed to produce any documentary evidence evidencing the said lease of land in dispute from gundu rao.
though there is no evidence on record to show that there are any joint family properties belonging to the joint family of respondent no 5 and his uncle there is nothing on record to show that they are not living as members of the joint family.
from a careful examination of the findings given by the high court as quoted hereinabove in upsetting the concurrent findings of fact arrived at by the tribunals below we are not in a position to hold that the high court was not justified in setting aside the concurrent orders of the tribunals below in the exercise of its revisional power under section 121a of the act.
from a plain reading of section 121a of the act under which revisional jurisdiction can be exercised it would be clear that the high court while exercising such power is entitled to re appreciate the evidence when it finds that the conclusion arrived at by the appellate authority runs contrary to the materials on record and when it finds that there is no evidence to support the conclusion of the appellate authority or when it finds that the reasons given by the appellate authority are absolutely perverse and can not be supported by the evidence on record.
on the other hand in our view under section 121a of the act it would be open to the high court to interfere with the orders of the tribunals below as the high court is empowered to look into the legality of the order or regularity of the proceedings although in the exercise of revisional jurisdiction u s 115 of the code the high court is not entitled to look into the legality of the order or the regularity of the proceedings but only entitled to interfere with the orders of the tribunals or the courts below when it finds that they have a exercised a jurisdiction not vested in them by law or b failed to exercise a jurisdiction so vested or c acted in the exercise of their jurisdiction illegally or with material irregularity.
reading the aforesaid provisions viz.
section 121a of the act and s 115 of the code we have no hesitation in our mind to hold that the revisional power exercised by the high court under section 121a of the act is wider than the one exercised by the high court in its revisional jurisdiction u s 115 of the code.
therefore under section 121a of the act in the presence of any of the abovementioned circumstances the high court is empowered to look into the legality of the orders impugned in deciding the question whether the appellants could be held to be the tenants under the respondent nos 3 or 4.
keeping the aforesaid principles in mind as to when the high court would be justified in the exercise of its power under section 121a of the act to examine the legality of the orders of the tribunals below in an appropriate case let us now examine the findings of the high court while setting aside the concurrent findings of fact of the tribunals below.
one of the main criteria for deciding whether a particular person is a tenant or not is to see whether there was payment of rent either in cash or in kind.
that being the position the high court had come to a proper conclusion that the entries in the rtc extracts produced by the appellants could not support the contention that they were cultivating the land in dispute as the tenants.
in our view also the high court was fully justified in drawing an adverse inference against the appellants for not producing any geni receipts or any lease agreement to show that the 5th respondent before the high court respondent no 3 herein had in fact leased out the scheduled land in favour of the appellants or their father since deceased on crop share basis and that the appellants had paid the geni to the 5th respondent.
such being the findings arrived at by the high court with which we are in concurrence it is difficult to hold that the tenancy claimed by the appellants in respect of the scheduled land could be established.
rasul mohammed abdul rahim 1963 3 scr 1 1962 indlaw sc 366.
krishnoji bhaurao hundre dead.
ram samsthan beladhadi 1999 1 scc 74 1998 indlaw sc 1197.
so far as krishtappa yellapa pujar ors vs.
rasul mohammed abdul rahim 1963 3 scr 1 1962 indlaw sc 366 need not be discussed.
there is another aspect of this matter.
in union of india ors vs.
finally in taherakhatoon d by lrs.
appeal dismissed.
