before embarking upon the issue involved in this appeal we may notice the admitted fact of the matter.
he used to run a business of marble and stone therein.
in respect of the proceedings initiated for the purpose of re allotment of the land despite a public notice the appellant did not file any objection.
and its pole demarcations were done by the town planning officer at site.
therefore as per the gujarat town planning and urban development rules1979 rule 33 the undersigned in exercise of powers conferred below s 681 and 82 of the bombay provincial municipalities act and below the s 68 notice under the gujarat town planning and urban development act this is to inform you that as shown in the sketch on the reverse the premises marked should be vacated within 7 days from receipt of the notice and had over the possession to the surat municipal corporation.
such is not the issue in the present case nor there is any complaint by the tenant that any special notice was not served or that the mandatory procedure for finalization of the scheme is not followed.
further it appears that if the interest of the landlord and of the tenant is common and in absence of any inter se dispute between the landlord and tenant even if any portion of the land which is in possession of the tenant is included in the scheme the proper remedy for the tenant would be to claim for compensation to that extent and if such compensation is not received by him he may resort to proper remedy available for recovery of the compensation to the extent of the area in his occupation.
suffice it to say that the tenant will be at liberty to resort to appropriate proceedings against the landlord for the inter se rights and also for entitlement of the compensation.
the act was enacted to consolidate and amend the law relating to the making and execution of development plans and town planning schemes in the state of gujarat.
it is not necessary for us to delve deep into the statutory scheme.
a declaration of intention to make a scheme is to be notified whereafter a draft scheme may be published.
s 45 provides for reconstitution of the plots sub s 2.
whereof inter alia enables allotment of a final plot from an original plot by transfer of any adjoining lands.
s 52 contemplates issuance of a notice in a prescribed manner and in the prescribed form.
before embarking upon the rival contentions we may also notice that the provisions of the bombay town planning rules1955.
a town planning scheme therefore envisages calling for objection from the persons concerned for three purposes i in regard to draft scheme ii lodging of any claim for payment of compensation iii participation in the matter of allotment of final plots.
we may however notice that rule 21 of the bombay rules provides for notice under sub rule 3 thereof and a reasonable opportunity of hearing under sub rule 5 thereof.
sub rule 3 of rule 21 of the bombay rules provides for issuance of a special notice upon the person interested in any plot or in any particular plot comprised in the scheme.
we may also take notice of the decision of this court in mansukhlal jadavji.
the town planning scheme is notified in the official gazette.
it is also not in dispute that the appellant filed an objection in regard to the draft scheme but did not eventually pursue the same.
whether irrespective of rule 26 of the rules which prescribes for issuance of a general public notice any special notice upon the appellant was required to be served by the state or by the authority in our opinion cannot be gone into by us in these proceedings for the first time.
validity of rule 26 of the rules had never been questioned.
it had also not been contended that the said rule is ultra vires s 52 of the act.
if in absence of any such claim filed by the appellant the authorities have proceeded to finalise allotment of final plot in favour of the respondent nos 3 and 4 herein it is too late in the day to contend that the entire scheme should be re opened.
we would consider the effect of sub s 3 of s 65 of the act a little later but we may at this juncture notice that the respondent no 3 in whose favour plot no 165 has been allotted which includes 200 sq m of land purported to be in possession of the appellant had nothing to do with the dispute between the appellant and his landlord the respondent no 4 respondent no 4 was in possession of a contiguous plot.
respondent no 4 was owner of both plot.
we would however assume that it was obligatory on the part of the state to serve a special notice upon the appellant.
a person may waive a right either expressly or by necessary implication.
he may in a given case disentitle himself from obtaining an equitable relief particularly when he allows a thing to come to an irreversible situation.
different statutes provide for different manner of service of notice.
in west bengal housing board etc v.
we have referred to the said decisions only to show that the requirements in regard to the manner of service of notice varies from statute to statute and there exists a difference between the bombay rules and the rules.
every step taken by the state does not involve application of the doctrine of eminent domain.
in this case the appellant did not oppose the draft scheme.
it accepted that the state had a right to do so.
in the former case the vesting of the land may be held to be an act of acquisition whereas in the latter it would be distribution of certain benefits having regard to the purpose sought to be achieved by a statute involving town planning.
when a statute makes an elaborate provision as regards the formalities required to be undergone at every stage by the local authority the state government and other authorities concerned in preparing and making the final town planning scheme the same should be considered to be exhaustively maneklal chhotalal.
ors v.
in maneklal chhotalal1967.
we are however not oblivious that in a given situation a question may also arise as to whether the restrictions imposed by a statute are reasonable or not.
it is not a case where the state by its acts of omissions and commissions was unjustly enriching itself.
we do not mean to say that under no circumstances the appellant was entitled to allotment of a portion of the property or mandatory compensation in lieu thereof from the landlord.
he has no enforceable claim against the state at this juncture.
he may pursue his claim only against the respondent no 4 in an appropriate proceedings wherein for certain purposes the state or the authorities may also be impleaded as a party.
even if he had a claim he would be deemed to have waived the same for the reasons stated hereinafter.
it is not in dispute that a appellant although filed an objection with regard to the draft scheme did not choose to pursue it.
in view of the above the issue is whether it was open to him to assert his purported right to special notice in respect of the final allotment in the instant case given the fact that he did not pursue his objections to the draft scheme and subsequently did not object participate during the proceedings for re allotment.
it has been noticed by us hereinbefore that under rule 26 of the rules applicable in the instant case as distinguished from the bombay rules wherein special notice is requiredno special notice is mandatorily required to be served.
assuming however that it was obligatory for the state to issue notice to the appellant the question is whether the principle of waiver precludes him from claiming equitable relief in this case due to his earlier conduct which allowed the entire process of acquisition and allotment to become final.
in halsbury s laws of england volume 1624th edition para 907it is stated the expression waiver may in law bear different meanings.
it may arise from a party making an election for example whether or not to exercise a contractual right.
waiver may also be by virtue of equitable or promissory estoppel unlike waiver arising from an election no question arises of any particular knowledge on the part of the person making the representation and the estoppel may be suspensory only.
where the waiver is not express it may be implied from conduct which is inconsistent with the continuance of the right without the need for writing or for consideration moving from or detriment to the party who benefits by the waiver but mere acts of indulgence will not amount to waiver nor may a party benefit from the waiver unless he has altered his position in reliance on it.
the legal principle emerging from these decisions is also stated in craies on statute law 6th edn at page 369 as follows as a general rule the conditions imposed by statutes which authorise legal proceedings are treated as being indispensable to giving the court jurisdiction.
but if it appears that the statutory conditions were inserted by the legislature simply for the security or benefit of the parties to the action themselves and that no public interests are involved such conditions will not be considered as indispensable and either party may waive them without affecting the jurisdiction of the court.
emphasis supplied.
ltd v.
in this view of the matter it may safely be stated that the appellant through his conduct has waived his right to an equitable remedy in the instant case.
such conduct precludes and operates as estoppel against him with respect to asserting a right over a portion of the acquired land in a situation where the scheme in question has attained finality following as a result of the appellant s inaction.
no costs.
appeal dismissed.
