she stated that on the night of 2223 3 1996while.
she and her daughter in law sheela devi were sleeping in her house around 11 30 pm the appellant jumped over the front wall of her house and broke the bulbs and ran away that at that time no male member was present in the house except the children.
that around 00 30 am the appellant again came into her house and touched her daughter in law sheela devi who woke up and raised an alarm and that the appellant immediately ran away.
the police investigated into the said complaint and submitted a report u s 173 of the code of criminal procedure for short the code.
on that basis the following charge was framed by the judicial magistrate first class karnal against the appellant that on 23 3 1996after having made preparation for causing hurt or assault you committed house trespass into the house of smt.
prakashi devi and thereby committed an offence punishable u s 452 ipc within my cognizance.
secondly on the same date time and place you assaulted and used criminal force against abovenamed prakashi devi with intent to outrage her modesty and thereby committed an offence punishable u s 354 ipc and within my cognizance.
emphasis supplied.
when the said charged was read over and explained to the appellant he pleaded not guilty to the said charge and claimed trial.
prakashi devi was examined as pw 1 she reiterated what was recorded in the fir that the appellant came into the house around 11 30 pm and broke the bulbs that he came again around 00 30 am and touched her daughter in law sheela devi and when her daughter in law woke up and raised an alarm the appellant ran away.
in her cross examination prakashi devi stated that she has five sons that only her husband and one son named mahavir were staying with her that the other four sons were married and were not staying with her that on that night her husband was away in the fields and her son mahavir was also not present in the house.
however when confronted with her statement recorded in the fir she admitted having stated that when the appellant had come first time at around 11 30 pm and broke the outside bulbs her son woke up and went out of the house.
she also admitted that the appellant did not touch her nor teased her nor abused her.
her daughter in law sheela devi gave evidence as pw 2 and stated that she was married to one jaibir who worked in the military services that at 11 to 11 30 pm the accused scaled the door and broke the bulbs in the verandah of her house that when she identified the accused and raised an alarm the accused ran away that again he came around 00 30 am by scaling the door and caught her hand and that when she raised an alarm and when her mother in law woke up he ran away.
it was elicited in her cross examination that the accused did not go towards her mother in law nor say anything to her mother in law that she used to come to the village where her in laws were residing only when her husband came home and that the house of her father in law was surrounded by the houses of his brothers and their sons.
both pw1 and pw2 stated that the house of the accused was at a distance of 15 16 houses from the house of prakashi devi that the accused had never come into their house earlier that their family and the accused were not on visiting terms with each other even during functions marriages or death though they were on visiting terms with others in the village.
pw 2 also stated that she did not know the particulars of the dispute between the accused and her in laws.
the investigating officer was examined as pw 3 the accused examined a witness ex sarpanch of the village as dw 1 and he stated that there was a quarrel between the accused and complainant s son surinder about a water course and subsequently he came to know that the quarrel was converted into a false case against the accused by registering a false allegation that the accused had outraged the modesty of a woman.
the learned magistrate by judgment dated 2 2 2001held the accused guilty of offences u ss 452 and 354 cr.
pc and sentenced him for rigorous imprisonment for six months and a fine of rs 1000 in default thereof simple imprisonment for one month.
sessions judge on 20 2 2002 the criminal revision filed by the appellant was disposed of by the high court on 16 3 2010 upholding the conviction but reducing the sentence from six to four months rigorous imprisonment.
that order is challenged by the accused.
one of the contentions urged by the accused before the appellate court and high court was that the charge against him was that he attempted to outrage the modesty of prakashi devi pw 1 whereas the evidence was to show that he attempted to outrage the modesty of her daughter in law sheela devi.
this was negatived by the appellate court and high court holding that an accused can not take advantage of a technical defect in framing the charge.
the following question therefore arises for our consideration when the charge is that the accused assaulted x and outraged her modesty but the evidence is that he assaulted y to outrage her modesty can the accused be punished for having assaulting and outraging the modesty of yeven though he was not charged with any offence with reference to yon the ground that the error or omission in the charge did not prejudice the accused or result in failure of justice.
it inter alia provides that every charge under the code shall state the offence with which the accused is charged.
s 215 of the code however clarifies that no error in stating either the offence or the particulars required to be stated in the charge and no omission to state the offence or those particulars shall be regarded at any stage of the case as material unless the accused was in fact misled by such error or omission and it has occasioned a failure of justice.
s 464 of the code relates to effect of omission to frame or absence of or error in charge.
that broadly speaking is the basic principle on which the code is based.
these go to the foundations of natural justice and would be struck down as illegal forthwith.
it hardly matters whether this is because prejudice is then patent or because it is so abhorrent to well established notions of natural justice that a trial of that kind is only a mockery of a trial and not of the kind envisaged by the laws of our land because either way they would be struck down at once.
other violations will not be so obvious and it may be possible to show that having regard to all that occurred no prejudice was occasioned or that there was no reasonable probability of prejudice.
in still another class of case the matter may be so near the border line that very slight evidence of a reasonable possibility of prejudice would swing the balance in favour of the accused.
the code is emphatic that whatever the irregularity it is not to be regarded as fatal unless there is prejudice.
it is the substance that we must seek.
courts have to administer justice and justice includes the punishment of guilt just as much as the protection of innocence.
neither can be done if the shadow is mistaken for the substance and the goal is lost in a labyrinth of unsubstantial technicalities.
broad vision is required a nice balancing of the rights of the state and the protection of society in general against protection from harassment to the individual and the risks of unjust conviction.
every reasonable presumption must be made in favour of an accused person he must be given the benefit of every reasonable doubt.
the same broad principles of justice and fair play must be brought to bear when determining a matter of prejudice as in adjudging guilt.
if all these elements are there and no prejudice is shown the conviction must stand whatever the irregularities whether traceable to the charge or to a want of one.
thakkidiram reddy.
the illustrations under a provision of a statute offer relevant and valuable indications as to meaning and object of the provision and are helpful in the working and application of the provision.
the court may infer from this that a was misled and that the error was material.
