it is the appellant s case that his father shri nawoosingh panjumal panjwani was a displaced person who migrated from pakistan to india during the period of partition and the appellant s family while in pakistan was having agricultural land over there admeasuring 4 acres 10 gunthas.
after migration the family took shelter at refugee camp of pimpri pune in maharashtra.
in view of enactment of displaced persons compensation and rehabilitation act1954 by the union of india the immovable properties left behind by muslims who had migrated to pakistan were acquired and the same was distributed to displaced persons as a compensation pool.
accordingly father of the appellant was allotted a land admeasuring 2 acres 5 gunthas bearing revenue survey nos 351 and 1182 situated at village lonavala taluka maval district pune.
it has been pleaded by the appellant that survey no 1181 and 1182 are one and the same thing.
the facts in brief as narrated in the impugned order are that survey nos 118328 and 351 of lonavala were originally owned by one haji habib tar mohammed janu.
it appears that the regional settlement commissioner placed this property for auction through government auctioner and one gulabbai desaipurchased the said property in auction for a consideration of rs 16750 on 17 5 1956 and accordingly sale certificate was issued by the regional settlement commissioner bombay on behalf of the government.
the area of this cts nos were as under.
on the basis of the said sale certificate the mutation entry no 1836 was effected in the village record in favour of gulabai desai and thereby her name was entered in survey nos 1181b and 328 of village lonavala to the extent of 29 30 ares and 70 ares respectively.
the said gulabai also gifted her remaining area from this survey numbers to her grandson anil gajanan desai on 15 1 1979who in turn has sold his properties to respondent no 2.
in the impugned order division bench made it clear that since the dispute between the parties was in respect of the area as to what has been purchased in auction sale by gulabai desai and what is the area allotted to the appellant by the orders of the deputy collector and deputy custodian of evacuee properties the appellant requested the bench not to enter into the merits on this question in this lpa since the parties may prosecute their remedies in the civil court for such adjudication and therefore that aspect was not considered by the high court.
it appears that the said order was taken in appeal by the respondent and the matter was remanded to the sub divisional officer.
however further inquiry as directed by the sdo was to be conducted.
since the mutation entry no 1836 was cancelled by above order the talathi gave effect to these orders and effected the mutation entry no 2176 and showed the disputed properties in the name of the collector and deputy custodian of evacuee properties.
the directions were issued by the collector to the tahsildar to place the appellant in possession of the property as per the orders of the deputy collector and the deputy custodian of evacuee properties.
thereafter the appellant filed letters patent appeal which was also dismissed by the division bench holding that when the state minister for revenue entertained the matter he was possessed of jurisdiction under section 257 of the maharashtra land revenue code and therefore the order passed by him under the said authority is within his jurisdiction power and competence.
the division bench observed thus.
that under section 257 of the maharashtra land revenue code more than one revision is possible.
as against that the rts proceeding bearing no 3402 pra.
kra 309 l 6 was preferred before the minister for state.
thus in short we find that the scheme under maharashtra land revenue code is quite different scheme and it permits more than one revision.
thus viewed from any angle we find that the state minister for revenue when he entertained the matter state minister for revenue was possessed of jurisdiction under section 257 of the maharashtra land revenue code and therefore the order passed by him under the said authority is within his jurisdiction power and competence.
hence the present appeal by special leave.
mr huzefa ahmadi learned senior counsel appearing for the appellant mainly attacked the revisional power exercised by the minister concerned in purported exercise of jurisdiction under section 257 of the maharashtra land revenue code.
learned counsel relied upon the decision of this court in the case of state of kerala vs k m charia abdulla co air 1965.
lastly mr ahmadi submitted that the second revision would not lie under section 257 of the revenue code since section 259 of the code provides an opportunity to the state government to only correct any final order while exercising power under the provisions of section 257 i e with regard to its legality and propriety.
the only point raised before the high court was with regard to the maintainability of second revision before the state government under section 257 of the revenue code.
learned counsel submitted that section 257 expressly confers power of revision on the state government which power is coupled with power of control and superintendence.
learned counsel submitted that the commissioner or the additional commissioner is not equal in a rank but subordinate to the state government.
learned counsel submitted that the state government is the supreme revenue authority and existence of more than one appeal or revision to an aggrieved party is not per se abhorrent to any legal principle depends upon the statute.
state of rajasthan and others2005.
the only question that falls for consideration is as to whether a second revision under section 257 is maintainable and that whether the state government exceeds its jurisdiction in entertaining the second revision.
the schedule appended to the code is as follows schedule e see section 247.
hence it was argued that second revision was not maintainable.
the power of the government and the registrar in terms of section 128 excludes matters which are covered by section 125 i e revision by the tribunal.
