at about 2 00 p m on 10th november 2002 a boy whose identity is not forthcoming informed satnam singh pw2 that an incident of firing had taken place in the house of ujjagar singh situated in the fields on the outskirts of the village.
jora singh accompanied by gurdeep singh pw3 thereupon rushed to ujjagar singh s house and found mukhtiar kaur lying dead with a gun shot injury and the appellant also with a gun shot injury lying unconscious on the ground in the adjoining room.
jora singh and gurdeep singh immediately removed ujjagar singh to the civil hospital dhuri in the jeep belonging to kulwant singh pw4.
jora singh also met inspector harjinder pal singh pw14 at 4 40 p m near the hospital who recorded his statement at that place and with his endorsement exhibit p a sent it to police station dhuri where the formal fir was registered at about 4 45 p m with the special report being delivered to the illaka magistrate at dhuri itself at 6 20 p m the same evening.
the facts as narrated were that arjan singh of village bangawali had three sons puran singh ujjagar singh appellant and ajmer singh.
puran singh had died about 20 years earlier leaving behind his wife two sons and a daughter mukhtiar kaur.
the two sons and the wife also died long before the incident and mukhtiar kaur the sole surviving member of this branch of the family had been married to balwinder singh pw9 about 9 or 10 years earlier.
it appears that mukhtiar kaur s relations with her in laws had got strained and she had left her matrimonial home and come to live with ujjagar singh her uncle 7 or 8 months earlier and the suggestion was that mukhtiar kaur had been killed by the appellant with his licensed gun and he had thereafter attempted to commit suicide.
having recorded the aforesaid facts in the fir pw14 inspector harjinder pal singh reached the place of incident and lifted one spent 12 bore cartridge case shaktiman make from near mukhtiar kaur s dead body and one dbbl gun from the place where ujjagar singh appeared to have been shot and another spent cartridge case was recovered from the right barrel of the gun.
after completion of the investigation at the spot mukhtiar kaur s dead body was sent for its post mortem examination.
dr harwinder kaur aforesaid also took swabs from the vagina of the deceased and as per the chemical examiner s report dated 2 1 2003 semen was found on the swab taken from the vagina and from the underwear that mukhtiar kaur had been wearing at the time of her death.
during the trial jora singh pw1 satnam singh pw2 gurdeep singh pw3 and kulwant singh pw4 resiled from their statements given to the police and were declared hostile.
balwinder singh pw9 however supported the prosecution case deposing that the land had in fact been got transferred from gurmail kaur mother of mukhtiar kaur to ujjagar singh by fraud and mukhtiar kaur was therefore entitled to its return.
he also deposed that mukhtiar kaur had told him some time earlier that the accused had been beating her and had also committed sexual intercourse with her and that at about 11 p m on 10 11 2002 karam singh pw10 had informed him as to what had transpired on which he along with his father hamir singh pw12 and several others had rushed to bangawali.
the prosecution also relied on the statements of dr vijay kumar pw6 of the civil hospial dhuri who testified that the appellant had been brought to the hospital at about 2 45 p m on 10 11 2002 with a serious gun shot injury dr ripan miglani pw15 of the dayanand medical college hospital ludhiana who deposed that he had been admitted to the department of neuro surgery with a serious gun shot injury and dr sanjay uppal pw16 a plastic surgeon who disclosed that the appellant had been under his treatment for almost 5 weeks and the burnt area around the firearm injury had been removed by him.
i never harassed mukhtiar kaur nor ever got her land mutated from her mother by fraud.
i have not killed mukhtiar kaur.
balwinder singh her husband was addicted to vices and used to beat her due to which she used to remain under depression and sick generally and used to come to me as my daughter.
i fell down on the ground and became unconscious.
even i do not know who took me to hospital.
i have been implicated in this case falsely.
he has pointed out that there was absolutely no evidence to suggest that mukhtiar kaur had been subjected to rape and in this view of the matter the very basis for the imposition of the death penalty was not made out.
he has also pointed out that there were no eye witnesses to the incident and the 4 witnesses i e jora singh and others who had reached the place of incident and carried the injured appellant to the hospital had also resiled and as the prosecution story now rested on circumstantial evidence alone it was imperative for the investigating officer to have taken the finger prints from the weapon and that in any case the recovery of the spent cartridges and the gun were clearly suspicious as the weapon had been sent to the laboratory after an inordinate delay.
it has also been submitted that in a case of attempted suicide a firearm must of necessity be used from a very close range and the absence of any blackening charring or burning around the wound on ujjagar singh clearly ruled out the possibility of such an attempt.
it has finally been submitted that the land had been transferred in the name of ujjagar singh s sons in the year 1994 by gurmail kaur mother of mukhtiar kaur by a collusive decree and there was no evidence to show that mukhtiar kaur had ever displayed any unhappiness or made any complaint to any person or any authority with regard to the decree and as such the very basis of the prosecution story did not exist.
he has further emphasized that the prosecution s case stood proved from various factors including the medical evidence the reports of the forensic science laboratory the chemical examiner from the post mortem reports and the recovery of the gun and cartridges.
there is however absolutely no evidence to suggest even assuming that the intercourse had been committed by the appellant that he had done so without mukhtiar kaur s consent or against her will.
some suspicions of rape could perhaps have been raised had some tell tale injuries been detected on mukhtiar kaur s person but we find that the two injuries other than the gun shot wounds i e injury no 3 being on the left pinna and.
the learned state counsel relying on the statement of pw14 inspector harjinder pal singh has however submitted that the examination had not been possible as the appellant had received a very serious gun shot injury and was hanging between life and death.
but we see no justification in the omission of the prosecution to have him examined after he had recovered his health and been discharged from hospital.
we therefore find that ujjagar singh s conviction section 376 of the ipc can not be sustained.
he has also relied on the judgment of balu sonba shinde v state of maharashtra 2002 7 scc 543 2002 indlaw sc 1923 to contend that it was open to the accused to take advantage insofar as possible from the statement of a witness though declared hostile and the four witnesses having disowned the prosecution story and having given a different version the appellant was entitled to derive such benefit as possible in this situation.
the learned state counsel has however emphasized that both the trial court and the high court had for good reasons opined that the circumstances made out a case for conviction and the accused having given a counter version some obligation lay on him as well to explain the circumstances against him inasmuch that admittedly he and the victim were alone in the house at the time of the incident.
in 1984 4 scc 116 sharad birdhichand sarda v state of maharashtra 1984 indlaw sc 432 this court discussed the ratio of the judgments in hanumant v state of m p air 1952 sc 343 1952 indlaw sc 89 tufail alias simmi v state of u p 1969 3 scc 198 1969 indlaw sc 573 and ramgopal v state of maharashtra 1972 4 scc 625 1971 indlaw sc 555 and shivaji sahabrao bobade v state of maharashtra 1973 2 scc 793 1973 indlaw sc 181 and observed thus a close analysis of this decision would show that the following conditions must be fulfilled before a case against an accused can be said to be fully established 1the circumstances from which the conclusion of guilt is to be drawn should be fully established.
certainly it is a primary principle that the accused must be and not merely may be guilty before a court can convict and the mental distance between may be is long and divides vague conjectures from sure conclusions.
1998 9 scc 81 1997 indlaw sc 1403 sudama pandey ors v state of bihar 2002 1 scc 679 2001 indlaw sc 21243 and r r khanna reddy anr.
a few facts stand out from the prosecution story.
first the place of incident being adjoining rooms in the residential house of the appellant and the fact that the alleged murder weapon is his licensed dbbl gun is proved on record.
blackening or charring is possible when a shot is fired from a distance of about 2 feet to 3 feet.
e in modi s medical jurisprudence and toxicology 23rd edition at page 765 while dealing with identification of homicidal and suicidal injuries it has been observed that a suicidal firearm wound is usually a contact wound situated on the side of the temple depending on which hand was used to shoot himself in the centre of the forehead the roof of the mouth in the chest or epigastrium in front or the left side and some times under the chin.
hesitation injuries are also observed in some suicide cases.
