these appeals are directed against a judgment and order dated 17 october 2003 passed by the special court constituted under the special courts trial of offences relating to transactions in securities.
act 1992 for short the act in misc.
application nos.
41 of 1999 4 of 2001 265 266 and 275 of 2003.
background facts.
the appellants herein who are related to one harshad section mehta since deceased purchased nine residential flats in a building called madhuli apartments in worli area of mumbai.
the family of the appellants consists of four brothers their wives children and their widowed mother.
the eldest among them harshad section mehta has since expired.
the said nine flats it is said were merged and redesigned for joint living of the entire family.
the appellants herein and the said.
late harshad mehta were persons notified in terms of the act which was enacted to provide for the establishment of a special court for the trial of offences relating to transactions in securities and for matters connected therewith.
in terms of the provisions of the act along with late harshad mehta the custodian had notified 29 entities in terms of section 3 of the act comprising three of his younger brothers wife of late harshad mehta wives of two of his younger brothers and other corporate entities a partnership firm and three hufs.
however out of the said 29 entitles only late harshad mehta and two of his younger brothers were cited as accused in various criminal cases filed against them.
the properties of late harshad mehta and the appellants herein being notified persons stood attached in terms of the provisions of the act.
proceedings before the special court.
before the learned special court the parties herein filed several applications which can be sub divided in three categories as would be noticed shortly hereinafter.
it is not in dispute that the learned special court on or about 3 august 1993 issued directions in various proceedings before it appointing auditors to prepare and audit the books of accounts of all notified persons for the period 1 april 1990 and 8 june 1992 i e the date of the notification.
three firms of chartered accountants were appointed to prepare statement of accounts and liabilities of each of the appellants herein.
a chartered accountants firm was appointed by the learned special judge by an order dated 17 september 2003 to represent all notified entities in the family of late harshad mehta for the purpose of ascertaining their tax liabilities.
we may at this juncture notice the nature of the applications filed by the parties herein before the learned special court i on 26 april 1999 the custodian filed an application being misc.
application No 41 of 1999 seeking permission of the special court for sale of residential premises commonly known as madhuli of eight notified entities.
application being 4 of 2001 was filed by the custodian praying for the sale of commercial premises.
the appellants herein filed several misc.
applications praying for lifting of attachment on their residential premises on the ground that the same had been purchased much prior to 1 april 1991 and the same had no nexus with any illegal transactions in securities.
alternatively it was prayed that since their asset base was greater than genuine liabilities the said residential premises should be released from attachment.
by reason of the impugned order dated 17 october 2003 the learned special judge allowed misc.
applications filed by the appellants herein for release of the residential flats as well as the commercial premises from attachment were dismissed.
the custodian shall permit the members of family of late shri harshad mehta to occupy the flats during the time that the process of the sale of the flats goes on.
in case no such undertakings are filed by the adult members as directed above within the aforesaid period the custodian shall stand appointed as receiver of the flats which are described in exh.
petition No 41 of 1999.
although in relation to a body corporate incorporated and registered under the indian companies act the doctrine of lifting the corporate veil would be applicable but the same can not be applied in case of individuals.
v the appellants having preferred appeals against the income tax orders of assessment passed by the authority and the same having been set aside no liability to pay income tax by the appellants as of now being existing the residential properties could not have been sold.
respondents.
iin view of the decision of this court in l s synthetics ltd v fairgrowth financial services ltd and another 2004 11 scc 456 2004 indlaw sc 715 all properties belonging to the notified persons being subject to automatic attachment could be applied for discharge of the joint liabilities of the harshad mehta group in terms of section 11 of the act.
civil appeal No 2795 of 2004 and the kedarnath jute mfg.
co ltd v the commissioner of income tax.
v the assets and liabilities of each of the entities having been audited by the chartered accountants it is evident from the reports that in all cases liabilities exceed the assets.
viifurthermore the appellants are also unable to maintain their residential properties as the custodian had to pay a sum of rs 1 06 crores towards the maintenance of the said residential properties.
even before this court the sale of commercial properties had not been questioned.
the ordinance provides for the establishment of a special court with a sitting judge of a high court for speedy trial of offences relating to transactions in securities and disposal of properties attached.
in terms of the provisions of the act the special court had been conferred a very wide power.
constitutionality and or interpretation of the act came up for consideration before this court in harshad shantilal.
indlaw sc 732 v custodian and others 1998 5 scc 1 wherein the following questions were framed what is meant by revenues taxes cesses and rates due.
therefore the phrase taxes due can not refer merely to a liability created by the charging section to pay the tax under the relevant law.
in respect of the question No 3 it was opined that the date of distribution arrives when the special court completes the examination of claims under section 9 a and if on that date any tax liability for the statutory period is legally assessed and the assessment is final and binding on a notified person that liability would be considered for payment section 111a.
the special court is required to consider this question only from the point of view of distributing any part of the surplus assets in the hands of the custodian after the discharge of liabilities sections 112a and 112b.
since the appellant s petition of objection had been filed much beyond the period prescribed under that section the special court was right in rejecting the petition in limine.
