for the sake of convenience we refer to the facts mentioned in civil appeal no of 2008 arising out of s l p c no 15729 of 2008 filed by j mitra co pvt ltd.
this matter is a classic illustration of the confusion which has emerged on account of the postponement of in part commencement of patents amendment act2005.
quite often the commencement of an act is postponed to some specified future date or to such date as the appropriate government may by notification in the official gazette appoint.
provision is also at times made for appointment of different dates for coming into force of different parts of the same act.
this is what has exactly happened in this case resulting into utter confusion with regard to pending fao no 29306 filed by respondent no 3 in the high court u s 116 of the indian patents.
act1970 as amended by the patents amendment act1999 w e f 26 3 99.
span diagnostics limited respondent no 3 herein is a public limited company established in 1972 to indigenously develop and manufacture a comprehensive range of ready made diagnostic reagents made by clinical pathology laboratories.
on 14 6 2000 j mitra company pvt ltd.
3 appellant herein filed its application for grant of patent.
after scrutiny the said application stood notified by the patent office on 20 11 2004.
thus proceedings commenced before the controller of patents in the year 2000 when the appellant herein sought a patent of their device which was opposed by respondent no 3 in the year 2000 by then the patents amendment act1999 had amended the patents act1970 w e f 26 3 99 s 25 of the patents act1970 as amended by patents amendment act1999 dealt with opposition to a patent vides s 25 at that time appeals against decisions made by the controller pertaining to pre grant oppositions under s 25 were maintainable before the high court u s 1162 of the indian patents act1970.
we quote herein below ss 25 and 116 as it stood in the year 2000 under the patents amendment act1999 which read as under s 25 opposition to grant of patent.
1 at any time within four months from the date of advertisement of the acceptance of a complete specification under this act or within such further period not exceeding one month in the aggregate as the controller may allow on application made to him in the prescribed manner before the expiry of the four months aforesaid any person interested may give notice to the controller of opposition to the grant of the patent on any of the following grounds namely a that the applicant for the patent or the person under or through whom he claims wrongfully obtained the invention or any part thereof from him or from a person under or through whom he claims b that the invention so far as claimed in any claim of the complete specification has been published before the priority date of the claim i in any specification filed in pursuance of an application for a patent made in india on or after the 1st day of january1912 or ii in india or elsewhere in any other document provided that the ground specified in sub cl ii shall not be available where such publication does not constitute an anticipation of the invention by virtue of sub s 2 or sub s 3 of section 29 that the invention so far as claimed in any claim of the complete specification is claimed in a claim of a complete specification published on or after the priority date of the applicant s claim and filed in pursuance of an application for a patent in india being a claim of which the priority date is earlier than that of the applicant s claim a that the invention so far as claimed in any claim of the complete specification was publicly known or publicly used in india before the priority date of that claim.
explanation for the purposes of this clause an invention relating to a process for which a patent is claimed shall be deemed to have been publicly known or publicly used in india before the priority date of the claim if a product made by that process had already been imported into india before that date except where such importation has been for the purpose of reasonable trial or experiment only b that the invention so far as claimed in any claim of the complete specification is obvious and clearly does not involve any inventive step having regard to the matter published as mentioned in cl b or having regard to what was used in india before the priority date of the applicant s claim c that the subject of any claim of the complete specification is not an invention within the meaning of this act or is not patentable under this act d that the complete specification does not sufficiently and clearly describe the invention or the method by which it is to be performed e that the applicant has failed to disclose to the controller the information required by s 8 or has furnished the information which in any material particular was false to his knowledge f that in the case of a convention application the application was not made within twelve months from the date of the first application for protection for the invention made in a convention country by the applicant or a person from whom he derives title.
but on no other ground.
the grant of a patent shall not be refused on the ground stated in cl c of sub s 1 if no patent has been granted in pursuance of the application mentioned in that clause and for the purpose of any inquiry u cl d or cl e of that sub section no account shall be taken of any secret use.
no appeal shall lie from any decision order or correction made of issued under this act by the central government or from any act or order of the controller for the purpose of giving effect to any such decision order or direction.
20section 25section.
in 2002the legislature desired an amendment to the law and intended to create an appellate forum to hear appeals against orders passed by the controller consequently patents amendment.
act2002 was promulgated on 25 6 2002 however it was not brought into force immediately.
that provision came to be made only under the patents amendment act2005 which was promulgated on 4 4 2005 w e f 1 1 2005.
a has at least five years hold the post of controller under this act or has exercised the functions of the controller under this act for at least five years or.
the provisions of the said amendment act2002however were not simultaneously brought into force.
d that the invention so far as claimed in any claim of the complete specification was publicly known or publicly used in india before the priority date of that claim.
in short by the patents amendment act2005for the first time a dichotomy was introduced in the patent law between opposition to the pre grant and opposition to the post grant of patent.
similarly under the patents amendment act2005appeal was restricted to the post grant opposition orders and that appeal lay before the appellate board and not to the high court.
the legislature intended to provide for only one statutory appeal to the appellate board but by not bringing s 61 into force till 2 4 07appeals filed during the interregnum as in this case became vulnerable and liable to be dismissed as misconceived as is contended by the appellant.
on 19 10 2006 when fao no 29306 was filed in the high court chapter xix of the parent act as amended vide patents amendment.
amendment act2002 and the patents amendment.
the legislature intended to have a dichotomy between pre grant opposition and post grant opposition.
