yakshagana is a form of ballet dance.
it has its own heritage.
indisputably dr kota shivarama karanth for shortdr.
karantha jnanapeeth awardee who was a novelist play writer essayist encyclopediationist cultural anthropologist artist writer of science environmentalist.
he developed a new form of yakshagana.
he was a director of the appellant institute.
on or about 18 6 1994he executed a will in favour of the respondent.
karanth expired on 9 12 1997 yakshagana ballet dance as developed by dr karanth was performed in new delhi on or about 18 9 2001 respondent filed a suit for declaration injunction and damages alleging violation of the copyright in respect of the said dance vested in her in terms of the said will stating that dr karanth developed a new distinctive dance drama troop or theatrical system which was named by him as yaksha ranga which in his own words mean creative extension of traditional yakshagana and thus the appellants infringed the copyright thereof by performing the same at new delhi without obtaining her prior permission.
it was stated that dr karanth had composed seven verses or prasangas for staging yaksharanga ballet apart from bringing in changes in the traditional form thereof on its relevant aspects namely raga tala scenic arrangement costumes etc.
these prasangas are i bhishma vijaya ii nala damayanthi iii kanakangi or kanakangi kalyana iv abhimanyu or abhimanyu vada v chitrangadha or babruvahana kalaga vi panchavati and vii.
ganga charitha.
plaintiff respondent admittedly claimed copyright in respect of literary and artistic works in her favour in terms of clauses 11 and 12 of the said will dated 18 6 1994which read as under 11 since i left the house suhasa i have been living in a specially built house manasa of smt.
malini mallya who has built it with borrowed money at her cost.
she had joined my service as copyist and later she secured an employment in life insurance corporation of india.
ever since 1974 till now in my old age she has been serving me with exemplary devotion and sincerity.
and in this occasion i must also acknowledge with gratitude that she diligently cared and nursed my wife leela karanth during her prolonged illness till her last day.
and she has cared and looked after me also during my illness which at times had been quite serious enfeebling me for long period.
in recognition of her devotion and sincere affection towards me in 1986 i have dedicated one of my novels namelyantida aparanji to her.
i have also placed on record her invaluable services to me in my memoirshunchu mansina hathu mukhagalu 1991 edition.
in my opinion very long enduring and a signal service she has done to me and to my literary works is in writing a bibliography of all my books a highly meritorious and scholarly work involving so much of pains taking research that it has been acclaimed and rated as the first of its kind in kannada and highly appreciated by critics and scholars.
this work also has brought her deserving fame and appreciation of scholars.
whatever she may earn thereby shall be her exclusive income and property.
it was furthermore contended that dr karanth was appointed as the president of the executive committee of yakshagana kendra for a period of three years by the appellant and while holding the said post only he expired.
by reason of a judgment and decree dated 14 11 2003the district judge udupi decreed the said suit declaring the plaintiff respondent as a person having the exclusive copyright in respect of seven prasangas and that she had acquired the same by reason of a will as a residuary legatee and the defendants appellants or their employees or agents were restrained from performing the said seven ballets or prasangas or any parts thereof in any manner as evolved distinctively by dr karanth.
the form of injunction granted in favour of the plaintiff respondent is not in terms of the provisions of the copyright act1957 as the appellant as an institution or otherwise is entitled to use the same in terms of clauses ai and l of sub section 1 of section 52 thereof.
the copyright act1957 for shortthe act was enacted to amend and consolidate the law relating to copyright.
explanation.
indisputably in view of the submissions made at the bar respondent had acquired copyright in respect of seven yakshagana prasangas as also in respect of yakshagana dramatic or theatrical form as a residuary legatee in terms of clause 12 of the will dated 18 6 1994.
neither of the two can be produced without the imaginative skill of the author.
therefore necessity of mentioning copyright separately in respect of dramatic works does not arise.
the plaintiff therefore is entitled to copyright even in respect of the dramatic works namely the seven prasangas by virtue of bequest made in her favour in respect of copyrights and books.
keeping in view the statutory provisions there can not be any doubt whatsoever that copyright in respect of performance of dance would not come within the purview of the literary work but would come within the purview of the definition of dramatic work.
the learned trial judge recognized the equitable interest vested in the plaintiff respondent.
the high court however directed iii.
the court while passing such a decree is obligated to consider the statutory provisions governing the same.
for the said purpose it must be noticed as to what is a copyright and in respect of the matters the same can not be claimed or otherwise the same is lodged by conditions and subject to statutory limitation.
in such a case the courts should determine whether or not the similarities are on fundamental or substantial aspects of the mode of expression adopted in the copyrighted work.
in other words in order to be actionable the copy must be a substantial and material one which at once leads to the conclusion that the defendant is guilty of an act of piracy.
no infringement of the copyright comes into existence.
a violation of copyright amounts to an act of piracy it must be proved by clear and cogent evidence after applying the various tests laid down by the case law discussed above.
1 scc 12007 indlaw sc 1341this court held the copyright act is not concerned with the original idea but with the expression of thought.
on the face of the provisions of the copyright act1957we think that the principle laid down by the canadian court would be applicable in copyright of the judgments of the apex court.
the trivial variation or inputs put in the judgment would not satisfy the test of copyright of an author.
the high court in our opinion should have clarified that the appellants can also take the statutory benefit of the provisions contained in clauses ai and l of sub section 1 of section 52 of the act.
