in the year 1929 the andhra engineering co which was originally a partnership firm formed by one d l n raju was converted into a private limited company with its headquarters at visakhapatnam.
it obtained licences from the government under the electricity act for supply of electrical energy to visakhapatnam anakapalli and some other places.
as the aeco did not have the necessary capital to undertake the work raju floated in the year 1933 a public limited company called visakhapatnam electric supply corporation ltd and another in the year 1936 called the anakapalli electric supply corporation ltd the aeco transferred its licences for the supply of electrical energy to the consumers of visakhapatnam to vesco and similarly transferred to aeco the licence to supply electrical energy to consumers at anakapalli.
rajahmurthy were started apparently by raju himself and the aeco was appointed the managing agent of each of these concerns.
the original managing agency agreement in favour of aeco with respect to vesco was for a period of 15 years i e from 1933 to 1948 and was later renewed for the remaining term of the currency of the licence granted by the government under the electricity act.
a mention may be made of the fact that in june 1952 the vesco undertaking was acquired by the government under the provisions of the electricity undertaking acquisition act but nothing turns on it.
he died in the year 1939 and was succeeded by r k n g raju an advocate of rajahmundry.
this person however did not shift to visakhapatnam on his becoming the managing director but continued to stay most of the time at rajahmundry.
according to the prosecution both these concerns were running smoothly and efficiently during the lifetime of d l n raju because he was personally attending to their affairs.
eventually many of those ventures failed.
according to the prosecution the second raju was not bestowing sufficient care and attention on the affairs of vesco.
all this is not disputed.
his dual capacity enabled the respondent No i to earn the confidence not only of the directors of aeco but also of those of vesco.
as secretary of vesco it was his duty to convene the meetings of the board of directors to present before them the periodical statement of receipts and expenditure of vesco to convene meetings of the general body to prepare the managing agents report and the director s report as also to see to the presentation of auditors report and the statement of accounts.
according to the prosecution the respondent No i wanted to take advantage of this fact and conceived of a scheme for misappropriating as much money belonging to vesco as possible before the managing agency agreement of aeco came to an end in october 1948.
he was later promoted as senior accountant and in his place the respondent No 2.
according to the prosecution the respondent No i took both the approver and lakshminarayana rao in his confidence as also some other persons known and unknown for carrying out his nefarious purpose namely the misappropriation of the funds of vesco during the subsistence of aeco s managing agency of vesco.
i continued to be the secretary of vesco and resident representative of the managing agents throughout the period of conspiracy.
after the death of r k n g raju it was discovered that the aeco was indebted to many concerns which were under its managing agency the liability being shown either as that of aeco or that of r k n g raju personally.
again the vesco was shown as indebted to the andhra cement to the extent of rs 42 000.
eventually their choice fell on g v subba raju p w 25 a resident of manchili who held a large number of shares in the aeco and who was besides related to r k n g raju by marriage.
he was assured that by consenting to become the managing director be would not be required to discharge onerous duties and that the respondent No i would look to all the affairs of vesco.
he agreed and was elected managing director of aeco in the middle of 1948.
by cheques.
but domestic consumers usually paid their bills in cash to the bill collectors who used to hand over their collections to the respondent No 2.
in that book payments which used to be made by respondent No 2 on the basis of slips issued by the respondent No i used to be noted and the amount totalled up at the end of the day.
on the basis of the entries in the handover book the final accounts were written up.
i opened four personal accounts in different banks including the imperial bank of india.
another thing which the respondent No i initiated was opening a heading in the ledger called advance purchase of materials.
amounts which had been misappropriated used to be posted therein though in fact no orders were placed for any material.
at that time it used to be represented to him that the amounts which were shown to be in the safe and not found therein had been sent to the bank for being deposited.
apparently subba raju was fully satisfied with this and other explanations and therefore he appointed one c section raju who was the manager of andhra cements to supervise over the affairs of vesco apparently because of this a new method of misappropriation was adopted by the respondents by starting in the vesco account books an account called suspense account.
a lakh of rupees passed through that account.
a new cash book was also said to have been prepared by the conspirators with the object of covering up the misappropriations which had been made.
besides that c section raju s management of andhra cements had landed it into a loss of rs 30 000.
because of all these things he had c section raju replaced towards the end of the year 1951 by one subbaramayya a retired finance officer from the madras electricity board both as a director of andhra cements and as a supervisor over the accounts of vesco.
he however was unable to obtain any information.
in january 1952 he therefore brought one section g krishna aiyar who had vast experience in the maintenance of accounts of electrical undertaking s having been chief accountant of the south madras electric supply corporation to undertake an investigation and then to act as financial adviser.
however the meeting was postponed and eventually held on december 9 1951.
according to the prosecution the report is a forged document.
the respondent No 1 on being asked to explain said that he would give his explanation to the managing director.
the interim report showed that there was a shortage of about rs 90 000 for this period.
in fact in april 1952 the collector attached vesco properties for realising this amount.
as a result of investigation they found that there was a total misappropriation of rs 3 40 000.
he however directed ramana to make his confession before a submagistrate.
as already stated the additional sessions judge convicted both the respondents the respondent No i in respect of each head of the offences with which he was charged and the respondent No 2 in respect only of the offences of conspiracy and misappropriation.
in the first place according to the high court joint trial of two or more persons in respect of different offences cornmitted by each of them is illegal and that here as they were charged with having committed offences under section 120 b section 409 section 477 a and section 476467 i p c they could not be tried jointly.
according to it the provisions of section 239 were of no avail.
further according to the high court where a conspiracy has yielded its fruits the conspirators can be charged with the actual offences committed and not with conspiracy to commit those offences.
charge of conspiracy according to the high court can be validly made only when the prosecution establishes that every conspirator expected to receive a personal benefit from it and that the prosecution has not been able to establish that the respondent No 2 or the approver evidently had any such expectations since they did not in fact receive any corresponding benefit.
the high court has further stated that inadmissible evidence was taken on record by the additional sessions judge namely account books of billimoria brothers maintained in gujrati and further that the additional sessions judge was in error in allowing the prosecution to use those account books for establishing absence of entries with regard to certain payments alleged in the vesco books to have been made to them.
3 irrelevant evidence was introduced and some evidence was introduced in a manner not authorised by the evidence act.
4 that the court abused its powers under s 342 cr.
if the evidence of the approver is left out the remaining evidence would be inadequate to sustain the prosecution case.
it is clear from the charge that some of the amounts were misappropriated between april 1947 and march 1950 some between april 1947 and march 1949 some between april 1947 and march 1951 and quite a large number between september 1947 and march 1950 and a still large number between april 1951 and march 1952.
the main reasons upon which the conclusion of the high court is based are firstly that there could be no clubbing together of the provisions of the various clauses of section 239 and secondly that the respondents were charged with more than three offences of the same kind and that this was in contravention of section 239 c in coming to the conclusion that the provisions of various clauses of section 239 can not be applied cumulatively the high court has relied upon the decision in re vankavalapati gopala rao 1956 airandhra 21.
each clause is an exception to the general rule enacted in section 233 cr.
if such a combination is permissible all persons accused of offences described in cls.
a to g can be tried together in one case which certainly involves a bewildering multiplicity of charges and which would obviously set at naught the salutary principle contained in section 233.
221 to 232 are comprised under the first sub head and sections 233 to 240 in the second.
221 to 223 deal with the framing and content of charge.
226 to 231 deal with the power of the court with regard to framing and altering charges and the procedure to be adopted at the trial where a charge is found to be defective or there is no charge or where a new charge is to be framed.
section 233 provides that for every distinct offence of which any person is accused there shall be a separate charge.
it thus lays down the normal rule to be followed in every case.
but it also provides that this will be subject to the exceptions contained in sections.
1 deals with the trial of a person for offences of the same kind not exceeding three committed within the space of 12 months from the first to the last of such offences and section 231 2 what is meant by the expression offences of the same kind.
thus under this provision if the connection between the various offences is established the limitations placed by section 2341 both as regards the number and the period during which the offences are alleged to have been committed will not apply.
full effect can not possibly be given to this provision if we hold that it is subject to the limitation of s 2341.
a conspiracy must be regarded as one transaction and there fore a single individual charged with it could be tried with the aid of section 2351 for all the acts committed by him in furtherance or in pursuance of the conspiracy without the limitations imposed by s 2341.
for where all the acts are referable to the same conspiracy their connection with one another is obvious.
let us therefore examine closely the provisions of section 239.
f there is a conjunction and.
does this mean that the provisions of section 233 234 235 and 236 must also be complied with.
obviously section 233 does not override the provisions of section 239.
it could not have been the intention of the legislature to create such a situation.
again as already stated section 2341 does not override the provisions of section 2351 which permits trial of a person for more offences than one committed during any period provided they are so connected together as to form one transaction.
bhimasankaram contended that s 239 must be read at least subject to sections 2341 and 2351 on the ground.
these words he contended clearly show that cl.
c of section 239 is subject to the provisions of section 234.
in our opinion the words within the meaning of section 234 indicate that what was meant by the words offence of the same kind persons accused of more offences than one of the same kind not exceeding three in numberor may have used the words person accused of more than one offence of the same kind to the extent permissible under section 234.
a c and d of section 239 as well as that occurring in section 2351 ought to be given the same meaning according to the normal rule of construction of statutes.
looking at the matter in that way it is pointless to inquire further whether the provisions of section 239 are subject to those of section 2361.
but it would be open to the court to resort to those provisions even in the case of a joint trial of several persons permissible under section 239 s 236.
is also an enabling provision to be availed of in case of doubt and it is meaningless to say that section 239 is subject to section 236.
bearing in mind the fact that the provisions in the former part of chapter xix are applicable to charges made with the aid of section 239 only so far as may be it would not be right to construe section 239 as being subject to the provisions of sections 233 to 236.
for even in the absence of those words the earlier provisions could not have been ignored.
for it is a rule of construction that all the provisions of a statute are to be read together and given effect to and that it is therefore the duty of the court to construe a statute harmoniously.
apart from this the question whether the provisions of sections 233 to 236 have or have no overriding effect on section 239.
is not strictly germane to the question considered by the high court that is clubbing together all the provisions of the various clauses of section 239.
on a plain construction of the provisions of section 239 therefore it is open to the court to avail itself cumulatively of the provisions of the different clauses of section 239 for the purpose of framing charges and charges so framed by it will not be in violation of the law the provisions of sections 233 234 and 235 notwithstanding.
the decision of the allahabad high court in t r mukherji s case il is directly in point and is clearly to the effect that the different clauses of section 239 are mutually exclusive in the sense that it is not possible to combine the provisions of two or more clauses in any one case and to try jointly several persons partly by applying the provisions of one clause and partly by applying those of another or other clauses.
a large number of decisions of the different high courts and one of the privy council have been considered in this case.
but while this principle is easy to appreciate and follow where one person alone is the accused and the interaction or intervention of the acts of more persons than one does not come in it would where the same act is committed by several persons be not only inconvenient but injudicious to try all the several persons separately.
where however several offences are alleged to have been committed by several accused persons it may be more reasonable to follow the normal rule of separate trials.
a and b.
a says that persons accused of the same offence committed in the course of the same transaction may be charged and tried together.
b says that persons accused of an offence and persons accused of abetment or of an attempt to commit such offence may also be charged and tried together.
a and c c provides that persons accused of more than one offence of the same kind within the meaning of section 234 committed by them jointly within the period of twelve months could also be charged and tried together.
two persons a and b enter a house at night and first together commit the murder of a man sleeping there and then also his wife.
each of them has committed two offences and each of them participated in the same offence.
the offences are of the same kind and must be deemed to have been committed in the course of the same transaction because of association and mutual connection.
c they could be tried together because the offences are of the same kind.
then take section a and d d persons accused of different offences committed in the course of the same transaction can be tried together.
during the course of the attack one person from the second group was killed as a rest of blows with an axe inflicted by the aggressors a b and c two persons of the second group sustained grievous hurt as a result of lathi blows and one person sustained simple hurt.
let us say that the grievous hurt was caused as a result of lathi blows given by x and y simple hurt was caused by lathi blows given by z here the offences committed were those under sections 147 302 325 and 323 i p c the offences being different and the persons commiting the offences being different they could not be tried jointly only with the help of cl.
a of section 239.
d yet the transaction in which the offences were committed is the same and there is a close association amongst the persons who have committed the different offences.
all these persons can be jointly tried for offences under section 147 by recourse to cl.
a so also a b and c could be jointly tried together for an offences under section 302.
similarly if we take cl.
d by itself all of them can be tried jointly for the different offences committed by each of them in the course of the same transaction and if cl.
a is unavailable they could not be tried for the offence under section 147 at the same trial.
to repeat the object of the legislature in enacting section 239 cr.
the acquittal in the previous case was urged as a bar under section 4031 of the code to the trial for an offence under section 467 i p c the contention apparently was that this was a case which fell under section 236 cr.
p c and that if he had been tried alternatively for both the offences at the same trial the court could have dealt with him under section 237 cr.
the precise point which we have to consider here did not fall for consideration in that case i e whether the provisions of the various clauses of section 239 could be used together or not.
but on appeal by the state of andhra pradesh to this court this court held that there was no misjoinder of charges that the introduction of a large number of charges spread over a long period was a question of propriety and that it should be left to the judge or the magistrate trying the case to adopt the course which he thought to be appropriate in the facts and circumstances of the case.
but then section 235 1 provides that if in any one series of acts so connected together as to form the same transaction more offences than one are committed by the same person he may be charged with and tried at one trial for every such offence.
239 would apply.
but in the case before us no objection was taken to multiplicity or misjoinder of charges before the learned additional sessions judge and it was only in the high court that the point was raised.
bhimasankaram supporting the view taken by the high court then contends that it is not permissible to frame a charge of conspiracy when the matter has proceeded beyond the stage of conspiracy and that in pursuance of it offences have actually been committed.
a similar view was expressed by the same high court in the case which was reversed by this court in the state of andhra pradesh v kandinalla subbaiah 1962 2 scr 194 and it was held that conspiracy to commit an offence being itself an offence a person can be separately charged with respect to such a conspiracy.
in swamirathnam s case 1 which is a decision of this court certain persons were tried for the offence of the conspiracy to cheat the members of the public and for specific offences of cheating in pursuance of that conspiracy.
negativing the contention.
this court held that the charge as framed disclosed a single conspiracy although spread over several years that there was one object of the conspiracy and that was to cheat the members of the public that the fact that in the course of years other joined the conspiracy or that several incidents of cheating took place in pursuance of the conspiracy did not have the effect of splitting the conspiracy into several conspiracies.
a No iii of 1959 decided on january 19 1961.
here again the question of clubbing together of the various provisions of cls.
a to d of section 239 was not raised expressly in the argument before the court.
but the ultimate decision of the case would negative such argument.
in the first place there the trial had not actually begun.
again what was said by this court was that it is undesirable to complicate a trial by introducing a large number of charges spread over a long period but even so this was a question of propriety which should be left to the discretion of the judge or magistrate trying the case.
the last objection was that the charge of conspiracy was added to the charge sheet very late.
section 120 b which makes criminal conspiracy punishable was added by the indian criminal law amendment act 1913 8 of 1913 along with section 120 a section 120 a defines conspiracy and section 120 b provides for the punishment for the offence of conspiracy.
criminal conspiracy as defined in section 120 a and consists of an agreement to do an illegal act or an agreement to do an act which is not illegal by illegal means.
criminal conspiracy was however not an unknown thing before the amendment of the indian penal code in 1913.
but what the amendment did was to make that conspiracy itself punishable.
but it does not follow that where crimes have been committed the liability to punishment already incurred under section 120 b by having entered into a criminal conspiracy is thereby wiped away.
but that would be a matter ultimately within the discretion of the court before which the trial takes place.
as we are remanding the appeal to the high court for a fresh decision after full consideration of the evidence adduced in the case it would be open to it to consider this matter particularly while judging the credibility of the evidence of the approver.
in so far as the portion included in the bracket is concerned we agree with the learned counsel that it should not have found place there.
even assuming for a moment that this charge is cumbersome in the absence of any objection by the respondents at the proper time and in the absence of any material from which we could infer prejudice they are precluded by the provisions of section 225 from complaining about it at any rate after their conviction by the trial court.
coming to the next point of mr bhimsankaram regarding the abuse of powers under section 342 his first contention was that long and involved questions were put to the respondents.
his second contention was that reference was made to a number of documents in some of these questions and those documents were not made available to the respondents for answering those questions.
finally he said that the court did not perform its duty under section 342 4 of the code as amended as it failed to bring to the notice of the respondents that they may if they chose give evidence in their defence.
we have read the questions and so also the answers.
while we are disposed to agree with learned counsel that the questions embrace a number of matters and that it would have been better if those matters had been made the subjects of separate questions the answers given by the respondents clearly show that they understood the questions and wherever possible they have given complete answers to those questions.
a pointed reference was made to question.
the new provision however does no more than lift the ban and does not impose a duty on the court to draw the attention of an accused person to its contents.
the irrelevant evidence to which mr bhimasankaram referred was certain account books.
the prosecution be established by reference to section 34 of the indian evidence act which reads thus.
it says nothing about non existence of entries in account books.
cal 231 247.
absence of entries in their account books would be inconsistent with the receipt of the accounts and would thus be a relevant fact which can be proved under section 11.
for the purpose of showing that no amounts were received by the firms their account books would thus be as relevant as the vesco account books for the purpose of showing the contrary.
it may further be mentioned that the account books of vesco show certain payments made to billimoria co of kharagpur.
papers seized by the police include receipts purporting to have been signed by one j j billimoria on behalf of the firm.
in coming to this conclusion it has relied upon the provisions of section 356 2a of the code of criminal procedure.
we do not think that we should take notice of the complaint made by mr bhimasankaram.
the third point stressed by him was that the approver was allowed to refresh his memory while deposing in the case by referring extensively to the account books and various documents produced in the case.
that is precisely what happened in this case and we do not think that the additional sessions judge adopted a procedure which was either a violation of law or was an abuse of the power of the court.
according to mr bhimasankaram the pardon tendered to the approver was illegal and if the pardon is illegal his evidence is wholly inadmissible.
if it is left out of account he contends there is nothing left in the prose cution case because as pointed out by the additional sessions judge himself the evidence of the approver is the pivot of the prosecution case.
the first reason is that none of the offences alleged to have been committed falls within section 337 of the code of criminal procedure and the second reason is that the pardon was granted by an authority not empowered to grant it.
here one of the offences alleged against the respondents is criminal breach of trust punishable under section 409 i p c it is not exclusively triable by a court of sessions and the punishment as set out in the 7th column of schedule ii cr.
it seems to us that it would not be correct to read section 337 1 in the way sought by learned counsel.
on the strength of these considerations mr chari for the state contends that if the words any offence punishable with imprisonment which may extend to 10 years were interpreted to mean offences which were punishable with imprinsonment of less than 10 years grave offences which are not exclusively triable by a court of sessions will be completely out of section 337 1.
now of course by the amendment made by section 117 of act 26 of 1955 for the words transportation for life the words imprisonment for life have been substituted but the original structure of all the sections now amended continues.
as regards the offence under section 477 a it is one of those sections which are specifically enumerated in section 337 1 and the argument advanced before us and which we have rejected would not even be available with regard to the pardon in respect of that offence.
coming to the next ground of attack on the validity of pardon the argument of mr bhimasankaram is that whereas section 337 1 speaks of pardon being granted by a district magistrate or presidency magistrate a sub divisional magistrate or any magistrate of first class except in cases where an enquiry or trial was pending before another magis tratc the pardon here was granted by the additional district magistrate in a case where an enquiry was pending before the district magistrate and is therefore illegal and of no avail.
he contends that section 337 1 speaks of the district magistrate which expression does not include an additional district magistrate.
iii to the code a magistrate first class has the power to grant pardon under section 337 but it is limited by the proviso thereto to certain classes of cases.
a case under enquiry or trial before another magistrate does not fall in any of these classes.
the magistrate before whom the enquiry or trial is proceeding or the district magistrate would be the only authorities competent to grant a pardon in such a case.
by government order No 3106 dated september 9 1949 the government of the province of madras issued certain instructions to the magistrates in pursuance of the separation of the judiciary from the executive.
the latter category comprises of the executive officers of the revenue department on whom the responsibility for the maintenance of law and order was to continue to rest.
the category of judicial magistrates was constituted of the following 1 district magistrate 2 sub divisional magistrates 3 additional first class magistrates and 4 second class magistrates sub magistrates.
consequent on the separation.
as distinguished from the power under the proviso to section 337 1 can be conferred upon an additional district magistrate.
but entry 7 a in part v of sch.
iii when it refers to the power of a district magistrate under section 337 1 does not exclude the power under the proviso.
learned counsel further pointed out that the decisions show that however undesirable it may be to adduce the evidence of a person jointly accused of having committed an offence along with others his evidence is competent and admissible except when it is given in a case in which he is being actually tried.
if pardon is tendered to an accused person and eventually it is found that the pardon is illegal such person is pushed back into the rank of an accused person and being no more than an accomplice would be a competent witness.
now as regards the reliability of the approver.
but it should remove from its mind the misconception that the additional sessions judge has not believed him.
