the collector gave his award on 26 2 63 in respect of these lands which actually measured 49 47 acres at rs 1350 per acre amounting to rs 66784 50 np.
apart from this amount compensation was also awarded for standing crop amounting to rs 11073 13.
before the land was actually acquired the appellant who was a major in the military engineering service was working as a garrison engineer and was inching of the extension.
after the completion of the first phase the second phase was to start on 10th october 1963 and completed by 9th may 1964.
february 1963 to the appellant.
24 bears the signature of n l handa the tehsildar and of sukhchain lal jain p w 11 on behalf of the military estate officer and the appellant.
the case of the prosecution initially was that after the land so acquired with the standing crop was taken possession of by the appellant.
he sold the crop to moti ram and kewal chand for rs 2500 and facilitated the cutting and taking away of the crop by postponing the handing over of the possession to the contractor till the 5th april 1963 and misappropriated the money.
after accepting illegal gratification of rs 3000 from them.
he thus.
abused his position as a public servant and caused pecuniary advantage to said shri moti ram and kewal chand by giving them standing crops worth rs 13000 for a consideration of.
a regular case is therefore registered and entrusted to inspector baldev rai handa for investigation.
after this f i r certain statements were recorded by the military authorities being da to de dm dm 1 dn dl of mani gain mulkh raj ganpat ram telu ram kewal chand and sukhchain lal jain.
the accused was however convicted under the first charge for an offence under section 51c in that he being a garrison engineer incharge of the air field.
and which had been valued at rs 11073 13 by the revenue authorities dishonestly or fraudulently allowed moti ram of sirsa to misappropriate the said standing crop and thereby contravened section 51c of the prevention of corruption act punishable with section 52 of that act.
against that conviction and sentence he appealed to the high court which maintained the conviction and sentence.
before we consider these contentions it is necessary to determine another submission of the learned advocate for the appellant which goes to the root of the jurisdiction of the court to try the offence under section 51c.
it may be mentioned that though a complaint was made in the application for a certificate for leave to appeal to this court that the learned single judge of the high court should have acquitted the appellant on the sole ground that there was no proper sanction for the prosecution of the appellant under section 51 c of the prevention of the corruption act this question does not seem to have been urged before the high court.
in any case we do not think that there is any validity in the submission.
sirsa and or he dishonestly or fraudulently realised and misappropriated rs 2500 during the aforesaid period as the value of the crops cut from the land acquired for the extension of air field.
sirsa which crops had been entrusted to him as a public servant and he instead of depositing the said sale price into the govt.
treasury converted it to his own use and whereas the said acts of major som nath constituted offences punishable under section 52 of the prevention of corruption act read with section 5 1 c and d act No 11 of 1947 of the said act and section 409 of the i p c and whereas the central govt.
after fully and carefully examining the materials before it in regard to the said allegations and circumstances of the case consider that major som nath should be prosecuted in a court of law for the said offences.
by order and in the name of the president.
sd a p veera raghavan.
considered for the purposes of according sanction were a that the appellant as a public servant was entrusted with crops situated on the land acquired for the extension of air field sirsa b that by abusing his position as a public servant he allowed the standing crops to be cut from the said land.
c that by corrupt or illegal means and by abusing his position as a public servant he obtained pecuniary advantage of rs 2500 as the value of the crops to be cut from the land andor he dishonestly or fraudulently misappropriated that sum by converting it into his own use instead of depositing the said sale price in the govt.
under 51c a public servant is said to commit the offence of misconduct in the discharge of his duty if he dishonestly or fraudulently misappropriates or otherwise converts for his own use any property entrusted to him or under his control as a public servant or allows any other person so to do and under d if he by corrupt or illegal means or by otherwise abusing his position as a public servant obtains for himself or for any other person any valuable thing or pecuniary advantage.
in fact the order specifically mentions thisprovision while granting sanction.
if so a charge under section 51c would implicate those persons also in the commission of an offence which certainly would not have been in the contemplation of the authorities granting the sanction.
and gokulchand dwarkadas mordrka v the king 1948 indlaw pc 39.
bhagat ram s case was not concerned with the sanction but only with the question whether the offence could be altered to one of abetment of an offence of section 409 i p c from one under section 409 simpliciter.
but even so the offence with which the appellant is charged under section 51c does not necessarily involve an abetment with the person whom he had dishonestly allowed to cut and take away the crop.
for instance it is quite possible that the person whom he allowed to cut the crop may be his own relation or friend in whom he may be interested and who may however not know that the accused was doing something dishonest in permitting him to cut the crop.
in any case the facts which have been stated in the sanction clearly indicate that the appellant has dishonestly allowed the crops to be cut so that there is no question of any inference or implication that the persons cutting the crops were abetting him in the offence.
nor in their lordships view is a sanction given without reference to the facts constituting the offence a compliance with the actual terms of cl.
a person could not be charged merely with the breach of a particular provision of the order he must be charged with the commission of certain acts which constitute a breach and it is to that prosecution that is for having done acts which constitution breach of the order that the sanction is required.
1957 indlaw sc 59 was also cited by the respondent s advocate in support of the contention that the trial of two offences requiring sanction was not valid.
in that case sanction was given under section 6 of the prevention of corruption act 47 for the prosecution of the appellant for having received illegal gratification from one pal singh.
he was charged with and tried for two offences under section 51 a of the act for habitually accepting or obtaining illegal gratification and under section 51d for receiving illegal gratification from pal singh.
sinha j as he then was while dismissing the appeal observed at page 766.
in our view there is no justification for holding that the conviction under section 51c read with 52 is bad for want of the requisite sanction.
now on the merits of the case as we said earlier the learned advocate for the appellant has referred to the evidence in meticulous detail and has commented thereon at length but this court ordinarily does not reappropriation the evidence with a view to arriving at its own finding as if it was a court of fact and does not ordinarily upset the findings of the high court which has on an evaluation of the evidence affirmed the trial court s conviction and sentence.
secondly the evidence that was necessary to unfold the story of the prosecution has not been produced by the prosecution but the trial court and the high court ignored this lacunas in the prosecution case.
before we deal with the contentions urged on behalf of the appellant it is necessary to have a clear picture of certain broad features of the case.
the acquired land extended from rd 1200 to rd 00.
according to p w 8 telu ram he acquired possession of the land of the length from rd 4500 to rd 1200 on 10th january 1963 and that tile possession of the acquired land was not delivered to him as it had not been acquired by that time.
exhibit do review report which is headed technical administration contract shows that the date of review was 9th february 1963.
there is however nothing in this document to show what is the site of which possession was handed over to and taken by telu ram on 10th january 63.
that there was crop on the land is amply born out by a letter of the appellant dated 12th february 1963 addressed to mr g l nagpal sub divisional magistrate sirsa.
acquisition of land for sirsa airfield.
as you know.
even if exhibit dq gave a correct picture it could be in relation to the airstrip already in existence as this would be necessary for a contractor who is charged with duty to carry out extension work to go on the site collect materials and get everything ready to execute his contract.
in fact as we have noticed earlier this is what telu ram says in his evidence namely that on loan january63 no delivery of possession of the remaining land other than rd 4500 to 1200 the land in which there is the existing run way was given.
a copy of this letter was sent to the garrison engineer the appellant.
it would however appear from exh.
p 24 that actual possession was delivered to the appellant on 13th february 63 as per the delivery receipt executed by him the tehsildar and p w 11 a representative of the military estate office and that even according to his letter already referred to exhibit p 13 there wag standing crop on the land.
as otherwise there is no meaning in the appellant saying therein that it is desirable that entire proceedings with regard to acquisition of land and determining compensation for standing crops for the total area of 39 58 acres are finalised on the 13th february.
at the most it shows that a small portion of the crops were cut but it is apparent that that has not been taken into account by the collector in assessing the value of the crop because it is on that day that crops were inspected for that purpose and subsequently the agricultural officer also had in his letter dated 18 2 63 which has been cited in the award exhibit p 26 intimated that on inspection the crops were found to be very good.
he also inform in that letter that the excavation in all available portions of the taxi track and runway has been completed.
in reply the appellant states in his letter exhibit p 12 dated the 10th april.
when the witnesses are contradicted by their previous statements in the manner aforesaid then that part of the statements which has been put to the witness will be considered along with the evidence to assess the worth of the witness in determining his veracity.
it is said that some of the documents i e exhibit 8 10 and 11 have not been put to the witnesses even though the court relied upon them.
as already noticed is the letter of telu ram jain to the assistant garrison engineer and p 10 is the letter of telu ram jain to the garrison engineer.
both these related to possession of the acquired land not being given to him.
he was asked about the symbolic delivery of possession the handing over of the actual possession of the land on 13 2 63 and the existence of crops on the date when possession was delivered on 16 2 63.
he was asked about telu ram s evidence and also that he had given possession of the land rd 1200 to rd 00 to the contractor after the crop had been cut.
the letter exhibit p 13 was also put to him and he was asked about the existence of the crops.
but when the prosecution relies upon the proof of exhibit p 24 as also to establish that there was standing crops on the land when the possession was delivered on 13 2 63 on certain witnesses who were present on the respective occasions.
the nonexamination of other witnesses without anything more can not be treated as defect in the prosecution.
the fact that otwithstanding overwhelming evidence particularly of his own admission at the time he denies that there were ever any crops when delivery of possession of the land acquired was taken by him further reinforces the conclusion that he allowed the crops to be cut away with dishonest or fraudulent motive.
we do not think in these circumstances there is any justification whatever for interfering with the concurrent findings of the trial court and the high court that the appellant is guilty of an offence under section 51c read with section 52 of the prevention of corruption act and consequently the appeal is dismissed.
appeal dismissed.
