it functions as a consulting organisation and a service industry and does not manufacture any product or carry on trade.
the union filed a statement before the tribunal claiming an upward revision of the wage scales and dearness allowance and an increase from fifteen years to twenty years in the span for earning annual increments.
the claim of the union was resisted by the appellant who maintained that the existing wage scales were fair and reasonable on a region cum industry basis and that it would not be possible for the appellant to bear the additional financial burden if the demands of the union were accepted.
reference was made to the political uncertainty in iran which had placed an appreciable part of the appellant s business in jeopardy and to various other factors peculiar to an engineering consultancy business beyond the appellant s control.
house rent allowance was also paid.
dearness allowance became payable at 10 of the basic wage subject to a minimum of rs 50 and house rent allowance at 30 of the basic salary.
the need for revising the wage scales was not disputed by the appellant.
holding it impossible in the circumstances to apply the principle of industry cum region basis the tribunal turned to a consideration of the financial capacity of the company to bear an additional burden in this connection it proceeded on the footing that the appellant was a separate and independent division of tata sons limited and had no functional integrality with the other divisions.
having regard to the net profits earned by the appellant from 1968 to 1977 it found that the acceptance of the demands of the union would result in an increased burden of rs 7 crores a burden which would dry up the appellant s resources and would be impossible for it to bear.
nonetheless the tribunal observed there was every reason to expect that the appellant would be able to earn sound profits in the future and the instability in its business activities occasioned by the turbulent political situation in iran would be it was expected compensated by contracts secured in different developing countries.
for the purpose of determining the financial capacity of the appellant the tribunal followed unichem laboratories v their workmen 1972 indlaw sc 181 where it was held that the gross profits should be computed without making deductions on account of taxation development rebate and depreciation.
the tribunal took note of the elaborate scales of wages already existing in the wage structure of the appellant and decided to modify the existing structure of the scales with flat increases in each category.
but it rejected the demand of the union for dearness allowance on the basis of a slab system because that would have imposed an unacceptable burden on the appellant s financial capacity and there was no reason why the existing scheme of dearness allowance should be disturbed when a substantial increase was being made in the level of the basic wage.
two days after the award was made an application was made by the union stating in the said award your honour has observed at the end of para 22in view of the increase that is being allowed in the basic pay i do not propose to revise the existing scheme of dearness allowance.
further it appears that the tribunal intended to grant the increase of rs 150 to each draughtsman and rs 100 to all other workmen in their basic pay.
however this is not clearly mentioned anywhere in the award due to accidental slip or omission.
it may be mentioned that only from that point of view viz to grant flat increase of rs 150 and of rs 100 to the employees in the category of draftsmen and the other categories respectively that a burden statement was called for from the company and the same was submitted vide exhibit c 51 the fitment has also to be done only after the flat increase is added to the present basic salary of each employee.
sd k n wani industrial tribunal.
considering the appeal of tata consulting engineers first the contention of learned counsel for the appellant is that having regard to the financial capacity of the appellant the tribunal erred in making the wage scales retrospective and in any event in ranging the retrospectivity back to 1st january1976.
we have been taken through some of the material on the record in the attempt to support the contention but after giving careful thought to the matter i think there is ample justification for what the tribunal did.
no dearness allowance was paid until the beginning of 1977 and the house rent allowance also was introduced about that time.
during all these years the appellant had continued to enjoy increasing profits nonetheless the emoluments received by the workmen did not receive the impress of the appellant s growing prosperity.
accordingly the contention raised on behalf of the appellant against retrospectivity of the wage scales must be rejected.
the challenge embodied in the second contention against the amendment of the award is more serious.
in making the application of 22nd.
december1978the union invoked the jurisdiction of the.
an accidental slip or omission implies that something was intended and contrary to that intention what should not have been included has been included or what should have been included has been omitted.
a clear statement of its intention is found in paragraph 22 of the award where the tribunal stated i only propose to modify the existing structures of the scales with flat increases in each category.
and that is confirmed by what was stated in paragraph 23 of the award considering this outgoing the flat increase of rs 150 in the category of draughtsman and rs 100 in the case of the other categories would be fair.
individual workmen were not present to the mind of the tribunal.
the revised pay scales of all categories except the category of draughtsmen shows an increase of rs 100 in the initial pay fixed in each scale the increase in the case of the category of draughtsmen being rs 150  there was only one increase contemplated in the award in paragraph 23 of award and it is more than plain that the increase was the one incorporated in the revised pay scales pertaining to different categories.
the amendment made by the tribunal has the effect of providing a second increase this time to each individual workmen.
considering the fitment of the workman in the revised scales it was stated in the award that a workman found drawing a salary less than the beginning of the grade would be stepped up to the beginning of the grade and if his pay fell between two steps in the reclassified pay scales the basic pay was to be fixed at the step higher in the revised scale.
conspicuous by its absence is any reference to a flat increase in the pay of an individual workmen.
even when considering the range of permissible retrospectivity the tribunal stated in the award in view of the revision of the wage scales there would be consequent increase in the dearness allowance and the house rent allowance.
and the clinching circumstances of all is that the award was made on the basis that the overall financial load according to paragraph 33 of the award would be to the tune of about rs 5 lakhs.
it can not be the case of the union that the figure of rs 5 lakhs mentioned in paragraph 33 of the award represented the result of adding a flat increase to the pay of each workman in addition to the benefits conferred by the revised pay scales and other awarded reliefs.
december1978the tribunal has referred to the statement exhibit c 51 filed by the appellant when called upon to indicate the increased financial burden apprehended by it.
the evidence contained in the award throughout provides incontrovertible proof that this flat increase was never originally intended in the award.
it is an accepted principle that consent by a party can not confer jurisdiction on a court.
the corrigendum amending the award in consequence is liable to be quashed.
i shall now consider civil appeal no 2300 of 1979 filed by the workmen.
the only contention of the workmen is that the tribunal should have fixed the dearness allowance in communion with the cost of living index.
it is wrong in principle it is said to provide a fixed dearness allowance.
reference was also made to bengal chemical pharmaceutical works limited v its workmen.
2 scr 113 1968 indlaw sc 183 now it is not a universal rule that the dearness allowance should in all cases be correlated with the cost of living index.
the tribunal in the present case considered the matter and found it sufficient and in accord with justice that the wage scales should be restructured with suitable increments provided therein.
civil appeal no 2300 of 1979 is dismissed.
there is no order as to costs.
chinnappa reddy j we have had the advantage of perusing the judgment prepared by our learned brother pathak j we agree with him that civil appeal no 2300 of 1979 should be dismissed.
we also agree with him that civil appeal no 2299 of 1979 should also be dismissed in so far as it relates to the award dated december 201978 however we do not agree with our learned brother that civil appeal no 2299 of 1979 should be allowed in so far as it relates to the order dated december 221978 of the industrial tribunal which purports to correct the award dated december 201978 in our opinion civil appeal no 2299 of 1979 should be dismissed in its entirety.
we do not propose to give our reasons to the extent we are in agreement with pathak j and we propose to state our reasons for the disagreement only.
further it appears that the tribunal intended to grant the increase of rs 150 to each draughtsman and rs 100 to all other workmen in their basic pay.
on this application the advocate for the employer company made the following endorsement submitted to whatever this honourable tribunal desires to do.
thereafter the tribunal made an order on the same day in the following terms there can be no doubt that a flat increase of rs 150 to each of the employees in the category of draftsmen and of rs 100 to each employee in the other categories has been granted under my award.
the order dated december 221978 of the tribunal also does not reveal that there was any opposition by the company to the application for correcting the award.
even so we propose to examine whether the correction sought by the employees union was within the bounds of the authority of the tribunal or whether it was in effect a fresh award.
the question is what should be the extent of such burden.
at the end of paragraph 18 of the award the tribunal said a mere reading of exhibit u 15 will immediately dispel the misgivings about the future of the present company.
c 27 indicates the important projects the company was handling in india and abroad and the amount of foreign exchange earned and repatriated.
finally at the end of paragraph 21.
after expressing himself in categoric terms about the capacity of the company to bear the additional financial burden the tribunal went on to say i only propose to modify the existing structure of the scales with flat increases in each category.
the tribunal then considered the question whether draftsmen should get a higher flat increase and the question whether the existing scheme of dearness allowance should be revised.
thereafter various other matters were considered and finally the tribunal revised the wage scales in the manner already mentioned by my brother pathak j the question of fitment was then considered in the following manner fitment if as on 1st january1976an employee is drawing a salary less than the beginning of the respective grade he should be first stepped up to the beginning of the grade.
since there was to be a flat increase of rs 150 and rs 100 in the case of draftsmen and other workmen respectively the revised wage scale had necessarily to commence with figures rs 150 and rs 100 above the existing wage scales.
as it has now turned out what the employees apparently suspected the employer might contend is precisely what the employer is not contending though the employer did not choose to so contend before the industrial tribunal itself when the employees filed the application for rectification.
the application before the tribunal was filed under rule 31 of the bombay industrial disputes rules 1957which is as follows.
