it was just the other day that our brothers ranganath misra and m m dutt jj had to give directions in a case vincent panikurbangara v union of india where a public spirited litigant had complained about the unscrupulous exploitation of the indian drug and pharmaceutical market by multinational corporations by putting in circulation low quality and even deleterious drugs.
in this group of cases we are faced with a different problem of alleged exploitation by big manufacturers of bulk drugs.
by way of illustration we may straightaway mention a glaring instance of such high pricing which was brought to our notice at the very commencement of the hearing.
barlagan ketone a bulk drug was not treated as an essential bulk drug under the drugs prices control.
a manufacturer was under the provisions of that order free to continue to sell the drug at the price reported by him to the central government at the time of the commencement of the order but was under an obligation not to increase the price without the prior approval of the central government.
after the 1979 drugs prices control.
the manufacturer applied for fixation of price at rs 8500 per kg.
for the moment ignoring the price fixed by the government we see that the price of rs 24735 per kg.
at which the manufacturer was previously selling the drug and at which he continues to market the drug to this day because of the quashing of the order fixing the price by the high court is so unconsciously high even compared with the price claimed by himself that it appears to justify the charge that some manufacturers do indulge in profiteering.
profiteering by itself is evil.
in particular section 32c enables the central government to make an order providing for controlling the price at which any essential commodity may be bought or sold.
it is in pursuance of the powers granted to the central government by the essential commodities act that first the drugs prices control.
order 1970 and later the drugs prices control.
order 1979 were made.
armed with authority under the drugs prices control.
the case for the union of india was presented to us ably by shri g ramaswami the learned additional solicitor general and the manufacturers were represented equally ably by shri anil diwan.
before we turn to the terms of the drugs prices control.
order 1979 we would like to make certain general observations and explain the legal position in regard to them.
we start with the observation price fixation is neither the function nor the forte of the court.
we concern ourselves neither with the policy nor with the rates.
but we do not totally deny ourselves the jurisdiction to enquire into the question in appropriate proceedings whether relevant considerations have gone in and irrelevant considerations kept out of the determination of the price.
for example if the legislature has decreed the pricing policy and prescribed the factors which should guide the determination of the price we will if necessary enquire into the question whether the policy and the factors are present to the mind of the authorities specifying the price.
but our examination will stop there.
we will go no further.
and we will not revaluate the considerations even if the prices are demonstrably injurious to some manufacturers or producers.
in the case of parliamentary legislation the proposition is self evident.
the right here given to rate payers or others is in the nature of a concession which is not to detract from the character of the activity as legislative and not quasijudicial.
occasionally the legislature directs the subordinate legislating body to make such enquiry as it thinks fit before making the subordinate legislation.
in such a situation while such enquiry by the subordinate legislating body as it deems fit is a condition precedent to the subordinate legislation the nature and the extent of the enquiry is in the discretion of the subordinate legislating body and the subordinate legislation is not open to question on the ground that the enquiry was not as full as it might have been.
a legislative act is the creation and promulgation of a general rule of conduct without reference to particular cases an administrative act is the making and issue of a specific direction or the application of a general rule to a particular case in accordance with the requirements of policy.
legislation is the process of formulating a general rule of conduct without reference to particular cases and usually operating in future administration is the process of performing particular acts of issuing particular orders or of making decisions which apply general rules to particular cases.
again adjudication determines past and present facts and declares rights and liabilities while legislation indicates the future course of action.
a price fixation measure does not concern itself with the interests of an individual manufacturer or producer.
in such situations the determination of price may acquire aquasi judicial character.
otherwise price fixation is generally a legislative activity.
1 scc 468 1973 indlaw sc 291 a notification fixing the ex factory price of certain counts of cotton yarn was questioned on the ground that the price had been arbitrarily fixed.
after referring to hari shanker bagla v state of madhya pradesh 1955 1 scr 380 1954 indlaw sc 135 union of india v bhanamal gulzarimal 1960 2 scr 627 1959 indlaw sc 127 sri krishna rice mills v joint director food 1965 indlaw sc 93 unreported state of rajasthan v nathmal and mithamal 1954 scr 982 1954 indlaw sc 66 narendra kumar v union of india 1960 2 scr 375 1959 indlaw sc 61 panipat co operative sugar mills v union of india 1973 1 scc 129 1972 indlaw sc 155 anakapalle co operative agricultural industrial society ltd v union of india.
1973 3 scc 435 1972 indlaw sc 334 and premier automobiles ltd v union of india 1972.
2 scr 526 1971 indlaw sc 291 a constitution bench of the court observed that the dominant object and the purpose of the legislation was the equitable distribution and availability of commodities at fair price and if profit and the producer s return were to be kept in the forefront it would result in losing sight of the object and the purpose of the legislation.
if price increases it becomes injurious to the consumer.
in such a case if an escalation in price is contemplated at intervals the object of controlled price may be stultified.
the court quoted with approval a passage from secretary of agriculture v central reig refining company 330 us 604 stating suffice it to say that since congress fixed the quotas on a historical basis it is not for this court to reweigh the relevant factors and per chance substitute its notion of expediency and fairness for that of congress.
in saraswati industrial syndicate ltd v union of india 1974 2 scc 630 1974 indlaw sc 134 the court observed price fixation is more in the nature of a legislative measure even though it may be based upon objective criteria found in a report or other material.
it could not therefore give rise to a complaint that a rule of natural justice has not been followed in fixing the price.
in prag ice oil mills v union of india 1978 3 scc 459 1978 indlaw sc 472 a constitution bench of seven judges of this court had to consider the validity of the mustard oil price control.
chandrachud j speaking for the court approved the observation of beg cj.
in saraswati industrial syndicate.
that it was enough compliance with the constitutional mandate if the basis adopted for price fixation was not shown to be so patently unreasonable as to be in excess of the power to fix the price.
panipat sugar and anakappalle society were again referred to and it was pointed out that those cases turned on the language of section 33c of the essential commodities act.
beg cj.
he also reaffirmed the proposition that price fixation was in the nature of a legislative measure and could not give rise to a complaint that natural justice was not observed.
he indicated the indicia which led him to the conclusion that price fixation was a legislative measure.
he observed we think that unless by the terms of a particular statute or order price fixation is made a quasi judicial function for specified purposes or cases it is really legislative in character in the type of control order which is now before us because it satisfies the tests of legislation.
it is meant to lay down a general rule applicable to all persons or objects or transactions of a particular kind or class.
in laxmi khandsari v state of uttar pradesh 1981 2 scc 600 1981 indlaw sc 558 it was held that the sugar cane control order 1966 was a legislative measure and therefore rules of natural justice were not attracted.
in rameshchandra kachardas porwal v state of maharashtra 1981 2 scc 722 1981 indlaw sc 423 it was observed that legislative activity did not invite natural justice and that making of a declaration that a certain place shall be a principal market yard for a market area under the relevant agricultural produce markets acts was an act legislative in character.
the observation of magarry j in bates v lord hailsha of st marylebone 1972.
1 wlr 1973 that the rules of natural justice do not run in the sphere of legislation primary or delegated was cited with approval and two well known text books writers paul kackson and wades h w r were also quoted.
in welcom hotel v state of andhra pradesh 1983 4 scc 575 1983 indlaw sc 128 the observations of chandrachud cj.
in tharoe mal v puranchand 1978 1 scc 102 1977 indlaw sc 122 one of the questions was regarding the nature of the hearing to be given before imposing municipal taxes under the uttar pradesh municipalities act 1916.
panipat and anakapalle were both cases where the question was regarding the price payable to a person who was required to sell to the government a certain percentage of the quantity of sugar produced in his mill.
it provides that in calculating the amount to be paid for the commodity required to be sold regard is to be had to  a the minimum price if any fixed for sugarcane by the central government under this section b the manufacturing cost of sugar c the duty or tax if any paid or payable thereon and d the securing of a reasonable return on the capital employed in the business of manufacturing sugar.
while section 32c contemplates an order of a general nature section 33c contemplates a specific transaction.
if the provisions of section 32c under which the price of an essential commodity may be controlled are contrasted with section 33c under which payment is to be made for a commodity require to be sold by an individual to the government the distinction between a legislative act and a non legislative act will at once become clear.
xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx x as a federal court has recently pointed out there is no bright line between rule making and adjudication.
the most famous pre apa attempt to explain the difference between legislative and judicial functions was made by justice holmes in prentis v atlantic coast line co a judicial inquiry said he investigates declares and enforces liabilities as they stand on present or past facts and under laws supposed already to exist.
according to chief justice burger rulemaking is normally directed toward the formulation of requirements having a general application to all members of a broadly identifiable class.
an adjudication on the other hand applies to specific individuals or situations.
we may now turn our attention to the two drugs prices control order of 1970 and 1979 both of which were made by the central government in exercise of its powers under section 3 of the essential commodities act.
bulk drugs were divided into essential bulk drugs which were included in the schedule and bulk drugs which were not so included.
in the case of essential bulk drugs paragraph 4 of the order enabled the central government to fix the maximum price at which such essential bulk drugs should be sold.
in the case of bulk drugs which were not included in the schedule a manufacturer was entitled to continue to market the product at the same price at which he was marketing the products at the time of the commencement of the order.
he was required to report this price to the central government within two weeks of the commencement of the order and was further prohibited from increasing the price without obtaining the approval of the central government.
order 1979 was made.
the hathi committee had recommended that a return post tax between 12 to 14 on equity that is paid up capital plus reserves may be adopted as the basis for price fixation depending on the importance and complexity of the bulk drug.
in the case of formulations the hathi committee felt that the principle of selectivity could be introduced in terms of a the size of the units b selection of items and c controlling the prices only of market leaders in particular of products for which price control is contemplated.
on balance the hathi committee was of the view that this particular variant selectivity may be administratively simpler.
paragraph 2a of the drugs.
prices control.
order 1979 defines bulk drug to mean any substance including pharmaceutical chemical biological or plant product or medicinal gas conforming to pharmacological or other standards accepted under the drugs and cosmetics act 1940 which is used as such or as in ingredient in any formulations.
formulation is defined as follows formulation means a medicine processed out of or containing one or more bulk drugs or drugs with or without the use of any pharmaceutical aids for internal or external use for or in the diagnosis treatment mitigation or prevention of disease in human beings or animals but shall not include i any bona fide ayurvedic including sidha or unani tibb systems of medicine ii any medicine included in the homoeopathic system of medicine 865 iii any substance to which the provisions of the drugs and cosmetics act 1940 xxiii of 1940 do not apply.
bulk drugs were however broadly divided into indigenously manufactured bulk drugs imported bulk drugs and hulk drugs which were both manufactured indigenously as also imported.
cl 2 of paragraph 3 provides that while so fixing the price of a bulk drug the government may take into account the average cost of production of such bulk drug manufactured by an efficient manufacturer and allow a reasonable return on net worth.
we have already noticed that net worth is defined to mean the share capital of a company plus free reserve if any.
it is then prescribed by clause 3 no person shall sell a bulk drug at a price exceeding the price notified under sub paragraph 1 plus local taxes if any payable provided that until the price of bulk drug is so notified the price of such bulk drug shall be the price which prevailed immediately before the commencement of this order and the manufacture of such bulk drug at a price exceeding the price which prevailed as aforesaid.
this means that until the maximum sale price of an indigenously manufactured bulk drug is fixed under paragraph 3 of the 1979 order the price fixed under paragraph 4 of the 1970 order or the price permitted under paragraph 5 of the 1970 order was to be maximum sale price.
paragraph 34a requires a manufacturer commencing production of the bulk drug specified in the first or second schedule the price of which has already been notified by the government not to sell the bulk drug at a price exceeding the notified price.
common sale price we take it is the price at which manufacturers whose retentions are fixed may sell the bulk drug despite the maximum sale price fixed under paragraph 3.
paragraph 6 enables the government to fix the maximum sale price of imported bulk drugs specified in first and second schedules.
the formula is r p  m c c c p m p c x 1mu e d 100 r p means retail price.
e d means excise duty.
paragraph 12 empowers the government to fix leader prices of formulations of categories.
i and ii specified in the third schedule.
paragraph 17 requires the government to maintain the drugs prices equalization account to which shall be credited by the manufacturer among other items the excess of the common selling price or as the case may be pooled price over his retention price.
it is provided that the amount credited to the drugs prices equalization account shall be spent for paying to the manufacturer the shortfall between his retention price and the common selling price or as the case may be the pooled price.
bulk drugs constituting categories.
bulk drugs constituting category iii are enumerated in the second schedule.
formulations constituting categories i ii and iii are enumerated in the third schedule.
form No 1 which is referred to in paragraphs 34 5 and 81 is titled form of application for fixation or revision of prices of bulk drug.
the several columns of the form provide for various particulars to be furnished and item 18 requires the applicant to furnish the cost of production of the bulk drug as per proforma attached duly certified by a practising cost chartered accountant.
to be furnished.
it was only thereafter that notifications fixing the prices were issued.
the grievance of the manufacturers in the writ petitions that they were not furnished the details of the basis of the price fixation was not correct since full information was furnished at the time of the hearing of the review applications when the matter underwent thorough and detailed discussion between the parties and the government as well as the bureau of industrial costs and prices.
the submission of shri anil diwan learned counsel for the respondents was that unlike other price control legislations the drugs prices control order was designed to induce better production by providing for a fair return to the manufacturer.
great emphasis was laid on the second clause of paragraph 3 of the 1979 order which provides that in fixing the price of a bulk drug the government may take into account the average cost of production of such bulk drug manufactured by an efficient manufacturer and allow a reasonable return on networth.
the suggestion of the learned counsel was that the nature of the review under paragraph 27 was so apparently quasi judicial and that the need to know the reasons for the order sought to be reviewed was so real if the manufacturer was effectively to exercise his right to seek the quasijudicial remedy of review that by necessary implication it became obvious that the order fixing the maximum price must be considered to be quasijudicial and not legislative in character.
if that was not done the remedy would become illusory.
it was stated that the applications of the manufacturers for review of the notifications fixing the prices had not been disposed of for years though time was really of the very essence of the matter.
a provision for such enquiry as it thinks fit by a subordinate legislating body we have explained earlier is generally an enabling provision to facilitate the subordinate legislating body to obtain relevant information from any source and it is not intended to vest any right in any body other than the subordinate legislating body.
in the present case the enquiry contemplated by paragraph 3 of drugs prices control.
the need of the consumer public is to be ascertained and making the drug available to them at a fair price is what it is all about.
the enquiry is to be made from that angle and directed towards that end.
in fixing the price of a bulk drug the government is expressly required by the order to take into account the average cost of production of such bulk drug manufactured by an efficient manufacturer and allow a reasonable return on net worth.
the former is an enquiry leading to a legislative activity while the latter is an enquiry which ends in an administrative or quasi judicial decision.
it is difficult to give it a label and to fit it into a pigeon hole legislative administrative or quasi judicial.
nor is it desirable to seek analogies and look to distant cousins for guidance.
in the context of the drug industry with which we are concerned and in regard to which the control order is made we must proceed on the basis that the manufacturers of bulk drugs are generally persons who know all that is to be known about the price fixed by the government.
from the legislative nature of the activity of the government it is clear that the government is under no obligation to make any disclosure of any information received and considered by it in making the order but in order to render effective the right to seek a review given to an aggrieved person we think that the government if so requested by the aggrieved manufacturer is under an obligation to disclose any relevant information which may reasonably be disclosed pertaining to the average cost of production of the bulk drug manufactured by an efficient manufacturer and the reasonable return on net worth.
1984 3 scr 676 1984 indlaw sc 326.
in vrajlal manilal co v union of india anr 1964 indlaw sc 194 supra the court held that the union of india when disposing of an application for review under rule 59 of the mines concession rules functioned as a quasi judicial authority and was bound to observe the principles of natural justice.
in maneka gandhi s case where bhagwati j while expounding on natural justice pointed out that in appropriate cases where a pre decisional hearing was impossible there must atleast be a post decisional hearing so as to meet the requirement of the rule audi alteram partem.
in liberty oil mills v union of india 1984 indlaw sc 326 supra the question arose whether clause 8b of the import control order which empowered the central government or the chief controller to keep in abeyance applications for licences or allotment of imported goods where any investigation is pending into an imported goods where any investigation is pending into an allegation mentioned in cl.
we do not propose to delve into the question whether there has been any such arbitrary assumption of facts and figures.
we think that if there is any grievance on that score the proper thing for the manufacturers to do is bring it to the notice of the government in their applications for review.
as already stated by us manufacturers of bulk drugs who claim to be affected by the drugs prices control.
in most cases they are the sale manufacturers of the bulk drug and even if they are not the sole manufacturers they belong to the very select few who manufacture the bulk drug.
he learned counsel argued that there were several patent errors which came to light during the course of the hearing in the high court.
he said that obsolete quantitative usages had been taken into consideration proximate cost data had been ignored and the data relating to the year ending november 1976 had been adopted as the basis.
despite the pressing invitation of shri diwan to go into facts and figures and his elaborate submissions based on facts and figures we have carefully and studiously refrained from making any reference to such facts and figures as we consider it outside our province to do so and we do not want to set any precedent as was supposed to have been done in premier automobiles though it was not so done and therefore needed explanation in later cases.
b bad debts and provisions.
c donations and charities.
d loss gain on sale of assets.
e brokerage and commission.
f expenses not recognized by income tax authorities salary prequisities advertisements etc.
g adjustments relating to previous years.
a general submission of the learned counsel was that the price of formulations should not have been prescribed until the review application filed by the manufacturer in regard to the patent bulk drugs was disposed of.
he submitted that the price of a formulation was dependant on the price of the bulk drug and it was therefore not right to fix the price of formulation when the price of bulk drug was in question in the review application and there was a prospect of the price of the bulk drug being increased.
if a review application is allowed and the price of the bulk drug is raised and if in the meanwhile the formulation had been ordered to be sold at a low price it may result in considerable loss to the manufacturer.
but on the other hand if the review application turns out to be entirely without substance and has to be rejected and if in the meanwhile the formulation is allowed to be sold at a higher price the consumer public suffers.
hus the ups and downs of commerce are inevitable and it is not possible to devise a fool proof system to take care of every possible defect and objection.
all that the government may do is to dispose of the review application with the utmost expedition.
but as we perceive the public interest it is necessary that the price of formulation should be fixed close on the heels of the fixation of bulk drug price.
accordingly to the learned counsel the very delay in the disposal of review applications was sufficient to vitiate the entire proceeding and scheme of price fixation.
according to the learned counsel the price of a bulk drug is dependant on many variable factors which keep changing very fast.
it is true that the price of a bulk drug is dependent on innumerable variables.
but it does not follow that the notification fixing the maximum price must necessarily be struck down as obsolete by the mere passage of time.
in the present case on ex parte interim order was made on april 20 1981 in the following terms in the meanwhile on the petitioners giving an undertakings to maintain prices both for bulk and formulation as were prevailing prior to the impugned notification we stay implementation of the impugned bulk drug prices as well as formulation prices.
apart from the fact that an appeal is ordinarily considered to be a continuation of the original proceeding in the present case we notice that further orders of the supreme court were also in contemplation and such further orders could only be if appeals were preferred to the supreme court.
on the conclusions arrived at by us we have no doubt that the appeal must be allowed and the writ petition in the high court dismissed.
it appears that although several writ petitions filed by different manufacturers were disposed of by the high court by a common judgment the union of india filed an appeal within the prescribed period of limitation against one of the manufacturers cynamide india limited only.
