this appeal is directed against the judgment and order of the high court of gujarat dated 28 2 1986 allowing the respondent s writ petition and quashing order of discharge from service and directing his reinstatement in service.
he made representation to the additional chief engineer for cancelling his transfer order on the ground that his mother aged 70 years was ailing and it would cause great inconvenience to him if he was required to join at ukai.
his representation was rejected and he was directed to join at ukai but he did not do so instead he filed a civil suit at baroda challenging validity of the order of transfer.
meanwhile the chief engineer by his order dated 27th may1974 discharged the respondent from service with effect from 31st march1974 in accordance with service regulation no 113 the respondent challenged the validity of the order of his discharge from service by means of a writ petition under article 226 of the constitution before the high court of gujarat.
a learned single judge of the high court quashed the order of termination on the findings that the order of discharge was issued m violation of the basic principles of natural justice as no opportunity was afforded to the respondent before discharging him from services under regulation no 113.
a division bench of the high court dismissed the appeal preferred by the appellants but it allowed the respondent s appeal.
the bench however did not grant full back wages to the respondent instead it directed the board to pay him 50 per cent of back wages.
aggrieved the appellant has preferred the instant appeal after obtaining special leave of this court.
sh b k mehta advocate appearing for the appellants and sh.
after hearing learned counsel for the parties we were satisfied that the learned single judge as well as the division bench both had committed error in allowing the writ petition and granting relief to the respondent.
vimal dave to obtain instructions from the respondent.
however in the interest of justice we permitted the respondent to file written submissions if any in support of his case.
the opportunity granted to the respondent has however been misused by raising mischievous and frivolous objections instead of filing written submissions.
transfer of a government servant appointed to a particular cadre of transferable posts from one place to the other is an incident of service.
if the order of transfer is not stayed modified or cancelled the concerned public servant must carry out the order of transfer.
if he fails to proceed on transfer in compliance to the transfer order he would expose himself to disciplinary action under the relevant rules as has happened in the instant case.
in march1974 he was transferred from surat to ukai.
he was relieved from his duties at surat on 30th march1974.
but he did not join at ukai till the impugned order of discharge was issued on may 271974 the.
chief engineer who discharged the respondent s services exercised his power under service regulation no 113which runs as under 113 the continued absence from duty or overstay m spite of warning to return to duty shall render the employee liable to summarily discharge from service without the necessity of proceedings under the gujarat electricity board conduct discipline and appeal procedure.
before this power is exercised two conditions must be satisfied firstly the employee must be found to be absent from duty without leave or overstaying the period of sanctioned leave and secondly he failed to join his duty even after a warning.
if even thereafter he fails to join duty his services are liable to be terminated by an order of discharge.
it is noteworthy that the validity of regulation 113 was not challenged before the high court and the parties proceeded on the assumption that regulation 113 was valid and applicable to the respondent s service.
march 301974 to may 271974.
in determining the question whether any warning was given to the respondent it is necessary to refer to the sequence of events and the correspondence which ensued between the appellants and the respondent.
instead he made a representation to the additional chief engineer on 8 4 1974 after the transfer order.
in this situation the superintending engineer by his letter dated 18th april1974 directed the respondent to show cause as to why action should not be taken against him for disobeying the order of transfer and also for unauthorised absence from duty in breach of service regulation.
no 113 the letter is as under gujarat electricity board o m division nana varchha road surat.
i ve engineer o m surat copy f w c s to.
superintending engineer geb utran.
by that letter respondent stated that he was waiting for the decision of his representation made for reconsideration of his transfer from surat to ukai and therefore the question of his remaining on unauthorised leave was misconceived.
since the respondent continued to be absent from duty the superintending engineer by a registered post acknowledgment due letter dated april 241974 informed the respondent that his request to postpone his transfer was rejected and he was directed to join his duty at ukai and on his failure to do so disciplinary action would be taken against him.
a copy of the letter filed by the petitioner himself as annexure k to the writ petition in the high court.
but even thereafter the respondent did not join his duties.
the sequence of events and the correspondence which ensued between the officers of the board and the respondent clearly show that the respondent disobeyed the order of transfer and he remained absent from duty in an unauthorised manner without obtaining sanction of leave.
in fact the superintending engineer had by his letter dated 18th april1974 clearly reminded the respondent that his unauthorised absence was in breach of service regulation no 113 and called upon to show cause why action should not be taken against him but in spite of these letters the respondent failed to join his duties.
this finding is wholly misconceived.
a warning need not be in any particular form.
before the high court a controversy was raised as to whether the registered letter dated 24 4 1974 addressed by the superintending engineer to the respondent was received by him or not.
firstly even if the letter dated 24 4 1974 was not served on the respondent there is no dispute that the superintending engineer s letter dated 18th april1974 had been served on him.
by that letter warning as contemplated by regulation no 113 had been issued to the respondent.
apart from denying the postal endorsement the respondent placed no material before the court in support of his pleading.
no new plea had been raised by the board before the division bench instead the plea relating to service of the aforesaid letter had already been before the learned single judge.
mere denial made by the respondent in the circumstances of the case was not sufficient to rebut the presumption relating to service of the registered cover.
the respondent acted in an irresponsible manner in not complying with the order of transfer which led to his discharge from service in accordance with the service regulation.
we accordingly allow the appeal set aside the order of the single judge as well as division bench and dismiss the respondent s petition.
the respondent has been paid a sum of rs 104170 towards salary under the interim orders of this court.
appeal allowed.
