plaintiff filed the suit for redemption of the said mortgages in the year 1966 defendant 2brother of defendanti had been joined in that suit on the allegation that the latter was put in possession of mortgage properties by the former subsequent to the coming into existence of the mortgages.
even if the sale of said properties in favour of defendant l it was asserted therein was not proved they continued to be tenants of the said properties on the date of suit as they were tenants even before the date of coming into existence of the mortgages.
on the basis of findings so recorded by the civil.
court it also made a preliminary decree in favour of the plaintiff for redemption of the suit properties.
a learned single judge of the high court who heard the second appeal while upheld the concurrent findings of the courts below that the deeds of mortgage executed by the plaintiff in respect of the suit properties in favour of defendant l were mortgages by conditional sale and the defendants had failed to prove that there was sale of the suit properties in their favour subsequent to the coming into existence of the said mortgages found that the defendants had raised in their written statements the plea that they were tenants not only prior to the date of suit but also at the time of the filing of the suit and having regard to that plea the suit ought to have been stayed by the civil court and the issue of tenancy should have been referred to the mamlatdar for obtaining a finding from him thereon both under section 85 a of the bt.
al act as it stood before its amendment at the time of filing of the suit and as it stood after its amendment after the filing of the suit.
consequently the learned single judge set aside the judgments and decrees of the trial court and the appellate court relating to the issue of tenancy raised by the defendants in the suit and remanded the case to the civil court trial court directing it to refer the issue of such tenancy to the mamlatdar baroda for his determination and to stay all further proceedings in the suit till he got the finding from the mamlatdar on that tenancy issue and thereafter to proceed to dispose of that suit in the light of that finding and the other findings recorded by the appellate court district judge.
agricultural lands at the time of execution of the deeds of mortgage by conditional sale in his favour because of the coming into existence of such mortgages there occurred merger of lease hold rights of defendant l in suit properties when he obtained those properties as mortgage security under the said mortgages and as a consequence he became a mortgagee in possession of those properties.
according 10 him a mortgagee in possession being a person who can not be deemed to be a tenant under section 4 of the bt al act it was not open to the defendants to claim that they were the tenants of suit properties and if that be so question of raising issue of tenancy by the civil court in the suit before it did not arise at all nor was it necessary to refer such issue to the mamlatdar under section 85 a of the bt al act and stay the suit till receipt of the finding on such issue as was directed by the high court in its judgment under appeal.
in support thereof he sought to place reliance on the decisions of this court in shah mathuradas maganlal and co v.
nagappa shankarappa malaga and others 1976 indlaw sc 400 and gambangi appalaswamy naldu and others v behara venkataramanayya patro.
according to him when the plaintiff had not admitted that the defendants were tenants of the suit properties it was not open to the defendants to force the plaintiff who had a right to choose his forum to file a suit to go before another forum on the plea that jurisdiction lay before another forum that is mamlatdar.
379 he therefore urged that the high court was not justified in upsetting the concurrent finding of the trial court and the appellate court that the defendants failed to prove their tenancy and remanding the case to the trial court directing it to refer the issue of tenancy to the mamlatdar and stay the suit till the receipt of the finding in that regard from the mamlatdar and then dispose of the suit.
however learned counsel appearing for the defendants respondents sought to refute the arguments advanced on half of the plaintiff appellant.
2 when a plea of tenancy is raised with regard to suit property an agricultural land by a defendant who claims to be a tenant of such property under the bt al act and seeks a reference of that issue by the civil court to the mamlatdar under that act for obtaining a finding thereon can the civil court decide such issue by itself and proceed to decide the suit on the basis of the finding thereon.
as the said questions could be dealt with appropriately with reference to the statutory provisions which bear upon them it would be convenient to advert to such statutory provisions here.
bombay tenancy and agricultural lands act1948bombay tenancy and agricultural lands act1948.
4 a person lawfully cultivating any land belonging to another person shall be deemed to be a tenant if such land is not cultivated personally by the owner and if such person is not a a member of the owner s family or b a servant on wages payable in cash or kind but not in crop share or a hired labourer cultivating the land under the personal supervision of the owner or any member of the owner s family or c a mortgagee in possession.
70 for the purposes of this act the following shall be the duties and functions to be performed by the mamlatdar a to decide whether a person is an agriculturist b to decide whether a person is a tenant or a protected tenant or a permanent tenant c to decide such other matters as may be referred to him by or under this 85 1 no civil court shall have jurisdiction to settle decide or deal with any question which is by or under this act required to be settled decided or dealt with by the mamlatdar or tribunal a manager the collector or the maharashtra revenue tribunal in appeal or revision or the state government in exercise of their powers of control.
2 no order of the mamlatdar the tribunal the collector or the maharashtra revenue tribunal or the state government made under this act shall be questioned in any civil or criminal court.
2 on receipt of such reference from the civil court the competent authority shall deal with and decide such issues in accordance with the provisions of this act and shall communicate its decision to the civil court and such court shall thereupon dispose of the suit in accordance with the procedure applicable thereto.
question 1.
if that be so merger of lease hold estate in reversion can not arise inasmuch as there can not be any inconsistency or incompatibility in one person being the tenant and also the mortgagee of the same property for in that event instead of the tenant paying rent to the landlord he may adjust it against the amount claimable by him as a mortgagee from the landlord.
al act even if the plaintiff could obtain a decree for redemption of the suit properties which relief was sought in the suit.
coming to g appalaswamy case 1984 indlaw sc 314 supra which considered the question whether a sitting tenant who took property by a possessory or usufructuary mortgage in his favour was liable to deliver physical possession upon redemption to the mortgagor.
dealing with the question of non merger this court approved the ratio of the decision in shah mathuradas 1976 indlaw sc 400 supra thus in our view there can be no merger of a lease and a mortgage even where the two transactions are in respect of the same property.
accordingly there can not be a merger of a lease and a mortgage in respect of the same property since neither of them is a higher or lesser estate than the other.
him by the landlord lessor on a mortgage by conditional sale as would debar the tenant from desisting the suit of the landlord mortgagor for recovery of possession of such property by obtaining decree for redemption of the mortgage.
question 2.
the argument which was strenuously advanced on behalf of the appellant plaintiff was that in a suit for redemption filed by the mortgagor in a civil court in respect of property notwithstanding the plea of the defendants claim that they were tenants of that property under the bt al act and under the provisions of that act the issue of tenancy had to be referred by the civil court to the mamlatdar for recording a finding thereon and the civil court can proceed to dispose 0.
support was sought for the argument from the decision of this court in topandas case 1963 indlaw sc 379 supra.
bombay had exclusive jurisdiction in dealing with the suit out of which the appeal had arisen.
the further plea taken in the written statement by the appellants was that as the question involved in the suit related to the possession of premises as between a landlord and his tenant the court of small causes bombay alone had jurisdiction to try the suit.
if he establishes the correctness of his facts he will get his relief from the forum chosen.
then there will be no question of returning the plaint for presentation to the proper court for the plaint as framed would not justify the other kind of court to grant him the relief.
by referring to the material portion of section 28 of the rents control act the argument made on behalf of the appellants was found by this court to be untenable by stating thus we do not think that the section says or intends to say that the plea of the defendant will determine or change the forum.
as seen from the above observations this court has held that it did not think that the section concerned says or intends to say that the plea of the defendant will determine or change the forum.
but if the provisions of the bt al act which bear on the question of matters to be decided by the mamlatdar are seen they give no room for one even to think that those matters could be decided by a civil court when a question is raised in that behalf even by a defendant in a suit.
appeal dismissed.
