twelve accused persons were tried for offences under section 302307149324147148 and section 3 of terrorist and disruptive activites.
10 years ri and a fine of rs 5000 each for the offence under section 307149 ipc 2 years ri for the offence under section 324149 ipc and life imprisonment and fine of rs 5000 each for the offence under section 3 of tada in default of payment of fine on each of the counts the appellants were to undergo further ri for two years each.
for the sake of convenience the accused shall be referred to hereinafter by the number assigned to them in the trial court judgment as accused i e a 5a 8a 10 etc.
according to the prosecution case on 11th august1990 at about 3 00 p m anna shety band patte mukesh ramesh and prakash band patte had gone to the vrindavan video parlour for watching a movie.
pw both the prosecution witnesses as well as.
at about 4 00 p m the appellants and other accused persons allegedly armed with swords satturs and sticks arrived there in two auto rickshaws and one jeep.
all the injured persons were admitted to the hospital.
police inspector joshi arrived at the hospital and baban karpe pw 9 narrated the occurrence to him which was reduced into writing.
bajrang pw 14 regained consciousness during the night intervening 11th and 12th august1990 and made a statement to the police in respect of the incident which took place in front of jagdamba hotel and on the basis of that statement cr no 10290 was registered.
an auto rickshaw bearing registration no mwq 5624 belonging to manik bhende gavali was found abandoned in a damaged condition with broken glasses.
it was also taken into possession vide a panchnama.
on a disclosure statement made by a 11 before the police and the panches under section 27 of the evidence act and on his pointing out a sword was recovered from the field at korti where it lay buried.
a 10 also made a disclosure statement under section 27 of the evidence act to the effect that he had buried a sword behind yamai tukai temple and could get it recovered.
the blood samples of bajrang pw 14 and baban karpe pw 9 were similarly collected.
after completion of the investigation two charge sheets arising out of crime no 10190 and crime no 10290 were filed before the designated court.
during the pendency of the two charge sheets the addl.
p 35requested the court for holding trial in respect of both the chargesheets together which application was allowed by the designated court vide order dated 5 december 1992 and that is how both the cases were tried together by virtue of the provisions of section 220 1 cr.
p c was one of total denial and false implication.
according to a 2a 3a 5a 6 and a 7 they had been identified by pw 9during the identification parade at the instance of the police.
a 4 alleged false implication at the instance of pw 15 waman while a 8 alleged false implication at the hands of the police with a view to pressurise him to withdraw a complaint concerning the murder of his brother and 5 others allegedly committed by the police.
a 9 also put forward a similar defence while a 10 alleged that the police had instituted a false case against him at the instance of narayan dhotare according to a 11also the witnesses had deposed falsely against him at the instance of narayan dhotare.
according to pw 22the internal injuries on the deceased were a result of the following external injuries 1 incised wound transverse on left groin at centre medial to left public symphysis and left superior iliac crest all muscles vessels cut both femoral vessels vein artery cut dimension 4 x 2 x 5 cms.
cms above right ear fracture of right parietal bone with laceration of brain.
3 verticle incised wound 5 x 1 x 1 cms.
bone deep at centre of vertex fracture of skull with laceration of brain.
pw 9 was examined by dr khiste pw 22 who noticed the following two injuries on his person 1 transverse superficial incised wound 10x12 cm on posterior of left knee in popliteal.
2 abraded contusion below right knee and front of right leg5 x 5 cm.
bone deep.
2 multiple abraded contusion all over the back.
some of the prosecution witnesses including the deceased pw9 and pw14 were already standing near the jagdamba hotel.
some of the other witnesses including popat deceased and baban pw 9 fled towards the math to save themselves.
we do not find any force in the submission of the learned counsel for the appellant that since mohan lal pw 19who runs the video parlour has not fully supported the prosecution version regarding the cause of altercation at the video parlour the genesis of the occurrence gets shrouded in doubt.
even from the evidence of the hostile witness pw 19 mohanlal it emerges that on the day of the incident there was an altercation at the video parlour though he has given the cause of the altercation to be somewhat different which explanation does not appeal to us.
we are in agreement with the designated court that there is ample evidence led by the prosecution to establish the incident at the video parlour and also that the said incident was the origin for the subsequent assault.
public prosecutor with the permission of the court.
pw 15 waman band patte who is the owner of the jagdamba hotel has lent sufficient corroboration to the testimony of the other prosecution witnesses in general and pw9 and pw14 in particular.
from the testimony of pw9it stands established that while mukesh pw 12 was narrating the incident which had taken place at the video parlour the appellants alongwith 78 other persons arrived in a jeep and two auto rickshaws armed with swords satturs and sticks and opened the assault on the prosecution witnesses and that a 11 and his two associates assaulted pw 14 with swords.
his testimony receives ample corroboration from the testimony of pw10pw11pw14 and pw15 waman the proprietor of jagdamba hotel besides the medical evidence.
an identification parade had been held by shri shrikant chimanaji jahagirdar pw 32executive magistrate.
from our independent analytical appreciation of the evidence on the record we are of the opinion that the designated court rightly found the participation of a 1a 5a 8a 9 and a 11in the assault to have been positively established.
that apart the name of a 10 does not figure specifically in the statement of baban pw 9which formed the basis of the fir ex 77 pw 10pw 11 and pw 15 have tried to implicate a 10 by making tell tale improvements in their statements at the trial by ascribing a role to him in the assault by improving upon their statements earlier recorded during the investigation with which statements they were duly confronted.
the prosecution has not been able to establish the case against a 10 beyond a reasonable doubt and is our opinion he is entitled to the benefit of the doubt.
besides the testimony of these prosecution witnesses has received ample corroboration from the medical evidence as well as the recoveries of the weapons of offence.
from our independent examination of the material on the record we are satisfied that the prosecution has been able to establish its case against a 5a 8a 9 and a 11 and the deceased a 1 beyond a reasonable doubt.
it appears to be a mere coincidence that pw9pw14 and the deceased all belong to the wadar community.
by no stretch of imagination.
none out of those who were present at the video parlour received any injury and there is no material on the record to show as to which community did they belong to either.
prosecution has led no evidence nor brought any circumstances on the record from which any inference may be drawn that the appellants intended to strike terror amongst the wadar community.
and others 1994 4 scc602.
1994 indlaw sc 1706 this court opined that the criminal activity in order to invoke tada must be committed with the requisite intention as contemplated by section 31 of the act by use of such weapons as have been enumerated therein and which cause or are likely to result in the commission of offences as mentioned in that section.
thus unless the act complained of falls strictly within the letter and spirit of section 31 of tada and is committed with the intention as envisaged by that section by means of the weapons etc as are enumerated therein with the motive as postulated thereby an accused can not be tried or convicted for an offence under section 31 of tada.
emphasis supplied.
appellants no 1 a 52 a 83 a 9 and.
before we part with the judgment we would also like to deal with a submission made on behalf of the appellants by their learned counsel that since the offence under section 3 of tada is not made out the criminal appeal filed in this court may be transferred to the high court for its disposal in exercise of our jurisdiction under article 142 of the constitution of india for the reason that a first appeal against conviction and sentence recorded for various offences under the indian penal code by the sessions court lies to the high court.
19 appeal 1 notwithstanding anything contained in the code an appeal shall lie as a matter of right from any judgment sentence or order not being an interlocutory order of a designated court to the supreme court both on facts and on law.
2 except as aforesaid no appeal or revision shall lie to any court from any judgment sentence or order including an interlocutory order of a designated court.
a bare perusal of the above section shows that an appeal against the judgment sentence or order of the designated court except an interlocutory order shall lie on facts and on law to the supreme court and that no appeal or revision shall lie to any other court.
in a case where the designated court finds that no offence under tada is made out it is open to the said court to transfer the case to the regular criminal court under section 18 tada but once the charge is framed and the case is tried by the designated court an appeal against conviction sentence or acquittal lies only to the supreme court and to no other court.
