we have heard learned counsel on both sides.
on april 241954sen.
raleigh was recorded as permitted users of the trade marks.
by agreement dated december 291962sen raleigh and the respondents agreed that sen raleigh was registered user for further period up to 1976 sen raleigh was taken over by the government of india on september 81975 under the idr act and the government took over the management of sen raleigh limited.
an agreement dated december 201976 was entered into between the appellant as registered user and the respondent in respect of 12 trade marks for a period of 5 years.
on march 241982the appellant made an application under sections 3246 and 56 of the act against the respondents in the high court of calcutta in suit no 26692 pleading inter alia that the respondents had failed to provide technical assistance by passing the technical know how to sen raleigh after november 11976 neither the appellant nor sen raleigh were registered users of the trade mark after november 11976.
a continuous period of 5 years or longer had passed and the trade mark had not been bona fide used by the respondent.
by proceedings dated june 131984the registrar of trade marks informed the appellant that the registered user s applications were abandoned since the appellant failed to comply with the statutory requirements.
special circumstances as a defense were available to the respondent for non user even after 1979the supply technical know how by the respondent was not totally absent.
after termination of the collaboration and user agreement between the appellant and the respondents it was likely to cause confusion and deception amongst the trade and public.
the conduct of the respondents was not violative of s 32b and c the court in those circumstances declined to rectify the trade mark and strike it off from the register of trade marks.
the power u s 46 is discretionary.
in view of the appellant s conduct it was taking advantage of its own wrong.
shri raju ramchandran learned senior counsel for the appellant raised three fold contentions.
it is his pivotal contention that undisputedly when the respondent was not in urge of trade mark as a registered proprietor or its agent sen raleigh as permitted user for a period of 5 years immediately preceding the date of the application u s 46 for removal of the trade mark from the register there was no bona fide user thereof in relation to those goods by the proprietor himself.
it is contended that the registered user must be understood to be the user by the proprietor or authorized user registered under section 48 the period of 5 years should be computed from that date of expiry of registered user.
he further contended that the special circumstances enumerated in sub s 3 of s 46 must be such that the respondents had intended to use the registered trade mark.
for over a long period the trade mark was not used by the respondents as its registered proprietor.
in the absence of such a findings the high court was wrong in law in refusing to rectify the trade mark and striking it off the register.
in normal circumstances when it is established that the trade mark was not used either by the registered proprietor or the permitted user the public interest of supply of the quality of the goods marketed by the appellant should be taken into factual consideration for removal of the trade mark from the register.
shri ashok desai learned senior counsel for respondents resisted the contentions.
in view of the prohibition to import bicycles the respondent was prevented to use the trade mark but by collaboration agreement it was continuing to use the trade mark by the permitted user.
it would also be considered as a special circumstance for non user.
s 461b reads as under.
46 removal from register and imposition of limitations on ground of non use  1.
subject to the provisions of section 47a registered trade mark may be taken off the register in respect of any of the goods in respect of which it is registered on application made in the prescribed manner to a high court or to the registrar by any person aggrieved on the ground either a xxx xxx xxx xxx b that up to a date of one month before the date of the application a continuous period of five years or longer had elapsed during which the trade mark was registered and during which there was no bona fide use thereof in relation to those goods by any proprietor thereof for the time being.
it would thus be apparent that subject to section 46for a registered trade mark up to date within one month before the date of making application for rectification for a continuous period of 5 years or longer if registered trade mark had not been use during that period there was no bona fide user in relation to those goods by the proprietor thereof for the time being.
it means the use of the trade mark by a registered user of the trade mark in relation to good with which he is connected in the course of trade and in respect of which the trade mark remains registered for the time being and for which he is registered as a registered user and which complies with any conditions or restrictions to which the registration of the trade marks is subjected to.
the central government is empowered to prevent trafficking in trade mark.
it is not in dispute that till date of filing of the application the appellant used the trade mark in passing off the bicycles under the trade mark of the respondent.
it is a question of fact in every case.
the question is whether the trade connection exists to dispel the charge of trafficking in the trade mark.
the benefit of s 46 would be available during the period for which the agreement registered and user continued in furtherance thereof.
in k r beri and co vs.
co pvt limited and anr.
we have given anxious consideration to the reasoning therein.
it must be shown that the non use of the trade mark is due to special circumstances of the trade and not due to some other cause which would have operated whether the special circumstances had arisen off not.
although the special circumstances of trade taken by themselves would have prevented the use of the trade mark.
if the non user was in fact due to some other circumstances and would have occured whether the circumstances had followed or not subs 3 would not apply.
it is also not necessary to go into the question whether the application filed by the appellant u s 481 and its pendency would be a special circumstance in favour of the respondent.
is not attracted to the facts in this case.
the question then is whether the discretion has been properly exercised by both the division bench as well the single judge in refusing to take off the trade mark from the register by striking off trade mark from the register of the registrar of trade marks.
ordinarily however the mark will be expunged taken off when the factual circumstances necessary for the removal are established unless it is shown that the case comes within the exceptions provided in the sub section 3 the high court refused to exercise the discretion to strike off the trade mark from the register.
it is seen that the appellant had not abandoned at any point of time the use of the trade mark of the respondent registered proprietor till filing of the application.
though the appellant has not used the trade mark by itself since 1954 and after the expiry of the permitted use by sen raleigh until the notice was issued by the respondent directing the appellant not to use the trade mark the appellant came to use the same in passing off bicycles manufactured by it under trade mark of the respondent.
the high court in our view declined for good reasons to rectify the trade mark under section act b of the act.
