the accused appellant has been held guily of of fences punishable under section 302 and section 3762f of indian penal code.
in the opinion of one learned judge the circumstantial evidence on which rests the prosecution case was not sufficient to record a finding of guilty against the appellant on any of the charges framed against him.
p c the third learned judge has on an independent appreciation of evidence recorded his own findings upholding the conviction of the accused on both the charges framed against him and thus agreeing with one of the two learned judges constituting the division bench in conclusion.
in the result the high court has declined the confirmation of death sentence but upheld the conviction on both the charges found proved and dismissed the appeal laying challenge to the conviction subject to modification in the sentence by substituting sentence of life imprisonment for death sentence under section 302 ipc.
a noose was also found around her neck.
the inves tigation commenced.
according to the medical opinion the probable cause of death of s was shock produced due to vaginal trauma and rupture of post fornix along with asphyxia due to ligature around the neck.
there was no injury on his private parts or on any other part of body.
according to report exbt.
human semen was detected on underwear.
the pieces of circumstantial evidence which have been found proved and held as forging an incriminating chain against the accused are as under i last seen together ii abnormal conduct of the accused iii recovery of underwear and baniyan which was found to be stained with semen and blood group b which is also the blood group of the deceased iv false plea of alibi and v accused absconding since the date of offence.
we would proceed to examine each of the pieces of incriminating circumstantial evidence so as to find out if each one of the circumstantial evidence is proved individually and whether collectively it forges such a chain of incriminating circumstances as would fasten the guilt on the accused beyond by shadow of reasonable doubt.
in dhananjoy chatterjee v state of west bengal 1994 2 scc 220 1994 indlaw sc 1743 wherein one of us dr a s anand j as his lordship then was spoke for the bench.
those circumstances should not be capable of being explained by any other hypothesis except the guilt of the accused and the chain of the evidence must be so complete as not to leave any reasonable ground for the belief consistent with the innocence of the accused.
in the later case it was also held that a false explanation or false plea taken by the accused can be used as an additional link in the chain of circumstantial evidence subject to satisfication of three essential conditions namely i various links in the chain of evidence led by the prosecution have been satisfactorily proved ii the said circumstance points to the guilt of the accused with reasonable definiteness and iii the circumstance is in proxim ity to the time and situation.
from the evi dence of shalu pw7 such an inference can not be drawn.
goma to whose shop the three girls had gone to buy balloon has not been examined.
he gave an evasive answer saying that the fact that shalu was accompanying s must have come in the staement of the witnesses.
abnormal conduct of accused kalu ram pw5 stated that two or three days after the date of dead body of s having been found.
the accused was told by the witness that the punishment could be 20 or even 40 years of imprisonment or imprisonment for life.
on a pertinent question the witness stated that while making such a query there was no change in the facial expression of the accused that is he had remained normal.
santosh pw9 did not support the version of kalu ram and was declared hostile.
the police appears to have embarked upon a search akin to a combing operation and in that process several suspected characters were called and interrogated.
any person even if innocent and not connected in any way with a gruesome crime which had recently occurred and was talk of the town if called by police and interrogated as a suspect would be scared and be apprehensive of the likelihood of his being implicated in the crime.
there is not investigation directed towards finding out and no evidence worth its name collected and adduced in the court to show that the underwear and baniyan were of the accused.
insofar as baniyan is concerned it has no stains of any type on it and therefore its discovery and seizure is meaningless and irrelevant.
so far as the underwear is concerned the investigation suffers from another infirmity also.
blood sam ple of the accused was not collected and therefore not grouped.
the number and extent of spread of stains is also not known.
sc 765 1980 indlaw sc 47.
therein a charge under sections 376 and 302 ipc was sought to be substantiated on circumstanctial evidence.
one of the circumstan tial evidence relied on was that a human blood stain of b group was found on the accused s pant which blood group was also of the deceased.
another circumstantial evidence relied on was that a stain of semen was found on the under pant of the accused.
this court held that the presence of blood stain of b group measuring 0 5 cm.
in diameter on the appellant s pant and of a dried stain of semen on his under pant were circumstances for too feeble to establish that the appellant raped or murdered the victim.
b group is not uncommon group of blood and no effort was made to exclude the possibility that the blood of the accused belonged to the same group.
as regards the dried stain of semen on the appellant s under pant the court observed that the accused was a grown up man of 30 years and no compelling inference could arise that the stain was caused during the course of the sexual assault committed by him on the victim girl.
false plea of alibi.
although the dead body of the victim was found on the outskirts of the village however there is no material available on record to fix the place and the likely time at which rape was committed on s and then she was murdered.
the proprietor of the cinema hall was examined to state that on 18th and 19th march the accused had taken leave from his job and during those days he was not present on duty.
in law this term is used to express that defence in a criminal prosecution where the party accused in order to prove that he could not have committed the crime charged against him offers evidence that he was in a different place at that time.
grave injustice has been done to the accused by holding it as a fact that the accused was absconding after the date of the incident and then treating the so called absconding as a piece of incrimi nating circumstantial evidence against the accused.
according to harish chand sharma the accused was arrested on 3 4 1991 vide exbt.
if the accused was arrested at behror there is no reason why the memo of arrest should not have been prepared at village behror.
at least this fact should have been mentioned in the memo of arrest even if the same was prepared at village kotputli.
kalu ram pw5 accompanied by a friend santosh pw9 had gone to see a movie in cinema talkies heera moti two days after the date of the incident and there the accused was present on his duty.
conclusion.
before parting with the case we would like to place on record an observation of ours touching an aspect of the case.
a vigilant investigating officer well versed with the techniques of the job is in a position to collect the threads of evidence finding out the path which leads to the culprit.
the accusation has to be proved to hilt in a court of law.
the evidence of investigating officer given in the court should have a rhythm explaining step by step how the investigation proceeded leading to detection of the offender and collection of evidence against him.
appeals allowed.
