these two appeals involve identical questions and therefore are disposed of by this common judgment after noticing the factual position so far as they are relevant.
in other words there was clear violation of the principles of natural justice.
the government s letter dated 28 12 1988 refers to some decision but in the absence of any authentication as required under article 166 of the constitution of india 1950 in short the constitution the same is ineffective.
in response learned counsel for the respondent state submitted that the appellants have failed to adduce any evidence or material to show that were in any way induced by any governmental action to set up industries.
No 1294 dated 24 10 1975 granted exemption from purchase tax on sugarcane in favour of sugar mills established in co operative and public sectors in the form of annual subsidy equivalent to purchase tax on sugarcane.
there was no scope for any mis understanding that it applied to any private sector participation in the sphere of sugar manufacturing.
the commercial productions were started in case of appellants in c a No 86062002 i e ponni sugars erode ltd v govt.
as there was no inducement or assurance the question of any promissory estoppel did not arise.
so far as legitimate expectation aspect is concerned it is too well known that the benefit extended can be withdrawn and with this knowledge if the units are set up the principle of legitimate expectation does not apply.
no inducement was made in the government orders to establish the units.
the government has exercised their right to modify the scheme in the interest of public revenue.
a new class of estoppel has come to be recognized by the courts in this country as well as in england.
but that principle does not create any cause of action which did not exist before so that where a promise is made which is not supported by any consideration the promise can not bring an action on the basis of that promise.
the principle enunciated in the high trees case supra was also recognized by the house of lords in tool metal manufacturing co ltd v tungsten electric co ltd 1955.
all e r 657 1955 1 w l r 761.
that principle was adopted by this court in union of india v indo afghan agencies ltd air 1968.
although substantially such a statement is correct and leads to no misunderstanding it does not bring out clearly the basal purpose of the doctrine.
this means that the real detriment or harm from which the law seeks to give protection is that which would flow from the change of position if the assumptions were deserted that led to it.
if any concession has been given it can be withdrawn at any time and no time limit should be insisted upon before it was withdrawn.
in kasinka trading and anr v union of india and anr.
1995 1 scc 274 1994 indlaw sc 2183.
a person may have a legitimate expectation of being treated in a certain way by an administrative authority even though he has no legal right in private law to receive such treatment.
the expectation may arise either from a representation or promise made by the authority including an implied representation or from consistent past practice.
the doctrine of legitimate expectation has an important place in the developing law of judicial review.
sc 9981993 indlaw sc 1085.
the basic requirement of article 14 is fairness in action by the state and non arbitrariness in essence and substance is the heart beat of fair play.
a question whether the impugned action is arbitrary or not is to be ultimately answered on the facts and circumstances of a given case.
that is and ought to be a difficult onus for an applicant to discharge.
the courts are not very good at formulating or evaluating policy.
as professor wade points out in administrative law by h w r wade 6th edition there is ample room within the legal boundaries for radical differences of opinion in which neither side is unreasonable.
nor is the test court s own standard of reasonableness as it might conceive it in a given situation.
if it is a question of policy even by ways of change of old policy the courts can not intervene with the decision.
as was observed in punjab communications ltd v union of india of others air 1999 sc 1801 1999 indlaw sc 1548 the change in policy can defeat a substantive legitimate expectation if it can be justified on wednesbury reasonableness.
the decision maker has the choice in the balancing of the pros and cons relevant to the change in policy.
the legitimate substantive expectation merely permits the court to find out if the change of policy which is the cause for defeating the legitimate expectation is irrational or perverse or one which no reasonable person could have made.
a claim based on merely legitimate expectation without anything more can not ipso facto give a right.
how significant is the statement that today is tomorrows yesterday.
the present is as we experience it the past is a present memory and future is a present expectation.
as observed in attorney general for new south wale v quinn 1990 64 australian ljr 327 to strike the exercise of administrative power solely on the ground of avoiding the disappointment of the legitimate expectations of an individual would be to set the courts adrift on a featureless sea of pragmatism.
it can be one of the grounds to consider but the court must lift the veil and see whether the decision is violative of these principles warranting interference.
as cautioned in attorney general for new south wale s case the courts should restrain themselves and respect such claims duly to the legal limitations.
it is a well meant caution.
the caution particularly in the changing scenario becomes all the more important.
as noted above the ultimate test is whether on the touchstone of reasonableness the policy decision comes out unscathed.
reasonableness of restriction is to be determined in an objective manner and from the standpoint of interest of the general public and not from the standpoint of the interests of persons upon whom the restrictions have been imposed or upon abstract consideration.
in determining whether there is any unfairness involved the nature of the right alleged to have taken infringed the underlying purpose of the restriction imposed the extent and urgency of the evil sought to be remedied thereby the disproportion of the imposition the prevailing condition at the relevant time enter into judicial verdict the reasonableness of the legitimate expectation has to be determined with respect to the circumstances relating to the trade or business in question.
canalisation of a particular business in favour of even a specified individual is reasonable where the interests of the country are concerned or where the business affects the economy of the country.
see parbhani transport co operative society ltd v regional transport authority aurangabad and others air 1960.
article 166 of the constitution deals with the conduct of government business.
2 orders and other instruments made and executed in the name of the governor shall be authenticated in such manner as may be specified in rules to be made by the governor and the validity of an order or instrument which is so authenticated shall not be called in question on the ground that it is not an order or instrument made or executed by the governor.
further is no particular formula of words required for compliance with article 1661.
a constitution bench in r chitralekha etc.
v state of mysore and ors.
air 1964.
in order to invoke the doctrine of promissory estoppel clear sound and positive foundation must be laid in the petition itself by the party invoking and doctrine the bald expressions without any supporting material to the effect that the doctrine is attracted because the party invoking the doctrine has altered its position relying on the assurance of the government would not be sufficient to press into aid the doctrine.
in shrijee sales corporation and anr v union of india 1997 3 scc 398 1996 indlaw sc 1561 it was observed that once public interest is accepted as the superior equity which can override individual equity the principle would be applicable even in cases where a period has been indicated for operation of the promise.
similar view was expressed in m s pawan alloys and casting pvt ltd meerut etc.
v u p state electricity board and others air 1997.
v shree durga oil mills and anr.
1999 1 scc 573 1997 indlaw sc 1219 it was further held that the government could change its industrial policy if the situation so warranted and merely because the resolution was announced for a particular period it did not mean that the government could not amend and change the policy under any circumstances.
in view of the factual position recorded by the high court that at the point of time the appellants units were set up and the commercial production started there was no assurance or promise.
at this juncture we would like to take note to certain factual positions highlighted by the appellants which are practically undisputed by the respondents.
as the correctness of factual basis justifying withdrawal is in issue fair play certainly warranted grant of opportunity to the appellants to present its side of the picture.
the plea of the appellants regarding legitimate expectation shall be considered by the high court in the light of materials to be placed by the respondents by affidavits as directed above.
we make it clear that we have not expressed any opinion on the factual aspects except indicating the principles underlying legitimate expectation.
another point which was specifically raised before the high court but has not been dealt by it is the legality of the action in directing retrospective withdrawal of the benefit by a letter of the government.
to the aforesaid limited extent the matter is remitted to the high court for fresh consideration.
the appeals are disposed of accordingly without any order as to costs.
appeals disposed of.
