background facts.
3 and 4 are diploma holders in civil engineering.
they having come to learn that certain vacancies exist in the respondent authority applied therefor although no advertisement in that behalf was issued.
allegedly from their salary provident fund was being deducted.
they were also being granted the benefit of leave.
a dispute arose as to whether all the appellants were employed for the purpose of the said project or the appellants in civil appeal no 337 of 2002 were appointed in the year 1991 by the authority for its own job.
an industrial dispute was raised by the appellants herein as their services were not being regularized by the respondent.
the said dispute was referred for adjudication of the labour court indore by the state of madhya pradesh on the following questions.
1whether non regularisation of the sub engineers as per the listed enclosed is valid and proper.
2whether it is valid and proper for not giving equal salary to these sub engineers like other sub engineers in accordance with the equal work.
proceedings before the tribunal.
all the employees have been working in the establishment of the respondents for last 5 6 years.
work has been taken by the respondent from all the appellants except four.
respondents had also mentioned in their claim that there was a proposal to hand over the colony of oda project to indore municipal corporation.
by reason of the impugned judgment dated 26 4 2000 the said writ petition was allowed.
high court judgment.
the high court accepted the contention of the respondent authority that the appellants were not appointed against the sanctioned posts and their services were taken on account of the said oda project which was implemented through the agency of the respondent authority.
despite the same the high court went into the question of applicability of the said act and held that the 1961 act and the 1963 rules had no application.
before the high court various documents were produced by the appellants herein to show the nature of their employment but the same had not been taken on records by the high court.
as regard application of the doctrine of equal pay for equal work it was held to be not applicable as the appellants were not entitled to absorption or classification in terms of the 1961 act and the 1963 rules.
dr rajiv dhawan learned senior counsel appearing on behalf of the appellants in civil appeal no 337 of 2002 and mr m n rao learned senior counsel appearing on behalf of the appellants in civil appeal no 335 of 2002 took us through materials on records and contended that the appellants herein became permanent employees of the respondents having regard to the provisions contained in section 2 of the 1961 act and order 2i and 2vi of the standard standing orders as set out in the annexure appended to the 1963 rules defining permanent employees and the temporary employees.
dr dhawan would furthermore contend that the findings of fact had been arrived at by the labour court that the appellants of civil appeal no 337 of 2002 were appointed by the authority and not only their work was being taken in the project but also in other works and thus mere posting of the appellants to the said project would not disentitle them from the benefit of the said act.
furthermore from the reliefs claimed it would appear that the appellants had inter alia prayed for continuance of their services by the indore municipal corporation which knocks off the very basis of their claim.
statutory.
2 of the standard standing order reads as under 2.
classification of employees.
employees shall be classified as i permanent ii permanent seasonaliii.
12 of the constitution of india.
section 76b provides for constitution of development authorities service.
the posts of sub engineers in which the appellants were appointed.
indisputably the conditions precedent for appointment of the officers and servants of the authority as contained in the service rules had not been complied with.
an illegal appointment can not be legalized by taking recourse to regularization.
a state before offering public service to a person must comply with the constitutional requirements of articles 14 and 16 of the constitution.
all actions of the state must conform to the constitutional requirements.
a daily wager in absence of a statutory provision in this behalf would not be entitled to regularization.
ajay kumar 1997 4 scc 88 1997 indlaw sc 833 jawaharlal nehru krishi viswa vidyalaya jabalpur m p vs.
bal kishan soni and others 1997 5 scc 86 1997 indlaw sc 928.
in hindustan shipyard ltd and others vs dr p sambasiva rao and others 1996 7 scc 499 1996 indlaw sc 3441 a division bench of this court observed.
in a umarani vs registrar cooperative societies and ors.
such an order can not be upheld also on the ground that the employees allegedly served the cooperative societies for a long time.
yet recently in pankaj gupta ors etc.
1987 indlaw sc 28778 this court did not lay down any law.
however having regard to the facts and circumstances of the said case some directions were issued presumably in terms of article 142 of the constitution.
in hindustan shipyard ltd 1996 indlaw sc 3441 supra this court also distinguished the said decision.
application of the act and the rules.
by reason of the provisions of the said act application of standard standing orders to undertakings has been provided in terms whereof the matters to be provided in the standard standing orders have been specified.
sub s 2 of section 6 reads as under where immediately before the commencement of this act standing order are in force in respect of any undertaking such standing orders shall until standard standing orders are applied to such undertaking under sub s.
1 continue in force as if they were made under this act.
the statute rules and regulations formed by the state govern the terms and conditions of service of the employees of the respondent.
even the appointments to the local cadre must be made by the authority.
the said provisions were not complied with.
it is accepted that no appointment letter was issued in favour of the appellants.
had the appointments of the appellants been made in terms of the provisions of the adhiniyam and rules framed thereunder the respondent authority was statutorily enjoined to make an offer of appointment in writing which was to be accepted by the appellants herein.
the so called seniority list which is contained in annexure p 27 whereupon strong reliance has been placed by dr dhawan merely itself goes to show that it was prepared in respect of office muster employees.
the 1961 act itself shows that the employees are to be classified in six categories namely permanent permanent seasonal probationers badlies apprentices and temporary.
with a view to become eligible to be considered as a permanent employee or a temporary employee one must be appointed in terms thereof.
a ticket of permanent employee was thus required to be issued in terms of order 3 of the standard standing orders.
grant of such ticket was imperative before permanency could be so claimed.
the standing orders governing the terms and conditions of service must be read subject to the constitutional limitations wherever applicable.
but in absence of any conflict in the provisions of the said act the conditions of service including those relating to recruitment as provided for in the 1973 act and the 1987 rules would apply.
if by reason of the latter the appointment is invalid the same can not be validated by taking recourse to regularization.
for the purpose of regularization which would confer on the concerned employee a permanent status there must exist a post.
we have used the term keeping in view the provisions of 1963 rules.
we have noticed the provisions of the act and the rules.
the questions which have been raised before us by dr dhawan had not been raised before the labour court.
the labour court in absence of any pleadings or any proof as regard application of the 1961 act and the 1963 rules had proceeded on the basis that they would become permanent employees in terms of order 2ii and 2vi of the annexure appended thereto.
they have also not been able to show that they had been issued any permanent ticket.
dr dhawan is not correct in his submission that a separate ticket need not be issued and what was necessary was merely to show that the appellants had been recognized by the state as its employees having been provided with employment code.
we have seen that their names had been appearing in the muster rolls maintained by the respondent.
the scheme of the employees provident fund or the leave rules would not alter the nature and character of their appointments.
the nature of their employment continues save and except a case where a statute interdicts which in turn would be subject to the constitutional limitations.
for the purpose of obtaining a permanent status constitutional and statutory conditions precedent therefor must be fulfilled.
project work.
a distinction is sought to be made by dr dhawan that out of them 27 had been appointed to a project and not in a project.
furthermore the indore municipal corporation was not a party and thus no employee could be thrust upon it without its consent.
in a umarani 2004 indlaw sc 606 supra this court held that once the employees are employed for the purpose of the scheme they do not acquire any vested right to continue after the project is over.
see also karnataka state coop.
amar singh and others 2003 5 scc 388 2003 indlaw sc 331.
the plea of dr dhawan to the effect that the appellants in civil appeal.
adverse inference.
had the letters of appointment been issued the appellants themselves could have produced the same.
an adverse inference need not necessarily be drawn only because it would be lawful to do so.
the labour court did not draw any adverse inference.
considering these facts in our view drawing of an adverse inference for the non production of the muster rolls for the years 1991 92 is wholly erroneous on the part of the industrial court and the high court.
at this stage it may be useful to refer to a judgment of this court in the case of muncipal corporation faridabad vs siri niwas jt 2004 7 sc 248 2004 indlaw sc 719 wherein this court disagreed with the high court s view of drawing an adverse inference in regard to the non production of certain relevant documents.
a court of law even in a case where provisions of the indian evidence act apply may presume or may not presume that if a party despite possession of the best evidence had not produced the same it would have gone against his contentions.
equal pay for equal work.
no post was sanctioned by the state government.
in state of haryana and another vs tilak raj and others 2003 6 scc 123 2003 indlaw sc 512 it was held a scale of pay is attached to a definite post and in case of a daily wager he hold no posts.
the said decision has been noticed in a umarani 2004 indlaw sc 606 supra.
conclusion.
for the reasons aforementioned we do not find any merit in these appeals which are dismissed accordingly.
appeals dismissed.
