act 1992 for short the act in misc.
application nos.
41 of 1999 4 of 2001 265 266 and 275 of 2003.
background facts.
the appellants herein who are related to one harshad section mehta since deceased purchased nine residential flats in a building called madhuli apartments in worli area of mumbai.
late harshad mehta were persons notified in terms of the act which was enacted to provide for the establishment of a special court for the trial of offences relating to transactions in securities and for matters connected therewith.
in terms of the provisions of the act along with late harshad mehta the custodian had notified 29 entities in terms of section 3 of the act comprising three of his younger brothers wife of late harshad mehta wives of two of his younger brothers and other corporate entities a partnership firm and three hufs.
before the learned special court the parties herein filed several applications which can be sub divided in three categories as would be noticed shortly hereinafter.
three firms of chartered accountants were appointed to prepare statement of accounts and liabilities of each of the appellants herein.
a chartered accountants firm was appointed by the learned special judge by an order dated 17 september 2003 to represent all notified entities in the family of late harshad mehta for the purpose of ascertaining their tax liabilities.
application No 41 of 1999 seeking permission of the special court for sale of residential premises commonly known as madhuli of eight notified entities.
a misc.
application being 4 of 2001 was filed by the custodian praying for the sale of commercial premises.
applications praying for lifting of attachment on their residential premises on the ground that the same had been purchased much prior to 1 april 1991 and the same had no nexus with any illegal transactions in securities.
alternatively it was prayed that since their asset base was greater than genuine liabilities the said residential premises should be released from attachment.
by reason of the impugned order dated 17 october 2003 the learned special judge allowed misc.
applications nos.
4 of 2001 and 41 of 1999.
the misc.
applications filed by the appellants herein for release of the residential flats as well as the commercial premises from attachment were dismissed.
8 and exh.
contentions of the parties appellants 9.
although in relation to a body corporate incorporated and registered under the indian companies act the doctrine of lifting the corporate veil would be applicable but the same can not be applied in case of individuals.
the liabilities of harshad mehta who was a sui generis could have been recovered from the properties held and possessed by him or from the companies floated by him but not from the individual entities at least two of whom being medical practitioners have their income from other sources.
vi drawing our attention to a representative chart showing the discrepancies in the accounts of mrs deepika a mehta as shown in a affidavit by the custodian b books of accounts maintained by the appellants and c auditor s report it was submitted that the auditor s report could not have been relied upon.
a copy of the auditor s report having only been supplied during pendency of these appeals the learned special judge committed a serious error in passing the impugned judgment relying on or on the basis thereof.
iin view of the decision of this court in l s synthetics ltd v fairgrowth financial services ltd and another 2004 11 scc 456 2004 indlaw sc 715 all properties belonging to the notified persons being subject to automatic attachment could be applied for discharge of the joint liabilities of the harshad mehta group in terms of section 11 of the act.
iithe applications for de notification filed by the appellants herein having been withdrawn the contention raised by the appellants that they are not liable in terms of the provisions of the act are not open to question particularly in view of the fact that no application for de notification could be filed subsequently as they had become barred by limitation.
iiithe order of assessment under the income tax act having become final and binding as on the date when the orders of assessment were passed and thus mere filing of appeals were not sufficient for raising a contention that the taxes did not become due.
civil appeal No 2795 of 2004 and the kedarnath jute mfg.
co ltd v the commissioner of income tax.
central calcutta 1972 3 scc 252 1971 indlaw sc 841.
even in the case of dr pratima mehta wherein some excesses has been shown if the interest is calculated for the last over 13 years of the amount received the liabilities would exceed the assets.
they at this stage can not be permitted to turn round and contend that they have nothing to do with the liabilities of late harshad mehta.
ixthe sale of commercial property had never been seriously contested by the appellants and in fact the contention of the appellants herein before the special court was that if the commercial properties were sold there would be no need to sell the residential properties.
even before this court the sale of commercial properties had not been questioned.
a large number of commercial properties having already been sold and third party rights having been created this court should not interfere with the impugned judgment.
2 to deal with the situation and in particular to ensure speedy recovery of the huge amount involved to punish the guilty and restore confidence in and maintain the basic integrity and credibility of the banks and financial institutions the special court trial of offences relating to transactions in securities ordinance 1992 was promulgated on the 6th june 1992.
section 3 of the act provides for appointment and functions of the custodian.
any prosecution in respect of any offence referred to in sub s 2 of section 3 pending in any court is required to be transferred to the special court.
the following liabilities shall be paid or discharged in full as far as may be in the order as under a all revenues taxes cesses and rates due from the persons notified by the custodian under sub s 2 of section 3 to the central government or any state government or any local authority b all amounts due from the person so notified by the custodian to any bank or financial institution or mutual fund and c any other liability as may be specified by the special court from time to time.
analysis of the statutory.
provisions.
but at the stage when liabilities are required to be discharged the notified person may inter alia raise a contention inter alia for the purpose of establishing that the properties held and possessed by them are sufficient to meet their liabilities.
do the taxes in cl.
a of section 112 refer only to taxes relating to a specific period or to all taxes due from the notified person.
as regard question No 1 it was held in the present case the words taxes due occur in a section dealing with distribution of property.
in the context of section 112 therefore the taxes due refer to taxes as finally assessed.
such tax liability may be discharged either under the directions of the special court under section 112c or the taxing authority may recover the same from any subsequently acquired property of a notified person vide tejkumar balakrishna ruia v a k menon 1996 indlaw sc 2403 or in any other manner from the notified person in accordance with law.
so far as question No 4 is concerned this court despite upholding the contention of the custodian that no question of any reopening of tax assessments before the special court would arise and the liability of the notified person to pay the tax will have to be determined under the machinery provided by the relevant tax law observed but the special court can decide how much of that liability will be discharged out of the funds in the hands of the custodian.
but if the assessment is a best judgment assessment the special court may examine whether for example the income which is so assessed to tax bears comparison to the amounts attached by the custodian or whether the taxes so assessed are grossly disproportionate to the properties of the assessee in the hands of the custodian applying the wednesbury principle of proportionality.
but the said observation was held to be not laying down a law by a 3 judge bench of this court in l s synthetics ltd v fairgrowth financial services ltd and another 2004 11 scc 456 2004 indlaw sc 715 holding i.
a notified party has the requisite locus to bring the fact to the notice of the special court that certain sum is owing and due to him from a third party whereupon a proceeding can be initiated for recovery thereof by the custodian and consequent application thereof in discharge of the liability of the notified person.
ii sub s.
3 of section 3 should be literally construed and so construed all properties belonging to the notified person shall be subject to attachment which may consequently be applied for discharge of his liabilities in terms of section 11 of the said act.
while a purposive interpretation is permissible where two interpretations are possible the purposive interpretation must be such as preserves the constitutionality of the provision.
iwhether the appellants being not involved in offences in transactions in securities could have been proceeded against in terms of the provisions of the act.
before adverting to the questions raised herein we may notice that both the parties have raised several contentions before us which have not precisely been raised before the learned special judge.
the parties have also filed several charts before us showing individual assets and liabilities.
the appellants case is that the individual and corporate appellants other than harshad mehta ashwin mehta and sudhir mehta filed applications within the prescribed period before the special court praying for their de notifications.
we therefore as at present advised refrain ourselves from adverting to the said question.
the question however before us is as to whether any contention which may not have a direct bearing with the question as to whether the special court could entertain their applications for de notifications could be raised by way of defence.
air 1957 bom 178 1957 indlaw mum 110 and hari raj singh v sanchalak panchayat.
in l s synthetics ltd 2004 indlaw sc 715 supra this court observed a statute of limitation bars a remedy and not a right.
although a remedy is barred a defence can be raised.
a special statute providing for special or no period of limitation must receive a liberal and broader construction and not a rigid or a narrow one.
although we do not intend to enter into the correctness or otherwise of the said contention of the appellants at this stage however there can not be any doubt whatsoever that they being notified persons all their properties would be deemed to be automatically attached as a consequent thereto.
a transaction of benami indisputably can be a subject matter of a lies in terms of section 41 of the act as and when such a question is raised the same may have to be dealt with by the special court appropriately.
as the said question has not been gone into by the learned judge special court it is necessary that the same be considered and appropriately dealt with.
according to the appellants the custodian has under estimated the assets and exaggerated and overstated their liabilities.
a triable issue had been raised and the custodian s petition should have been converted into a suit.
in fact according to the appellants there are gross errors in the material relied upon by the custodian.
the said contention must be properly adjudged.
even in the rejoinder filed by the custodian e g paragraphs 14 20 21 and 22 before the special court such contentions have been raised.
a sur rejoinder thereto was filed on 15 october 2003 and in paragraphs 1 to 6 thereof the said statements were denied and disputed.
the said letter was replied by the custodian by his letter dated 10 october 2003 wherein none of the queries contained in paragraphs 3 to 8 of the said letter was even attempted to be answered.
the custodian in terms of the directions issued by the learned special court had affirmed an affidavit putting on record the assets and liabilities of each of the members of the so called harshad mehta group on an individual basis.
allegedly therein it was shown that the individuals had received large loans advances credits from the harshad mehta group and there had been intermingling of the assets to the tune of crores of rupees.
the said chart however shows that at least mrs deepika mehta held assets more than her liabilities.
but the said chart has been drawn up on the basis of the audited accounts the correctness whereof is itself in dispute.
we therefore have not been given a clear picture as to the correctness or otherwise of the affidavit filed by the custodian vis a vis the books of accounts which have been maintained by the appellants themselves as well as the auditor s report.
the learned judge merely accepted the figures mentioned in the affidavit of the custodian and relied thereupon in the judgment without discussing the contentions and arguments raised on behalf of the appellants herein.
if the liabilities of the individual entities are not treated as that of the group for one reason or the other indisputably liability of those who have nothing to do with the dealings of harshad mehta either in their individual capacities or as directors of some company or otherwise must be dealt with separately.
as regards liabilities of harshad mehta the appellants contended that since his expiry in the year 2001 his legal interests are not being defended both in the court as well as before the revenue as a result liabilities have been foisted upon him a large part which is on account of interest and penalties.
a finding of fact arrived at upon discussing and analyzing the respective contentions could have gone a long way in assisting this court in arriving at a correct conclusion.
the learned judge proceeded on the basis that the assets and liabilities joint and collective of all those who are related with harshad mehta as also the corporate entities in which he was a director or had some other interest must be considered as a group.
a question may further arise as to whether the learned judge was correct in considering the individual liabilities of the notified parties as the liabilities of the group.
if those individuals who had no connection with harshad mehta could not have been proceeded against for meeting the liabilities of harshad mehta jointly or severally a clear finding was required to be arrived at.
only because there had been large intermingling and flow of funds from harshad mehta and inter se within the group the same by itself may not justify the conclusion that all of their assets were required to be sold irrespective of their individual involvement.
the appellants have contended that the custodian had taken contradictory or inconsistent stand inasmuch as the liabilities of all the entities were treated to be joint liabilities of harshad mehta group.
it is furthermore not in dispute that in a large number of cases the appellate authorities have set aside best judgment assessments.
indlaw sc 732 supra the appeal where against being civil appeal No 5812 of 2000 was dismissed by this court by an order dated 4 december 2000 stating that it was in agreement with the decision of the special court which called for no interference.
in kedarnath jute mfg.
co ltd 1971 indlaw sc 841 supra this court has held although that liability can not be enforced till the quantification is effected by assessment proceedings the liability for payment of tax is independent of the assessment.
but in this case the orders of assessment have been set aside.
if the orders of assessment have been set aside the liabilities of the appellants have to be worked out on the basis of the new orders of assessment.
a chart has been annexed to the additional written submissions filed by mr desai which originated from a letter dated 9th december 2005 issued by the office of the commissioner of income tax showing the current status of the liabilities of the individual members of the harshad mehta group in the following terms i ashwin mehta rs 1396 crores ii.
pratima mehta rs 115 crores even after deducting the amount set aside by itat.
sudhir mehta rs 339 crores viii.
aatur holdings rs 15 95 crores even after deducting the amount set aside by itat.
1998 indlaw sc 732 supra.
furthermore the orders of the appellate authority have been passed during pendency of this appeal.
in view of the aforementioned pronouncement of law we are of the opinion that it is absolutely necessary to request the learned special court to consider the matter afresh.
in fact one of the contentions raised on behalf of the appellants had been that if commercial properties are sold there would be no need to sale the residential properties.
by an order dated 30th january 2004 while admitting the appeals this court directed the learned counsel for the custodian brings on record the result of the bids and the order of the special court dated 17 december 2003 and 20 january 2004.
the process of finalizing the bids according to law may be proceeded ahead by the special court.
however the finalization shall be subject to the result of these appeals.
in any event ordinarily a bona fide purchaser for value in an action sale is treated differently than a decree holder purchasing such properties.
1967 2 scr 77 1966 indlaw sc 120.
in padanathil ruqmini amma v p k abdulla 1996 7 scc 668 1996 indlaw sc 3096 this court making a distinction between decree holder auction purchaser himself and a third party bona fide purchaser in an auction sale observed the ratio behind this distinction between a sale to a decree holder and a sale to a stranger is that the court as a matter of policy will protect honest outsider purchasers at sales held in the execution of its decrees although the sales may be subsequently set aside when such purchasers are not parties to the suit.
he is a party to the litigation and is very much aware of the vicissitudes of litigation and needs no protection.
one of the flats being flat.
arunachal bhawan barakhamba road is subject matter of a separate proceeding pending before this court viz civil appeal.
admittedly the flats have been sold subject to the result of these appeals.
we however have not heard the purchasers as the question as to whether the auction sale of the said flats will be confirmed or not will depend upon the ultimate finding of the learned judge special court upon consideration of the matter afresh in the light of the observations made hereinbefore.
conclusion.
the question as to whether the appellants could have been considered to be part of harshad mehta group by the learned special court need not be determined by us as at present advised in view of the fact that appropriate applications in this behalf are pending consideration before the learned special court.
the question as regard intermingling of accounts by the appellants herein with that of the harshad mehta group and or any other or further contentions raised by the parties hereto before us shall receive due consideration of the learned judge special court afresh in the light of the observations made hereinbefore.
as regard the tax liabilities of the appellants herein we would request the learned judge special court to consider the matter afresh in the light of the observations made hereinbefore.
the appellants shall be entitled to take the help of a chartered or cost accountant and may make notes therefrom for their use in the pending proceeding.
a reply and or rejoinder thereto shall be filed within one week from the date of the receipt of the copy of the objection.
x we would however request the learned special judge special court to complete the hearings of the matter keeping in view of the fact that auction sale in respect of the residential premises is being consideration as expeditiously as possible and not later than twelve weeks from the date of the receipt of the copy of this order.
appeals allowed.
