appellant before us was detained u s 3 of the conservation of foreign exchange and prevention of smuggling activities.
act1974.
for short cofeposa.
he is the managing director of a company registered and incorporated under the provisions of the companies act known as m s sundesh springs private limited.
it was an exporter and held a valid licence therefor.
he allegedly misdeclared both the value and description of goods upon procuring fake and false bills through one prabhjot singh.
m s s p industrial corporation m s.
aaysons india and m s p j sales corporation ludhiana.
appellant and the said prabhjot singh made statements u s 108 of the customs act.
non alloy.
the consul economicconsulate general of india at dubai allegedly confirmed the existence of a parallel set of export invoices.
on the aforementioned allegations an order of detention was issued on 5 4 2005 appellant moved for issuance of a writ of habeas corpus before the high court of judicature of punjab and haryana.
a letters patent appeal concededly which was not maintainable was filed thereagainst which was dismissed by reason of the impugned judgment.
although before the high court the principal ground urged on behalf of appellant in questioning the legality or validity of the order of detention was unexplained delay in passing the order of detention which did not find favour with the high court.
before us several other grounds viz.
he was released from custody on 17 5 2006.
in this regard we may notice the following dates.
he was discharged on bail on 6 1 2004 several inquiries were conducted both inside and outside india.
a report in relation to overseas inquiry was received on 12 5 2004 on 25 6 2004 proposal of detention was sent which was approved on 2 12 2004 on.
20 12 2004the authorities of the dri stated that transactions after 11 10 2003 were not under scrutiny.
the learned additional solicitor general who appeared on behalf of respondent has drawn our attention to a long list of dates showing that searches were conducted and statements of a large number of persons had to be recorded.
learned counsel would contend that keeping in view the nature and magnitude of an offence under cofeposa a distinction must be made between an order of detention passed under cofeposa vis a vis other acts as per the law laid down by this court in rajendrakumar natvarlal shah v state of gujarat and others 1988 3 scc 153 1988 indlaw sc 71 and in that view of the matter the high court must be held to have arrived at a correct decision.
indisputably delay to some extent stands explained.
but we fail to understand as to why despite the fact that the proposal for detention was made on 2 12 2004the order of detention was passed after four months.
b l  2 misc.
furthermore as noticed hereinbefore the authorities of the dri by a letter dated 28 02 2005 requested the bank to defreeze the bank accounts of appellant.
the said documents in our opinion were material.
it is no doubt true that if the delay is sufficiently explained the same would not be a ground for quashing an order of detention under cofeposa but as in this case a major part of delay remains unexplained.
however when there is undue and long delay between the prejudicial activities and the passing of detention order the court has to scrutinise whether the detaining authority has satisfactorily examined such a delay and afforded a tenable and reasonable explanation as to why such a delay has occasioned when called upon to answer and further the court has to investigate whether the causal connection has been broken in the circumstances of each case.
the delay caused in this case in issuing the order of detention has not been explained.
in fact no reason in that behalf whatsoever has been assigned at all.
although learned additional solicitor general may be correct in his submissions that ordinarily we should not exercise our discretionary jurisdiction u art 136 of the constitution of india by allowing appellant to raise new grounds but in our opinion we may have to do so as an order of detention may have to be considered from a different angle.
it may further be true that appellant had remained in detention for the entire period but it is one thing to say that the writ of habeas corpus in this circumstances can not issue but it is another thing to say that an order of detention is required to be quashed so as to enable the detainee to avoid his civil liabilities under safema as also protect his own reputation.
but indisputably those documents involving the civil court proceedings were not placed before the detaining authority.
evidently the detaining authority did not take immediate steps to detain appellant.
why the documents pertaining to the proceedings of the civil court had not been placed before the detaining authority has not been explained.
a division bench of this court in k s nagamuthu v state of tamil nadu ors 2005 9 scale 534 2005 indlaw sc 748 struck down an order of detention on the ground that the relevant material had been withheld from the detaining authority which in that case was a letter of the detenu retracting from confession made by him.
in p saravanan v state of t n and others 2001 10 scc 212it was stated when we went through the grounds of detention enumerated by the detaining authority we noticed that there is no escape from the conclusion that the subjective satisfaction arrived at by the detaining authority was the cumulative result of all the grounds mentioned therein.
even the letter dated 23 4 1999 which reached the secretary concerned at 3 00 p m on 26 4 1999 was much before the formal detention order dated 28 4 1999 the secretary concerned was obliged to place the same before the detaining authority.
the self inculpatory statements of appellant and that of prabhjot singh were said to have been taken off the file.
but the said information report was registered only on 6 4 2005 and not prior to the date of order of detention.
considering the nature and gravity of the offence the well planned manner in which you have engaged yourself in such prejudicial activities and your role therein as brought out above all of which reflect your high potentiality and propensity to indulge in such prejudicial activities in future i am satisfied that there is a need to prevent you from indulging in such prejudicial activities in future by detention under cofeposa act1974 with a view to preventing you from smuggling goods in future.
we have been taken through the order of detention.
the same was not done.
1991 1 scc 128 1990 indlaw sc 85 the said decision was rendered in a different fact situation.
demand of any or every document however irrelevant it may be for the concerned detenu merely on the ground that there is a reference thereto in the grounds of detention cannot vitiate an otherwise legal detention order.
the detaining authority moreover while relying on the said documents in one part of the order of detention could not have stated in another part that he was not relying thereupon.
even in the earlier part of the impugned order of detention i e detaining authority appears to have drawn his own conclusions.
appeal allowed.
