this appeal by special leave has been preferred against the judgment and order dated 23 february 2005 of bombay high court aurangabad bench by which the appeal preferred by the appellants was dismissed and their conviction under section 304 b read with section 34 ipc and sentence of 7 years ri imposed thereunder by the learned sessions judge aurangabad was affirmed.
the deceased bhimabai was daughter of pw 1 tukaram eknath tambe resident of village sanjkheda.
and she was married to appellant No 1.
appasaheb son of sheshrao palaskar about two and half years prior to the date of incident which took place on 15 september 1991.
according to the case of prosecution a sum of rs 5000 and some gold ornaments had been given at the time of marriage of bhimabai.
for about six months bhimabai was treated well but thereafter the accused started asking her to bring rs 1000 1200 from her parents to meet the household expenses and also for purchasing manure.
a few days before nag panchami festival bhimabai came to her parental home and complained that the accused were not giving her proper food clothing and even footwear.
pw 1 then immediately went to the house of the accused along with some of his relatives.
after completion of investigation charge sheet was submitted against the appellants and in due course the case was committed to the court of sessions.
the appellants pleaded not guilty and claimed to be tried.
the post mortem examination on the body of deceased bhimabai was conducted by a team of two doctors of department of forensic medicine and toxicology medical college aurangabad namely dr s m jawale and dr h v godbole on 16 september 1991.
the viscera were preserved for chemical analysis.
1 tukaram father of the deceased has given details of the prosecution version of the incident in his statement in court.
he has deposed that in the marriage he had given rs 20000 as dowry.
whenever bhimabai came to her parental home she used to complain that for some domestic reasons she was being harassed.
he saw that bhimabai was lying dead and froth was coming out of her mouth which was smelling of thimet insecticide.
he has also deposed that it was after about 1 12 years of marriage that bhimabai first complained to him about the harassment being caused to her.
he has admitted that it was appellant No 1 who had sent a person on motorcycle who had given information regarding bhimabai being unwell and that both the appellants were present at the time of her funeral.
he has deposed that on an earlier occasion he had gone along with pw 1 and some others to the house of appellant no 1 to persuade him not to harass bhimabai and to treat her well.
he also admitted that he had not gone to attend that funeral of bhimabai.
the last time bhimabai visited her parental home was on the occasion of the festival of nag panchami and she had complained that she was being ill treated and was sometimes given beating for bringing money from her parents.
in her cross examination pw 5 sumanbai has stated that after news about the condition of bhimabai was given by a man from village palshi she along with her husband and some other relations went there and noticed that bhimabai was lying dead in the house and froth was coming out of her mouth.
in her statement under section 161 cr.
he then went to the house of the appellant and saw bhimabai lying with froth coming out of her mouth.
he has further deposed that bhimabai had come to his house about six months earlier and had said all was not well between her and her husband but she had not given any specific details.
in his examination in chief pw 1 has said that whenever his daughter came to her parental home she used to complain that she was being subjected to harassment by the appellants on account of some domestic reasons and further that her husband appellant no 1 had told her that while coming back from her parental home she should bring rs 1000 1200 for expenses and for manure as he had no sufficient money.
it is important to note that in her statement under section 161 cr.
the evidence on record does not indicate that the police had any reason to favour the accused and deliberately omitted to mention about the alleged demand of money while recording the statement of pw 5 sumanbai under section 161 cr.
accepting the statements of father and mother on their face value that utmost which can be held is that the appellant no 1 had asked his wife bhimabai to bring money for meeting domestic expenses and for purchasing manure.
in view of the aforesaid definition of the word dowry any property or valuable security should be given or agreed to be given either directly or indirectly at or before or any time after the marriage and in connection with the marriage of the said parties.
being a penal provision it has to be strictly construed.
dowry is a fairly well known social custom or practice in india.
it is well settled principle of interpretation of statute that if the act is passed with reference to a particular trade business or transaction and words are used which everybody conversant with that trade business or transaction knows or understands to have a particular meaning in it then the words are to be construed as having that particular meaning.
a demand for money on account of some financial stringency or for meeting some urgent domestic expenses of for purchasing manure can not be termed as a demand for dowry as the said word is normally understood.
as already stated the appellants were also charged under sections 498 a and 306 read with section 34 ipc but were acquitted of the said charges by the learned sessions judge which order has attained finality for the reason that the state did not prefer appeal against the same.
the appellant no 1 is in custody.
appeal allowed.
