however before the charter party was to come to an end on 29th june1998the indian oil corporation limited for short ioc acting as agent of the appellant issued a fax to various ship owners including the respondent herein requesting them to extend the validity of the charter party agreement dated 6th may1997 beyond 30th june1998 for a period of one month from 1st july1998 with option for two further extensions of 15 days each.
the respondent agreed to the said proposal.
accordingly on 29th june1998 an addendum was signed between the parties whereby the validity period of charter party was extended for one month with an option for two further extensions for a period of 15 days each.
the terms and conditions exceptions and exemptions contained in the charter party dated 6th may1997 remained unaltered.
in response to the said tender the respondent and other vessel owners submitted their bids.
the ioc faxed to the respondent relevant portion of the message received by them from oil co ordination committee extending the period of usage of the existing coastal tanker fleet for the month of october1998at 80 charter hire rates prevailing till 30th june1998on provisional basis subject to adjustment of provisional charter hire with retrospective date from 1st september1998 against the revised charter hire to be finalised by the oil industry in response to the tender floated by ioc on 1st september1998 respondent s consent was asked for.
some other objections not relevant at this stage were also indicated.
as such all said and done oil co ordination committee s proposal was not accepted.
it was only on 31st december1998 when the ioc issued a fax to the respondent enclosing draft letter regarding charter party agreement to be signed between the charterers and owners with minor modification if necessaryrequesting the respondent to sign as per proposal by the 4th january1999on which date the respondent expressed its disinclination stating in reply fax that as per usual practice pending finalization of new charter the existing terms and conditions of the charter party continue to apply.
kindly confirm in order to draw up a suitable agreement accordingly.
emphasis supplied.
charter hire rate worked out by the committee for vessel jag praja for the period from 1st september1998 to 31st august1999 was communicated to the respondent.
it seems that pursuant to the said notice and some subsequent correspondence exchanged between the parties an arbitral tribunal was constituted.
claims and counter claims were filed before the arbitral tribunal.
however arguments were heard only on the following three issues.
issue no 1 whether the hon ble arbitral tribunal has no jurisdiction to adjudicate upon the dispute between the claimant and the respondent for the period september1998 to august1999.
and as the dispute between the parties related to the period subsequent to 31st.
august1998they had no jurisdiction to decide the reference.
admittedly after 31st august1998re delivery of vessel did not take place and therefore in terms of clause 23the vessel continued to be hired on the same terms and conditions except the term as to the hire charges on which there was disagreement between the parties.
mr sudhir chandra learned senior counsel appearing on behalf of the appellant has assailed the impugned order on the sole ground that the charter party dated 6th may1997 having come to an end by efflux of time on 31st august1998the arbitration clause contained in it also perished and therefore in the absence of a fresh arbitration agreement claim of the respondent relating to the period 1st september1998 to 31st august1999 could not be referred to arbitration by invoking arbitration clause in charter party dated 6th may1997 laying emphasis on the fax message dated 26th august1998 addressed by the oil co ordination committee to the oil companies including the appellant inter alia informing them that no further extension of the current charter hire rate will be allowed learned counsel submitted that the said message made it clear to all concerned that charter party dated 6th may1997 would not be extended under any circumstance.
shyam divan learned senior counsel appearing on behalf of the respondent on the other hand submitted that notwithstanding the fact that the period fixed originally under the charter party or under the addendum dated 29th june1998 had come to an end the subsequent conduct of the parties goes to show that charter of the vessel by the appellant beyond 31st august1998 continued to be governed by the terms and conditions stipulated in charter party dated 6th may1997 and therefore an arbitration agreement did exist between the parties.
it was pointed out that all the obligations of the owners as well as of the charterers during the period the vessel was in use continued to be discharged under the charter party dated 6th may1997 even after the expiry of the period of the charter party.
in support of the proposition that the concurrence of a party can be gathered from his conduct like continued user of the vessel in the present case without any objection to respondent s letter dated 4th january1999reliance is placed on a decision of this court in the godhra electricity co ltd anr.
the state of gujarat anr 1974 indlaw sc 253.
thus the short question for determination is whether on the expiry of the extended period of charter hire on 31st august1998charter party dated 6th may1997 came to an end and the arbitration agreement between the parties perished with it.
however on 31st october1998the appellant faxed ioc s message informing them of the extension of the existing coastal tanker fleet for the month of october1998 at reduced rates viz 80 of the charter party rates prevailing till 30th august1998 on receipt of the said letter the respondent vide their letter dated 5th november1998protested against the revision of the rates for the vessel not being considered under the new bid and stated in unequivocal terms that it was not possible for them to accept the proposal of the oil co ordination committee communicated to them vide letter dated 12th.
admittedly no such agreement was signed between the parties.
january1999coupled with the fact that they continued to use the vessel manifestly goes to show that except for the charter rate there was no other dispute between the parties.
we may examine the issue from another angle based on respondent s stand that charter party dated 6th may1997 continues to be in vogue till the chartered vessel is re delivered.
4 2 charterers to load last three cargoes clean and re deliver the vessel in clean condition.
final voyage should the vessel be on her voyage towards the port of redelivery at the time of payment of hire is due payment of hire shall be made for such length of time as owners and charterers may agree upon as being estimated time necessary to complete the voyage less any disbursements made or expected to be made or expenses incurred or expected to be incurred by charterers for owners account and less the estimated amount of bunker fuel remaining at the termination of the voyage and when the vessel is redelivered any overpayment shall be refunded by the owners or underpayment paid by charterers.
indisputably the vessel in question had not been re delivered at least during the relevant period and the appellant continued to use the vessel beyond 31st august1998 having failed to re deliver the vessel in terms of cl 4 1 of the charter party the appellant can not plead that the charter party had been fully worked out.
however the arbitral tribunal answered the said issue against the respondent.
it appears to us that even the question in regard to the effect and consequences of non delivery of the vessel in terms of the cl 4 1 and 23 would by itself be a dispute arising under the said charter party with.
respect.
and thus the arbitration clause in the said charter party operated in respect of these and other allied purposes.
accordingly we constitute an arbitral tribunal consisting of justice m jagannadha rao presiding arbitratorjustice d p wadhwa and justice s n variava former judges of this court to adjudicate upon the claim counter claim by the parties subject to their consent and such terms and conditions as they may deem fit and proper.
appeal dismissed.
