act1974 in shortthe act in the exercise of its revisional jurisdiction under section 121a of the act even then this is not a fit case where this court in the exercise of its power u art 136 of the constitution would interfere with such an order of the high court.
hereinafter called as the scheduled land situated in lingabahalli village madhugiri taluk in the state of karnataka filed form no 7 before the land tribunal praying for a declaration that they had acquired occupancy rights in respect of the scheduled land.
right holders relying inter alia on the entries under the rtc record.
the case of tenancy as made out by the appellants or their father was denied.
accordingly they prayed for rejection of the application filed by the father of the appellants claiming occupancy rights under the act.
a revision petition thereafter was moved before the high court and the high court by the impugned judgment had set aside the concurrent findings of fact and rejected the application filed by the father since deceased of the appellants holding inter alia that the appellants or their father had failed to prove the tenancy in respect of the scheduled land.
we have heard mr raju learned counsel appearing on behalf of the appellants and mr s n bhat learned counsel appearing on behalf of the respondents.
when the matter stood thus the father of the respondent nos 3 and 4 gondappa who is the uncle of the 5th respondent rajashankar filed form no 7 before the land tribunal claiming occupancy rights in respect of the land in dispute contending that he is the tenant of the said land under the 5th respondent from the year 1968i e subsequent to the date of mortgage.
but it is significant to note that the nature of cultivation of the land is not shown as that of a tenant in the said r t c extracts.
even in respect of the said claim he failed to produce any documentary evidence evidencing the said lease of land in dispute from gundu rao.
s 4 of the act makes it clear that a member of the owner s family can not be considered as a deemed tenant even if he is lawfully cultivating the land belonging to owner.
again the high court while setting aside the findings of fact also made the following findings but in the instant case since the respondents 3 and 4 failed to produce any evidence to show that their father was cultivating the land in dispute as a tenant under the 5th respondent mortgagee and even when the entries in the r t c extract produced do not support the claim of tenancy set up by the father of the respondents 3 and 4the question of drawing presumption of deemed tenancy in his favour under s 4 of the act does not arise.
it is also significant to note that the respondent no 5who was alive when the enquiry was pending before the land tribunal has not given evidence in favour of the respondents 3 and 4 stating that he has leased out the land in dispute in favour of the respondents 3 and 4 except the interested testimony of respondents 3 and 4there is nothing else on record to show that their father was inducted as a tenant to cultivate the land in dispute by the 5th respondent after the land is dispute was taken on mortgage by him.
from a careful examination of the findings given by the high court as quoted hereinabove in upsetting the concurrent findings of fact arrived at by the tribunals below we are not in a position to hold that the high court was not justified in setting aside the concurrent orders of the tribunals below in the exercise of its revisional power under section 121a of the act.
we have carefully examined the provisions under section 121a of the act which is the revisional power under the act and also the provisions u s 115 of the code of civil procedure for short the code so far as s 115 of the code is concerned it has been made clear that it is only in case of a jurisdictional error or when the courts below had acted with material irregularity in the exercise of their jurisdiction that the question of interfering with such an order can arise otherwise the high court is not entitled to interfere with any other order which does not satisfy the conditions laid down for interference u s 115 of the code.
as noted herein earlier since section 121a of the act clearly empowers the high court to look into the legality of the orders impugned therefore it would be open to the high court to consider the material evidence on record when it finds that such evidence was not at all considered by the tribunals below or when the conclusion arrived at by the tribunals below run contrary to the materials on record or when it finds that there is no evidence to support the conclusion of the tribunals below or that the reasons given by the tribunals below are absolutely perverse or a finding was such that no court would come to such a conclusion or that the decisions of the tribunals below were manifestly unjust.
we have already noted the findings made by the high court in the impugned judgment on the question whether the appellants could be held to be the tenants on the evidence and materials on record.
in this case while rejecting the claim of the appellants the high court had considered that the appellants had failed to satisfy the court that any payment of rent was made either by the father of the appellants or by the appellants themselves.
considering the above aspect of the matter and after considering the scope of section 121a of the act we are therefore unable to agree with the learned counsel for the appellants that in the exercise of revisional jurisdiction under section 121a of the act the high court was not entitled to set aside the concurrent findings of fact arrived at by the appellate authority and the land tribunal.
mr raju the learned counsel appearing on behalf of the appellants however contended before us that it was not open to the high court in the exercise of its revisional jurisdiction under section 121a of the act to interfere with the concurrent findings of fact arrived at by the appellate authority and the land tribunal.
he also relied on a decision of this court in the case of mohan balaku patil ors vs.
by lrs 2000 1 scc 518 1999 indlaw sc 941 is concerned it is difficult to conceive how this decision could be of any help to the appellants.
in our view we have already held that the high court was entitled to interfere with the concurrent orders of the tribunals below as material evidence on record was not considered at all and non consideration of the material evidence on record is a question of law and therefore the high court was entitled to interfere.
accordingly this decision is of no help to the appellants.
even assuming that the high court was not justified in setting aside the concurrent findings of fact in the exercise of its revisional jurisdiction under section 121a of the act then also we are of the view that it is not a fit case where this court should interfere with the impugned judgment of the high court in the exercise of our power u art 136 of the constitution.
again in jai mangal oraon vs mira nayak smt ors 2000 5 scc 141.
2000 indlaw sc 332this court had laid down that when there was nothing illegal and wrong in the reasoning and conclusions arrived at by the high court and the same appeared to be well merited and in accordance with the interpretation of statutory provisions this court would not interfere with the order of the high court u art 136 of the constitution.
appeal dismissed.
