challenge in this appeal is to the order of a division bench of madras high court allowing the appeal filed by the respondent hereinafter referred to as the accused the accused was convicted for offence punishable under section 302 of the indian penal code1860 in short the ipc and sentenced to undergo imprisonment for life and to pay a fine of rs 10000 with default stipulation by principal district judge madurai.
he was also convicted for offences punishable under section 392 read with section 397 ipc and sentence to undergo rigorous imprisonment for 10 years and to pay a fine.
background facts in a nutshell are as follows.
the prosecution relied upon only circumstantial evidence namely confessional statements of the accused leading to recovery of various incriminating materials.
p 6 is the statement leading to recovery of travel bags m os 2 3knife m 0 5wooden log m 0 28rubber gloves m 0 29 series cotton rope with human hair mn o 30 seriestwo sponges soaked with blood m 0 31 seriesbloodstained blue clolour jean pant m 0 32bloodstained white banian m 0 33colour banian m 0 34bloodstained grey colour pant m 0 35bloodstained pillow m 0 36plastic bucket m 0 37 from the house of p w 3 ex p 8 is the statement leading to recovery of computer and its accessories m os 6 to 17 from the house of p w 15a classmate of the accused.
the trial court found the respondent guilty and recorded conviction and imposed sentence as aforestated.
a the death is homicidal b the accused was in need of money to chase mathematics paper and for the aforesaid purpose he has killed the deceased to take away the valuable articles like computer and gold ornaments to sell such articles in the market.
c at the time of occurrence only the accused deceased and pw 9 were available in the premises and there was no other person.
d statement of the accused leading to recovery of incriminating materials such as knife rope clothes wooden log and other valuable articles such as computer gold ornamentsm dollar and the key chain with key belonging to the deceased.
193 1996 indlaw sc 3059wherein.
it has been observed thus.
in a case based on circumstantial evidence the settled law is that the circumstances from which the conclusion of guilt is drawn should be fully proved and such circumstances must be conclusive in nature.
further the proved circumstances must be consistent only with the hypothesis of the guilt of the accused and totally inconsistent with his innocence.
in padala veera reddy v state of a p and ors air 1990.
1992 indlaw sc 107it was pointed out that great care must be taken in evaluating circumstantial evidence and if the evidence relied on is reasonably capable of two inferences the one in favour of the accused must be accepted.
there is no doubt that conviction can be based solely on circumstantial evidence but it should be tested by the touch stone of law relating to circumstantial evidence laid down by the this court as far back as in 1952.
in hanumant govind nargundkar and anr.
again the circumstances should be of a conclusive nature and tendency and they should be such as to exclude every hypothesis but the one proposed to be proved.
a reference may be made to a later decision in sharad birdhichand sarda v state of maharashtraair 1984 sc 1622 1984 indlaw sc 432 therein while dealing with circumstantial evidence it has been held that onus was on the prosecution to prove that the chain is complete and the infirmity of lacuna in prosecution can not be cured by false defence or plea.
the conditions precedent in the words of this court before conviction could be based on circumstantial evidence must be fully established.
the main circumstances relied upon by the prosecution relates to the statements of the accused leading to discovery of materials facts admissible under section 27 of the indian evidence act1872 in short the evidence act.
however in almost all such decisions reference is made to the observation of the privy council in pulukuri kotayya v emperor air 1947 pc 67 1946 indlaw pc 23 it is worthwhile to extract such quoted observation it is fallacious to treat the fact discovered within the section as equivalent to the object produced the fact discovered embraces the place from which the object is produced and the knowledge of the accused as to this and the information given must relate distinctly to this fact.
information supplied by a person in custody that i will produce a knife concealed in the roof of my house does not lead to the discovery of the knife knives were discovered many years ago.
at one time it was held that the expression fact discovered in the section is restricted to a physical or material fact which can be perceived by the senses and that it does not include a mental fact now it is fairly settled that the expression fact discovered includes not only the physical object produced but also the place from which it is produced and the knowledge of the accused as to this as noted in pulukuri kottaya s case 1946 indlaw pc 23 supra.
he must be in the custody of a police officer.
7 thereupon only that portion of the information which relates distinctly or strictly to the fact discovered can be proved.
as observed in pulukuri kottaya s case 1946 indlaw pc 23 supra it can seldom happen that information leading to the discovery of a fact forms the foundation of the prosecution case.
the above position was highlighted in anter singh v state of rajasthan air 2004 sc 2665 2004 indlaw sc 79.
in rammi alias rameshwar v state of madhya pradesh air 1999 sc 3544 1999 indlaw sc 1512 the scope and ambit of section 27 of the evidence act was analysed in great detail and it was concluded in para 12 as follows true such information is admissible in evidence under section 27 of the evidence act but admissibility alone would not render the evidence pertaining to the above information reliable.
his evidence has to be considered in the background of what has been stated by pw 22 and cw 1 it has been accepted by the prosecution that great efforts were made by pw 40 to falsely implicate to pws 1 to 4 and for that purpose a departmental proceeding was initiated.
even according to the statement of the subsequent investigating officer pw 42several blank papers with the signature of pw 22 and cw 1 had been by pw 40 and such documents had been used to create false records to implicate pws 1 to 4 it is to be noted that pw 2 himself was one of the suspected person at the initial stage of investigation.
if this is the statement of p w 22 recorded under section 164 of the code a witness in whose presence the confessional statement leading to discovery of articles from the house of hajeeali p w 3 had been made it raises serious doubt regarding the voluntariness of the statement.
the alleged statement made by the accused led to discovery of knife bloodstained clothes rope etc.
even accepting that the computer had been given to p w 15 by the accused such circumstance by itself does not unerringly points towards the guilt of the accused either in respect of offence of murder or even robbery.
as a matter of fact p w 9 who was examined on the very date when police started investigation did not inform the police that she had seen the accused coming down from upstairs or that the accused had threatened her.
i do not tell this even to p w 1.
the next recovery relates to the ingots.
for the aforesaid aspect the evidence of p ws 1718 and 19 is relevant.
if the accused had killed the deceased and stolen those golden jewellery there is no reason as to why he had also not taken ear rings from the deceased.
for the aforesaid purpose they have relied upon the evidence of p w 42 and the seizure witness p w 24 the accused had allegedly made earlier confessional statement before p w 40 on 26 4 2003 leading to discovery of several articles.
in this context it is to be noted that c w 1 states that m dollar was taken from him by p w 42 for the purpose of facilitating investigation.
keeping in view the fact that c w 1 is a close relation of the deceased and obviously interested in punishing the real culprit such a statement coming from c w 1 can not be slightly brushed aside.
appeal dismissed.
