appellant was a tenant under the said respondent in respect of plot no 178 admeasuring 1067 sq m.
a road widening project was proposed in terms of the said scheme.
notices therefor were issued both to the appellant as also the respondent No appellant objected thereto.
he did not take any part in the proceedings therefor.
respondent no 4 was allotted a final plot bearing no 157 and the said 200 sq m of land of plot no 178 has merged in final plot no 165 owned by the respondent no 3.
and its pole demarcations were done by the town planning officer at site.
and the said land is now vested in the municipal corporation from 1 7 1999and is of the ownership of the municipal corporation.
the action as per the s 188 of the indian penal code will be initiated against you before the criminal court pleased take note of the same.
the validity and or legality of the said notice was questioned by the appellant by filing a writ petition in the high court of gujarat inter alia contending that the purported final allotment of plot no 165 in favour of the respondent no 3 and allotment of final plot no 157 in favour of the respondent no 4 were made without issuing any notice as envisaged u ss 52 and 53 of the act.
in the said writ petition it was prayed on the facts and circumstances mentioned herein above the petitioner prays to your lordships that a be pleased to issue writ of mandamus or writ in the nature of mandamus or appropriate writ order or direction quashing and setting aside the impugned action of acquiring and demolishing the structures available on the land in question i e original plot no 17 a r s no 17 p situated at umra surat.
a learned single judge of the high court dismissed the said writ petition inter alia opining that the interest of landlord and tenant being common and in absence of any inter se dispute between them even if any portion of the land which remained in possession of the tenant was included in the scheme the proper remedy would be to claim compensation to that extent holding it appears that in the said decision the apex court while considering the scheme on the touch stone of the mandatory procedure to be followed by the authority under the bombay town planning rules has given directions to provide alternative accommodation based on the earlier decision in case of jaswantsingh mathurasingh and upheld the scheme.
a division bench of the high court dismissed an intra court appeal preferred thereagainst.
mr u u lalit learned senior counsel appearing on behalf of the appellant in support of this appeal inter alia would submit i.
a tenant having regard to the provisions of the transfer of property act or otherwise having an interest in the property can not be deprived therefrom without following the procedure established by law and without initiation of any proceedings for acquisition of land.
appellant having a right over the remaining 200 sq m of the land of original plot no 178 should be allowed to continue thereupon and final allotment made in favour of the respondent no 3 to that extent should be cancelled.
i public notices having been issued in terms of the rule 26 of the rules an objection which would nullify the scheme can not be entertained at this stage.
the scheme in terms of sub s 3 of s 65 of the act having become a part of the act validity thereof can not be questioned at this stage as modification of the scheme if any will have to undergo the entire process once over again which is not contemplated under the act.
it is not necessary for us to delve deep into the statutory scheme.
chapter v of the act provides for town planning schemes.
a declaration of intention to make a scheme is to be notified whereafter a draft scheme may be published.
s 52 contemplates issuance of a notice in a prescribed manner and in the prescribed form.
s 52 of the act provides for the contents of preliminary and final scheme.
it inter alia provides for giving of a notice by the town planning officer as follows 1 in a preliminary scheme the town planning officer shall.
i after giving notice in the prescribed manner and in the prescribed form to the persons affected by the scheme define and demarcate the areas allotted to or reserved for any public purpose or for a purpose of the appropriate authority and the final plots ii after giving notice as aforesaid determine in a case in which a final plot is to be allotted to persons in ownership in common the shares of such persons.
further sub s 3 of section 65ss 67 and 68 of the act read as under 65 power of government to sanction or refuse to sanction the scheme and effect of sanction.
3 on and after the date fixed in such notification the preliminary scheme or the final scheme as the case may be shall have effect as if it were enacted in this act.
67 effect of preliminary scheme.
a all lands required by the appropriate authority.
68 power of appropriate authority to evict summarily on and after the date on which a preliminary scheme comes into force any person continuing to occupy any land which he is not entitled to occupy under the preliminary scheme.
the town planning officer shall before proceeding to deal with the matters specified in section 52publish a notice in form h in the official gazette and in one or more gujarati newspapers circulating within the area of the appropriate authority.
33 procedure for eviction u s 68 1.
for short the bombay rules are in pari materia with the rules.
it prescribes service of notice in form h a copy of the notice in the said form is kept at the office of the town planning officer during office hours.
any person affected by the proposal of the town planning scheme is entitled to inspect the scheme in the office where arrangements for explaining the scheme proposals are made.
a town planning scheme therefore envisages calling for objection from the persons concerned for three purposes i in regard to draft scheme ii lodging of any claim for payment of compensation iii participation in the matter of allotment of final plots.
darji1991 indlaw sc 975 supra wherein this court opined that sub rule 3 of rule 21 of the bombay rules was mandatory in nature subject of course to the condition that on the crucial date viz when the town planning scheme is notified in the official gazette he whether an owner or tenant or sub tenant must be in possession of the property.
the town planning scheme is notified in the official gazette.
rule 213however of the bombay rules has been amended in tune with rule 26 of the rules.
amended rules are in pari materia with rule 26 of the rules.
appellant was a tenant in respect of plot no 178 plot no 177 was not a plot contiguous thereto.
they were separated not only by a road but also by various other plots.
the draft scheme was approved 867 sq m of land had been acquired for public purpose out of the said plot no 178 while the proceedings relating to allotment of final plot were in progress he even did not file any objection thereto.
if he intended to claim any interest in a portion of plot no 178 either for the purpose of obtaining compensation for acquisition of a part of the land or to continue to have possession over 200 sq m of land in plot no 178it was obligatory on his part to take part in the proceedings.
validity of rule 26 of the rules had never been questioned.
a person interested in continuing to keep possession over a property and or a part of the amount of compensation must lay his claim before the appropriate authority at the appropriate stage.
we would consider the effect of sub s 3 of s 65 of the act a little later but we may at this juncture notice that the respondent no 3 in whose favour plot no 165 has been allotted which includes 200 sq m of land purported to be in possession of the appellant had nothing to do with the dispute between the appellant and his landlord the respondent no 4 respondent no 4 was in possession of a contiguous plot.
brijendra prasad gupta and others etc air 1997 sc 2745it was opined that the authority is not required to make a roaming enquiry as to who is the person entitled to notice.
we are however not unmindful of the fact that a statute of town planning ex facie is not a statute for acquisition of a property.
254opined that when a development is made the owner of the property gets much more than what would have he got if the same remained undeveloped in the process as by reason thereof he gets the benefit of living in a developed town having good town planning.
s 67 of the act provides that all lands required by the appropriate authority shall unless it is otherwise determined in such scheme vest absolutely in the appropriate authority free from all encumbrances with effect from the date on which the preliminary scheme comes into force.
what would be the quantum of payment of compensation therefor is also provided in s 82 of the act.
the location of the land the area of the land the nature of right etc.
indlaw sc 138 suprait was held therefore having due regard to the substantive and procedural aspects we are satisfied that the act imposes only reasonable restrictions in which case it is saved u art 195 of the constitution.
it is not a case where the state by its acts of omissions and commissions was unjustly enriching itself.
it is not in dispute that a appellant although filed an objection with regard to the draft scheme did not choose to pursue it.
assuming however that it was obligatory for the state to issue notice to the appellant the question is whether the principle of waiver precludes him from claiming equitable relief in this case due to his earlier conduct which allowed the entire process of acquisition and allotment to become final.
as early as 1957the concept of waiver was articulated in a case involving the late assertion of a claim regarding improper constitution of a tribunal in manak lal v dr prem chand air 1957 sc 425 1957 indlaw sc 159 in the following terms.
as sir johan romilly m r has observed in vyvyan v vyvyan.
and now the applicant after all these proceedings have been taken by him after doubtless much expense has been incurred on the part of the caveator and after lying by and hoping to get a judgment of the court in his favour asks the court to do that which but for some reasons known to himself he might have asked the court to do before any other step in the proceedings had been taken.
it is to my mind a clear principle of equity and i have no doubt there are abundant authorities on the point that equity will interfere to prevent the machinery of an act of parliament being used by a person to defeat equities which he has himself raised and to get rid of a waiver created by his own acts.
the legal principle emerging from these decisions is also stated in craies on statute law 6th edn at page 369 as follows as a general rule the conditions imposed by statutes which authorise legal proceedings are treated as being indispensable to giving the court jurisdiction.
emphasis supplied.
applying the above principles to the present case it must be held that the benefit of notice provided under the act and rules being for the benefit of the appellant in which no public interests are involved he has waived the same.
significantly a similar conclusion was reached in the case of krishna bahadur v purna theatre 2004 8 scc 229 2004.
a right can be waived by the party for whose benefit certain requirements or conditions had been provided for by a statute subject to the condition that no public interest is involved therein.
arvindbhai rambhai patel and ors 2006 8 scale 631 2006 indlaw sc 786this court observed the matter may be considered from another angle.
he may however take recourse to such remedy which is available with him in law including one by filing a suit or making a representation before the state.
for the reasons aforementioned the appeal is dismissed.
no costs.
appeal dismissed.
