provision is also at times made for appointment of different dates for coming into force of different parts of the same act.
act1970 as amended by the patents amendment act1999 w e f 26 3 99.
span diagnostics limited respondent no 3 herein is a public limited company established in 1972 to indigenously develop and manufacture a comprehensive range of ready made diagnostic reagents made by clinical pathology laboratories.
on 14 6 2000 j mitra company pvt ltd.
3 appellant herein filed its application for grant of patent.
after scrutiny the said application stood notified by the patent office on 20 11 2004.
we quote herein below ss 25 and 116 as it stood in the year 2000 under the patents amendment act1999 which read as under s 25 opposition to grant of patent.
2 where any such notice of opposition is duly given the controller shall notify the applicant and shall give to the applicant and the opponent an opportunity to be heard before deciding the case.
2 save as otherwise expressly provided in sub section 1an appeal shall lie to a high court from any decision order or direction of the controller under any of the following provisions that is to say section 15section 16section17section 18section.
20section 25section.
27section 28section.
51section 54section 57section.
60section 61section 63sub s 3 of section 69section 78section 84section 86s 883section 89section 93s 96 and s 97.
under the said amendment act1999as stated above vide.
in 2002the legislature desired an amendment to the law and intended to create an appellate forum to hear appeals against orders passed by the controller consequently patents amendment.
vide s 47 of the patents amendment act2002 entire chapter xix stood substituted.
2 a person shall not be qualified for appointment as a technical member for the purposes of this act unless he.
16section 17section.
18section.
51section 54section 57section 60section 61section 63section.
66sub s 3 of section 69section.
78sub ss 1 to 5 of section 84section 85section 88section 91s 92 and s 94.
act2002on 4 4 2005.
for the purposes of this clause an invention relating to a process for which a patent is claimed shall be deemed to have been publicly known or publicly used in india before the priority date of the claim if a product made by that process had already been imported into india before that date except where such importation has been for the purpose of reasonable trial or experiment only e that the invention so far as claimed in any claim of the complete specification is obvious and clearly does not involve any inventive step having regard to the matter published as mentioned in cl b or having regard to what was used in india before the priority date of the applicant s claim f that the subject of any claim of the complete specification is not an invention within the meaning of this act or is not patentable under this act g that the complete specification does not sufficiently and clearly describe the invention or the method by which it is to be performed h that the applicant has failed to disclose to the controller the information required by s 8 or has furnished the information which in any material particular was false to his knowledge i that in the case of convention application the application was not made within twelve months from the date of the first application for protection for the invention made in a convention country by the applicant or a person from whom he derives title j that the complete specification does not disclose or wrongly mentions the source or geographical origin of biological material used for the invention k that the invention so far as claimed in any claim of the complete specification is anticipated having regard to the knowledge oral or otherwise available within any local or indigenous community in india or elsewhere but on no other ground and the controller shall if requested by such person for being heard hear him and dispose of such representation in such manner and within such period as may be prescribed.
at any time after the grant of patent but before the expiry of a period of one year from the date of publication of grant of a patent any person interested may give notice of opposition to the controller in the prescribed manner on any of the following grounds namely a that the patentee or the person under or through whom he claims wrongfully obtained the invention or any part thereof from him or from a person under or through whom he claims b that the invention so far as claimed in any claim of the complete specification has been published before the priority date of the claim c that the invention so far as claimed in any claim of the complete specification is claimed in a claim of a complete specification published on or after the priority date of the claim of the patentee and filed in pursuance of an application for a patent in india being a claim of which the priority date is earlier than that of the claim of the patentee explanation  for the purposes of this clause an invention relating to a process for which a patent is granted shall be deemed to have been publicly known or publicly used in india before the priority date of the claim if a product made by that process had already been imported into india before that date except where such importation has been for the purpose of reasonable trial or experiment only.
e that the invention so far as claimed in any claim of the complete specification is obvious and clearly does not involve any inventive step having regard to the matter published as mentioned in cl b or having regard to what was used in india before the priority date of the claim h that the patentee has failed to disclose to the controller the information required by s 8 or has furnished the information which in any material particular was false to his knowledge i that in the case of a patent granted on convention application the application for patent was not made within twelve months from the date of the first application for protection for the invention made in a convention country or in india by the patentee or a person from whom he derives title j that the complete specification does not disclose or wrongly mentions the source and geographical origin of biological material used for the invention k that the invention so far as claimed in any claim of the complete specification was anticipated.
3 a where any such notice of opposition is duly given under sub section 2the controller shall notify the patentee.
5 while passing an order under sub s 4 in respect of the ground mentioned in cl d or cl e of sub section.
2the controller shall not take into account any personal document or secret trial or secret use.
similarly under the patents amendment act2005appeal was restricted to the post grant opposition orders and that appeal lay before the appellate board and not to the high court.
which refers to pre grant opposition and post grant opposition was brought into force on and from 1 1 2005 whereas amended section 117a by which appeal was provided for against post grant opposition order was not brought into force till 2 4 2007 one more aspect needs to be mentioned.
act2005a dichotomy was brought in between pre grant and post grant opposition orders.
this is the controversy which needs to be resolved in this case.
act1999 continued to be in operation notwithstanding the enactment of the patents.
amendment act2002 and the patents amendment.
on reading amended section 117 g it becomes clear that all appeals against any order or decision of the controller had to be transferred to the appellate board from such date as may be notified by the central government in the official gazette.
vide cl 47 of notes on clauses attached to the statement of objects and reasons it has been clarified that s 64 is also amended vide patents amendment act2005 to confer wider jurisdiction on the appellate board in matters of revocation of patent therefore amended section 117 g which is brought into force only from 3 4 2007 dealt with transfer of pending proceedings from the high court to the appellate board.
according to the appellant with the change in s 25 brought about by patents amendment act2005a dichotomy was introduced in the patents act1970 according to the appellant that dichotomy was between pre grant opposition and post grant opposition.
according to the appellant this was a structural change in the principal act.
according to the appellant on 23 8 06 the controller rejected its pre grant opposition and on that day post grant opposition avenue was open to respondent no 3 vide s 252 according to the appellant under the amended s 25 on rejection of pre grant opposition it was open to respondent.
no 3 to move an application opposing grant of patent under s 252 the patent was granted to the appellant on 22 9 06 according to the appellant it was open to respondent no 3 to challenge the grant of patent by making post grant opposition under s 252 from which an appeal was maintainable to the appellate board.
however on that date appeal against pre grant opposition order was maintainable under section 116to the high court and therefore there is no merit in the argument advanced on behalf of the appellant that the first appeal filed by respondent no 3 was misconceived that it is true that s 25 got restructured w e f 1 1 2005however such restructuring did not obliterate the first appeal filed by respondent no 3 on 19 10 2006.
and lastly it was argued on behalf respondent no 3 that the appellant had filed its application for grant of patent on 14 6 2000it was notified on 20 11 04however respondent no 3 had filed its pre grant opposition under s 251 on 21 3 05 when the patents amendment act2005 was not promulgated it was promulgated on 4 4 05 and therefore according to respondent no 3 its pre grant opposition filed on 21 3 05 was valid and proper as respondent no 3 could not have invoked s 252 proceedings on that day namely21 3 05 as the law stood enacted bringing in s 252 only on 4 4 05 in the peculiar circumstances of this case it was urged on behalf of respondent no 3 that no interference is called for by this court in this batch of civil appeals.
at times provision is made for appointment of different dates for coming into force of different parts of the same act.
by reason of patents amendment act2005the kind of opposition available under the said 1970 act is different from what existed earlier.
previously there was no post grant opposition.
therefore the legislature intended an appeal under section 117a2 to the appellate board from any decision order or direction of the controller inter alia under s 254 which refers to the power of the controller to maintain amend or revoke the patent.
one more aspect needs to be mentioned.
appeal disposed of.
