facts giving rise to the present appeal may be stated first so as to enable us to appreciate the arguments raised by the parties more effectively.
two juvenile girls named sarita and sharmila who are the sisters of the appellant were found in the house.
not finding the appellant and accused no 2 in the house dy.
after reaching the police station a complaint which is marked as exhibit pw 1 a was lodged by pw 1 in which it was alleged that pw 1 pw 8 pw 18 the deceased rauji and his brother narayan were residing in one house in banastari and they used to share a common kitchen between them.
while the said religious ceremony was being performed accused No 2 started uttering insults while standing in the kitchen.
accused No 3 told the appellant not to do anything in the ceremony and insulted the family members of rauji.
on his return he went to take bath and after having bath he went and switched off the light of the room.
as soon as the deceased switched off the light the appellant came from the room and started abusing rauji.
accused No 3 had then lit a kerosene lamp and brought the same in the hall.
there was already an oil lamp burning which was attached to the ceiling by a brass chain.
according to pw 1 in order to avoid the assault by all of them they went to bulcao balcony.
at that time all the accused persons were in the balcony.
at that time the appellant who was holding the knife in his hand handed over the same to accused No 3 by which she assaulted pw 8 but pw 8 caught the knife in her hand which caused injury to her right palm.
at that time pw 2 came there and questioned the accused persons as to what they were doing whereupon the appellant and accused No 2 started assaulting pw 2 also.
pw 8 pw 18 and pw 1 then lifted rauji and brought him in the courtyard.
in the meanwhile residents of the locality had gathered in the courtyard and told the accused persons not to assault rauji.
accused No 3 then picked up one stone and tried to throw it on rauji by saying that she was going to kill him with that stone.
pw 18 rushed to the rescue of deceased rauji.
the accused then started assaulting her and pw 8 with slaps.
on completion of the investigation the police submitted the charge sheet against the accused persons namely the present appellant accused No 1 accused nos 2 and 3 and the two juvenile offenders namely sarita and sharmila.
the trial court framed charges against all the accused persons for the offence under sections 302 323 143 147 and 149 of the ipc.
after completion of the arguments the trial court reserved the verdict.
being aggrieved by the aforesaid judgment and order of acquittal the state filed an appeal in the high court against accused nos.
accused No 1 section 302 ipc and accused nos.
2 and 3 were held guilty of an offence punishable section 323 read with section 34 of the ipc.
he submitted that although the incident in question had taken place at about 8 45 p m the same came to be reported to the police at 3 00 a m he also submitted that the police officer pw 21 who received the information about the incident started investigation without recording either any general diary for short g d entry or the fir and therefore the fir which has been proved in the trial court is hit by the provisions of section 162 of the criminal procedure code for short the crpc.
he also submitted that the high court has not given any reason for setting aside the appeal against acquittal which was passed after appreciating the entire evidence on record.
he further submitted that there was not only shifting of time of the alleged occurrence but also shifting of the place of occurrence from the hall to the outside verandah and courtyard to suit the convenience of the prosecution case.
a scuffle started between the nephew and the uncle in which the accused persons also received injuries and therefore the right of private defence of the appellant was available and in that view of the matter the order of conviction and sentence is liable to be set aside.
he next submitted that there was no evidence on record as to when the fir reached the magistrate and that none of the courts below considered the said aspect.
302 ipc.
counsel for the respondent has therefore taken us through the evidence of pws.
1 2 8 and 18 and on the basis thereof submitted that their evidence clearly prove and establish the role of the appellant herein in stabbing the deceased with the knife which he had brought from the other room with the intention of killing the deceased and therefore it is a clear case of conviction.
at this the deceased became annoyed and the appellant removed the fuse of the electricity which act of his plunged the entire house into darkness.
but in any case there was an electricity light post in the front of the house which was giving enough light to the house.
2 8 18 and the complainant herself pw 1.
the deceased was taken to the hospital and while so taken he died.
but the main object of investigation being to bring home the offence to the offender the essential part of the duties of an investigating officer in this connection is apart from arresting the offender to collect all material necessary for establishing the accusation against the offender.
merely making some preliminary enquire upon receipt of information from an anonymous source or a source of doubtful reliability for checking up the correctness of the information does not amount to collection of evidence and so can not be regarded as investigation.
where however a police officer makes some preliminary enquiries does not arrest or even question an accused or question any witnesses but merely makes a few discreet enquiries or looks at some documents without making any notes it is difficult to visualise how any possible harassment or even embarrassment would result therefrom to the suspect or the accused person.
since no irregularity was committed by him there is no occasion to invoke the aid of the curative provisions of the code.
in the instant case it is quite clear from the evidence on record that pw 1 received the information about the death of the deceased from psi of panaji police station without any detail as to how the incident had happened and who had caused the incident.
he went around the house and saw blood marks on the walls of the verandah and also in the courtyard and came to learn about the incident by using torch light.
but at a later stage they came there.
therefore he brought them along with the residents of the house who were found to be there namely accused No 3 and the two juvenile offenders namely sarita and sharmila who were all ladies.
after reaching the police station and at the request of pw 1 the fir was recorded at 3 00 a m in the morning.
there is no evidence to show that at that point of time pw 21 seized any articles or interrogated any witnesses or took any other action in initiating or in furtherance of investigation.
certain basic facts are not denied or disputed.
immediately after the incident hearing cries of passengers the driver of the bus stopped the bus.
they acceded to his request to take the bus to his house.
a report to that effect might have been noted in the general diary but the same could not have been treated to be an fir.
an information received in regard to commission of a cognizable offence is not required to be preceded by a first information report.
they reached the place of occurrence in another bus at about 1 a m the deceased and the injured were only then shifted to tuni hospital.
there is no evidence on record before us to hold either way for no such issue was raised either before the trial court or before the high court nor any evidence was led by the defence in respect of the said issue which is sought to be raised at this stage.
from the evidence on record it does not appear to us that any suggestion was given to the said witness to the effect that the copy of the fir was not sent or that it was dispatched late which if given would have given an opportunity to the witness to afford some explanation or to show as to when the fir was sent to and received by the magistrate.
in that view of the matter we do not agree with the counsel appearing for the appellant that delay in transmitting the fir to the magistrate stands proved in the present case.
the next contention that we proceed to discuss now is about whether sufficient light was available at the place of occurrence for the eye witnesses to see the occurrence as stated by them in the evidence.
blood was found by the police on the wall of the verandah and in the courtyard.
besides all the aforesaid eye witnesses were inmates of the house and they would know as to who had given the blows for they specifically stated that initially the appellant did not have the knife in his hand but when the deceased and others went to the balcony then he went inside the house and brought a knife with which he gave stab injuries to the deceased which became fatal and as a result of which the deceased died while he was being taken to the hospital.
in law testimony of an injured witness is given importance.
when the eyewitnesses are stated to be interested and inimically disposed towards the accused it has to be noted that it would not be proper to conclude that they would shield the real culprit and rope in innocent persons.
but if after careful analysis and scrutiny of their evidence the version given by the witnesses appears to be clear cogent and credible there is no reason to discard the same.
conviction can be made on the basis of such evidence.
the postmortem report indicates that there were sixteen injuries as against the two as adduced in ocular evidence and therefore a submission was made by the counsel appearing for the appellant that the medical evidence adduced in the present case is not supporting the ocular evidence.
however a perusal of record clearly shows that the doctor who conducted the postmortem pw 7 stated in his evidence that there were in total 16 injuries when external examination was done by him and the knife m o 11 could have caused the injuries No 1 2 3 and 4.
he further stated that the death was caused due to hemorrhage and shock as a result of stab injury.
there is no doubt that four injuries are indicated in the postmortem report shown to have been received by the deceased but the fact that the deceased was given stab injuries by the appellant with the help of a knife brought by him from inside the house is clearly established from the ocular evidence.
therefore the alleged discrepancy can not be said to be very vital as it has been held by this court in several decisions that ocular evidence can not be brushed aside only because to some extent it is not in consonance with the medical evidence.
all the contentions raised by learned counsel appearing for the appellant were considered by us in the light of evidence on record.
both the expression intent and knowledge postulate the existence of a positive mental attitude which is of different degrees.
if that is caused in any of the aforesaid three circumstances the offence of culpable homicide is said to have been committed.
in the case of state of a p v rayavarapu punnayya 1976 4 scc 382 1976 indlaw sc 192 this court observed as follows at page 386 12.
in the scheme of the penal code culpable homicides is genus and murder its specie.
all murder is culpable homicide but not vice versa.
for the purpose of fixing punishment proportionate to the gravity of this generic offence the code practically recognises three degrees of culpable homicide.
the first is what may be called culpable homicide of the first degree.
this is punishable under the first part of section 304.
this is the lowest type of culpable homicide and the punishment provided for it is also the lowest among the punishments provided for the three grades.
culpable homicide of this degree is punishable under the second part of section 304.
b of section 299 corresponds with cls 2 and 3 of section 300.
instances of cases falling u cl 2 of section 300 can be where the assailant causes death by a fist blow intentionally given knowing that the victim is suffering from an enlarged liver or enlarged spleen or diseased heart and such blow is likely to cause death of that particular person as a result of the rupture of the liver or spleen or the failure of the heart as the case may be.
b of section 299 the words sufficient in the ordinary course of nature have been used.
obviously the distinction lies between a bodily injury likely to cause death and a bodily injury sufficient in the ordinary course of nature to cause death.
3 of section 300 is one of degree of probability of death resulting from the intended bodily injury.
the word likely in cl.
b of section 299 conveys the sense of probable as distinguished from a mere possibility.
the words bodily injury sufficient in the ordinary course of nature to cause death mean that death will be the most probable result of the injury having regard to the ordinary course of nature.
for cases to fall within clause 3 it is not necessary that the offender intended to cause death so long as the death ensues from the intentional bodily injury or injuries sufficient to cause death in the ordinary course of nature.
1958 indlaw sc 82 vivian bose j speaking for the court explained the meaning and scope of cl.
thirdly it must be proved that there was an intention to inflict that particular injury that is to say that it was not accidental or unintentional or that some other kind of injury was intended.
to put it shortly the prosecution must prove the following facts before it can bring a case under section 300 thirdly first it must establish quite objectively that a bodily injury is present secondly the nature of the injury must be proved these are purely objective investigations.
once these three elements are proved to be present the enquiry proceeds further and fourthly it must be proved that the injury of the type just described made up of the three elements set out above is sufficient to cause death in the ordinary course of nature.
under clause thirdly of section 300 ipc culpable homicide is murder if both the following conditions are satisfied i e a that the act which causes death is done with the intention of causing death or is done with the intention of causing a bodily injury and b that the injury intended to be inflicted is sufficient in the ordinary course of nature to cause death.
c of section 299 and cl.
4 of section 300 both require knowledge of the probability of the act causing death.
in most cases their observance will facilitate the task of the court.
but sometimes the facts are so intertwined and the second and the third stages so telescoped into each that it may not be convenient to give a separate treatment to the matters involved in the second and third stages.
2009 indlaw sc 859.
as already noted it is quite clear from the record that there was an altercation preceding the incident.
the place of occurrence is a residence inhabited by both the parties and there is no evidence on record that the deceased was armed with any weapon.
initially the accused appellant also did not have any weapon with him but during the course of the incident he went inside and got a knife with the help of which he stabbed the deceased.
factually therefore there was only one main injury caused due to stabbing and that also was given on the back side of the deceased and therefore it can not be said that there was any intention to kill or to inflict an injury of a particular degree of seriousness.
accordingly we convict the appellant under section 304 part ii of ipc and sentence him to undergo imprisonment for a period of 7 years.
his bail bonds shall stand cancelled and the appellant shall surrender immediately to serve out the remaining period of sentence.
the appeal stands disposed of in terms of aforesaid order.
appeal disposed of.
