the appellant is infosys technologies limited.
on april 211992the name of the company infosys consultants pvt.
ltd and thereafter on june 21992the name was changed to the present name i e.
infosys technologies limited.
on october 111996the appellant instituted a suit in the calcutta high court for perpetual injunction inter alia restraining the first respondent from infringing the appellant s mark infosys by using the mark infosys by itself or in combination with other marks in course of its trade.
the ad interim order was confirmed on november 291996.
in january 2001the appellant filed yet another suit before the high court of judicature at madras for permanent injunction restraining the first respondent from offering shares to the public as claimed in the initial public offer ipo using infosys.
the said order was confirmed on may 222001 to remain operative till disposal of suit.
the 1958 act in o p no 764 of 2001the first respondent prayed for the removal rectification of the entry in the register of trade mark in respect of trade mark no 475269 in class 16 while in the other two applications being o p no 765 of 2001 and o p no 766 of 2001the first respondent prayed for removal rectification of trade mark no 475267 in class 9 and trade mark no 484837 in class 7 respectively.
the appellant opposed these applications on diverse grounds by filing counter affidavits.
a whether the mark applied for registration was used in respect of the goods for which the mark was registered.
dwhether there is a non use of registered trade mark by the respondent for a period of over 5 years and 1 month.
ewhether the registered trade mark is disentitled for protection in a court of law under section 11e of the trade and merchandise marks act.
hto what further relief.
the 1958 act was repealed by the trade marks act1999 for shortthe 1999 act in terms of section 100 of the 1999 act the three petitions filed by the first respondent before the madras high court for rectification removal of registered trade mark nos 475269475267 and 484837 were transferred to the ipab.
accordingly it is directed that pending further consideration of the matter after notice for the next date of hearing the defendants are restrained by themselves their directors employees agents andor others acting on its behalf from using the trade mark corporate name infosys or any other mark name deceptively similar trade mark or colourable imitation thereof as a mark andor corporate name or as part of a mark andor business name in respect of goods andor services for publicity on propaganda on websites and or in domain names in any way whatsoever thereby causing infringement of the registered trade mark infosys of the plaintiff in isolation or in combination with words letters numbers their advertisements as part of their corporate name either in isolation or in goods and services or in or by way of any advertisement publicity campaigns etc.
in that suit an affidavit came to be filed by the first respondent wherein it was stated that the name of the company has been changed from jupiter infosys limited to jupiter international limited and a certificate to that effect has been issued by the registrar of companies kolkata under the companies act1956 and no dispute remains between the parties under the trade mark.
we heard mr akhil sibal learned counsel for the appellant and mr vaibhav gaggar learned counsel for the first respondent at quite some length.
as regards class 9 he would submit that in view of the affidavit filed by the first respondent on july 142004 in the court of additional district judge delhi the first respondent ceases to be an aggrieved person on the date of consideration of the rectification application.
addisons paint chemicals ltd 2003 11 scc 92 2003 indlaw sc 756 and 2 kabushiki kaisha toshiba v tosiba appliances company ors 2008 10 scc 766 2008 indlaw sc 1395.
assailing the finding of the ipab as regards non use by the appellant during the relevant period learned counsel for the appellant argued that the said finding was erroneous on legal as well as factual premise.
akhil sibal argued that the ipab committed grave error in relying upon the provisions of the 1999 act and the trade marks rules2002 when these provisions were not applicable as the applications were filed under the 1958 act.
according to him the ipab sought to rely upon computer programming which is a service enumerated in class 42without considering the distinction between a computer programme and computer programming and without noticing the entry computer under class 9 which falls within goods.
akhil sibal learned counsel also argued that the ipab failed to have regard to the proviso to section 461in terms of which it is open to the registered proprietor to rely upon use of the registered trade mark during the relevant period in relation to goods of the same descriptionin order to resist an application for rectification.
private ltd v.
ltd air 1993 bombay 185 1992 indlaw mum 6327 lever brothers port sunlight ld v.
rpc 333 and australian wine importers trade mark.
6 rpc 311.
he argued that the ipab ought to have considered whether use of mark infosys by the first respondent on computer hardware would create confusion in the mind of the consumers that they might be led to believe that the said hardware is manufactured by the appellant.
d 92 and motor terms company pty limited v.
it was contended by mr vaibhav gaggar that even otherwise in view of the fraud perpetrated by the appellant qua the registrations in question the issue as to whether the first respondent had a dispute with the trade mark or not pales into insignificance as the primary duty of the court is to maintain the purity of the register.
learned counsel for the first respondent further argued that infosys is not an invented or a coined word the said word is an abbreviation and combination of the words information system the word infosys has been used by various companies abroad as well as within india prior to incorporation of the appellant itself and hence can not be called an invented word.
anr air 1978 mad 336 he submitted that appellant is primarily in service industry which is unregistrable under the 1958 act and since the appellant is not trading in the goods in respect of which it is registered it can not be said that the mark of the appellant is distinctive of its goods.
insofar as discretion exercised by ipab in ordering removal of the appellant s registrations from the register under section 461b of the 1958 act is concerned learned counsel for the first respondent submitted that this court should not overturn the discretion so exercised by the ipab keeping in view the dishonest and fraudulent conduct of the appellant.
having regard to the order that we intend to make we are not persuaded to accept the objection raised on behalf of the first respondent that present appeal preferred directly before this court from the impugned order passed by the ipab is not maintainable and must be dismissed as such.
pertinently the notice was issued in the petitions for special leave to appeal to the respondents on november 12004 in response to the said notice the first respondent filed counter affidavit before this court on march 112005 wherein no specific objection about invocation of jurisdiction of this court directly has been taken.
in the counter affidavit a very vague objection in the following terms was raised that the present petition apart from being false and misconceived lacks the necessary jurisdiction hence deserves outright rejection.
the objection about maintainability of the appeals is accordingly overruled.
2 where in relation to any goods in respect of which a trade mark is registered a the circumstances referred to in clause 1 of sub section 1 are shown to exist so far as regards non use of the trade mark in relation to goods to be sold or otherwise traded in in a particular place in india otherwise than for export from indiaor in relation to goods to be exported to a particular market outside india and b a person has been permitted under sub section 3 of section 12 to register an identical or nearly resembling trade mark in respect of those goods under a registration extending to use in relation to goods to be so sold or otherwise traded in or in relation to goods to be so exported or the tribunal is of opinion that he might properly be permitted so to register such a trade mark on application by that person in the prescribed manner to a high court or to the registrar the tribunal may impose on the registration of the first mentioned trade mark such limitations as it thinks proper for securing that that registration shall cease to extend to such use 19 3.
an applicant shall not be entitled to rely for the purpose of clause b of sub section 1 or for the purposes of sub section 2 on any non use of a trade mark which is shown to have been due to special circumstances in the trade and not to any intention to abandon or not to use the trade mark in relation to the goods to which the application relates.
s 56 power to cancel or vary registration and to rectify the register 1.
a likelihood of some injury or damage to the applicant by such trade mark remaining on the register may meet the test of locus standi.
in kerly s law of trade marks and trade names 11th edition at page 166the legal position with regard to person aggrieved has been summarized thus the persons who are aggrieved are all persons who are in some way or the other substantially interested in having the mark removed where it is a question of removal from the register including all persons who would be substantially damaged if the mark remained and all trade rivals over whom an advantage was gained by a trader who was getting the benefit of a registered trade mark to which he was not entitled.
in hardie trading ltd 2003 indlaw sc 756 2003 11 scc 92this court stated as follows the phrase person aggrieved is a common enough statutory precondition for a valid complaint or appeal.
the situations covered by this section include a the contravention or failure to observe a condition for registration b the absence of an entry c an entry made without sufficient cause d a wrong entry and e any error or defect in the entry.
persons aggrieved may also apply for cancellation or varying an entry in the register relating to a certification trade mark to the central government in certain circumstances.
in our opinion the phrase person aggrieved for the purposes of removal on the ground of non use under section 46 has a different connotation from the phrase used in section 56 for cancelling or expunging or varying an entry wrongly made or remaining in the register.
all cases of this kind where the original registration is not illegal or improper ought to be considered as questions of common sense to a certain extent at any rate and i think the applicants ought to show something approaching a sufficient or proper reason for applying to have the trade mark expunged.
15 rpc 677which has been reproduced in the report.
in the affidavit filed by the first respondent on july 142004 before the court of additional district judge delhi an unequivocal and categorical statement has been made that now there is no dispute between the plaintiff appellant herein and defendant first respondent herein under the trade mark and that defendant has already changed the trade mark namely jupiter international ltd in place of jupiter infosys ltd in terms of section 461not only that the applicant has to show that he is an aggrieved person as his interest is being affected but the ipab must also be satisfied before it directs the removal of registered trade mark that the applicant is an aggrieved person before it invokes the power in directing the removal of the 26 registered trade mark.
the question then arises whether it is sufficient for the applicant to show that he is a person aggrieved when he makes his application or he must continue to remain a person aggrieved until such time as the rectification removal application is finally decided.
in our view the grievance of the applicant when he invokes section 461 must not only be taken to have existed on the date of making application but must continue to exist when such application is decided.
appeals allowed.
