an fir was registered on 23 3 1996 on the statement of one prakashi devi.
the police investigated into the said complaint and submitted a report u s 173 of the code of criminal procedure for short the code.
and i hereby direct that you be tried on the above said charge by this court.
emphasis supplied.
however when confronted with her statement recorded in the fir she admitted having stated that when the appellant had come first time at around 11 30 pm and broke the outside bulbs her son woke up and went out of the house.
both pw1 and pw2 stated that the house of the accused was at a distance of 15 16 houses from the house of prakashi devi that the accused had never come into their house earlier that their family and the accused were not on visiting terms with each other even during functions marriages or death though they were on visiting terms with others in the village.
one of the contentions urged by the accused before the appellate court and high court was that the charge against him was that he attempted to outrage the modesty of prakashi devi pw 1 whereas the evidence was to show that he attempted to outrage the modesty of her daughter in law sheela devi.
he contended that as the charge levelled against him was not proved and as he was not required to defend himself against a charge that he assaulted and outraged the modesty of sheela devi he ought to have been acquitted.
it inter alia provides that every charge under the code shall state the offence with which the accused is charged.
s 215 of the code however clarifies that no error in stating either the offence or the particulars required to be stated in the charge and no omission to state the offence or those particulars shall be regarded at any stage of the case as material unless the accused was in fact misled by such error or omission and it has occasioned a failure of justice.
in willie william slaney vs state of madhya pradesh.
air 1956 sc 116 1955 indlaw sc 80 this court explained the concepts of prejudice to the accused and failure of justice thus 6 before we proceed to set out our answer and examine the provisions of the code we will pause to observe that the code is a code of procedure and like all procedural laws is designed to further the ends of justice and not to frustrate them by the introduction of endless technicalities.
the object of the code is to ensure that an accused person gets a full and fair trial along certain well established and well understood lines that accord with our notions of natural justice.
if he does if he is tried by a competent court if he is told and clearly understands the nature of the offence for which he is being tried if the case against him is fully and fairly explained to him and he is afforded a full and fair opportunity of defending himself then provided there is substantial compliance with the outward forms of the law mere mistakes in procedure mere inconsequential errors and omissions in the trial are regarded as venal by the code and the trial is not vitiated unless the accused can show substantial prejudice.
now here as in all procedural laws certain things are regarded as vital.
these go to the foundations of natural justice and would be struck down as illegal forthwith.
broad vision is required a nice balancing of the rights of the state and the protection of society in general against protection from harassment to the individual and the risks of unjust conviction.
if all these elements are there and no prejudice is shown the conviction must stand whatever the irregularities whether traceable to the charge or to a want of one.
but these are matters of fact which will be special to each different case and no conclusion on these questions of fact in any one case can ever be regarded as a precedent or a guide for a conclusion of fact in another because the facts can never be alike in any two cases however alike they may seem.
in gurbachan singh v state of punjab air 1957 sc 623 1957 indlaw sc 181 following willie slaney this court held in judging a question of prejudice as of guilt courts must act with a broad vision and look to the substance and not to technicalities and their main concern should be to see whether the accused had a fair trial whether he knew what he was being tried for whether the main facts sought to be established against him were explained to him fairly and clearly and whether he was given a full and fair chance to defend himself.
2001 indlaw sc 19904this court considered the meaning of the expression failure of justice occurring in s 464 of cr.
however if the aspect is of such a nature that non explanation of it has contributed to penalizing an individual the court should say that since he was not given the opportunity to explain that aspect there was failure of justice on account of non compliance with the principle of natural justice.
the above principles are reiterated in several decisions of this court including state of west bengal vs laisal haque air 1989 sc 129 1988 indlaw sc 706state of a p vs.
thakkidiram reddy.
6 scc 554 1998 indlaw sc 1286dalbir singh v state of up 2004 5 scc 334 2004 indlaw sc 247dumpala chandra reddy vs nimakayala bali reddy 2008.
8 scc 339 2008 indlaw sc 1064 and sanichar sahni vs state of bihar 2009 7 scc 198 2009 indlaw sc 736.
the accused is entitled to know with certainty and accuracy the exact nature of the charge against him and unless he has such knowledge his defence will be prejudiced.
but there will be no prejudice or failure of justice where there was an error in the charge and the accused was aware of the error.
in judging a question of prejudice as of guilt the courts must act with a broad vision and look to the substance and not to the technicalities and their main concern should be to see whether the accused had a fair trial whether he knew what he was being tried for whether the main facts sought to be established against him were explained to him fairly and clearly and whether he was given a full and fair chance to defend himself.
act1989 the magistrate committed the case to sessions court which was specified as a special court under the act.
as noticed above in this case the charge was that appellant committed trespass into the house of prakashi devi for assaulting prakashi devi and assaulted the said prakashi devi and outraged her modesty.
he did not try to challenge the evidence let in to show that he had tried to outrage the modesty of sheela devi as he was not charged with such an offence.
nor did he proceed with his defence on the understanding that he was being charged with having committed the offence with reference to sheela devi.
illustration e u s 215 of the code as contrasted from illustration d under that section throws some light on this issue.
january1882 a was never charged with any murder but one and had heard the inquiry before the magistrate which referred exclusively to the case of haidar baksh.
e a was charged with murdering haidar baksh on the 20th january1882and khoda baksh who tried to arrest him for that murder on the 21 st january1882 when charged for the murder of haidar baksh he was tried for the murder of khoda baksh.
the witnesses present in his defence were witnesses in the case of haidar baksh.
applying the guidance offered by the said illustrations and the legal principles evolved by this court the position will be as follows.
if sheela devi alone had been present at the house at the time of the incident and the accused had assaulted and outraged the modesty of the said sheela devi but in the charge the name of the victim had been erroneously mentioned say as sushila devi or prakashi devi though there was no person by such nameand the inquiry exclusively referred to the assault and outraging the modesty of sheela devi the court could infer that the accused was not misled and the error in the charge was immaterial.
in view of the specific charge the accused concentrated on showing that the charge was false.
he did not attempt to meet the case made out in the trial that the offence was against sheela devi.
therefore we are of the view that there should be a new trial after charging him with the offence of outraging the modesty of sheela devi.
appeal allowed.
