at that time jage ram a 1 and his sons rajbir singh.
raju a 2 gave a pharsi blow on the head of sukhbir jage ram a 1 caused injury to jagdish pw 5 with two jaily blows.
additionally madan and rakesh attacked the complainant with lathi blows on shoulder and left elbow respectively and caused several other injuries to the complainant party.
injured sukhbir was vomiting in the hospital and later on he was referred to general hospital gurgaon as his condition deteriorated.
a ct scan disclosed that large extra dural haematoma was found in the frontal region with mass effect and sukhbir needed urgent surgery and he was operated upon and the large extra dural haematoma was removed.
6 mange ram.
he examined the witnesses and after completion of investigation challan was filed under sections 307 325 324 read with section 34 ipc.
neuro surgeon pw8 investigating officer and other witnesses.
p c about the incriminating evidence and circumstances.
first accused jage ram pleaded that on the date of occurrence complainant party jagdish and his sons mange ram and sukhbir forcibly trespassed into the land belonging to the accused and attempted to forcibly cut the pullas.
jagdish further claims that he along with rakesh caused injuries to the complainant party in exercise of right of private defence of property.
rakesh a 4 adopted the stand of his father jage ram.
aggrieved by the said judgment the accused appellants filed criminal appeal before the high court of punjab and haryana.
raju section.
307 ipc and imposed sentence of imprisonment for five years as well the fine of rs 500 was confirmed by the high court.
sentence section 325 ipc two counts was modified as the sentence section 323 ipc and he was sentenced to undergo six months rigorous imprisonment.
307 ipc.
additionally the learned counsel contended that the defence plea of private defence was not considered by the courts below in proper perspective.
it was submitted that the medical evidence sufficiently corroborated the oral evidence and the prosecution has established the intention of the 2nd accused in causing attempt to commit murder of sukhbir and in appreciation of the evidence courts below recorded concurrent findings convicting the second accused section 307 ipc and the same warrants no interference.
as it emerges from the evidence complainant jagdish pw 5 and his two sons sukhbir and mange ram were cutting pullas.
raju gave pharsi blows on the head of sukhbir.
2 dr pardeep kumar in his evidence stated that he has examined pws 5 and 6 and noted the injuries on the body of pws 5 and 6 and issued wound certificates.
cogent and convincing grounds are required to discard the evidence of injured witnesses.
appellants have raised the contention that the prosecution failed to adduce evidence that a 2 rajbir attempted to commit murder of sukhbir.
dr pardeep kumar pw 2 who examined sukhbir found during his medico legal examination a lacerated wound in the middle of the top of the skull.
as noted by the high court it is thus brought on evidence that had not surgical assistance been given to sukhbir he would have definitely died.
for the purpose of conviction section 307 ipc prosecution has to establish i the intention to commit murder and ii the act done by the accused.
although the nature of injury actually caused may be of assistance in coming to a finding as to the intention of the accused such intention may also be adduced from other circumstances.
in the case of state of m p vs kashiram ors.
air 2009.
2009 4 scc 26 2009 indlaw sc 92 the scope of intention for attracting conviction section 307 ipc was elaborated and it was held as under.
the court has to see whether the act irrespective of its result was done with the intention or knowledge and under circumstances mentioned in the section.
the determinative question is the intention or knowledge as the case may be and not the nature of the injury.
this position was illuminatingly stated by this court in sevaka perumal v state of t n 1991 3 scc 471 1991 indlaw sc 683.
having regard to the weapon used for causing the head injuries to sukhbir nature of injures situs of the injury and the severity of the blows courts below recorded concurrent findings convicting the 2nd appellant section in our considered view the conviction of the second appellant rajbir.
307 ipc is unassailable.
placing reliance upon the judgment of this court in hari singh vs sukhbir singh ors 1988 4 scc 551 1988 indlaw sc 27 learned counsel for the appellants additionally submitted that in terms of section 357 3 cr.
for the conviction section 307 ipc courts below imposed upon the 2nd appellant rigorous imprisonment of five years while imposing punishment courts have an obligation to award appropriate punishment.
raju to pay rs 750000 as compensation to the injured sukhbir.
for inflicting blows on pw 5 jagidsh with jaily a 1 jage ram was convicted section 325 ipc and sentenced to undergo rigorous imprisonment for one year.
a 3 and a 4 have also given lathis blows to pw 5 and were convicted section 323 ipc and sentenced to undergo rigorous imprisonment for three months by the high court.
307 ipc is confirmed and the sentence of imprisonment of five years is reduced to the period already undergone and additionally the second accused shall pay a compensation of rs 750000 to the injured witness sukhbir.
compensation amount of rs 500000 deposited in this court by the 2nd appellant shall be paid to the injured witness sukhbir.
the appeal is allowed to the above said extent.
second appellant rajbir.
raju is ordered to be released forthwith if not required in any other case.
bail bonds of accused a1 a3 and a4 shall stand discharged.
appeal allowed.
