March 15.
Acting suo motu the Additional Custodian made an order on October 31 1952 cancelling the order of allotment of land in the village Raikot made in favour of the appellants in the year 1949 and instead allotted to them land in Karodian in substitution of the lands at Raikot and of the lands allotted to their father.
Consequent upon the cancellation of the appellants  allotment of the Raikot land they were allotted to respondents 2 to 4.
In that case the Court has held that the powers of the Custodian General to deal with matters of this kind have been taken away by the  and that these powers now vest in another authority and that there is no provision for continuing the pro ceedings which had been commenced under the  but had not been concluded.
What is urged by Mr Khanna on behalf of the Custodian General is that this is the effect of the provisions of sections 122 and 19 of the Act.
It is common ground that by notification section R 0 697 dated March 24 1955 the Central Government decided to acquire all evacuee property allotted to displaced persons by the Custodian under the Conditions contained in the notification of the Government of Punjab in the Department of Rehabilitation No 4892 6 dated July 8 1949 except certain categories of property specified in the schedule.
But the consequence of the publication of the notification by the Central Government under section 121 of the with respect to any property or a class of property would be to divest the Custodian completely of his right in the property flowing from section 8 of the  and vest that property in the Central Government.
Sub section.
Under section 161 of this Act the Central Government is empowered to take such measures as it considers necessary or expedient for the custody management and disposal of the compensation pool.
Sub section.
Therefore they must prevail over the provisions of B 10 of the .
It is true that there is nothing on record to show that a managing officer was appointed with respect to the Raikot properties acquired under the notification dated March 24 1955.
But it is not necessary to ascertain that fact.
The point is who after the coming into force of the 1954 Act could cancel an allotment.
a of this section and therefore they would be entitled to the benefits conferred by this section provided they satisfied all the other requirements of this section express or implied.
It is implicit in this section that the displaced person to whom land was allotted held the land and was in possession of such property at the date of the notification.
It is not disputed that the appellants ceased to hold and had lost possession of the Raikot lands before the publication of this notification.
336 Mr Achhruram then referred to the Conditions on which allotments of land may be made under the notification referred to in sub section.
He said that the cancellation of the allotment in favour of the appellants was impermissible inasmuch as it was not based upon any of the grounds set out in the 6th condition.
That may or may not be so.
Mr Achhruram contended that r 74 of the Displaced Persons Compensation and Rehabilitation Rules 1955 stood in the way of the Custodian allotting the Raikot property to the respondents during the pendency of the proceedings before the Custodian General.
That rule reads as follows Allotments which are the subject matter of dispute.
No property in a rural area in respect of which any case is pending in a Civil Court or before a Deputy Custodian Custodian or Custodian General shall be transferred to the allottee.
There is therefore no substance in this argument.
Finally Mr Achhruram referred to section 17 of the 1954 Act and to r 102 of the Rules framed thereunder and said that the powers of the managing officers appointed under the Act are confined only to properties which are entrusted to them for management and not with respect to any other property.
Sub section.
Sub section.
2 provides that subject to the provisions of the Act and the rules made thereunder a managing officer or a managing corporation may among other things take such measures as he or it considers it necessary or expedient for the purpose of securing administering preserving managing or disposing of any property in the compensation pool entrusted to him or it etc.
The argument is that unless there is such entrustment the managing officer or managing corporation has no function to perform with respect to evacuee property.
In the first place the section confers the particular powers On managing officers or managing corporations only and no one else.
He cannot therefore be permitted to make out a new case at this stage of argument.
Again this provision is a general provision and the particular provision regarding cancellation of allotment is section 191 of the Act which does not refer to entrustment at all and it is this provision which must prevail over the general provision.
What we have said in regard to section 17 would apply 339 here also.
He then says that this rule restricts the powers of a managing officer or a managing corporation in the matter of cancellation of allotment in the sense that it permits cancellation only on certain specified grounds and therefore it cannot be said that section 191 of the Act is completely in conflict with section 10 of the in so far as the question of cancellation of allotment is concerned.
d of r 102 permits the managing officer or managing corporation to cancel allotment for any other sufficient reason to be recorded in writing.
In our opinion therefore this rule does not help the appellants.
