March 22.
dThat an enquiry be made and the quantity of coal cut and removed by the defendants from the plaintiffs  coal land as also the quantity of the coal rendered unworkable be ascertained and a decree for the value thereof by way of damages be granted to the plaintiffs against the defendants.
The defendants denied that they had encroached upon the plaintiff   coal land and stated that the suit was barred by limitation.
One interesting feature is that a map has been referred to in each of the documents and the said map shows that the line drawn from point A to point B is the boundary between the two leaseholds.
The appellant denied the said allegation and stated that the respondents all along knew and had been aware that the portion of coal land in question belonged to and was the property of the appellant.
On appeal the High Court accepted the finding.
It is common case that article 48 of the Limitation Act governs the period of limitation in respect of the present suit.
It reads  Period Time from Description of suit.
of which period limitation begins to run.
sion itis.
 The article says that a suit for recovery of specific movable property acquired by conversion or for compensation for wrongful taking or detaining of the suit property should be filed within three years from the date when the person having the right to the possession of the property first learns in whose possession it is.
That apart section 3 of the Limitation Act makes it obligatory on a court to dismiss a suit barred by limitation although limitation has not been set up as a defence indicating thereby that it is the duty of a plaintiff to establish at any rate prima facie that the suit is within time.
It is the obligation of the plaintiff to satisfy the court that his action is not barred by lapse of time see Lalchand Marwari vs Mahanth Rampur Gir 1 and Rajah Sahib Perhlad Sein vs Maharajah Rajender Kishore Sing 2 .
Looking from a different perspective we arrive at the same result.
Under the Evidence Act there is an essential distinction between the phrase burden of proof as a matter of law and pleading and as a matter of adducing evidence.
That burden is constant throughout the trial but the burden to prove in the sense of adducing evidence shifts from time to time having regard to the evidence adduced by one party or the other or the presumption of fact or law raised in favour of one or the other.
503 onus of proof may shift to the defendant.
848 860.
504 took us through the correspondence that passed between the parties and the Mining Department in 1932.
Emphasis is also laid upon the fact that there was quarry system of working in the mines and a contention is advanced that quarrying is done openly and therefore the respondents must have had knowledge of the said fact.
We cannot therefore hold that the findings of the courts are vitiated by an error of law by the burden of proof having been wrongly thrown on the appellant.
We accept the findings of the High Court that the respondents had knowledge of the appellant s encroachment of their coal mines only in the year 1941 which was within three years of the date of the filing of the suit.
The learned Subordinate Judge accepted the case of the plaintiffs and held that the coal that was left in the encroached area was entirely lost to them by being rendered unworkable.
Nor can we hold in favour of the appellant on the basis of such a possibility.
Appeal dismissed.
