926 1960.
The Judgment of the Court was delivered by DAS GUPTA J.
Ms.
As we have already pointed out when export has been defined in the Import  Export 1 1953 4 STC 133 931 Control Act 1947 as taking out of India by land sea or air  export in the Export Control Order cannot be held to have commenced till at least the ship carrying the goods has left the port though it may in some contexts be more correct to say that it does not commence till the ship has passed beyond the territorial waters.
We think that the learned judges who heard the appeal in the Bombay High Court were right in their conclusion that the goods remained the sellers  property till the goods had been brought and loaded on board the ship and so the sales were exempted from tax under article 2861b of the Constitution.
In Civil Appeal No 46 of 1959 the appellants  contention is that on a correct interpretation of the provisions of section 10b of the Bombay Sales Tax Act no purchase tax was leviable from them.
b of section 8 has been furnished in respect of such goods and the purchasing dealer does not show to the satisfaction of the Collector that the goods have been despatched by him or by a person to whom he has sold the goods to an address outside the State of Bombay within a period of six months from the date of purchase by the dealer furnishing such certificate .
Admittedly such a certificate was furnished by 932 Ms Daulatram Rameshwarlal in respect of the castor oil which they sold to others and that in respect of these sales to them their sellers were allowed deductions.
These persons are however not registered dealers.
It will be in our opinion unreasonable to think that though the Legislature insisted that the certificate should declare the goods purchased were intended 11 for being despatched by him or by a registered dealer to whom he sells the goods outside the State of Bombay  the Legislature would be content to accept actual despatch outside the State of Bombay by one who is not a registered dealer as sufficient.
Mr Sanyal contended that the certificate 933 has to declare only an intention and that if ultimately the actual despatch is made by some person who is not a registered dealer it cannot strictly be said that the declaration has not been carried out.
Appeals dismissed.
