December 19.
The appellant was taken in custody and as a result of the investigation was sent up for trial The appellant denied the allegation that he had caused the death of Sheo Sahai and alleged that he was falsely accused of the offence.
He did accordingly.
The evidence led by the prosecution consisted of the evidence relating to motive to his extrajudicial confession to one Ujagar Singh when he was having a bath in the Canal to his purchasing the sword and to his delivering it at the police Station after he had dictated the report.
On the other hand learned Counsel for the respondent urged that the High Court was wrong in rejecting the statement of Ujagar Singh about the appellant s extra judicial confession and that the extra judicial confession together with the circumstances relied on by the High Court fully make out the prosecution case against the appellant.
He also urges that such portions of the report which did not amount to a direct admission of the appellant s striking Sheo Sahai with a sword and thereby causing his death were admissible in evidence.
In fact none of the prosecution witnesses is alleged to bear enmity with the appellant.
Paley Singh PW 2 and Baij Nath PW 4 depose about the dispute during the game of cards played on June 12 1960.
Kehar Singh PW3.
It is therefore not necessary to rely on the admissions of the appellant in the report with respect to these facts deposed to by the various witnesses whose testimony has been rightly accepted.
We need also consider whether the facts that the accused had a motive to harm Sheo Sahai and that he had purchased a sword a day before the incident and deposited it stained with human blood at the Police Station on the night of the murder are sufficient to establish that it must be the appellant who committed the murder of Sheo Sahai or not as we are of opinion that the High Court erred in rejecting the statement of Ujagar Singh about the appellant s confessing to him that he had murdered Sheo Sahai.
 With respect to the learned Judges these observations are not very consistent.
If Ujagar Singh s statement made it very likely that what he stated did happen there could not have appeared any improbability in Ujagar Singh s sleeping in his field and meeting the appellant in the manner alleged especially when the learned Judges believed and there was evidence about it that the fields had chari and sugarcane crop at the time.
The learned Sessions Judge has discussed the criticism urged before him against the acceptance of the statement of Ujagar Singh and considered 208 it for reasons given not to justify the rejection of Ujagar Singh s statement.
We agree with those reasons.
There is no enmity between Ujagar Singh and the appellant and therefore no good reasons existed for Ujagar Singh to state falsely.
Extra judicial confessions are not usually considered with favour but that does not mean that such a confession coming from a person who has no reason to state falsely and to whom it is made in circumstances which tend to support his statement should not be believed.
The murder was committed in the month of June.
Both on account of the temperature and on account of the culprit s desire to wash of blood marks on his person the appellant s bathing in the Canal at that hour of the night cannot be said to be improbable.
It is not stated by sub Inspector Kishan Singh nor it is alleged that the appellant had on his person or on his clothes blood stains when he presented himself at the Police Station.
This tends to support Ujagar Singh s statement that the appellant had a bath in the Canal at that hour.
Of course this consideration springs out of the supposition that the appellant did commit the murder.
The Canal runs beside Ujagar Singh s field.
Ujagar Singh was on the field for the purpose of watching it against the neel gais trespassing and grazing the crop.
It is not therefore a matter of surprise that he wakes up and proceeds to the spot from where the splashing sound which is supposed to be due to the wading of the neel gais came.
There is no reason to think that the appellant would not make such a statement when the appellant himself proceeds to the Police Station and hands over the blood stained sword.
It is no doubt unusual as urged for the appellant that a person who commits a murder in pursuance of an enmity arising out of minor disputes would be feeling so justified in his conduct as to openly admit it to the first person he met and to go to the Police Station and report about it.
It is always difficult to find reasons for a person s acting in a certain manner.
We agree with the view of the learned Sessions Judge and do not consider Ujagar Singh s conduct of continuing to remain on his field during the night to be so improbable as to affect his veracity.
Ujagar Singh went to the village at about 5 am and them told the people of what he had been told by the appellant.
This statement of his is supported impliedly by Paley Singh PW 2 who states that the Sub Inspector was not present when Ujagar Singh related to them the fact which had taken place at night and by Bishram Singh PW 13 who 210 deposed that Ujagar Singh stated that Ram Singh was taking his bath at night in the Canal Distributory and had said that he had come after committing the murder of Sheo Sahai and that the appellant had then proceeded towards the police station.
The evidence of the appellant s having enmity with Sheo Sahai the appellant s conduct in purchasing a sword and delivering it stained with human blood to the Police and the appellant s confession to Ujagar Singh fully establish that the appellant did commit the murder of Sheo Sahai.
We are therefore of opinion that he has been rightly convicted of the offence under section 302 IPC and has been awarded the proper sentence.
We therefore dismiss the appeal.
Appeal dismissed.
