In July.
According to this the pensionable age is 70 in two countries 67 in another two 65 in twenty four 60 in seventeen 55 in two and 50 in one.
It is the endeavour of industrial adjudication to prevent this.
In Imperial Chemical Industries 427 India Private Ltd vs The Workmen1 where the Tribunal had raised the age of retirement from 55 to 58 and both parties appealed this Court pointed out that one of the documents on the record would conclusively show that in Bombay the age of retirement is almost invariably fixed at 60 and not at 55.
In an earlier decision of this Court in Dunzlop Rubber Co Ltd vs Workmen2 it had been urged that the employer was an All India concern and that changing the terms and conditions of service in regard to the age of retirement in one place might unsettle the uniformity and might have serious repercussions in other branches.
Reliance was placed for this purpose on the Chart exhibit Cl.
This Chart shows the age of retirement for 75 concerns.
There is no indication at all as to how long ago the age of retirement in these concerns was fixed at 55 or at 58.
The main diffi culty in accepting the Company s case on this point viz the pronouncements of this Court however remained.
So the Tribunal considered it to be its duty to enquire whether the conclusion recorded by this Court in some of its earlier decisions as to the relevant trend in the Bombay region was accurate.
Having embarked an this enquiry the Tribunal appears to have taken considerable pains to perform this duty and it has ultimately persuaded itself to hold that no such trend is established in fact.
We ought to add in this connection that the approach adopted by the Tribunal in dealing with this aspect of the problem is not very commendable and that its present conclusion that what was said by itself on an earlier occasion and was confirmed by this Court in appeal was in fact inaccurate is on the whole unsound.
If this Court had erred in making those pronouncements we would be the first to admit such mistakes and to correct the error.
The very few departures from this practice which the Tribunal has mentioned are in our opinion wholly insufficient to indicate any slowing down of this trend.
What the Tribunal has failed to notice is that instances which may justify a revision of the judicial opinion expressed on an earlier occasion about a particular trend must be strong and unambiguous and they must speak for the period both before and more particularly after the previous finding had been recorded in the matter.
429 Notice has also to be taken in this connection of the Report of the Norms Committee in which the following opinion was expressed After taking into consideration the views of the earlier Committees and Commissions including those of the Second Pay Commission the report of which has been released recently we feel that the retirement age for workmen in all industries should be fixed at 60.
Accordingly the norm for retirement age is fixed at 60.
The Tribunal has referred to these observations but has brushed them aside in a way for which we find no justification.
On a consideration of all the facts and circumstances disclosed by the oral and documentary evidence on this record we have come to the conclusion that the age of retirement of the appellant workmen should be fixed at 60.
Appeal allowed.
