The allowance was in a sense related to the land revenue assessed on the land ie it was fixed as a percentage of the land revenue but the percentage was merely a measure and indicated the source of the right in lieu of which the allowance was given.
We are unable to agree with his contention.
But the enquiry should stop as soon as the effective source is discovered.
In the genealogical tree of the interest land indeed appears in the second degree but the immediate and effective source is rent which has suffered the accident of nonpayment.
The source of the right in which a fraction of the net income of the trust is to be appropriated by the appellant as his remuneration is not in the right to receive rent or revenue of agricultural lands but rests in the covenant in the deed to receive remuneration for management of the trust.
The remuneration not being received as rent or revenue of agricultural lands under a title legal or beneficial in the property from which the income is received it is not income exempt under section 43viii.
 It follows from the decisions of the Privy Council and the judgments of this Court cited above that if it is held in this case that the source of the allowance or pension is the arrangement arrived at in 1837.
Mr Sastri sought to distinguish those cases on the ground that the allowance here varied from year to year.
He says that if the assessee s predecessor had received  706 compensation for relinquishing his title to the lands in dispute that would have been a capital receipt and not taxable.
He refers to the following passage from the speech of Viscount Simon in Commissioner of Inland Revenue vs Wesleyan and General Assurance Society1 It may be well to repeat two propositions which are well established in the application of the law relating to Income tax.
First the name given to a transaction by the parties concerned does not necessarily decide the nature of the transaction.
 He therefore asked us to disregard the word pension  in the letter dated July 7 1837 and determine the real character of the payment.
Another passage from the speech of Viscount Simon is also relevant.
Lord Simon observed Secondly a transaction which on its true construction is of a kind that would escape tax is not taxable on the ground that the same result could be brought about by a transaction in another form which would attract tax.
If the other method is adopted tax will not be payable .
The net result from the financial point of view is precisely the same in each case but one method of achieving it attracts tax and the other method does not.
That particular doctrine of substance as distinct from form was I hope finally exploded by the decision of the House of Lords in the case of Duke of Westminster vs Commissioner of Inland Revenue2.
It seems to us that where an owner of an estate exchanges a capital asset for a perpetual annuity it is ordinarily taxable income in his hands.
The position will be different if he exchanges 1 30 TC II.
The installments when received would not be taxable income.
Mr Sastri relying on Perrin vs Dickson1 contends that an annuity is not always taxable as income.
Appeal allowed.
