The learned trial Judge examined the whole evidence and came to the conclusion that the grant of the Inam was a personal Inam and that it was not a grant in favour of the religious endowment within the meaning of the Act.
The lower appellate Court made a finding against respondents 1 to 3 on point No 2.
In regard to the third point based on the appellants  claim that they had acquired title by adverse possession the lower appellate Court found that it was evident that from the very beginning Pachai Kandai Udayavar and his family had been claiming beneficial interest in the property and they were not holding the same as managers of the trust.
was upheld.
2 LR 27 IA 69.
3 LR 37 IA 147.
In that case the Privy Council held that the endowments of a Hindu math are not conveyed in trust nor is the head of the math a trustee with regard to them save as to specific property proved to have been vested in him for a specific object.
In fact it is substantially because of this decision that Articles 134 A 134 B and 134 C and Articles 48A and 48B came to be inserted in the First Schedule to the Limitation Act by Amending Act 1 of 1929.
Reverting then to the question as to whether a transfer effected by the manager of a temple in regard to properties belonging to the temple falls outside the purview of article 134 B if it is shown to have been made on the basis that the transferor treated the properties as his own it does appear that the two earlier Privy Council decisions in Gnanasambanda s2 and Damodar Das s3 cases lend some support to the contention.
2 LR 27 IA 69.
3 LR 37 IA 147.
127 and transferred the endowed property the sales were null and void in the absence of a custom allowing them and that the possession taken by the purchaser was adverse to the vendors and those claiming under them.
In appreciating the effect of this decision it is necessary to bear in mind that the plea of limitation with which the Privy Council was concerned in that case was based on article 124 of the Limitation Act.
It is clear that in that case what had been sold was the hereditary office as well as the properties belonging to the endowment and so it was plain that limitation began as soon as the purchaser took possession of the office under article 124.
It is open to doubt whether the said decision could lead to the inference that if a part of the property is transferred by the manager of a religious endowment on the basis that it belongs to him and not to the religious endowment the transfer is void ab initio with the result that the possession of the transferee is adverse to the religious endowment from the very beginning and the succeeding manager s right to challenge the said transfer would be lost if his predecessor who made the transfer lives for more than 12 years after effecting the transfer.
129 in violation of his duty of an interest in endowed lands which he has no authority as Shebait to make may possibly under some circumstances be good as against himself by way of estoppel but is not binding upon his successors.
However we do not think it necessary to decide this point in the present case because in our opinion the plain words of article 134 B do not permit such a plea to be raised.
Column 1 of article 134 B provides for suits brought inter alia by the manager of a Hindu religious or charitable endowment to recover possession of immovable property comprised in the endowment which has been transferred by a previous manager for a valuable consideration.
Apart from that what is in all essentials the same question was considered on several occasions by courts in India before article 134A and 134B had been added to article 134.
That Article contains the analogous phrase transferred by the trustee or mortgagee for a valuable consideration and there was a uniform current of decision to the effect that these words were incapable of applying to an execution sale.
 What was said by the Privy Council about the impropriety of including an execution sale within the meaning of article 134B can with equal justification be said about introducing words of limitation in the said article which alone can exclude transfers made by the previous manager of the Hindu religious endowment on the basis that the property transferred belonged to 1 LR 77 IA 42 at pp.
49 50.
131 him.
Mr Tatachari then contends that even on the application of article 134 B the decision of the High Court is erroneous because on the facts proved in this case the High Court should have drawn the legal inference that the transferor had been removed more than 12 years before the suit was filed.
He contends that the question as to whether on facts proved in the present case an inference can be drawn that the previous manager or trustee had been removed is a mixed question of fact and law and the High Court was in error in reversing the decisions of the courts below by holding that the title of the temple had not been lost by adverse possession before the suit was filed.
Appeal allowed.
