The above.
But we were told that in view of the decisions of this Court in State of West Bengal vs Nripendra Nath Bagchi1 and State of Assam vs Ranga Mahammad2 the High Court must be held to have that right as those posts are included in the cadre of superior judicial service.
He must depend on his department for information.
Some are good stations and some are not so good.
There is less chance of success for a person seeking advantage for himself if the Chief Justice and his colleagues with personal information deal with the matter than when a Minister deals with it on notes and information supplied by a secretary.
 Obviously relying on the observation of this Court that after a judicial officer is posted to the cadre it is for the High Court to effect his transfers the court below has come to the conclusion that as the posts of the law secretary deputy law secretary and superintendent and legal remembrancer are included in the cadre the High Court has the power to fill those posts by transfer of judicial officers.
In that cadre no officer holding any post under the government was included.
be found.
 It is not a profitable task to extract a sentence here and there from a judgment and to build upon it.
Just as the executive cannot know the requirements of a particular court the High Court also cannot know the requirements of any post in the secretariat.
It is for the executive to say whether a particular officer would meet its requirements or not.
The cadre with which we are concerned in this case consists of three parts ie 1 presiding officers of district courts 2 the Registrar of the High Court and 3 the judicial officers working in the secretariat.
No doubt all these officers belong to the judicial service of the State and they were before 1962 presiding over district courts or courts subordinate to them and as such were under the control of the High Court.
If there is no such agreement it is open to the government to send him back to his parent department at any time it pleases.
But it was beyond the powers of the High Court to post Shri KB Panda as the law secretary Shri T Misra as superintendent and legal remembrancer and Shri PK Mohanti as the deputy law secretary.
RKPS Appeals allowed in part.
