This is an appeal by the State of West Bengal from a judgment of a Full Bench of the High Court of Judicature at Calcutta quashing the conviction of the respondent by the Special Court established under sec tion 3 of the West Bengal Special Courts Ordinance 1949 Ordinance No 3 of 1949 which was replaced in March 1950 by the West Bengal Special Courts Act 1950 West Bengal Act X of 1950 hereinafter referred to as the Act.
Harries CJ who delivered the leading judgment which Das and Banerjee JJ.
concurred applied the test of what may be called reasonable classification and held that although the need for a speedier trial than what is possible under the procedure prescribed 291 by the Code of Criminal Procedure might form the basis of a reasonable classification and section 5 1 could not be regarded as discriminatory in so far as it authorises the State Government to direct that certain offences or classes of offences or classes of cases should be tried by a special court the provision was discriminatory and violative of article 14 of the Constitution in so far as it purported to vest in the State Government an absolute and arbitrary power to refer to a special court for trial any cases  which must include an individual case whether the duration of such a case is likely to be long or not .
Chakravartti and Das JJ.
Co 2.
538 558.
Rep405.
This is further made clear by defining law in article 13 which renders void any law which takes away or abridges the rights conferred by Part III as including among other things any order or notification so that even executive orders or notifica tions must not infringe article 14.
As already pointed out wide latitude must be allowed to a legislature in classifying persons and things to be brought under the operation of a special law and such classification need not be based on an exact or scientific exclusion or inclusion.
MAHAJAN J.
It must appear not only that a classification has been made but also that it is based upon some reasonable ground some difference which bears a just and proper relation to the attempted classification1.
It appears to be an accepted doctrine of American courts that the purpose of the equal protection clause is to secure every person within the States against arbitrary discrimination whether occasioned by the express terms of the statute or by their 1  331 improper application through duly constituted agents.
FN Balsara 2.
The elimination of the committal proceedings and of trial by jury sec 6 the taking away of the right to a de novo trial on transfer sec 7 the vesting of discretion in the Special Court to refuse to summon a defence witness if it be satisfied that his evidence will not be material sec.
in the Code.
It will be noticed that the sub section refers to four distinct categories namely offences  classes of of fences cases and classes of cases and empowers 339 the State government to direct any one or more of these categories to be tried by the Special Court constituted under the Act.
 In order to be a proper classification so as not to offend against the Constitution it must be based on some intelligible differentia which should have a reason able relation to the object of the Act as recited in the preamble.
It is urged by the learned AttorneyGeneral that this selection of cases must also be made in the light of the object of the Act as expressed in its preamble that is to say the State government can only select those cases which in their view require speedier trial.
CHANDRASEKHARA AIYAR J.
Distinctions have to be made for different classes and groups of persons and a rational or reasonable classification is permitted as otherwise it would be almost impossible to carry on the work of Govern ment of any State or country.
 The law on the subject has been well stated in a passage from Willis on Constitutional Law 1936 Edition at page 579 and an extract from the pronouncement this Court in what is known as the Prohibition Case The State of.
Bombay and Another vs.
The Attorney General argued that if the principle of classification has to be applied as a necessary test there is a classification in the impugned Act as it says that it is intended to provide for the speedier trial of certain offences and in the opinion of the legislature certain offences may require more expeditious trial than other offences and this was a good enough classification.
Thus we have before us an enactment which does not make any reasonable classification and which confers on the executive an uncontrolled and unguided power of discrimination.
Willis says at page 586  Is it proper classification to put in one class those who get the consent of a board or of an official and into another class those who do not where no standard is set up to control the action of the board or official  Some cases answer.
Discrimination may not appear in the statute itself but may be evident in the administration of the law.
It may be valid when given a particular application and invalid when given another.
It is no doubt true that totally different considerations might arise if specified offences or groups of offences in a particular area or arising out of a particular event or incident were to betried by a Special Court but this is not the case here.
On this point I would invite special attention to the view taken by Mr Justice Das Gupta in the following passage of his Judgment The Act lays down no principle on which selection of classes of offences or classes of cases should be made by the State Government.
But that apart.
That is not their province and though there must always be a a narrow margin within which judges who are human will always be influenced by subjective factors their training and their tradition makes the main body of their decisions speak with the same voice and reach impersonal results whatever their personal predilections or their individual backgrounds.
Without casting the slightest reflec tion on the Judges and the Courts so constituted the fact remains that when these tribunals were declared invalid and the same persons were retried in the ordinary Courts many were acquitted many who had been sentenced to death were absolved.
What I am concerned to see is not whether there is absolute equality in any academical sense of the term but whether the collective conscience of a sovereign democratic republic can regard the impugned law contrasted with the ordinary law of the land as the sort of substantially equal treatment which men of resolute minds and unbiassed views can regard as right and proper in a democracy of the kind we have proclaimed ourselves to be.
