He produced the telegram received from the Advocate before the SDM.
Hence judgment shall be given on 25 12 63.
 This order was signed by three Panchas Phagu Parsad Jagat Dubey and Badri Yadav.
 Affidavits were filed in the High Court by Baldeo Prasad pairokar of Mahabir Burma Prasad the Sarpanch and Mahabir and statements of Phagu Prasad and Bunna Prasad were recorded on oath.
 the Nyaya Panchayats proceeded with the case.
We had also told him to get the affidavit verified before some Tehsil authority.
According to him the Panchas did not tell Mahabir that his affidavit was not proper they however told him to get it verified in Tehsil and that it should be duly sealed.
passed by the High Court.
The High Court held  There was no reasonable ground for the Panchas to have doubted the averments made in the application and affidavit of Mahabir that the High Court had stayed further proceedings before the Panchayat nor is there any thing in the order sheet to show that the Panchas did not believe the contents of the application and affidavit of Mahabir.
However if they wanted to ascertain the matter they should have at best stayed the proceedings for a short while and should have asked the applicant to produce a certified copy of the stay order.
The learned counsel for the appellants Mr Chari says that no contempt of court has been established because a Court is entitled not to act on an application which is not accompanied by an affidavit properly sworn to or a certified copy of the order He urges that the Nyaya Panchayats exercised judicial powers and even if the Panchas erred in not staying proceedings before finding them guilty of contempt of court it should be definitely proved that the order was passed deliberately to by pass the order of the High Court.
This Court quoted with approval the following passage from Oswald s Contempt of Court in Hoshiar Singh vs Gurbachan.
Singh1 The judgment or order should be served on the party personally except in the following cases  1 prohibitive orders the drawing up of which is not completed .
In order to justify committal for breach of a prohibitive order it is not necessary that the order should have been served upon the party against whom it has been granted if it be proved that he had notice of the order aliunde as by telegram or newspaper report or otherwise and knew that it was intended to be enforced or if he consented to the order or if he was present in Court when the order Was pronounced or hen the motion was made although he left before the order was pronounced.
We will for the purpose of this case assume that it does not make any difference.
The question then arises whether the Sarpanch and the Pan chas had knowledge of the existence of the order of the High Court dated December 20 1963.
121 administer oaths.
It seems to us that the High Court did not appreciate that the so called affidavit which was filed before the Panchas was in fact not an affidavit at all.
It is true that in certain cases proceedings can be adjourned to enable the parties to file better proof but a judicial officer is not bound to do so and if he bona fide does not in his discretion adjourn proceedings it cannot be said that he has committed contempt of court.
It must also be borne in mind that Panchas are not well versed in law and procedure and the records maintained by them should not be judged in the same manner as that of ordinary courts.
With respect the High Court should not have drawn an adverse inference from the fact that the reasons for not accepting the prayer for stay were not recorded.
Contempt of court is a serious matter and a High Court should be chary of finding a judicial officer guilty of contempt of court for disobeying its orders unless there is unimpeachable evidence that the judicial officer had knowledge of the order of the High Court.
In our opinion there is no such evidence in this case.
The learned counsel for the State contends that we should not reappreciate the facts but with respects it seems to us that the High Court while dealing with the evidence has not kept in mind the principles which we have mentioned above.
RKPS Appeal allowed.
