Learned counsel had to admit that no specific plea was taken by the Company in this behalf and at least no evidence at all was led to show that these concerns are not comparable with the Company.
Having come to this view it is clear that to give full effect to the principle laid down by this Court the case of French Motor Car Co1 the Tribunal should have proceeded to fix the minimum wage in the Company on the basis of the average minimum wage prevailing in these concerns.
between.
It appears to us that an Industrial Tribunal has the discretion in appropriate cases of making a direction linking the dearness allowance element of a wage to the Price Index but at the same time the Tribunal is entitled to choose the alternative course of fixing the wage at the prevailing Price Index and leaving the labour to raise a fresh demand and if necessary a fresh industrial dispute for further rise in wages in case there is marked variation in the Price Index and the wage fixed in the award becomes out dated.
The idea of fixing such wage in the light of cost of living at a particular juncture of time and of neutralising the rising prices of essential commodities by linking up scales of minimum wages with the cost of living index cannot therefore be said to be alien to the concept of a minimum wage.
It appears that the Tribunal did not accept this demand primarily on the ground that the distinction between casual workers and  the permanent workers was recognised by both the parties in the agreement of 1959.
It may be noticed that by the very nature of employment being casual it can be presumed that a casual worker is on a lower footing and cannot expect the same wagesas a permanent employee.
cannot be held to be incorrect and must be upheld.
of arguments at the last stage before us learned counsel for the workmen confined his arguments to the bonus for the year 1962 63 only.
refer it.
The claim was in fact based on the circumstances that according to the workmen the bonus in their case was being calculated as equivalent to three months  basic wages while the case of some clerical staff the calculation was made on the basis of their consolidated wages consisting of basic wages and dearness allowance.
The argument is incorrect.
The claim in this respect also fails.
Since in this appeal the principal dispute related to the fixation of minimum wage of the workmen and we are allowing the appeal of the workmen in that respect we direct that the workmen will be entitled to their costs of this appeal from the Company.
