Petition under article 32 of the Constitution of India for enforcement of fundamental rights.
section V Gupte P A Choudhury and K Rajendra Chaudhuri for the petitioners.
The Judgment of the Court was delivered by Hidayatullah CJ.
The posts so rendered vacant will be filled by qualified candidates possessing domicile qualifications and in cases where such candidates are not available the posts shall be left unfilled till qualified domicile candidates become available Action on the above lines will be taken immediately.
Names of such incumbents were to be shown in a proforma and they were to be employed in the Andhra region without break in service by creating supernumerary posts if necessary.
It provided 3.
They are called the Andhra Pradesh Public Employment Requirement as to Residence Rules 1959.
4    5   .
The first clause emphasises that ware shall be in India equality of opportunity for all citizens in matters of employment or appointment to any office under the late.
The second clause then specifies a prohibition against discrimination only on the grounds of religion race sex descent place of birth residence or any of them.
This clause was amended by the Constitution Seventh Amendment Act 1956.
For the original words of the clause under any State specified in the First schedule or any local or other authority within its territory any requirement as to residence within that State  the present words from under the Government  to Union territory  have been substituted.
Nothing turns upon the amendment which seeks to apply of the exception in the clause to Union territory and to remove ambiguity in language.
The legislative power to create residential qualification for employment is thus exclusively conferred on Parliament.
any requirement as to residence within the State or Union territory prior to employment or appointment to an office in that State or Union territory.
Firstly whether Parliament  while prescribing the requirement may prescribe the requirement of residence in a particular part of the State and secondly whether Par liament can delegate this function by making a declaration and leaving the details to be filled in by the rule making power of the Central or State Governments.
It has already made a declaration that no person shall be disqualified for any office in the territory of India because of his residence in any particular part of India.
Having used the word State the unit State is only meant and not any part thereof.
On the other hand Mr Setalvad bases his argument on two things.
He contends that the power is given to Parliament to make any law and therefore Parliament is supreme and can make any law on the subject as the article says.
121 The claim for supremacy of Parliament is misconceived.
Where the Constitution does not concede supremacy Parliament must act within its appointed functions and not transgress them.
Realising however that sometimes local sentiments may have to be respected or sometimes an inroad from more advance States into less developed States may have to be prevented and a residential qualification may therefore have to be prescribed the exception in clause 3 was made.
The claim of Mr Setalvad that Parliament can make a provision regarding residence in any particular part of a State would render the general prohibition lose all its meaning.
These words bear upon the kind of residence or its duration rather than its location within the State.
We accept the argument of Mr Gupte that the Constitution as it stands speaks of a whole State as the venue for residential qualification and it is impossible to think that the Constituent Assembly was thinking of residence in Districts Taluqas cities towns or villages.
The fact that this clause is an exception and came as an amendment must dictate that a narrow construction upon the exception should be placed as indeed the debates in the Constituent Assembly also seem to indicate.
The petitions shall be allowed but there shall be no order about costs.
Y P Petitions allowed.
