Section 6 sub section.
It was said that according to the usage of the temple the trustees were elected for a period of one year each at a meeting of the members of the Sangunatha Mudaliar Community and so the appellant must be held to be a trustee within the meaning of section 69 of Act 19 of 1951.
In our opinion there is no warrant for this argument.
Ordinarily a shebaitship or the office of dharmakartha is vested in the heirs of the founder unless the founder has laid down a special scheme of succession or except when usage or custom to the contrary is proved to exist.
Mukherjea J in Angurbala Mullick vs Debabrata Mullick4 delivering the judgment of this Court observed Unless therefore the founder has disposed of the shebaitship in any particular manner and this right of disposition is inherent in the founder or except when usage or custom of a different nature is proved to exist shebaitship like any other species of heritable property follows the line of inheritance from the founder In the case of mutts whose heads are often celibates and sometimes sanyasins special rules of succession obtain by custom and usage.
In Sital Das vs Sant Ram5 the law was taken as wellsettled that succession to mahantship of a mutt or religious institution is regulated by custom or usage of the particular institution except where the rule of succession is laid down by the founder himself who created the endowment.
In that case the custom in 1 2 63 I A 448.
3 70 IA 57.
In Sri Mahant Paramanda Das Goswami vs Radhakrishna Das1 the Madras High Court took the view that where succession to the mahantship is by nomination by the holder in office it was not a hereditary succession.
Hereditary succession is succession by the heir to the deceased under the law the office must be transmitted to the successor according to some definite rules of descent which by their own force designate the person to succeed.
It is not possible to say that there is a succession of As office to another when on the efflux of the period for which A was appointed there is a vacancy and B is elected to that vacancy.
In Black s Law Dictionary the word succession  is defined as follows The revolution of title to property under the law of descent and distribution.
1 428 The right by which one set of men may by succeeding another set acquire a property in all the goods movables and other chattels of a corporation.
The fact of the transmission of the rights estate obligations and charges of a deceased person to his heir or heirs.
For these reasons we hold that this appeal fails and must be dismissed with costs.
