February 28.
In support of  the appeal it is argued by Mr Jai Gopal Sethi that the conviction of the appellant is illegal as sanction had not been obtained under section 197 1 of the Code of Criminal Procedure for his prosecution that the evidence on record is insufficient to establish an offence either under section 465 or section 409 of the Indian Penal Code and that there having been an acquittal of the appellant by the trial Magistrate the materials on record did not justify a reversal of that verdict by the appellate Court.
The view taken in H H B Gill vs The King1 was followed by the Privy Council in A16 ert West Meads vs The King  and reaffirmed in Phanindra Chandra vs 1 1948 LR 75 IA 41.
The result of the authorities may thus be summed up It is not every offence committed by a public servant that requires sanction for prosecution under section 1971 of the Code of Criminal Procedure nor even every act done by him while he is actually engaged in the performance of his official duties but if the act complained of is directly concerned with his official duties so that if questioned it could be claimed to have been done by virtue of the office then sanction would be necessary and that would be so irrespective of whether it was in fact a proper discharge of his duties because that would really be a matter of defence on the merits which would have to be in vestigated at the trial and could not arise at the stage of the grant of sanction which mut precede the institution of the prosecution.
4 1948 LR 75 IA 180 1308 ing to the office as to be inseparable from them then sanction under section 1971 would be necessary but if there was no necessary connection between them and the performance of those duties the official status furnishing only the occasion or opportunity for the acts then no sanction would be required.
Quite recently this Court had to consider in Shreekantiah Ramayya Munipalli vs The State of Bombay1 the necessity for sanction under section 1971 when the charge was one of misappropriation under section 409.
There the law was laid down in the following terms The section has content and its language must be given meaning.
Now an offence seldom consists of a single act.
Now it is evident that the entrustment andor dominion here were in an official capacity and it is equally evident that there could in this case be no disposal lawful or otherwise save by an act done or purporting to be done in an official capacity.
On the facts it was held in that case that the several acts which were complained of were official acts and that the prosecution was bad for want of sanction.
In Hori Ram Singh vs Emperor1 the medicines had not been entered in the stock book and were removed by the accused to his residence and the charge against him was that in so removing them he had committed MISappropriation.
The accused does claim to have paid the amount to Parma and the acquittance roll records the payment and there is in acknowledgment thereof a thumb impression as against his name.
Appeal allowed.
