1  2.
 352 It was then contended that the activities of the Federation carried on in the premises in question amounted to work in connection with or incidental or ancillary to trade or business in general within the latter part of the definition of commercial establishment.
It shall apply in the first instance.
 It will be seen that while the definition of establishment includes a shop  and commercial establishment the definitions of shop  and commercial establishment  are mutually exclusive.
 Mr Pai further maintains that the ratio in R K Mittal s case supra is not applicable to the instant case because the definition of  industry in section 2j of the is far wider than that of commercial establishment in section 25 of the Act.
This point will not require any additional material for its decision.
The question is only of drawing a correct inference about the point in issue from the material already on record.
We therefore overrule the preliminary objection.
Jagnmohan Reddy J speaking for the Court.
It was observed that the object of an Organisation may be charitable but nevertheless its activity may be commercial so as to satisfy the definition of an industry as explained and illustrated by this Court particularly in Safdarjang Hospital s case1 We could therefore envisage an institution having its aims and objects charitable and yet its activities could bring it within the definition of industry.
The very definition of commercial establishment indicates that the activity of a registered society charitable or other trust will not take it out of the definition if the activity carried on by it amounts to a busi 11971 1 SCR 177.
It undertakes regular publication of periodicals bulletins Reviews etc.
We therefore do not think that R K Mittal s case supra was incorrectly decided and needs reconsideration.
In the matter.
It was condended that the activity of the Association was not a business or trade because by the Memorandum of Associ 1 357 ation all the property and income of the association were applicable solely to the promotion of the above objects and no part thereof could be paid as dividend or otherwise to any member.
It will bear repetition that the Federation also publishes periodicals bulletins etc.
and issues the same to member free of this Court in R K Mittal s case supra we would hold that the commercial or industrial exhibitions runs museums and makes profits.
But that does not alter the fact that its activity is a trading or business activity.
VPS Appeal allowed.
