630 631 of 1971.
The Judgment of the Court was delivered by BEG J.
The short question before us in these appeals by special leave is whether sales of Arc carbons known as Cinema Arc Carbons manufactured by the appellant company were rightly subjected to sales tax for two assessment years 1965 66 and 1966 77 on the ground that they fall under entry No 4 of the 1st Schedule of the Andhra Pradesh General Sales Tax Act 1957 hereinafter referred to as the Act .
Nevertheless it appears that the entry under consideration links the taxable object with its general or ordinary use.
They had concluded that the common or ordinary use of the arc carbons was that they exuded their power foul light cast through the projectors on cinema screens.
It however appears that before further evidence could be taken at the appellate stage on the subject a decision of the Andhra Pradesh High Court in the State of Andhra Pradesh vs Srimathi Nidmarthi Saraswathi Devi1 was brought to the notice of the Tribunal.
Hence the Tribunal dismissed the appeal without taking further evidence.
In the High Court two decisions cited on behalf of the appellants were Deputy Commissioner of Commercial Taxes Madhurai Division Madhurai vs Ravi Auto Stores2 and State of Madras vs Indian oxygen Ltd 3.
The High Court pointed out that in both these cases what was decided was whether welding electrodes considered by themselves were electrical goods falling within entry 41 of Schedule 1 of the Madras General Sales Tax Act.
It was held in these cases that they were only copper rods which were melted by electrical power in the process of welding.
Neither the use of the term electrode to describe them suggesting a connection with electricity nor their utilisation in a process involving application of electrical power could convert them into electrical goods as contemplated by the entry in the Madras Act.
The High Court rightly observed that these decisions had no bearing whatsoever upon the very different entry in a schedule of an entirely different Act of a different State.
The same question has been argued before us with the help of some more cases to which the same criticism applies.
The meaning of this entry can only be satisfactorily determined in the light of the language of the entry itself considered in the context in which it occurs.
The entry No 4 occurs in a schedule in which descriptions of goods to be taxed indicate that the expression required for use there with has been employed for equipment or accessories connected with the main purpose.
For instance in entry No 5 the expression occurs at the end as follows Photographic and other cameras and enlargers films and plates paper and cloth and other parts and accessories required for use therewith.
Apparently the deciding factor is the predominant or ordinary purpose or use.
It is not enough to show that the article can be put to other uses also.
It is its general or predominant user which seems to determine the category in which an article will fall.
The first entry in the schedule relates to motor vehicles and includes component parts of motor vehicles and articles including batteries adapted for use as parts and accessories of motor vehicles but excludes certain other articles by putting in the words not being such articles as are ordinarily also used for other purposes than as 1 1965 16 STC 860.
3 1970 26 STC 428.
4 1971 27 STC 45.
564 part and accessories of motor vehicles.
Entry No 2 relating to refrigerators air conditioning plants covers also component parts thereof.
The words parts thereof are used in several entries such as entry No 6 for clocks time pieces and watches entry No 10 for dictaphones and other similar apparatus for recording sound and entry No 11 for sound transmitting equipment such as telephones and loud speakers.
our object in indicating the nature of entries amdist which entry No 4 occurs is to show that some precision has been attempted in making the entries.
When it was intended to confine the entry to particular gadgets and parts thereof the entry said so.
We have to find the intention of the framers of the schedule in making the entry in each case.
The best guide to their intentions is the language actually employed by them.
We find that the term accessories is used in the schedule to describe goods which may have been manufactured for use as an aid or addition.
A sense in which the word accessory is used is given in Webster s Third New International Dictionary as follows all objects or device that is not essential in itself but that adds to the beauty convenience or effectiveness of something else.
Other meanings given there are supplementary or secondary to something of greater or primary importance additional any of several mechanical devices that assist in operating or controlling the tone resources of an organ Accessories are not necessarily confined to particular machines for which they may serve as aids.
The same item may be an accessory of more than one kind of instrument.
It will be noticed that the entry we have to interpret includes parts as well as accessories which are required for use in projectors or other cinematographic equipment.
We think that the Andhra Pradesh High Court correctly held that the main use of the arc carbons under consideration was duly proved to be that of production of powerful light used in projectors in cinemas.
The fact that they can also be used for search lights signalling stage lighting or where powerful lighting for photography or other purposes may be required could not detract from the classification to which the carbon arcs belong.
That is determined by their ordinary or commonly known purpose or user.
This as already observed by us is evident from the fact that they are known as cinema arc carbons in the market.
This finding was enough in our opinion to justify the view taken by the Andhra Pradesh High Court that the goods under consideration are covered by the relevant entry No 4.
Consequently we dismiss these appeals with costs.
VPS Appeals dismissed.
