The Judgment of the Court was delivered by GOSWAMI J.
Then came Prahladbuwa.
This is a document which was relied upon both by the District Judge as well as by the High Court.
You are free to give and take as per the Shishya sampradaya as has been done previously.
It is clear that the beneficiaries of the deeds are the deity and the Sansthan and the gifts were made with the object of maintenance of the worship of the deity for the benefit of the Hindu public as a whole.
vs Sm.
Distinguishing the decision of the Privy Council in Bahu Bhagwan Din vs Gir Har Saroon on the ground that the properties in that case were granted not in favour of an idol or temple but in favour of one Daryao Gir who was maintaining a temple and to his heirs in perpetuity this Court further held in the above decision But in the present case the endowment was in favour of the idol itself and the point for decision is whether it 527 was private or public endowment.
Your bhauband and others have no right whatsoever over the same.
You are free to give and take as per the Shishya sampradaya as has been done previously.
You should make arrangement to accept service from them as being done accordingly and go on rendering service and performing Bhajan etc.
faithfully as mentioned herein as per the Vaishnava sampradaya as being done from before.
This property goes from Guru to his Shishya.
During the fair his Shishyas perform the Bhajans.
Maharaj also attends other fairs at Nasik etc.
In the utsava at Amalner many saints of other places Shishyas and followers take part.
All their expenses of boarding and lodging are met by this Sansthan.
The Bhajans at Pandharpur performed by Maharaj are attended by the public.
Even in acknowledged public temples any and everybody cannot perform puja in the sense in which the head pujari daily performs 530 at various stages.
When the origin of an endowment is obscure and no direct oral evidence is available the Court will have to resolve the controversy about the character of the trust on documentary evidence if any the object and purpose for which the trust was created the consistent manner in which the property has been dealt with or managed by those in charge the manner in which the property has long been used by the public the contribution of the public to all intents and purposes as a matter of right without the least interference or restriction from the temple authorities to foster maintenance of the worship the accretion to the trust property by way of grants from the state of gifts from outsiders inconsistent with the private nature of the trust the nature of devolution of the property are all important elements in determination of the question whether a property is a private or a public religious endowment.
4 More than a century ago the temple in its own name was recipient of land by Royal grant and the same has been managed by the saints in succession as Manager not as personal or private property.
6 Collection of subscriptions were made from house to house by taking Maharaj and also for Gulal  ceremony.
