Chandrawati.
have no relevance or relation to the functioning of the learned Judge of the High Court.
The deponent respectfully submits that the communication does not bear out any foundation for an action for criminal contempt.
The Full Bench thereafter referred to paragraph 9 of the affidavit where the deponents said that if in view of this Hon ble Court the action of the deponent in addressing the letter in question constituted for any reason contempt of court no one would be more sorry than the deponent himself.
Therefore the deponent tender his apology to this Hon ble Court for the same and prays for its acceptance.
The elementary basis of acceptance of apology is that there is to be a finding of committal of contempt.
The condition is that if there is contempt the deponents tender apology.
It is indeed curious 246 that the High Court in the notice referred to the letter of the appellant and said on a perusal of the contents thereof a prima facie case contempt is made out.
It is necessary to state here that if any Judge address es on political problems or controversies the Judge exposes himself to discussion by public.
However if the speech of any Judge is criticised and if it becomes a disputed question of fact as to whether any Judge did speak or not as is alleged by the writer the matter would have to be ascertained by the court on facts whether the Judge concerned did speak on the matters ascribed to him before the court would take any action against the persons who would criticise the Judge s speech.
To say that will not by itself be a contempt.
All we need say is that it will not be correct and proper for any Judge to accept the invitation and hospitality of any busi ness or commercial organisation or of any political party or of any club or organisation run on sectarian communal or parochial lines.
Invitations by the Bar Associ ation or social invitations naturally Stand on a different footing and no one will find an exception to any Judge attending a social function.
In view of the fact that the High Court proceeded on the basis that the allegations in the letter were unchallenged we are of opinion that the matters did not constitute any contempt.
The High.
MR Appeals allowed.
