Under Article 32 of the Constitution of India for a Writ in the nature of Habeas Corpus.
DAS ACTG.
The said Govindji Deoji Halai hereinafter referred to as the assessee is the sole proprietor of a business carried on under the name and style of Indestro Sales and Service Co at No 50 52 Lohar Chawl Street in the City of Bombay.
The sale proceeds not being sufficient to satisfy the assessed tax the Additional Collector on the 7th June 1955 issued a notice under section 13 of the Bombay City Land Revenue Act 1876 requiring the assessee to appear before him in person on the 16th June 1955 and show cause why he the assessee should not be apprehended and confined to civil jail in satisfaction of the said certified demand.
No application was made to the High Court for leave to appeal to this Court from the decision of that High Court but on the 2nd September 1955 the present petition was filed in this Court under article 32 of the Constitution for the relief hereinbefore mentioned.
The principal contentions urged by the learned Advocate appearing for the petitioner are as follows namely a that section 462 of the Indian Income tax Act under which the Income tax Officer issued the recovery certificate to the Additional Collector of Bombay is void under article 131 of the Constitution in that the same offends article 221 and 2 article 21 and article 14 of the Constitution b that section 13 of the Bombay City Land Revenue Act 1876 under which the warrant of arrest was issued by the Additional Collector is void under article 13 1 of the Constitution as the same is repugnant to article 14 of the Constitution.
It is pointed out that the first part of section 462 provides that the Collector on receipt of a certificate from the Income tax Officer shall proceed to recover from the defaulting assessee the amount specified therein as if it were an arrear of land revenue.
All that the sub section directs the Collector to do is to proceed to recover the certified amount as if it were an arrear of land revenue that is to say he is to adopt the procedure prescribed by the appropriate law of his State for the recovery of land revenue and that in thus proceeding he is under the proviso to have all the powers a Civil Court has under the Code.
2  899 that article 14 condemns discrimination not only by a substantive law but also by a law of procedure.
Each State in its wisdom has devised a machinery which it has considered appropriate and suitable for the recovery of its own public demand.
Their needs as understood by their own Legislature are different from those of the people of other States.
The grouping of the income tax defaulters into separate categories or classes Statewise is certainly a territorial classification which is based on an intelligible differentia and the subjection for the purposes of the recovery of the certified demand of each of such classes of defaulters to the same coercive process devised by their own State on a consideration of local needs for the recovery of their own public demands cannot be regarded as bereft of a reasonable nexus or correlation between the basis of classification and the object sought to be achieved by the Indian Income tax Act any more than it can be so regarded with respect to the respective State laws.
The Indian Income tax Act classifies people into various groups for the purpose of imposing the tax and taxes them differently eg insurance companies which are taxed differently from an ordinary business concern and in some cases exempts them altogether eg agriculturists and persons with income below a certain level.
There can on the same principle be no objection to people of a backward area who may be in need of aid in the shape of tax remission to be exempted from taxation either wholly or in part.
If this is right when a question of imposition is concerned it cannot be wrong when the matter is one of recovery.
The same or similar considerations apply to both cases.
Adoption of an existing machinery devised for a particular purpose cannot if there be no vice of unconstitutionality in the machinery render it unconstitutional if it is made to subserve a purpose closely akin or similar to the purpose for which it bad been devised.
As already stated in the State of Bombay there are two 903 statutes regulating the procedure for the recovery of arrears of land revenue according as the defaulter resides in the City of Bombay or in any other area within the State of Bombay.
A cursory perusal of the two sections will show at once that the procedure prescribed by section 13 of the Bombay City Land Revenue Act 1876 for the recovery of arrears of land revenue was harsher and more drastic than the procedure laid down in section 157 of the Bombay Land Revenue Code 1879 in that a defaulter residing in the City of Bombay could be kept in detention for a day for every rupee of the arrears which might considerably exceed the maximum period of six months which is the period 904 limited by the Code of Civil Procedure for the detention of a judgment debtor in civil jail.
In the view we have taken it is not necessary to express any opinion whether the discrimination brought about by the two sections was supportable on the ground of a reasonable classification based on territorial considerations so as not to offend the constitutional inhibition.
The result therefore.
