About three months before the occurrence the deceased gave birth to a female child in the house of the accused at Cherlopalle.
On 18th December 1972 according to the case of the prosecution the accused once again requested his mother in law to send his wife to his house.
This time he also brought with him PW 8 an elderly gentleman from his village.
The stab injury had gone through the third intercostal space and through the upper lobe of the left lung in an upward and medial direction.
They insulted him.
In this appeal the learned Counsel for the appellant argued that the accused had no motive to kill his wife and that his version was more probable than the version of the prosecution.
The High Court was well justified in commenting that the discrepancies on the basis of which the Trial Court rejected the evidence of P Ws 1 2 and 3 were of a minor character and that they have been unduly magnified by the learned Sessions Judge.
below the arm pit on the left side.
According to the accused the deceased received the injury when she placed herself between P W 1 and himself.
He probably attributed the refusal to reluctance on the part of his wife to accompany him straightaway.
We may also refer here to the comment of the learned Counsel for the appellant that realizing that the motive would assume considerable importance if the case was one based on circumstantial evidence the prosecution tried to make P W 3 depose as if she had witnessed occurrence.
We do not think that the comment is justified.
PW 3 an old woman of 69 years stated in her evidence that she saw the accused who was sitting by the side of the deceased on the cot make a gesture as if he was stabbing the deceased and that the deceased cried out Amma  In cross examination she stated that she did not remember if she had told the Police that the accused made a gesture as if he was stabbing the deceased.
The learned Counsel for the appellant advanced the usual argument submitted in all cases where an order of acquittal is reversed namely that where two views of the evidence are possible the accused is entitled to the benefit of the doubt arising from the two views and that where the Trial Court has taken a possible view and acquitted the accused the High Court should not interfere with the order of acquittal merely because another view is also possible.
At one time it was thou ht that an order of acquittal could be set aside for substantial and compelling reasons only and Courts used to launch on a search to discover those substantial and compelling reasons.
After Sanwat Singh vs State of Rajasthan this Court has consistently recognised the right of the Appellate Court to review the entire evidence and to come to its own conclusion bearing in mind the considerations mentioned by the Privy Council in Sheo Swarup s case.
Occasionally phrases like manifestly illegal  grossly unjust  have been used to describe the orders of acquittal which warrant interference.
In some cases Ramabhupala Reddy  Ors.
This of course is not a new principle.
If two reasonably probable and evenly balanced views of the evidence are possible one must necessarily concede the existence of a reasonable doubt.
But fanciful and remote possibilities must be left out of account.
If the preponderance of probability is all one way a bare possibility of another view will not entitle the accused to claim the benefit of any doubt.
It is therefore essential that any view of the evidence in favour of the accused must be reasonable even as any doubt the benefit of which an accused person may claim must be reasonable A reasonable doubt it has been remarked does not mean some light airy insubstantial doubt that may flit through the minds of any of us about almost anything at some time or other it does not mean a doubt begotten by sympathy out of reluctance to convict it means a real doubt a doubt founded upon reason4.
As observed by Lord Denning in Miller vs Minister of pensions5 Proof beyond a reasonable doubt does not mean proof beyond a shadow of a doubt.
3 Al.
In Khem Karan  Ors.
vs State of UP  Anr1.
