Appeal by special leave from the judgment and order dated the 9th August 1955 of the Bombay High Court in Criminal Application No 726 of 1955.
April 24.
It appears that he was also interested in journalism and in public affairs.
On his own showing he was concerned over the political future of Goa and was opposed to any attempts at intimidation of Indian residents of Goan origin by other political groups and has freely expressed these views in his journalistic articles.
O R D E R.
Political and Services Department.
1The order of detention was mala fide.
It is strongly urged that the order of detention was made without any real application of mind by the detaining authority that the authority acted merely at the instance of the police who were in league with the Goan Action Committee and that the police procured the detention 387 order for the purpose of suppressing the freedom of the appellant to ventilate his point of view on the Goan politics and to take up professionally the cause of persons in the position of Carlos.
They are to be found from the relevant communication to the detenue which is as follows In pursuance of section 7 of the Act IV of 1950 you are hereby informed that the grounds on which a detention order has been made against you by the Government of Bombay under sub clause 1 of clause a of subsection 1 of section 3 of the said Act are that With the financial help given by the Portuguese authorities you are carrying on espionage on behalf of the Portuguese Government with the help of underground workers.
These activities which are being carried on by you with the object of causing further deterioration in the relations between the Portuguese Government and the Indian Government over the question of Goan National Movement are prejudicial to the security of India and to the relations of India with Portugal.
3You are also informed that you have a right to claim a personal hearing before the Advisory Board and that you should communicate to Government of Bombay as soon as possible your intention of exercising or not exercising that right.
51 390 to notice that the appellant himself does not appear to have felt that the grounds furnished were so vague as to hamper him in his right to make a representation under article 225 and section 7 of the Act.
Such a right to call for particulars has been recognised in the case in the State of Bombay vs Atma Ram Sridhar Vaidya1 as flowing from his constitutional right to be afforded a reasonable opportunity to make a representation to the Board.
The fact that be bad made no such application for particulars is therefore a circumstance which may well be taken into consideration in deciding whether the grounds can be considered to be vague.
Assuming however that the grounds furnished in this case are open to the challenge of vagueness the further question which arises is whether the validity of the order of detention can be sustained by reason of the claim in public interest of non disclosure of facts made by the Under Secretary to the Government of Bombay by means of his affidavit filed in the High Court.
But the right of the detenue to be furnished particulars is subject to the limitation under article 226 whereby disclosure of facts considered to be against public interest cannot be required.
The meaning is clear that at no time it was in public interest to disclose the details referred to in the particular paragraph of the affidavit and there is nothing to suggest that this question was not considered by the detaining authority at the time when the grounds were furnished.
