It says that the Corporation shall impose a tax payable by the owners of buildings or lands situated within the city with reference to the gross annual letting value of the building or land called the property tax.
Rs 6000.
The property tax is imposed by respondent 1 under section 127A of the Municipalities Act and section 135 of the Municipal Corporation Act.
Section 1321a refers to property tax.
It is not possible to accept this submission because sections 127A and 135 of the two Acts in question leave no such choice open to the taxing authority.
The obligation which the statute places upon it is to impose tax on lands where there are lands only and they can be taxed on buildings where buildings alone can be brought to tax and on both lands and buildings where lands are built upon and both can be brought to tax.
This is not as said by the Attorney General rationalising the taxing power.
The short answer to this contention is that even though the entire share capital of the appellant companies has been subscribed by the Government of India it cannot be predicated that the companies themselves are owned by the Government of India.
 In Heavy Engineering Mazdoor Union vs The State of Bihar  Ors the Heavy Engineering Corporation Limited was incorporated under the and its entire share capital was contributed by the Central Government.
On the question as to whether the Corporation carried on an industry under the authority of the Central Government within the meaning of section 2a of the  it was held by this Court that an incorporated company has a separate existence and the law recognises it as a juristic person separate and distinct from its members.
puts the matter beyond all doubt.
In Pennington s Company Law 4th Edition pages 50 51 it is stated that there are only two decided cases where the court has disregarded the separate legal entity of a company and that was done because the company was formed or used to facilitate the evasion of legal obligations.
No documents seem to have been filed before it to bear out facts which are sought to be placed before us nor indeed have we evidence before us to show that the lands belong to the State Government.
It is true that on account of the declaration contained in section 2 of the Mines and Minerals Development and Regulation Act 1957 the legislative field covered by Entry 23 of List II will pass on to Parliament by virtue of Entry 54 List I.
one of which is to provide for the development and administration of Special Areas through Special Area Development Authorities Section 64 of the Act of 1973 which provides for the constitution of the special areas lays down by sub section 4 that Notwithstanding anything contained in the Madhya Pradesh Municipal Corporation Act 1956 the Madhya Pradesh Municipalities Act 1961 or the Madhya Pradesh Panchayats Act 1962 the Municipal Corporation Municipal Council Notified Area Committee or a Panchayat as the case may be shall in relation to the special area and as from the date the Special Area Development Authority undertakes the functions under clause v or clause vi of section 68 cease to exercise the powers and perform the function and duties which the Special Area Development Authority is competent to exercise and perform under the Act of 1973.
Those authorities have the power to levy that tax in order effectively to discharge the municipal functions which are passed on to them.
Entry 54 of List I does not contemplate the taking over of municipal functions.
The power conferred by the State Legislature on Special Area Development Authorities to impose the property tax on lands and buildings is therefore not in conflict with the power conferred by the Coal Mines Nationalisation Act on the Union Government to regulate and develop the Coal mines so as to ensure rational and scientific utilisation of coal resources.
That the declaration in section 2 of the does not result in invalidation of every State legislation relating to mines and minerals is demonstrated effectively by the decision in State of Haryana  Anr.
Justice Pathak and Justice Koshal who gave a separate judgment concurring with the conclusion of the majority preferred to rest their decision on the circumstance that the impugned legislation fell within Entry 42 List III Acquisition and requisition of property  and was therefore within the competence of the State Legislature.
