Reasons will follow.
Krishan Kumar addressed a letter to the District Magistrate Jammu requesting that the renewal of the licence may be granted in the name of the premises of Apsara Theatre The District Magistrate rejected the said request by a detailed order dated April 21 1979.
These contentions were repelled by the District Magistrate who held that the renewal of the licence could not be made in the name of any party other than the original licensee namely Shri Ved Gupta who had been declared to be the sole licensee in respect of the Apsara Theatre by the proceedings of his predecessor dated December 29 1977 which was confirmed in appeal by the State Government and which had acquired finality between the parties by reason of the dismissal of the writ petition and the Special Leave Petition by the High Court and Supreme Court respectively.
In being served with the order of injunction Ved Gupta wrote to the District Magistrate on September 24 1980 that it had become impossible for him to operate the Cinema licence in view of the temporary injunction issued by the District Court and since it is only the licensee who is held responsible under the Act and the Rules for due compliance with all the terms and conditions of the licence and answerable to the licensing authority for all commissions and omissions in the Cinema premises he may be saved from any prosecution or other action under law in the capacity of licensee of the Apsara Theatre in respect of any illegal acts or offences committed by others in the said premises.
Aggrieved by the decision of the High Court Ved Gupta has filed these appeals after obtaining special leave from this Court.
Although we entertain very serious doubts about the correctness of the view taken by the Division Bench of the High Court regarding the applicability of Rule 23 3 to the instant case we do not feel called upon to examine the said question in depth or to pronounce upon it in this case in view of the conclusion arrived at by us on the merits of the case that the conclusions recorded by the Acting Chief Justice on the points that arose for decision in the Letters Patent Appeal cannot be legally sustained and that there was no justification for interference by the Division Bench with the judgment of the learned Single Judge dismissing the writ petition.
That writ petition was dismissed by the High Court on May 9 1978 SLP Civil No 3490 of 1978 filed by Todar Mal against the High Court s order dismissing his writ petition was rejected by this Court on November 13 1978.
No steps were taken by Krishan Kumar to challenge the said order passed by the District Magistrate.
Such being the case we are unable to appreciate why the learned Acting Chief Justice has devoted a considerable part of his judgment to a discussion of the aforesaid question as to whether the licence belonged to Ved Gupta alone or whether it was the property of the firm.
In proceedings to which the licensing authority was a party the High Court as well as this Court had upheld its order holding Ved Gupta to be the sole licensee rejecting the case put forward on behalf of the firm and the firm and its partners are bound by the said decision.
It is sufficient to state that these reasons do not appeal to us as correct or tenable.
We are also unable to accept as correct the view expressed by the learned Acting Chief Justice that under the Act the licence is granted for premises permanently equipped for cinematograph exhibition in the name of the owner Manager of the Cinematographs used in the premises and hence it necessarily follows that where the licensed premises including the cinematograph used therein belongs to a partnership and one of the partners obtains a licence in his separate name the other partners automatically acquire interests in the licence and that the privilege granted by the licensing authority must necessarily follow the title in such building and the cinematograph.
It is therefore not possible to uphold the view expressed in the impugned judgment that the effect of the licence is that it renders privileged the building and the cinematograph used therein and that the privilege must necessarily follow the title in such building and the cinematograph.
In other words a licence is liable to be revoked not merely when the licensee is convicted of an offence under Section 6 or Section 6 E of the Act but also in the event of conviction of such offence of any person belonging to the class of persons other 590 than the licensee enumerated therein.
The next ground stated in the impugned judgment for quashing the order passed by the District Magistrate is that the said order was violative of the principles of natural justice in as much as no notice or hearing had been given to the partnership firm before the order was passed.
There was thus a clear 591 prohibition against the licensee from transferring assigning subletting or otherwise transferring the licence without the permission of the licensing authority and also against his allowing any other person to exhibit films in the licensed place without obtaining such permission.
What was done by the District Magistrate was only to suspend the exhibition of cinematograph films in Apsara Theatre by persons who are not licensees and who had no authority in law to conduct such exhibition of films.
There was no suspension of the licence issued to Ved Gupta in respect of the Theatre.
If Ved Gupta the licensee bad been expelled from the partnership the proper course to be adopted by the firm and its partners was to move the authorities for the grant of a licence and to run the Theatre only after obtaining such licence.
So long as they did not have a licence we have already found that the licence had been granted to Ved Gupta only in his individual and personal capacity and not as a representative of the firm the firm and the partners had no legal right whatever to operate the cinema.
Any such operation by them would have been in clear and gross contravention of the law embodied if the relevant provisions of the Act and the Rules.
The principles of natural justice are not attracted to such a situation and there was no obligation on the part of the District Magistrate to give a notice or hearing to the firm or its partners before he passed the impugned order.
The writ petitioners could not also have any legitimate expectation that they will be allowed to run the Theatre without a licence in violation of the law.
Proceeding on that premise the learned Acting Chief Justice has said that under the provisions of the Act the power to suspend a licence is conferred only by Section 6 F of the Act as one implicit in the larger power of revocation and unless the conditions precedent mentioned in the said Section are present the licensing authority had no jurisdiction to suspend the licence.
The impugned order is one obviously passed by the District Magistrate in the exercise of his function of administering the provision of the Act and the Rules and the aforesaid implied power to take all incidental steps necessary for effective enforcement of the statute.
We fail to see how it can be said on the facts and circumstances of the case that the District Magistrate had no jurisdiction to pass the impugned order.
HLC Appeal allowed.
