GN Rao for the State.
Clause 101 of the Ordinance prescribes that every Government employee not being a workman and not belonging to Last Grade Service shall retire from service on the afternoon of the last day of the month in which he attains the are of 55 years.
Clause 16 of the Ordinance provides that no amendment to the Fundamental Rules shall be deemed to be invalid merely by reason of the fact that the proviso to rule 2 of the Fundamental Rules laid down that the said rules shall not be modified or replaced to the disadvantage of any person already in service.
The challenge of Shri Siddhartha Shankar Ray is based on the ground of a total non application of mind.
We will presently set out the specific contentions advanced before us but before doing so.
The various Pay Commissions have expressed the view that persons who are required to retire at 593 an early age are compelled by necessity to seek other employments.
In this connection the first ground of challenge to the reduction of the age of retirement is that the One man Pay Revision Commission appointed by the Government of Andhra Pradesh had recommended that the age of retirement should be increased from 55 to 58 that the said recommendation was accepted by the State Government and consequently the age of retirement was raised to 58 with effect from October 29 l 979.
Clause 101 of the Ordinance prescribes that every Government employee not being a workman and not belonging to Last Grade Service shall retire from service on the afternoon of the last day of the month in which he attains the are of 55 years.
A review of retirement benefits would undoubtedly cover the examination of the rules or schemes relating to pension provident fund gratuity encasement of leave etc but it cannot include the power to examine the question as regards the fixation of the age of retirement.
The reasonableness of a decision in any jurisdiction does not depend upon the time which it takes.
It is untenable to contend that a law is bad because it is passed immediately on the assumption of office by a new Government.
The argument could still be made that improvement in the expectation of life requires that the age of retirement should be fixed at 60 or 62 or even at 65.
Both can fall within the constraints of the Constitution and neither the one nor the other can be considered to be arbitrary or unreasonable.
Prior to 1917 the superannuation rule applicable to both ministerial and non ministerial staff was that a Government servant who had attained the age of 55 might be required to retire but that in order to avod depriving the State of the valuable experience of efficient officers and adding unnecessarily to the non effective charges the rule should be applied with discretion and whenever it was applied reasons should be recorded.
This was considered injurious to the efficiency of the public service on the ground that most officers lost their keenness and initiative at the age of 55.
A distinction was however made between ministerial and non ministerial officers presumbly because it was thought that the duties of the former did not suffer from the effects of advancing age as did those of the others and it was decided in effect that subject to continued efficiency ministerial officers should be retained in service till they attained the age of 60.
This distinction was however abolished in 1937 38 partly as a measure of relieving unemployment which was acute at that time but largely in recognition of the invalidity of the distinction and on the consideration that the uncertainty which attended the service of senior men beyond 55 had a disturbing effect on those who were looking forward to succeeding them.
Paragraph 5 of the Commission s Report mentions that the Varadachariar Commission had recommended earlier that the age for compulsory retirement should be 58 years for all services pensionable and non pensionable with an option to the Government to retire an employee on the ground of loss of efficiency at the age of 55.
That recommendation involved reduction of the age of superannuation in the case of Class IV servants and in the case of industrial and workcharged staff outside the Railways as well as raising the age for others.
Paragraph 6 of the Commission s Report shows that the question was reconsidered in 1963 when the only additional argument advanced against an upward change its adverse effect on educated 599 unemployment.
It was recognized that its actual effect would A be small but importance was attached to its probable impact on public opinion.
The earlier decision to maintain the age of retirement at 55 was re affirmed but in view of the widespread shortage of trained personnel it was decided that extension of service beyond that age might be given liberally on the ground of public interest more specially in the case of scientific and technical personnel.
thus notwithstanding the recommendation of the Varadachariar Commission the age of superannuation laid down for the non ministerial staff more than 40 years earlier and for ministerial staff more than 20 years earlier continued to be in force when the Second Central Pay Commission took up that question for examination.
There was an extraordinary unanimity of opinion amongst Heads of Departments distinguished retired public servants public men and economists who gave evidence before the Commission that the age of superannuation should be raised the only difference being as to whether it should be raised to 58 or 60 years.
The Commission found that there was an overall improvement in public health as shown by the decline in death rate and the increase in expectancy of life at birth.
The data supplied to the Commission by the Comptroller and Audi 600 tor General showed that at least in the case of Gazetted and Class 111 employees there was a significant increase in the percentage of persons who lived for two years or more after superannuation.
 The Commission then adverted to the prevailing ages of retirement in foreign countries and reiterated that whether we go by our own vital statistics or by the age of retirement prevalent in other countries there was a clear case for raising the age of superannuation substantially above 55 years.
In paragraph 15 of the Report the Commission considered the effect of increasing the age of retirement on the employment situation and concluded that the likely repercussion of increasing the age of retirement on educated unemployment would not be substantial.
After talking into account all the relevant considerations including the fact that most Government servants themselves do not wish to continue in service until they are worn out and have one foot in the grave the Commission summed up its findings by saying that there was much in favour of and very little against raising the age of superannuation.
The Commission recommended that the age of superannuation should be 58 for all classes of public servants including those for whom the retirement age then was 60.
The recommendation of the Second Central Pay Commission that the age of retirement should be raised from 55 to 58 years was not accepted by the Government initially because it felt that raising the age of retirement would reduce employment opportunities in the immediate future.
However.
The Third Central Pay Commission 1973 dealt with the question of age of superannuation in Chapter 60 of its Report.
Paragraph 601 3 of that Chapter shows that whereas some Service Associations Demanded that the age of superannuation should be increased to 60 years on account of increased longevity and on account of the fact that a large number of Government employees were not free from family responsibilities until much later in life because of late marriages some of the Associations suggested that the age of retirement should be reduced again to 55 years mainly with a view to improving the promotional prospects and providing increased employment opportunities to the educated unemployed in the country.
The age of retirement is 70 years in Brazil and Peru 65 years in Chile 63 years in Philippines and 64 years in Lebanon.
Our attention was also drawn to the views expressed on Employment Policy in the Sixth Five Year Plan 1980 85.
It is observed therein that lasting solutions to unemployment problems had to be found within the framework of a rapid and employment oriented economic growth that suitable measures had to be evolved in the short term in a co ordinated way particularly for the benefit of the weaker sections and that since the dimension and gravity of educated unemployment vary from State to State a decentralised approach should be adopted on the district employment plan.
According to the Sixth Five Year Plan unemployment would not be eliminated within the Sixth Plan unless efforts were immediately made to make the current unemployed more employable through short term training and vocational programmes and unless special employment programmes are directed towards their absorption.
Soon after the assumption of office the Government of Andhra Pradesh presented a White Paper to the State Legislative Assembly in March 1983 on the question of reduction in the age of superannuation from 58 years to 55 years in respect of Government employees employees of Panchayat Raj Institutions Local Bodies and aided Educational Institutions for whom the pensionary liability is borne by Government.
By a notification dated September 17 199 the recommendations of the Commission B in regard to the revision of pay scales were accepted by the Government but not so the recommendation regarding increasing the age of retirement from 55 to 58 years.
Consequently the resultant vacancies at the direct recruitment level which would have arisen in the chain of appointments that would follow each retirement were also blocked for 3 years continuously thereby denying the promotion opportunities to inservice personnel and employment opportunities for the unemployed causing a great deal of frustration all round.
It is estimated that on an average there would be approximately 6500 retirements each year from Government departments Panchayat Raj Institutions and also Aided Institutions where pensionary liability is borne by Government.
Besides experienced deserving inservice personnel whose legitimate aspirations for promotion were thwarted could also now look for this much awaited promotion.
Government were thus able to create promotional avenues to serving employees at various levels and create opportunities for appointment against about 18000 posts in Government Panchayat Raj and aided educational institutions alone not to speak of the opportunities that were created in the various Corporations etc owned or controlled by Government.
 604 The White Paper explains that in order to ensure that the employees who had retired by the end of February 1983 should get their pensionary benefits without delay the Government had constituted a special Pension cell in the Finance Department by a notification dated February 16 1983.
The function of that cell is to monitor the progress of settlement of pension eases In addition it is said the Government had issued instructions by a notification dated February 14 1983 for payment of anticipatory pension at 3110th of the last pay drawn in all cases wherein the sanction of pension was delayed.
There are precedents within our country itself for fixing the retirements age at 55 or for reducing it from 58 to 55.
Either the one or the other of these two stages is regarded generally as acceptable depending upon the employment policy of the Government of the day.
It is not possible to lay down an inflexible rule that 58 years is a reasonable age for retirement and 55 is not.
If the policy adopted for the time being by the Government or the Legislature is shown to violate recognised norms of employment planning it would be possible to say that the policy is irrational since in that event it would not bear reasonable nexus with the object which it seeks to achieve.
But such is not the case here.
Since the impugned policy is actuated and influenced predominatly by that consideration it cannot be struck down as arbitrary or irrational.
The fixation of age of retirement has minute and multifarious dimensions which shape the lives of citizens.
Therefore it is vital from the point of view of their well being that the question should be considered with the greatest objectivity and decided upon the basis of empirical data furnished by scientific investigation.
What is vital for the welfare of the citizens is of necessity vital for the survival of the State.
Care must also be taken to ensure that the statistics are not perverted to serve a malevolent purpose 605 Shri VM Tarkunde who appears for some of the petitioners A limited his argument to the contention that arbitrary fixation of retirement age amounts to removal from service and is therefore violative of Article 311 2 of the Constitution This argument has to be rejected because of our conclusion that the reduction of the age of retirement from 58 to 55 in the instant case is not hit by Article 14 or Article 16 since it is not arbitrary or unreasonable in the circumstances of the case.
It is well settled that Article 311 2 is attracted only when a civil servant is reduced in rank dismissed or removed from service by way of penalty that is to say when the effect of the order passed against him in this behalf is to visit him with evil consequences.
It was held by this Court that the termination of service of an employee on account of his reaching the age of superannuation does not amount to his removal from service within the meaning of Article 311 2.
Learned counsel contends that this decision is of doubtful authority since the Court based its opinion on the majority judgment in Moti Ram Deka vs yGeneral Manager North Frontier Railway7 in which the Court was not called upon to consider and did not consider the validity of a rule of superannuation.
It is true that in Moti Ram Deka the Court was concerned to G 1  2 1955 1 SCR26.
See page 696 of the Report.
The theme of Shri Siddhartha Sbankar Ray s argument is non application of mind.
He made it clear that his argument should not be construed as a challenge to the power or jurisdiction of the Governor to issue the impugned Ordinance and that his sole attempt was to show that the Ordinance was passed in a hurry as a result of which considerations which are relevant to the fixation of retirement age were ignored.
The instances of non application of mind cited by the learned counsel are these The inclusion o f the employees of the High Court within the sweep of the Ordinance in violation of the provisions of Chapters V and VI of the Constitution the inclusion of the employees of the Legislature Secretariat within the Ordinance the extension of the Ordinance even to the daily rate workers and finally the fact that nothing worthwhile is likely to be achieved by the passing of the Ordinance since at the highest it would create employment at this point of time only for about 19500 employees After that point of time passes the same state of affairs will continue since the age of retirement will be merely substituted by 58 in place of 55 years.
It is impossible to accept the submission that the Ordinance can be invalidated on the ground of non application of mind.
The 607 power to issue an ordinance is not an executive power but is the power of the executive to legislate.
The power of the Governor to promulgate an ordinance is contained in Article 213 which occurs in Chapter IV of Part VI of the Constitution.
The heading of that Chapter is  Legislative Power of the Governor.
This power is plenary within its field like the power of the State Legislature to pass laws and there are no limitations upon that power except those to which the legislative power of the State Legislature is subject Therefore though an ordinance call be invalidated for contravention of the constitutional limitations which exist upon the power of the State Legislature to pass laws it cannot be declared invalid for the reason of non application of mind any more than any other law can be.
Not the act of a Legislature.
Shri Ray raised upon a decision of this Court in High Court of Andhra Pradesh vs VVS Krishnamurthy3 which has taken the view that in regard to the servants and officers of the High Court Article 229 of the Constitution makes the power of their appointment dismissal removal compulsory retirement etc including the power to prescribe their conditions of service the sole preserve of the Chief Justice and no extraneous executive authority can interfere with the exercise of that power.
Though Shri Ray presented his argument in the shape of a challenge to the Ordinance on the ground of non application Of mind the real thrust of his argument was that the hurry with which the Ordinance was passed shows the arbitrary character of the action taken by the State Government.
We have already rejected the contention of haste and hurry as also the argument that the provi 1  at 282 291.
3 19791 SCR 26 608 sions of the Ordinance are in any manner arbitrary or unreasonable and thereby violate Articles 14 and 16 of the Constitution.
Shri RK Garg who appears in Transfer Cases Nos 70 71 and 72 of 1983 challenges the validity of the Ordinance on the ground that casting all established norms aside it fixes the age of retirement at 55 years notwithstanding industrial adjudications and even settlements arrived at between employers and employees.
Relying upon certain decisions of this Court like Maneka Gandhi vs Union India1 and State of Madras vs VG Row2 in support of his submission that arbitrariness invalidates laws counsel contends that a law which overrules an industrial adjudication or settlement is fundamentally unreasonable or arbitrary and must therefore be held to be violative of Article 14 of the Constitution.
Rules of retirement do not take away the right of a person to his livelihood they limit his right to hold office to a stated number of years.
This argument of the learned counsel can be rejected for other reasons also we do not propose to deal with these Transferred Cases since there is nothing on record to show that there are any industrial adjunctions or settlements between employers and employees providing for an age of retirement for any section of industrial workers.
These Transferred Cases will be delinked from the other Writ Petitions and will be listed for hearing later so that they can be dealt with upon their own facts.
If the question raised by Shri Garg is academic it will be needless to consider it.
The argument of mala fides advanced by Shri AT Sampat and adopted in passing by some of the other counsel is without any basis.
The burden to establish maa fides is a heavy burden to discharge.
2 11952 SCR 597 at 607.
Its reasons for passing a law are those that are stated in the Objects and Reasons and if no reasons are so stated as appear from the provisions enacted by it.
Even assuming that the executive in a given case has an ulterior motive in moving a legislation that motive cannot render the passing of the law mala fide.
This kind of transferred malice  is unknown in the field of legislation.
These then are the main points in controversy on which counsel made their contentions.
SR Petitions dismissed.
