The petitioner appellant was in detention when the petitionerappellant was served with the order of detention.
The service of order of detention on the petitioner while he was in jail was futile and useless since such an order had no application under section 32 of the Act.
In the affidavit of the District Magistrate the detaining authority it has been stated that the activities of the petitioner s brother and the petitioner have disturbed the normal tempo of life in Katras and Jogta Police Stations in Dhanbad area.
Grounds were all indicated.
All the documents which formed the basis of detention were supplied to the detenu.
His representation was duly considered and rejected.
The grounds stated that there was indiscriminate firing on 24th December 1985 on Katras Coal Dump and the petitioner started indiscriminate firing to kill Birendra Pratap Singh a rival of his calendestine business of coal to establish the criminal superiority in full view of the shopkeepers customers and passers by of the area.
The acts alleged created a terror and not only law and order problem but problem of public order.
26986.
In this case there were grounds for the passing of the detention order but after that the detenu has surrendered for whatever reasons therefore the order of detention though justified when it was passed but at the time of the service of the order there was no proper consideration of the fact that the detenu was in custody of that there was any real danger of his release.
Nor does it appear that before the service there was consideration of this aspect properly.
If a man is in custody and there is no imminent possibility of his being released the power of preventive detention should not be exercised.
A bald statement is merely an ipso dixit 912 of the officer.
It may be mentioned that in the petition it is nowhere stated that the detenu has since been released or that the prospect of his imminent release was properly and with seriousness considered by the detaining authority.
The writ petition and the appeal are allowed to the extent indicated above.
This how ever will not affect detenu s detention under the criminal cases.
If however the detenu is released on bail in the aforesaid criminal cases the matter of service of the detention order under the Act on the aforesaid materials may be reconsidered by the appropriate authority in accordance with the law.
