In the case of banking companies or other firms and companies who have overdraft facilities even if the sums are not in credit of the donor and are not with such companies or firms gifts might be possible by adjustment of the book entries.
Reference may also be made for this proposition to the decision of the Delhi High Court in New India Colour Co vs Commissioner of IncomeTax New Delhi The effect of the two aforesaid decisions of the learned fudges of the Delhi High Court indicates that in case there was not sufficient cash balance from out of which the amount gifted could be physically given to the donee more entries in the books of account in the form would not constitute delivery of possession over the gifted property to the donee and gift in such case will not be valid.
Commis sioner of Income Tax Poona vs Dharsey Keshavji 143 ITR 509 and Commissioner of Income Tax Poona vs Devichand Uttamchand In the background of facts of those cases the Bombay High Court held that the gifts were valid.
It was held by the Bombay High Court that there was no valid gift.
The Madras High Court in the case of Mrs Ida L Cham bers and Three Others vs Kelland Huxford Chambers was dealing with a case where C proprietor of a business who had invested a large amount of capital in it caused entries to be made in his account books crediting his wife and certain other members of his family with sums which were debited to his capital account.
C was not in a position to make gifts in cash of the amounts credited in favour of his wife and relatives.
He had large assets but these were represented by land buildings plant machinery and stock in trade.
Interest on the amounts was also credited in the accounts regularly for some time until a bank from which C had obtained an overdraft objected to such crediting of interest.
It was further held that there was no trust either and that there was nothing in the acts or conduct of C to show that he intended to create a trust or to constitute himself a trus tee.
In Sukhlal Sheo Narain vs Commissioner of Wealth Tax Haryana the Punjab  Haryana High Court had dealt with a case where the father had gifted Rs84000 ie Rs28000 to each of his sons.
Father had complete control and dominion over that amount.
Rangoon High Court in Abba Dada and Company vs Commis sioner of Income Tax Burma held that the mere book entries were not sufficient in that case to constitute valid gift.
The Allahabad High Court in the case of Commissioner of Income Tax UPv Smt.
Shyamo Bibi had to deal with a case where the credit balance of 2 12 lakhs was with the firm.
Cash Balance was only Rs7626.
Property purchased out of gift and income was used by the family.
There the assessee was the karta of a Hindu undivided family.
The Wealth Tax Officer and the Income Tax Officer rejected the contention that he made a gift of Rs50000 to his son and this amount should be excluded from his taxable net wealth.
There M the deceased was a 132 partner in a firm having a half share in the partnership.
But in that case the question in the present form in which it arises before us in the instant case did not arise.
As the respondent is not appearing there will be no order as to costs.
NPV Appeal allowed.
