The question involved in these appeals by special leave which are filed against the judgment dated August 17 1985 of the High Court of Allahabad in Civil Miscellaneous Writ No 6849 of 1984 relates to the constitu tional validity of regulation 192 of the Life Insurance Corporation of India Staff Regulations 1960 hereinafter referred to as the Staff Regulations 1960  as amended on 211.
Prior to January.
Transfer of service of existing employees of insurers to the Corporation 1 Every whole time employee of an insurer whose controlled business has been transferred to and vested in the Corporation and who was employed by the insurer wholly or mainly in connection with his controlled business immediately before the appointed day shall on and from the appointed day become an employee of the Corporation and shall hold his office therein by the same tenure at the same remuneration and upon the same terms and conditions and with the same rights and privi leges as to pen 190 sion and gratuity and other matters as he would have held the same on the appointed day if this Act had not been passed and shall continue to do so unless and until his employ ment in the Corporation is terminated or until his remuneration terms and conditions are duly altered by the Corporation Provided that nothing contained in this sub section shall apply to any such employee who has by notice in writing given to the Central Government prior to the ap pointed day intimated his intention of not becoming an employee of the Corporation.
Explanation The compensation payable to an employ ee under this sub section shall be in addition to and shall not affect any pension gratuity provident fund money or any other benefit to which the employee may be entitled under his contract of service.
Thereafter sub section 2 of sec tion 11 of the Act read as follows 2 Where the Central Government is satisfied that for the purpose of securing uniformity in the scales of remuner ation and the other terms and conditions of service applica ble to employees of insurers whose controlled business has been transferred to and vested in the Corporation it is necessary so to do or that in the interest of the Corpora tion and its policy holders a reduction in the remuneration payable or a revision of the other terms and 193 conditions of service applicable to employees or any class of them is called for the Central Government may notwith standing anything contained in sub section 1 or in the  or in any other law for the time being in force or in any award settlement or agree ment for the time being in force alter whether by way of reduction or otherwise the remuneration and the other terms and conditions of service to such extent and in such manner as it thinks fit and if the alteration.
is not acceptable to any employee the Corporation may terminate his employ ment by giving him compensation equivalent to three months  remuneration unless the contract of service with such em ployee provides for a shorter notice of termination.
Explanation The compensation payable to an employee under this sub section shall be in addition to and shall not affect any pension gratuity provident fund money or any other benefit to which the employee may be entitled under his contract of service.
To remove the above doubt by Act 17 of 1957 section 49 of the Act was amended by introducing clause bb in sub section 2 of section 49 of the Act which expressly conferred power on the Corporation to make regulations with the previous approval of the Central Government as regards the terms and condi tions of service of persons who have become employees of the Corporation under sub section 1 of section 11 .
All employees appointed to the service of the Corporation on or after 1st September 1956 were required to retire on completion of 58 years of age but the appointing authority was empowered to retire any such employee on completion of 55 years of age or at any time thereafter if his efficiency was found to have been impaired.
Sub section.
Sub section.
The second limb of sub section.
Sub section.
That the two provisions of sub section.
The scheme of the sections in Chapter IV indicates generally that Parliament has appointed the Cen tral Government as the effective and direct instrumentality for bringing about the transfer and integration in the different sectors of that process.
So long as such order is confined to what is necessitated by the proc ess of transfer and integration the transferred employees constitute a reasonably defined class in themselves and form no common basis with newly recruited employees underlining by us emphasis supplied Pathak J also observed at Page 1136 thus Another point is whether the power under the second limb of sub section.
2 of section 11 can be exercised more than once.
Clearly the answer must be in the affirmative.
So long as the complex of orders so made is necessarily linked with the process of transfer and integration it is immaterial that a succession of orders is made.
I am not impressed by the circumstances that the original Bill moved in Parliament for amending sub section.
2 of section 11 contained the words from time to time and that these words were subsequently deleted when enact ment took place.
The intent of the legislative provision must be discovered primarily from the legislation itself.
 We have given extracts from the above decisions which are fairly long since they relate to the identical provi sions of law and also cover a large part of the arguments urged before us.
Having regard to the different conditions of service that were prevailing in the various establishments whose business was taken over by the Corporation it can hardly be disputed that the fixation of age of superannuation is one of the essential parts of the process of transfer and inte gration to which sub section 2 of section 11 of the Act is applicable.
The fixation of 60 years as the age of superan nuation in the case of transferred employees cannot be considered to be unreasonable in view of the history of this case.
The observation made by Pathak J in the course of his judgment that there is no danger of an order made by the Central Government under the second limb of sub section 2 in respect of transferred employeesbeing struck down on the ground that it violates the equality provisions of Part III of the Constitution because similar action has not been taken in respect of newly recruited employees is signifi cant.
vs The State of Haryana  Ors  The facts of that case were these.
There were some schools run by municipal boards and district boards in the then State of Punjab which were taken over by the Punjab Government with effect from October 1 1957.
The petitioners in the above case ie Ram Lal Wadhwa  Anr.
Their complaint was that the Rules created without any valid justification two cadres the State cadre and the provincialised cadre the former including not only the Government School teachers but also those recruited after October 1 1957 and posted in the provincialised schools that by reason of having two cadres and providing for both a uniform 15 per cent for selection grade posts coupled with making the provincialised cadre a diminishing one the result had been that teachers deemed to have been appointed to the State cadre with effect from October 1 1957 and even those recruited thereafter had been promoted to the selec tion grade while those in the provincialised cadre though senior in service and performed identical duties and had identical scales of pay remained in the ordinary grade.
This position remained as late as February 13 1961.
v The State of Haryana  Ors.
In almost all the public sector corporations Central services and State services 58 years age is considered to be a reasonable age at which officers can be directed to retire from their service.
In the Settlement which was arrived at between the management and the Class III and Class IV em ployees recruited after 1st September 1956 it was agreed that there should be no discrimination as regards the age of retirement between the employees belonging to Class III and Class IV categories amongst the transferred employees and the Class III and Class IV employees recruited after 1st September 1956.
Having regard to the lower emoluments and other benefits which the employees belonging to Class III and Class IV are entitled to get from the Corporation and the higher emoluments and other benefits to which officers belonging to Class I and Class II are entitled and also the nature of their work and the powers enjoyed by them we are of the view that fixation of different ages of retirement to the different classes of employees would not by itself be violative of Articles 14 and 16 of the Constitution.
2        cc.
It may be so.
