MKD Namboodary for the Petitioner in SLP Civil N o 6998 of 1988.
The Judgment of the Court was delivered by K JAGANNATHA SHETTY J.
He also prepared a bogus identity card in the name of the abo ve Shri Ashok Kumar and initiated it below the signatures of issuing officer and this identity card Was used by Sh ri Suraj Singh Cleaner Token No 210 K Boggi Tunnelli ng Division at the time of attempting to receive the pay of Shri Ashok Kumar from the Cashier.
The Tribunal observed Since the applicant had.
access to the records which 24 were fabricated at the relevant time the Inquiry Officer h ad come to the conclusion that the applicant was the mast er mind behind the scheme to defraud the Project.
 The Tribunal seems to suggest that the respondent w as not the only master mind to commit the fraudulent act a nd there were others too and as such he should not be mea s ured with a different yardstick.
The Tribunal however h as held that the respondent was guilty of entering the name of Ashok Kumar in the pay roll of May 4969.
The High Court observed That the findings in respect of charges la and le 29 should be set aside as being opposed to the rules of natur al justice but the findings in respect of charges lc a nd ld and charge 2 need not be disturbed.
Court to consid er whether that ground alone would have weighed with the a u thority dismissing the public servant.
But the Court in a case in which an order of dismissal of a public servant is impugned is n ot concerned to decide whether the sentence imposed provid ed it is justified by the rules is appropriate having rega rd to the gravity of misdemeanour established.
If the High Court is satisfied that if some but not all of t he findings of the Tribunal were unreasonable the order of the Governor on whose powers by the rules no restrictions in determining the appropriate punishment are placed w as final and the High Court had no jursidiction to direct t he Governor to review the penalty for as we have alrea dy observed the order of dismissal passed by a competent a u thority on a public servant if the conditions of the co n stitutional protection have been complied with is n ot justifiable.
 This proposition in Dhirajlal s case was explained a nd the statement of law in Bidyabhushan s case was affirmed in State of Maharashtra vs BK Takkamore  Ors  It was case of supersession of the Corporation.
 The learned Judge also said at 227 Now it is settled by the decision of this Court in State of Orissa vs Bidyabhushan Mohapatra that if the ord er of a punishing authority can be supported on any finding as to substantial misdemeanour for which the punishment can be imposed it is not for the Court to consider whether the 33 charge proved alone would have weighed with the authority in imposing the punishment.
The Tribun al also cannot interfere with the penalty if the conclusion of the Inquiry Officer or the competent authority is based on evidence even if some of it is found to be irrelevant or extraneous to the matter.
TNA Appeal allowed and Petition dismissed.
