Collector.
Explanation.
For the purposes of this sub clause the amount of the duty of excise payable on any excisable goods shall be the sum total of a the effective duty of excise payable on such goods under this Act and b the aggregate of the effective duties of excise payable under other Central Acts if any providing for the levy of duties of excise on such goods  and the effective duty of excise on such goods under each Act referred to in clause a or clause b shall be i in a case where a notification or order providing for any exemption not being an exemption for giving credit with respect to for reduction or duty of excise under such Act on such goods equal to any duty of excise under such Act or the additional duty under Section 3 of the 51 of 1975 already paid on the raw material or component parts used in the production or manufacture of such goods from the duty of excise under such Act is for the time being in force the duty of excise computed with refer ence to the rate specified in such Act in respect of such goods as reduced so as to give full and complete effect to such exemption and ii in any other case the duty of excise computed with reference to the rate specified in such Act in respect of such goods.
The scheme of the old section 4 is indisputedly to determine the assessable value of the goods on the basis of the price charged by the assessee less certain abatements.
It is only that degree of secondary packing which is necessary for assessable articles to be in the condition in which it is generally sold in the wholesale market which can be included at the factory gate which should be included in the value of the article.
Chief Justice Bhagwati dissented.
These were only employed it was emphasised by the majority of the Judges for the purpose of avoiding damage or injury during transit.
It may be necessary in this connection to refer to the observations of this Court in Union of India  Ors.
It was conceivable that the wholesale dealer who takes delivery might have its depot at a very short distance only from the factory gate or may have such transport arrangements available that damage or injury to the cigarettes could be avoided.
If the answer is yes three kinds of situation may arise.
The cost of such packing referred in section 44di does not in clude within its ambit the cost of packing not incurred by the manufacturer when the packing is supplied by the buyer and not the manufacturer.
In my opinion also the above conclusion reached on the language of section 44di of the Act is sufficient to allow these appeals.
For this reason I agree with Rangana than J that the wider propositions canvassed by the two sides including the question of correctness of the view relating to secondary packing taken in Union of India vs Godfrey Phillips India Ltd raised by the learned Attorney General need not be considered and decided in these matters.
