PW 3 the Principal of the training school issued exhibit P 2 show cause notice to the PW 1 Venkataswamy the canteen contractor as to why his licence for running the canteen should not be cancelled.
Before the High Court the contentions of the appellant were that there was no independent evidence regarding the demand the messenger who had contacted PW 1 at the 337 behest of the appellant had not been examined the solitary evidence of PW 1 is insufficient the explanation offered by the appellant was probable and there is no conclusive evi dence to hold that the appellant.
was guilty.
It was also urged that the appellant being new in the office could exert little influence on the Principal and the whole story is therefore improbable.
These contentions did not find favour with the High Court.
The recovery of the currency notes from the appellant proves the guilty conduct of the appel lant in view of the presumption arising under section 41 of the Prevention of Corruption Act which has not been rebutted.
The decisions of the Court in State of Rajasthan vs Mohamed Habeeb  CI Ernden vs State of Uttar Pradesh  and Lohana Kantilal vs State AIR 1954 Saurashtra 12 1 were referred to.
The appellant has reiterated the contentions before us.
It cannot therefore be said that there had been consistent explanation for the appellant.
PW 3 the Principal has averred in unequivocal terms that Ex.
Of course it is open to that person to show that though that money was not due to him as legal remuneration it was legally due to him in some other manner or that he had received it under a transaction or an arrangement which was lawful.
The burden resting on the accused person in such a case would not be as light as it is where a presumption is raised under section 114 of Evidence Act and cannot be held to be discharged merely by reason of the fact that the explanation offered by the accused is reasonable and probable.
The words unless the contrary is proved  which occur in this provision make it clear that the presumption has to be rebutted by proof  and not by a bare explanation which is merely plausible.
 On a careful consideration of the facts and circum stances we are not satisfied that the appellant had even by preponderance of probability succeeded in rebutting the presumption.
We find no merit in the appeal.
NVK Appeal dismissed.
