It was only this limited aspect eviction on the ground of non bona fide denial of title that was under consideration of the Court under section 102vii of the Act read with the proviso to section 101 and the Court s observa tions on the question of title were one on a collateral issue.
We do not therefore think that the 1969 decision can be an effective answer to the appellant s contention based on the 1967 decision.
Sri Krish namurthy Iyer is therefore certainly right in contending that the Act requires the Rent Controller to consider this issue among others while disposing the applications before him.
Per contra he may reach the conclusion on the materials before him that the landlord has no title yet it seems if he finds that the applicant is otherwise a landlord and that the grounds on which the tenant s denial was based were not bona fide he will have to order eviction.
So also in an application under section 4 the jurisdiction of the Rent Controller is to determine a fair or standard rent for the premises.
However if the property is an inam village whether the inam village is an inam estate is within his exclusive jurisdiction and in regard to it the jurisdic tion of the Civil Courts is clearly barred.
The trial Judge rejected the application holding that question of the applicability of the Act was res judicata since it had been finally decid ed by the High Court between the same parties in respect of the same land in the earlier proceeding for fixation of standard rent.
The Supreme Court however reversed the judgment of the High Court.
Reliance was also placed on section 92 of the Indian Evidence Act.
It has long been held that a question of title in a Small Cause suit can be regarded as incidental only to the substantial issue in the suit and cannot operate 8as res judicata in a subsequent suit in which the question of title is directly raised  .
vs Smt.
Since the relationship is denied by the landlord the Rent Con troller had decided that question incidentally.
The rent authorities cannot grant the reliefs of declaration of occupancy rights.
It also took a technical plea that the decision of the Additional Settlement Officer that the suit land was poramboke and not ryoti  land was final and the Civil Court s jurisdiction to decide that question was barred under section 64 C of the Tamil Nadu Estates Abolition and Conversion into Ryotwari Act 1948 which ran as follows 64 C Finality of orders passed under this Act 1 Any order passed by the Government or other authority under this Act in respect of matters to be determined for the purposes of this Act shall subject only to any appeal or revision provided by or under this Act be final.
We are concerned with the jurisdiction of a civil court.
The extensive jurisdiction conferred on civil courts under section 9 of the Code of Civil Procedure should not be curtailed without a specific statu tory warrant or except on some clear principle.
There is nothing in the Tamil Nadu Rent Control Act which in any way takes away or narrows down the civil court s juris diction as for example there is in the Delhi Rent Control Act section 50.
If the civil court in this case had come to the conclusion that there is a relationship of a landlord and a tenant and that the LIC was entitled to recover the rent from the tenants it will have to pass a decree in favour of the LIC on the basis of the fair rent fixed by the Rent Controller.
