From the Judgment and Order dated 32.
1.
He purchased certain raw materials in the State without paying tax thereon in view of the provision con tained in section 24 of the Act.
1980 in CWP 122780 which was also affirmed by a Division Bench later 2.
The Act is a much amended one and Some of its provi sions have been recently amended with retrospective effect from 27th May 1971 a point of time when actually a prede cessor Act the Punjab General Sales Tax Act 1948 had been in force.
141976 or in the course of export out of the territory of India.
c Act 1 of 1990 has amended the above Explanation retrospectively to say that the words but the purchase value of the goods liable to tax under section 9 or section 24 shall be included shall be omitted and shall be deemed always to have been omitted with effect from 275.
p of section 2.
The 1990 Act also inserted an Explanation 6 to the clause wef 313.
 348 111.
Section 6 Section 6 the charging section read as under 6.
Incidence of taxation 1 Subject to other provisions of this Act every dealer whose gross turnover during the year immediately preceding the commencement of this Act exceeded the taxable quantum Defined in section 7 shall be liable to pay tax under this Act on all sales and purchases effected after the coming into force of this Act.
Provided that this section shall not apply to a dealer who deals exclusively in goods specified in Schedule B Goods on which no tax is leviable section 6 read with section 15.
349 Provided that this sub section shall not apply to a dealer who deals exclusively in goods specified in Schedule B 2 Every dealer to whom sub section 1 does not apply shall be liable to pay tax on all sales and purchases effected on the expiry of thirty days after the date on which his gross turnover during any year first exceeds the taxable quantum.
The second amendment which is crucial for the purposes of this case is the addition at the end of sub clause ii of clause a above the words within the meaning of sub section 1 of section 5 of the .
9479 and added a proviso.
Amendment of section 9 of Haryana Act 20 of 1973 For clauses b and bb of sub section 1 of section 9 of the principal Act the following clause shall be substituted namely b purchases goods other than those specified in Schedule B from any source in the State and uses them in the State in the manufacture of any other goods and either disposes of the manufactured goods in any manner otherwise than by way of sale in the State or dispatches the manufactured goods to a place outside the State in any manner otherwise than by way of sale in the course of inter State trade or commerce or in the course of export outside the territory of India within the meaning of subsection 1 of section 5 of the Central Sales Tax Act 1956or.
 d An amendment of 1986 expanded the proviso to section 24Ib by adding utensils and metal handicrafts to scientific goods and guar gum as in section 91 proviso.
He submitted that the transactions in the present case fail under category 3 above.
was misplaced and overlooks the vital circumstances that what section 91b taxes are the purchases of raw materials and not the manufactured goods that were eventually exported.
High Court and that the appeals as well as writ petitions before us deserve to be dismissed.
The argument on behalf of the Revenue which has found favour with the High Court is that section 91 exempts only sales made in the course of export within the meaning of section 51 of the CST Act but not those under section 53 of the said Act.
However this amendment which has been made both in section 9 and in section 24 by Act 1 of 1988 has not been given any retrospective effect.
We are therefore of the opinion that this alternative contention urged by the learned counsel for the assessee has to be accepted and it has to be held that since the sales effected by the assessees fall within one of the three exempted categories set out in section 91b there can be no levy of purchase tax under section 91 of the Act.
The State levied a purchase tax on the raw materials us 91.
This contention was accepted by this Court.
