Appeal No 1367 of 1980.
The application for adducing additional evidence was disallowed.
However the member of the Board came to the conclusion that Surendrapal Singh appellant here in was born to Raghubir Singh on 14th March 1963 and was only 13 years of age when the ceiling proceedings were finalized by the Sub Divisional Officer on 5th May 1976.
In the ultimate analysis the Member of the Board found that there was a gross and patent illegality in the order of the Sub Divisional Officer and consequently set aside the order of the Sub Divisional Officer dated 5th May 1976 as well as the order of the Appellate Authority dated 6th September 1976 and remanded the case to the Sub Divisional Officer Hanumangarh for fresh determination of the calling area for Raghubir Singh.
The general superintendence and control over all revenue courts shall be vested in an all such Courts shall be subordinate to the Board and subject to such superintendence control and subordination a x x x omitted b all Additional Collectors Sub.
Divisional Officer Assistant Collectors and Tehsildars in a district shall be subordinate to the Collector thereof call Assistant Collectors Tehsildars and Naib Tehsildars in a sub division shall be subordinate to the Sub Divisional Officer thereof and d All Additional Tehsildars and Naib Tehsildars in a tehsil shall be subordinate to the Tehsildar thereof.
 The contention of learned counsel for the appellant is that the section confers executive powers of superintendence and control on the Board and it does not vest any power of superintendence on the Board on judicial side.
For this purpose he relied or the decision of the Division Bench of the Rajasthan High Court reported as Karan Singh vs Board of Revenue Rajasthan.
 In that case also the High Court took the view that it is not correct to say that Section 9 is limited to the executive control and superintendence of the Board over subordinate revenue courts and it does not apply to judicial proceedings.
The contention on behalf of the appellant to that effect was negatived but on merits the High Court held that it was not appropriate for the Board to exercise the powers conferred by Section 9 of the land Revenue Act in view of the fact that the Board had appellate jurisdiction and it could not therefore make use of its powers of superintendence and control and the order of the Board could not be held proper with reference to Section 9 of the Land Revenue Act.
It is clear from the language of Section 221 of the Act of 1955 that the Board of Revenue has general powers of superintendence and control over all revenue courts.
It is open to the Board to exercise its powers of superintendence on all its subordinate courts in order to regulate the functioning of  the subordinate courts so as to keep them within their respective spheres of jurisdiction.
Board of Revenue.
There also there was similar provision like Section 9 of the Land Revenue Act and it was held that Section 12 of the said Ordinance must be held to give powers to the Board to revise judicial orders also passed by courts in appropriate cases.
 These words have been consistently interpreted to mean that the High Court had power in appropriate cases to interfere with the judicial orders of the courts.
In the Government of India Act of 1935 there was provision under Section 224 for superintendence by the High Courts  but subsection2 made it clear that this superintendence would not be construed as giving to the High Court any jurisdiction to question any judgment of any inferior court which was not otherwise subject to appeal or revision.
Section 221 of the Act of 1955 is similar to Section 107 of the Government of India Act 1915 and there is no section like sub section 2 of Section 224 of the Government of India Act of 1935 in the Act of 1955.
The High Court also did not go into the merits of the controversy nor we have thought it advisable to into it and it would be for the Sub Divisional Officer Hanumangarh to decide it in the light of the observations of the Board.
U R Appeal dismissed.
