August 14.
The appellant promptly filed writ petition No 1 of 1956 praying for the issue of a writ of mandamus directing the State of Andhra Pradesh to forbear from terminating his leasehold right in the slate quarries.
In other words the third proviso according to learned counsel 559 for the appellant merely enables the Government to exercise the right conferred on it by the second proviso and therefore the Government if it intends to avail itself of the right under the second proviso must comply with the conditions laid down in the third proviso.
It is said that the words  such right  in the third proviso relate to the rights mentioned in the second proviso that is to say rights created on or after July 1 1945.
The implications of the second proviso learned counsel for the appellant points out are two fold namely a that all rights created before the notified date but after July 1 1945 for a period not exceeding one year would be valid and enforceable both by and against the Government by the operation of the body of sub section.
1 itself and b that rights created before the notified date but after July 1 1945 for a period exceeding one year would also be valid and enforceable by the Government against the person in whose favour such right had been created by reason of section 201.
We may with advantage quote here a part of the views expressed by Venkatarama Ayyar J in delivering the judgment of that Bench in AMSS VM  Co vs The state of Madras 1.
But this is to read the third proviso as a proviso not to the section but to the second proviso and there is no warrant in law for such a construction.
If the third proviso also applies to such leases as the petitioners contend then the lease can be terminated only if the Government is satisfied that it is in the public interest that it should be terminated and that further in such cases the lessee will also be entitled to compensation under section 202.
In other words while under the second proviso the Government can terminate the lease at its option and unconditionally under proviso iii that can be done only if it is in 1 ILR 1195.
The reason for conferment of such an unconditional right on the Government is well known for it was on that crucial date that the party which came into power later declared its intention to abolish all zemindaries and intermediary interest in land.
That  rule provides that a mining lease granted by a private person shall be subject to certain conditions therein specified.
No other point has been urged before us and for reasons stated above we think that these appeals should be dismissed with costs and we order accordingly.
Appeals dismissed.
