Industrial Corpn.
Ltd section K Gambhir for the applicant intervener State of MP.
Chapter VIII of the Act consisting of sections 64 to 71 is entitled Special Areas.
It says that the Corporation shall impose a tax payable by the owners of buildings or lands situated within the city with reference to the gross annual letting value of the building or land called the property tax.
By section 36 of the aforesaid Adhiniyam local authorities were prohibited from recovering the property tax from November 24 1970.
For conferring powers to levy tax on the entry of goods in place of octroi tax the Madhya Pradesh Sthaniya Kshetra Me Mal Ke Pravesh Par Kar Adhyadesh 1976 6 of 1976 was promulgated.
Petitions Nos.
In the case last cited the Privy Council qualified its statement of the law by saying that the principle that an amendment of the first law which is not expressly made applicable to the subsequent incorporating Act cannot be deemed to be incorporated into the second Act applies if it is possible for the subsequent Act to function effectually without the addition page 267.
It provides that for the purpose of taxation the Special Area Development Authority shall have the powers which a Municipal Corporation or a Municipal Council has under the Madhya Pradesh Municipal Corporation Act 1956 or the Madhya Pradesh Municipalities Act 1961.
As observed in Nathella Sampathu Chetty there is a distinction between a mere reference to or a citation of one statute in another and an incorporation which in effect means the bodily lifting of the provisions of one enactment and making them part of another so much so that the repeal of the former leaves the latter wholly untouched.
It is not possible to accept this submission because sections 127A and 135 of the two Acts in question leave no such choice open to the taxing authority.
It was therefore a Government Company under section 617 of the .
Its servants are not civil servants and its property is not Crown property.
It is as much bound by Acts of Parliament as any other subject of the King.
Finally the learned Attorney General raised a contention of fundamental importance which was not raised in the High Court.
Entry 23 of List II relates to Regulation of mines and mineral development subject to the provisions of List I with respect to regulation and development under the control of the Union.
It is true that on account of the declaration contained in section 2 of the Mines and Minerals Development and Regulation Act 1957 the legislative field covered by Entry 23 of List II will pass on to Parliament by virtue of Entry 54 List I.
Entry 54 of List I does not contemplate the taking over of municipal functions.
In that case the Bihar Government demanded dead rent royalty and surface rent from the appellant contrary to the terms of his lease on the strength of the amended section 102 of the Bihar Land Reforms Act 1950 and the amended Rule 20 of the Bihar Rules.
In that case 12 sugar undertakings stood transferred to and were vested in a Government undertaking under the UP Sugar Undertakings Acquisition Ordinance 1971 which later became an Act.
For these reasons the appeals fail and are dismissed with costs.
