hereinafter called the rent act is the question involved in this appeal by special leave from the judgment and order of the high court of gujarat dated 21st of august1979.
in order to decide this question it is necessary to decide the scope and ambit of section 292 of the rent act.
to decide this facts must be referred to.
the appellant claimed to be the tenant in respect of the two premises which are quite adjacent to each other one of which is involved in this appeal.
the respondent is the landlord of the two premises and these were situated at raikhad ward ahmedabad.
the respondent had alleged in the two suits that the appellant was his tenant in the suit premises which were leased out to him and before him his father for conducting the business in the name of ahmedabad fine.
weaving works and according to the terms of tenancy suit premises were leased for manufacturing cloth in the name of ahmedabad fine.
weaving works.
the respondent had further alleged that the appellant no 1 had closed the business and he was not using the said premises for the purpose for which it was let to him.
it was the case of the appellant that in respect of the suit premises he was carrying on his business with respondents.
nos 24 and 5 in the name of respondent no 2m s.
bharat neon signs hereinafter referred to as respondent no 2.
we are concerned in this appeal with only one of the premises which was involved in suit no 553 of 1969 it is not in dispute and it never was that the premises was being used by bharat neon signs firm being the defendant no 2 in the original suit.
at the time of the institution of the suit the defendants nos 2 to 5 were admittedly the partners.
the present appellant who was the original defendant no 1 claimed to be a partner.
the main controversy was whether the appellant had sublet the premises to defendant no 2bharat neon signs or whether he being a partner of the said firm had permitted the said firm to use the premises in question.
it is clear from the evidence on record that the partnership firm had undergone metamorphosis from time to time and again ever since the year 1960 the firm bharat neon signs first originated on 4th of october1960 as many as six persons were named in the partnership firm on or about 4th of october1960 and they had executed a deed of partnership on 13th of october1960 which is exhibit 114 on the record.
the said partnership deed records six persons who were to run the business in manufacturing and selling bharat neon signs tubes.
however the document is silent as to where the business was started.
on or about 24th of october1960.
another partnership deed being exhibit 69 came to be executed among the six persons and the father of the appellant girdharlal.
the document is exhibit 69 and is signed by the father of the appellant and the appellant himself also.
it may be mentioned that the partnership deed exhibit 114 was executed by six persons and at that stage the appellant or his father were not partners in the firm.
but thereafter when the partnership deed exhibit 69 was executed the appellant and his father joined the firm with an agreement to share profits only and their share was fixed at 0 03 paise in a rupee.
there is a third partnership deed exhibit 70 which showed that the deceased tenant girdharlal had died on 1st of february1961 and so by the remaining seven partners with same terms and conditions a new partnership deed being exhibit 70 was executed on 22nd.
september1961 at this time the share of the appellant was fixed at 0 03 paise in a rupee to share the profits only.
in 1965 some partners retired and the remaining four partners executed a fresh partnership deed exhibit 117 on 1st.
april1965 this last partnership deed was executed by the appellant and original defendants.
nos 34 and 5.
the main question in issue in this appeal as well as before the high court in revision was whether there was a genuine partnership at the appellant was a partner.
it is true that since after 4th of october1960 the partnership firm was carrying on business in the premises in question.
it is well settled that if there was such a partnership firm of which the appellant was a partner as a tenant the same would not amount to subletting leading to the forfeiture of the tenancy.
for this proposition see the decision of the gujarat high court in the case of mehta jagjivan vanechand v doshi vanechand harakhchand and others.
a i r 1972 gujarat 6 1970 indlaw guj 68 thakkar j of the gujarat high court as the learned judge then was held that the mere fact that a tenant entered into a partnership and allowed the premises being used for the benefit of partnership does not constitute assignment or subletting in favour of the partnership firm entitling a landlord to recover possession.
this view is now concluded by the decision of this court in madras bangalore transport co west v inder singh and others1986 3 s c c 62 1986.
indlaw sc 748.
the trial court in the instant appeal held that there was subletting.
it accordingly decreed the suit for possession instituted by the landlord.
the suit inter alia was filed by the landlord on the ground of subletting.
there was an appeal before the court of small causes bombay and by judgment and order delivered by the court of small causes bombay on 18th of august1977it was held that the learned trial judge had erred in passing a decree for possession on the ground of subletting change of user and breach of terms of tenancy.
in the premises the appeal was allowed.
it may be mentioned that the respondent no 1 is the landlord of two premises which were quite adjacent as mentioned before.
the respondent plaintiff had alleged in both the suits that the appellant was his tenant in the suit premises which were leased to him for conducting his business in the name of ahmedabad fine.
weaving works and according to the terms of tenancy suit the suit premises were leased for manufacturing cloth in the name of ahmedabad fine weaving works.
the landlord had alleged that the appellant had closed that business and he was not using the premises in question for the purpose for which it was let to him.
it was further alleged by the landlord that the appellant had unlawfully sublet the major part of the premises in question of both the suits to defendant nos 2 to 5 in the original suit and these defendants were running business in partnership for manufacturing of neon signs in the name of bharat neon signs.
it was further alleged that the appellant had also unlawfully sublet one room of the suit premises to defendant no 6 in suit no 553 of 1969 who was residing in that room.
he has stated further that the suit premises were to be used for business and he could use it for any business and he joined in partnership with defendants nos 2 to 5 somewhere in 1961 to prepare neon signs and the defendants nos 2 to 5 were his partners and doing business in the suit premises.
these facts were accepted that there was a partnership.
there was a decree for possession.
there is nothing inherently illegal or improbable making a provision of such a type.
the fact that the high court would have taken a different view is wholly irrelevant.
appeal allowed.
