A section R Chari and R V Pillai for the appellants.
The incident which took place on July 28 1962 was theft by dacoity of certain cotton pieces from two carts within the limits of Lingsugar Police Station at about 11 30 pm.
When the carts reached a Nala called Heri Halla about three miles from Lingsugur at about 11 30 pm 20 persons are said to have approached the carts and pelted stones.
It appears that four out of the six carts escaped but two carts were looted.
He contends that the circumstances under which the one presumption or the other may be drawn under section 114 of the have not been stated by law and therefore it is necessary always to start with the lesser presumption and draw the higher presumption only when there is some other evidence to show the complicity of the persons in the crime itself.
According to him there is no other evidence in the case which points to the complicity of the 14 appellants in the crime of dacoity and therefore as they cannot be suspected to be dacoits themselves the only presumption to be drawn is one of receivers of stolen property or as receivers of property which was stolen in a dacoity.
The evidence strengthens the other evidence already against him.
The presumption is stronger when the discovery of the fruits of crime is made immediately after the crime is.
Even then we think that the time gap is too short for original offenders to have disposed of the property to these appellants Or to have left the goods in their custody till such time as the original offenders could have taken them away.
It must not be forgotton that the offence was committed at night by as many as 20 persons or more.
The houses of 20 persons were searched and large quantities of the stolen goods were found in their houses.
This presumption has been drawn and in our opinion rightly in this case The conviction was therefore correct in all the circumstances of the case.
Therefore we think that a sentence of three years  rigorous imprisonment will meet the ends of justice in this case.
The appeal is allowed to this extent.
