this appeal is by special leave against the judgment and decree of the high court of kerala which dismissed an appeal against the judgment and decree of the subordinate court of havelikkara.
the appellant had filed a suit on october 24 1942 for the recovery of rs 2 lakhs and interest thereon from the date of suit and for costs originally against the state of travancore now the state of kerala the respondent and three others who however were not made parties in the appeal before the high court.
it has alleged in the plaint that the plaintiff appellant was wrongfully dispossessed from 160 acres of land along with the improvements which had been effected by him and as the state had appropriated those improvements without any right or title thereto he claimed the value of those improvements.
it was the appellant s case that he had been in occupation of the said 160 acres of cherikkal land unregistered dry lands in hilly tracts about which and the adjoining lands there was a dispute as to whether the same belonged to a jenmi family known as koodalvalli illom hereinafter called the illom or to the government of the erstwhile travancore state.
the appellant s father and the appellant had occupied these lands made improvement thereon by planting coconut trees arecanut palms peppervines rubber trees jack trees other trees and by constructing bungalow huts wells etc.
in the bona fide belief that the lands belonged to the illom.
it was stated that according to the practice prevailing in the erstwhile state of travancore the cultivators could enter into unoccupied waste lands belonging to the janmies with the object of cultivating and improving them and as they held the lands under them by paying rent the consent of the jemies to such occupation was implied.
this practice it seems was also current in respect of lands belonging to the government before the travancore land conservancy act 4 of 1091 24 7 1916 hereinafter called the act.
it is the case of the appellant that even after the act was passed unauthorised occupants of land belonging to the government who had made improvements therein had under the rules made both under the act and the land assignment act a preferential claim over others for getting kuthakapattom or assignment of the property in their possession.
it may be mentioned that in respect of the 160 acres of land of the illom which were occupied by the appellant s father and the appellant there was a dispute between the illom and the travancore state from about 1848.
while this dispute was pending it appears the appellant applied to the conservator of forests for registration of the lands in his name but the application was rejected on june 14 1919 stating that the land applied for can not be registered ext.
a while the application for registration was pending the dispute between the illom and the state of travancore had reached a stage when the illom had to institute a suit o section No.
126 of 1096.
january 1918 in the district court at quilon for a declaration of its title to those properties.
in that suit the appellant after his application for registration was rejected sought to get himself impleaded but that application also was rejected.
thereafter the suit filed by the illom was dismissed on 28 6 1109 february 10 1934.
an appeal against it was dismissed on september 27 1943.
112 of 1100 1925 a d as the suit of the illom had been finally disposed of and the title of the illom to the lands was not established the appellant apprehending that he might be ejected in the above l c case filed a suit.
o s 156 of 1103 m e 1927 28 a d in the district court at quilon against the respondent to establish his right and title to the said 160 acres and in the adjoining cherikkal lands in his possession.
in that suit an injunction was prayed for in respect of 100 acres of the property involved in the suit but the prayer was rejected.
the high court issued a commission for inspecting the properties and the commissioner in his report part 13 of ext.
a rubbers state and a large number of other valuable trees like jack trees mango trees coconut trees etc.
it appears that as there was no injunction restraining his dispossession in l c case.
112 of 11 00 m e an order was passed for dispossessing the appellant on july 24 1939 ext.
the appellant pursuant to this order was dispossessed from the lands and possession of these lands was given to the second defendant nair service society ltd in august 1939.
thereafter the suit out of which this appeal arises was filed against the government on october 24 1942.
the respondent state contended that the appellant encroached on the suit lands that proceedings were taken against him in l c case.
112 of 1100 m e and the appellant was therefore not entitled to claim any value for improvements as it was his duty to remove any building before he was evicted.
the rest of the claim was dismissed.
in the circumstances the question that had to be considered was whether without an order of forfeiture being passed the respondent could forfeit the improvements.
the high court accepted the finding of the trial court on issue.
accordingly the high court found that at no time the occupation of the land by the appellant was under a bona fide claim of title.
the contention of the appellant that the trees which are the subject matter of the appeal should have been forfeited by an order passed under section 9 of the act and in the absence of such.
law dictionary mean such products of the soil as are annually planted served and saved by manual labour as cereals vegetables grass maturing for harvest or harvested etc but not grass on lands used for pasturage.
in this view it held that compensation for trees which are to be dealt with under the general law can not be decreed in favour of a mere trespasser who had no rights therein.
appellant be allowed to remove them after his dispossession.
the learned advocate for the appellant has reiterated the submissions made before the trial court and the high court and contends that there is no order forfeiting the improvements as required under section 9 of the act and if section 9 does not apply and there is no right of forfeiture as contemplated under section 9 then the appellant is entitled to compensation under the general law.
apart from this contention towards the end of his argument the learned advocate for the appellant sought to make out a fresh case namely that as the appellant was not served with a notice to quit as required under section 9 of the act but was forcibly evicted without giving him an opportunity of cutting and taking away the trees etc.
from the lands from which he was evicted he would be entitled to claim compensation for the improvements made by him.
a and also to the fact that after the application for registration was rejected the appellant tried to get himself impleaded in the suit filed by the illom against the state which application was also rejected and so the claim that his possession was bona fide or that he was a bona fide trespasser has no validity.
in view of this specific provision the contravention of which is punishable under section 6 thereof his conduct in applying for registration and for getting himself impleaded in the suit of the illom against the government would show that he knew that the land was government land or land in which the government had a claim.
in these circumstances he can not be said to be a bona fide trespasser particularly after he had applied to the government for obtaining a.
registration in his name on the basis that it was government land.
it is however urged before us that the high court was in error in thinking that the appellant did not occupy the lands as a trespasser with a bona fide claim of title because it was his case that he trespassed upon the land with a bona fide intention to improve the land and as such he can still be considered as a bona fide trespasser entitled to improvements under the general law.
it is stated before us that at the time when the appellant was evicted the transfer of property act was not in force.
the same dictionary gives the meaning of the word product as follows product with reference to property proceeds.
it may however include the fruit of the trees.
this view of ours is supported by the case of clark and another v gaskarth 8 taunt 431.
notice of this trespass was given to the defendant.
in our view therefore trees are not included within the meaning of other products raised on the land in section 9 of the act and there is therefore no obligation on the government to give notice of forfeiture under that section.
we have already agreed with the trial court and the high court that the appellant was not a bona fide trespasser.
the case of vallabdas narainji v development officer bandra a i r 1929.
that was a case in which the government had taken possession of the lands and had erected certain building on the land before a decision under section 6 of the land acquisition act was made as to the appellant s property arid it was contended that the appellant should be allowed the value of the land in the state in which it then was i e with buildings on it.
both the assistant judge and the high court negatived the claim of the appellant.
the board however agreed with what was apparently the view of both courts in india that under the circumstances of this case as already set forth by the law of india which they appear to have correctly interpreted the government officials were in possession not as mere trespassers but under such a colour of title that the buildings erected by them on the land ought not to be included in the valuation as having become the property of the landowner.
