a of section 239.
the respondent No 1.
read with section 149.
a says that persons accused of the same offence committed in the course of the same transaction may be charged and tried together.
but entry 7 a in part v of sch.
his point is that the proviso to section 3371 confers the power on the district magistrate to grant pardon in a case pending before another magistrate and not on a district magistrate and therefore his power to grant pardon in such cases can not be conferred under sub s 2 of section 10 on an additional district magistrate.
para 5 provides that as officers of the revenue department those magistrates would be under the control of the government through the board of revenue.
the high court allowed the revision application.
the evidence of the approver was inadmissible because the pardon granted to him was illegal that in any case it is unreliable was so found even by the sessions judge and must therefore be rejected.
similarly z can be charged with offence 's under sections 147 323 and offences under section 302.
these are relevant facts.
similarly if the second respondent were alone tried on the second charge his trial would not have been open to any objection if the allegation were that the offences were so connected together as to form the same transaction.
there are also other reasons which point to this conclusion which we will set out while considering the argument advanced by mr bhimasankaram.
it divided the magistrates into two groups judicial magistrates and executive magistrates.
but on appeal by the state of andhra pradesh to this court this court held that there was no misjoinder of charges that the introduction of a large number of charges spread over a long period was a question of propriety and that it should be left to the judge or the magistrate trying the case to adopt the course which he thought to be appropriate in the facts and circumstances of the case.
section 234.
the vesco had no managing director but at each meeting of its board of directors one of the directors used to be elected chairman.
what is necessary to consider is whether applying all these tests we should act upon the evidence of the approver should be acted upon.
nor again could they be tried jointly only with the help of cl.
criminal conspiracy was however not an unknown thing before the amendment of the indian penal code in 1913.
again as already stated section 2341 does not override the provisions of section 2351 which permits trial of a person for more offences than one committed during any period provided they are so connected together as to form one transaction.
section 160 provides that a witness may also testify to the facts mentioned in any such document as is mentioned in section 159.
p c was transportation for life or imprisonment of either description for ten years and fine.
while we are disposed to agree with learned counsel that the questions embrace a number of matters and that it would have been better if those matters had been made the subjects of separate questions the answers given by the respondents clearly show that they understood the questions and wherever possible they have given complete answers to those questions.
that in our opinion is not the correct legal position.
finally he said that the court did not perform its duty under section 342 4 of the code as amended as it failed to bring to the notice of the respondents that they may if they chose give evidence in their defence.
it obtained licences from the government under the electricity act for supply of electrical energy to visakhapatnam anakapalli and some other places.
fact misappropriated by the respondents in the circumstance that there are no corresponding entries in the account books of those firms.
thus he points out that where several persons are accused of more offences than one of the same kind committed by them jointly within a period of 12 months the number of offences for which they could be tried can not exceed three.
the aeco was appointed managing agent for each of these corporations under separate agreements.
take cls.
bearing in mind the fact that the provisions in the former part of chapter xix are applicable to charges made with the aid of section 239 only so far as may be it would not be right to construe section 239 as being subject to the provisions of sections 233 to 236.
we shall first deal with the third point.
the same offence committed by all of them is that under section 147 and all of them can be tried jointly in respect of that offence under cl.
with these observations we set aside the acquittal of the respondents and remit the appeal to the high court for decision on merits in the light of our observations.
these amounts also used to be noted in the private note book and entered.
he pressed his claim for appointment as secretary of vesco and representative of the managing agents at visakhapatnam and r h g raju appointed him to that post.
