appeal allowed.
weaving works and according to the terms of tenancy suit the suit premises were leased for manufacturing cloth in the name of ahmedabad fine weaving works.
the respondent had further alleged that the appellant no 1 had closed the business and he was not using the said premises for the purpose for which it was let to him.
the agreement must be to share profits of business and 3 the business must be carried on by all or any of the persons concerned acting for all.
the respondent plaintiff had alleged in both the suits that the appellant was his tenant in the suit premises which were leased to him for conducting his business in the name of ahmedabad fine.
the high court may at any time call for the record of any case under this act for the purpose of satisfying itself that a decision made therein is according to law and may pass such order in relation thereto as it thinks fit.
the partnership deeds were there entitling the petitioner to share in the partnership.
as we read the power the high court must ensure that the principles of law have been correctly borne in mind.
but thereafter when the partnership deed exhibit 69 was executed the appellant and his father joined the firm with an agreement to share profits only and their share was fixed at 0 03 paise in a rupee.
the first question therefore is whether the high court could do so in the facts of this case and secondly whether the high court was right in so doing.
it accordingly decreed the suit for possession instituted by the landlord.
on or about 24th of october1960.
the high court could not substitute its own finding for the one reached by the courts below on a reappraisal of evidence.
2 the work to be carried out by our partnership is of manufacturing and selling neon signs tubes and of obtaining orders therefore.
hereinafter called the rent act is the question involved in this appeal by special leave from the judgment and order of the high court of gujarat dated 21st of august1979.
the trial court in the instant appeal held that there was subletting.
scr 933 1961 indlaw sc 157 had to consider section 351 of the delhi ajmer rent corntrol act1952.
judged by that standard we are of the opinion that the high court in this case had exceeded its jurisdiction.
all these factors were present before the court of small causes.
mehta.
the first partnership deed which is exhibit 114 is dated 13th october1960 it recited that the partnership firm should be presently started at ahmedabad and the same should later be started in another city.
