we do not agree with this submission.
the provision for such enquiry as it thinks fit is generally an enabling provision intended to facilitate the subordinate legislating body to obtain relevant information from all and whatever source and not intended to vest any right in any one other than the subordinate legislating body.
order 1979 was made.
cl 2 of paragraph 3 provides that while so fixing the price of a bulk drug the government may take into account the average cost of production of such bulk drug manufactured by an efficient manufacturer and allow a reasonable return on net worth.
p c means packing charges worked out in accordance with such norms as may be specified by the government from time to time by notification in the official gazette in this behalf.
in the present case the enquiry contemplated by paragraph 3 of drugs prices control.
we have already noticed that net worth is defined to mean the share capital of a company plus free reserve if any.
a price fixation measure does not concern itself with the interests of an individual manufacturer or producer.
section 31 of the essential commodities act enables the central government if it is of opinion that it is necessary or expedient so to do for maintaining or increasing supplies of any essential commodity or for securing their equitable distribution and availability at fair price to provide for regulating or prohibiting by order the production supply and distribution thereof and trade and commerce therein.
according to chief justice burger rulemaking is normally directed toward the formulation of requirements having a general application to all members of a broadly identifiable class.
formulations constituting categories i ii and iii are enumerated in the third schedule.
paragraph 6 enables the government to fix the maximum sale price of imported bulk drugs specified in first and second schedules.
beg cj.
it is provided that the amount credited to the drugs prices equalization account shall be spent for paying to the manufacturer the shortfall between his retention price and the common selling price or as the case may be the pooled price.
an adjudication on the other hand applies to specific individuals or situations.
the drugs prices control order 1970 defined bulk drugs as follows bulk drugs means any unprecessed phamaceutical chemical biological and plant product or medicinal gas conforming to pharmacopocial or other standards accepted which is used as such or after being processed into formulations and includes an essential bulk drug.
the hathi committee had recommended that a return post tax between 12 to 14 on equity that is paid up capital plus reserves may be adopted as the basis for price fixation depending on the importance and complexity of the bulk drug.
it could not therefore give rise to a complaint that a rule of natural justice has not been followed in fixing the price.
after referring to hari shanker bagla v state of madhya pradesh 1955 1 scr 380 1954 indlaw sc 135 union of india v bhanamal gulzarimal 1960 2 scr 627 1959 indlaw sc 127 sri krishna rice mills v joint director food 1965 indlaw sc 93 unreported state of rajasthan v nathmal and mithamal 1954 scr 982 1954 indlaw sc 66 narendra kumar v union of india 1960 2 scr 375 1959 indlaw sc 61 panipat co operative sugar mills v union of india 1973 1 scc 129 1972 indlaw sc 155 anakapalle co operative agricultural industrial society ltd v union of india.
since prices of formulations are primarily dependent on prices of buli drugs the notifications fixing the retail prices of formulations were also quashed.
in particular section 32c enables the central government to make an order providing for controlling the price at which any essential commodity may be bought or sold.
the distinction between an essential bulk drug included in the schedule and a bulk drug not so included in the schedule which was made in 1970 drugs prices control.
it appears that although several writ petitions filed by different manufacturers were disposed of by the high court by a common judgment the union of india filed an appeal within the prescribed period of limitation against one of the manufacturers cynamide india limited only.
the government however fixed the price at rs 1810 per kg.
it is primarily from the consumer public 's point of view that the government is expected to make its enquiry.
this court is not a tribunal for relief from the crudities and inequities of complicated experimental economic legislation.
order is to be made for the purposes of fixing the maximum price at which a bulk drug may be sold with a view to regulating its equitable distribution and making it available at a fair price.
the former is an enquiry leading to a legislative activity while the latter is an enquiry which ends in an administrative or quasi judicial decision.
legislation is the process of formulating a general rule of conduct without reference to particular cases and usually operating in future administration is the process of performing particular acts of issuing particular orders or of making decisions which apply general rules to particular cases.
it is to be noticed here that the payment to be made under section 33c is not necessarily the same as the controlled price which may be fixed under section 32c of the act.
he was required to report this price to the central government within two weeks of the commencement of the order and was further prohibited from increasing the price without obtaining the approval of the central government.
again adjudication determines past and present facts and declares rights and liabilities while legislation indicates the future course of action.
all that the government may do is to dispose of the review application with the utmost expedition.
leader price means a price fixed by the government for formulations specified in category i category ii or category iii of the third schedule in accordance with the provisions of paras.
similarly where expenses have been legitimately incurred and allowed by income tax authorities there was no justification for excluding those items of expenditure from the cost.
the government of india accepted the report of the hathi committee and announced in parliament the statement on drug policy pursuant to which the drugs prices control order 1970 was repealed and the drugs prices control.
in maneka gandhi 's case where bhagwati j while expounding on natural justice pointed out that in appropriate cases where a pre decisional hearing was impossible there must atleast be a post decisional hearing so as to meet the requirement of the rule audi alteram partem.
g adjustments relating to previous years.
in saraswati industrial syndicate.
the petitioners through their counsel further given an undertaking that in this court the petitioners would not contend or challenge the said amount if deposited is not liable to be deposited under any law whatsoever.
bulk drugs were however broadly divided into indigenously manufactured bulk drugs imported bulk drugs and hulk drugs which were both manufactured indigenously as also imported.
the essential commodities act is a legislation towards that end.
the suggestion of the learned counsel was that the nature of the review under paragraph 27 was so apparently quasi judicial and that the need to know the reasons for the order sought to be reviewed was so real if the manufacturer was effectively to exercise his right to seek the quasijudicial remedy of review that by necessary implication it became obvious that the order fixing the maximum price must be considered to be quasijudicial and not legislative in character.
to be furnished.
though we see considerable force in the submission of shri diwan we think that the circumstances of the instant cases do justify the exercise of our discretion to condone the delay.
it is then prescribed by clause 3 no person shall sell a bulk drug at a price exceeding the price notified under sub paragraph 1 plus local taxes if any payable provided that until the price of bulk drug is so notified the price of such bulk drug shall be the price which prevailed immediately before the commencement of this order and the manufacture of such bulk drug at a price exceeding the price which prevailed as aforesaid.
m u means make up referred to in para.
m c means material cost and includes the cost of drugs and other pharmaceutical aids used including overages if any and process loss thereon in accordance with such norms as may be specified by the government from time to time by notification in the official gazette in this behalf.
we do not agree with the submission.
after the 1979 drugs prices control.
the second observation we wish to make is legislative action plenary or subordinate is not subject to rules of natural justice.
there is no justification that the producer should be given the benefit of price increase attributable to hoarding or cornering or artificial short supply.
in laxmi khandsari v state of uttar pradesh 1981 2 scc 600 1981 indlaw sc 558 it was held that the sugar cane control order 1966 was a legislative measure and therefore rules of natural justice were not attracted.
the order requiring him to sell the sugar to the government was made under section 32f of the essential commodities act under which the central government was enabled to make an order requiring any person engaged in the production of any essential commodity to sell the whole or specified part of the quantity produced by him to the government or its nominee.
but on the other hand if the review application turns out to be entirely without substance and has to be rejected and if in the meanwhile the formulation is allowed to be sold at a higher price the consumer public suffers.
paragraph 15 empowers the government to revise prices of formulations.
a provision for such enquiry as it thinks fit by a subordinate legislating body we have explained earlier is generally an enabling provision to facilitate the subordinate legislating body to obtain relevant information from any source and it is not intended to vest any right in any body other than the subordinate legislating body.
the ceiling price will be determined taking into account the production costs and a reasonable return for the units which are the market leaders.
on the conclusions arrived at by us we have no doubt that the appeal must be allowed and the writ petition in the high court dismissed.
that we think is the nature and scope of the review contemplated by paragraph 27 in relation to orders made under paragraphs 3 12 and 13.
common sale price we take it is the price at which manufacturers whose retentions are fixed may sell the bulk drug despite the maximum sale price fixed under paragraph 3.
we start with the observation price fixation is neither the function nor the forte of the court.
thereafter on november 25 1981 a further order was made to the following effect after hearing learned counsel and with their consent and arrangement has been worked out as on interim measure.
but it does not follow that the notification fixing the maximum price must necessarily be struck down as obsolete by the mere passage of time.
in fixing the price of a bulk drug the government is expressly required by the order to take into account the average cost of production of such bulk drug manufactured by an efficient manufacturer and allow a reasonable return on net worth.
it is meant to lay down a general rule applicable to all persons or objects or transactions of a particular kind or class.
order 1979 were made.
it was stated that the applications of the manufacturers for review of the notifications fixing the prices had not been disposed of for years though time was really of the very essence of the matter.
c c means conversion cost worked out in accordance with such norms as may be specified by the government from time to time by notification in the official gazettee in this behalf.
it was also reiterated that the decision in shree meenakshi mills case was based on a special agreement between the parties and therefore had no relevance to the question before them.
the affidavits filed on behalf of the union of india show that the procedure which is adopted in hearing the review applications is to discuss across the table the various items that have been taken into account.
b bad debts and provisions.
