point 2.
on facts the position was that the aicte had granted approval on 30 4 95 expressly stating that this was on consideration of the observations made by the expert committee and the recommendations made by the central regional committee state level committee central task force as per the provisions of aicte regulations dated 31 10 94.
regulation 8 deals with scrutiny of applications.
it reads as follows grant of affiliation 1.
appeal allowed.
para 4 of the counter affidavit had further stated that the government was not in a position to take a decision to start new engineering college without properly assessing the necessity of more engineering gradu ates in the state and exploring the possibility of employment oppor tunity in the country to the extent possible.
reg 84.
learned senior counsel for the appellant.
procedure and conditions for affiliation could not be inconsistent with the provisions of the central act in particular s 10k of the regulation and the university could not seek approval of government.
othersl995 4 scc 104 1995 indlaw sc 1631.
regulation 4 deals with the requirement of grant of approval and for the commencement of these regulations a b no course or programme shall be introduced in any technical institutions university or deemed university or university departments or college or c no technical institutions universities or deemed universities or university departments or colleges shall continue to admit students for degree or diploma courses or programmes.
obtaining the views of the state government as already stated did not amount to obtaining its approval.
whether any statute in the state of kerala if it required such approval would be void.
therefore this special leave petition is dismissed as premature.
i to the order and the general conditions were enlisted in annexure ii the.
another v adhiyaman educational research institute.
after the constitutional amendment 42 amendment act1976 entry 25 of list iii in the concurrent list.
in inviting your attention to the reference cited i am to inform you that government regret their inability to comply with your request.
thus the university ought to have considered the grant of final or further affiliation without waiting for any approval from the state govern ment and should have acted on the basis of the permission granted by aicte and other relevant factors in the university act or statutes which are not inconsistent with the aicte act or its regulations.
the secretary technical education of the state of kerala was also a member of that committee.
the tamil nadu case.
the aicte 's approval dated 30 4 95 showed that the approval had been given by the state level com mittee of which they were obviously members.
the university also granted permission on 21 11 87 for the academic year 1987.
