appeals allowed.
if the accused was arrested at behror there is no reason why the memo of arrest should not have been prepared at village behror.
this piece of evidence was put to the accused during his statement under section 313 cr.
the forensic science laboratory confirmed presence of group b blood on the clothes of deceased.
human semen was detected on underwear.
conviction of the accused appellant under sections 302 and 3762f of indian penal code is set aside.
secondly harish chand sharma himself states that between 19 3 1991 and 25 3 1991 the ac cused was called several times at the police station and on 21 3 1991 itself he was called twice in a day.
thus none of the pieces of evidence relied on as incriminating by the trial court and the high court can be treated as incriminating pieces of circumstantial evidence against the accused.
false plea of alibi.
according to report exbt.
the two learned judges constituting the division bench differed in their opinion.
therein a charge under sections 376 and 302 ipc was sought to be substantiated on circumstanctial evidence.
thereafter the wit nesses went to see movie in the cinema hall.
i last seen together on the point of last seen together there is solitary testimony of a child witness shalu pw7 aged about 4 years on 23 3 1992 the date of her examination in the court.
v absconding of the accused was the accused absconding at all.
no evidence is available to show as to what was the blood group of the accused and therefore the possibility of blood on the underwear being of the accused himself can not be and is not ruled out.
in dhananjoy chatterjee v state of west bengal 1994 2 scc 220 1994 indlaw sc 1743 wherein one of us dr a s anand j as his lordship then was spoke for the bench.
he is acquitted of the charges framed against him.
another circumstantial evidence relied on was that a stain of semen was found on the under pant of the accused.
presence of semen stain on underwear assuming that the underwear belonged to the accused though there is no evidence adduced in this regard is not by itself an incriminating piece of evidence connecting the accused with the crime in question.
the appeals are allowed.
on asking a few questions by way of preliminary examination the learned trial judge found that the witness could answer some of the questions.
goma to whose shop the three girls had gone to buy balloon has not been examined.
in shankarlal gyarasilal dixit 's case 1980 indlaw sc 47 supra this court cautioned human nature is too willing when faced with brutal crimes to spin stories out of strong suspicions.
in the result the high court has declined the confirmation of death sentence but upheld the conviction on both the charges found proved and dismissed the appeal laying challenge to the conviction subject to modification in the sentence by substituting sentence of life imprisonment for death sentence under section 302 ipc.
abnormal conduct of accused kalu ram pw5 stated that two or three days after the date of dead body of s having been found.
though the accused is alleged to have been arrested at behror but the memo of arrest was not prepared at behror it was prepared at village kotputli.
the accused has not stated during his statement under section 313 cr.
the plea taken should be capable of meaning that having regard to the time and place when and where he is alleged to have committed the offence he could not have been present.
the accused was arrested on 3 4 1991 on suspicion.
he was further asked to name the witness in whose statement shalu 's reference was available but the investigation officer drew a blank and could not tell the name of the witness from whom any clue as to shalu was received by him.
he did not remember and was therefore not in a position to tell how many number of times the accused subhash was called for interrogation or making enquiries.
it is this testimony which has been relied upon by the trial court as also by the high court as the evidence of last seen together.
this court held as under in a case based on circumstantial evidence the circumstances from which the conclusion of guilt is to be drawn have not only to be fully established but also that all the circumstances so established should be of a conclusive nature and consistent only with the hypoth esis of the guilt of the accused.
in the present case the age of the accused was about 21 years at the time of the incident.
