the high court while passing the impugned order and judgment did not take into consideration that the accused respondent has been convicted in another criminal case no 202 of 1997 by the court of metropolitan magistrate patiala house new delhi.
a person whose case is based on falsehood can be summarily thrown out at any stage of the litigation.
learned senior counsel appearing for the appellant further submitted that there was no good reason for letting the respondent off by granting to him the said benefit of pob act particularly keeping in view the large scale irregularity and unauthorized constructions carried by the builders in delhi despite strict direction of the municipal authorities and courts passing various orders from time to time against the unauthorized constructions.
if he withholds a vital document in order to gain advantage on the other side then he would be guilty of playing fraud on the court as well on the opposite party.
it was further submitted by learned senior counsel appearing for the appellant that the court shall not direct release of offender unless it is satisfied that the offender or his surety if any has a fixed place of abode or regular occupation in the place over which the court exercises jurisdiction or in which the offender is likely to live during the period for which he enters into the bond.
the trial court after the conclusion of the trial convicted the second respondent under sections 332 and 461 of the dmc act and sentenced him to six months simple imprisonment and imposed a fine of rs 5000 annexure p 1.
1the court shall take into consideration the report if any of the probation officer concerned in relation to the case.
the high court also failed to take into consideration that the respondent has been in jail for three days and had not put in substantial period in custody.
it was also submitted that the requirement of calling of a report from the probationer officer under section 42 of the pob act has been waived off by the counsel for the state of delhi and that the counsel for the mcd also did not raise any objection before the high court.
the said court by an order and judgment dated 23 3 2004 dismissed the appeal by holding that there was no infirmity in the order passed by the trial court annexure p 2.
since the high court has disposed of the criminal revision without giving an opportunity of filing counter affidavit to the counsel for the mcd and that the respondent did not disclose the fact in the criminal revision filed before the high court that he has also been convicted in another criminal case no 202 of 1997the judgment impugned in this appeal can not be allowed to stand.
he further submitted that the high court while passing the impugned order and judgment did not take into consideration that the accused respondent had been convicted in another criminal case no 202 of 1997 by the court of metropolitan magistrate patiala house new delhi.
before deciding to act under s 4 1it is mandatory on the part of the court to call for a report from the probation officer and if such a report is received it is mandatory on the part of the court to consider the report.
against the judgment and order dated 23 3 2004the accused filed criminal revision petition no 185 of 2004 before the high court delhi.
2 whether.
the offender can only be released on probation of good conduct under this section when the court forms an opinion having considered the circumstances of the case the nature of the offence and the character of the offender that in a particular case the offender should be released on probation of good conduct.
he further contended that the trial court has committed serious error in exercising jurisdiction while not granting the benefit of probation to the answering respondent and the order of the trial court was therefore rightly and justifiable modified by the high court.
words.
in the said case the accused has been convicted under sections 332461 of the dmc act and sentenced to six months simple imprisonment with fine of rs 5000 in our view there was no good reason for letting the respondent off by granting to him the said benefit of pob act particularly keeping in view the large scale irregularity and unauthorized constructions carried by the builders in delhi despite strict direction of the municipal authorities and despite of the courts passing various orders from time to time against the unauthorized construction.
