the misc.
pratima mehta rs 115 crores even after deducting the amount set aside by itat.
in kedarnath jute mfg.
applications nos.
the properties of late harshad mehta and the appellants herein being notified persons stood attached in terms of the provisions of the act.
l s synthetics ltd 2004 indlaw sc 715 supra.
petition No 41 of 1999.
the parties shall file their respective documents within one week thereafter.
the learned judge special court may therefore proceed to pass an appropriate order as regard confirmation of the sale of such properties.
appeals allowed.
allegedly therein it was shown that the individuals had received large loans advances credits from the harshad mehta group and there had been intermingling of the assets to the tune of crores of rupees.
sale of commercial properties has never been seriously contested by the appellants.
lifting the corporate veil.
tax liability.
the parties have also filed several charts before us showing individual assets and liabilities.
a of section 112 refer only to taxes relating to a specific period or to all taxes due from the notified person.
if the orders of assessment have been set aside the liabilities of the appellants have to be worked out on the basis of the new orders of assessment.
it is interesting to note that the properties belonging to the mother of harshad mehta has since been released from attachment.
section 5 provides for establishment of the special court.
in fact one of the contentions raised on behalf of the appellants had been that if commercial properties are sold there would be no need to sale the residential properties.
it exceeds rs 35 crores vii.
admittedly the flats have been sold subject to the result of these appeals.
in view of our foregoing discussions we are of the opinion that i the contention of the appellants that they being not involved in offences in transactions in securities could not have been proceeded in terms of the provisions of the act can not be accepted in view of the fact that they have been notified in terms thereof.
a large number of commercial properties having already been sold and third party rights having been created this court should not interfere with the impugned judgment.
mehta 1998.
as regard the tax liabilities of the appellants herein we would request the learned judge special court to consider the matter afresh in the light of the observations made hereinbefore.
this court it is trite can take into consideration the subsequent events.
41 of 1999 4 of 2001 265 266 and 275 of 2003.
the ratio of the said decision as regard applicability of the limitation act was further considered by a division bench of this court in fairgrowth investments ltd v custodian 2004 11 scc 472 2004 indlaw sc 868 wherein it was held that section 5 of the limitation act will have no application in relation to an application falling under sub s 2 of section 4 of the act stating it is enough for the purpose of this appeal to hold that section 292 of the limitation act 1963 does not apply to proceedings under section 42 of the special court trial of offences relating to transactions in securities act 1992.
this court also in its order dated 5th may 2004 clarified that the interim order dated 30th january 2004 shall not be applicable as regard sale of commercial properties as even before this court the same had not been questioned.
in any event ordinarily a bona fide purchaser for value in an action sale is treated differently than a decree holder purchasing such properties.
neither the words on and from the date of notification nor the word property lead to the conclusion that what is attached is not only that property which the notified person owned or was possessed of on the date of the notification but also all such property as he might acquire at any time thereafter.
8 1 to misc.
in these appeals we are not concerned with the said flat.
a misc.
iiiwhether the tax liabilities could not have been held to be due as the order of assessments did not become final and binding.
