p c which was recorded on the very next day of the death of bhimabai this witness did not state that the cause for ill treatment was a demand for money and a consequent beating.
he has deposed that in the marriage he had given rs 20000 as dowry.
when confronted with her aforesaid statement under section 161 cr.
the appeal preferred by the appellants was dismissed by the high court by the judgment and order dated 23 february 2005.
in view of the aforesaid definition of the word dowry any property or valuable security should be given or agreed to be given either directly or indirectly at or before or any time after the marriage and in connection with the marriage of the said parties.
pw 1 then immediately went to the house of the accused along with some of his relatives.
there he saw that bhimabai was lying dead and froth was coming out of her mouth which indicated that she had consumed some poisonous substance.
the learned sessions judge after consideration of the material on record acquitted the appellants of the charges under sections 498 a and 306 read with section 34 ipc but convicted them under section 304 b ipc and imposed a sentence of 7 years ri thereunder.
the last time she visited her parental home was during the festival of nag panchami and at that time she looked depressed.
she also told her parents that her husband had asked her to bring an amount of rs 1000 1200 for the purpose of household expenses and manure.
whenever bhimabai came to her parental home she used to complain that for some domestic reasons she was being harassed.
the appellant no 1 is in custody.
appeal allowed.
initially bhimabai was treated well for about six months but thereafter the appellants started ill treating her.
what i meant was that there was demand for money for defraying expenses of manure etc.
it is important to note that in her statement under section 161 cr.
sc 558 1991 indlaw sc 861.
see union of india v garware nylons ltd air 1996.
section 2 of dowry prohibition act reads as under 2.
the police patil of the village pw 3 sandu mohanrao patil lodged an accidental death report at 9 00 p m on 15 september 1991 at the police station.
we do not consider it necessary to examine this question.
the appeal before the high court and also in this court has been preferred by the appellants challenging their conviction under section 304 b read with section 34 ipc.
she further stated that it will be correct to say that her daughter was receiving ill treatment as a result of domestic cause.
he has deposed that on an earlier occasion he had gone along with pw 1 and some others to the house of appellant no 1 to persuade him not to harass bhimabai and to treat her well.
pw 5 sumanbai is the mother of the deceased bhimabai.
p c which was recorded very next day of the incident i e on 16 september 1991 she did not state that cause of ill treatment was a demand for money and a consequent beating.
when she had visited her parental home on the last occasion she had said that her husband appasaheb had asked her to bring rs 1000 1200 for domestic expenses and for purchasing manure as he had no sufficient money.
bhimabai had complained to him that she was not being given proper food clothings and even footwear and occasionally the appellant No 1 used to beat her.
in his cross examination he has admitted that his statement that he had given rs 20000 in dowry at the time of marriage was incorrect and in fact he had given rs 5000 as dowry and the total expenses incurred in the marriage was about rs 20000.
the witness has further deposed that on the date of incident a man came from village palshi on motorcycle and informed that he should immediately go there as bhimabai was not well.
a demand for money on account of some financial stringency or for meeting some urgent domestic expenses of for purchasing manure can not be termed as a demand for dowry as the said word is normally understood.
definition of dowry in this act dowry means any property or valuable security given or agreed to be given either directly or indirectly a by one party to a marriage to the other party to the marriage or b by the parent of either party to a marriage or by any other person to either party to the marriage or to any other person at or before or any time after the marriage in connection with the marriage of the said parties but does not include dowry or mahr in the case of persons to whom the muslim personal law shariat applies.
he then went to the house of the appellant and saw bhimabai lying with froth coming out of her mouth.
the report of the post mortem examination was admitted by the defence.
she has stated in her examination in chief that bhimabai was being ill treated by the appellants and the reason for ill treatment was that they were demanding money to be brought from her parental home.
in her statement under section 161 cr.
this appeal by special leave has been preferred against the judgment and order dated 23 february 2005 of bombay high court aurangabad bench by which the appeal preferred by the appellants was dismissed and their conviction under section 304 b read with section 34 ipc and sentence of 7 years ri imposed thereunder by the learned sessions judge aurangabad was affirmed.
he saw that bhimabai was lying dead and froth was coming out of her mouth which was smelling of thimet insecticide.
her father pw 1 tukaram along with some of his relatives went to the house of the accused and tried to persuade them not to ill treat bhimabai.
as already stated the appellants were also charged under sections 498 a and 306 read with section 34 ipc but were acquitted of the said charges by the learned sessions judge which order has attained finality for the reason that the state did not prefer appeal against the same.
he has also deposed that it was after about 1 12 years of marriage that bhimabai first complained to him about the harassment being caused to her.
the learned sessions judge framed charges under sections 498 a 304 b read with section 34 ipc and section 306 read with section 34 ipc against both the appellants.
in his examination in chief pw 1 has said that whenever his daughter came to her parental home she used to complain that she was being subjected to harassment by the appellants on account of some domestic reasons and further that her husband appellant no 1 had told her that while coming back from her parental home she should bring rs 1000 1200 for expenses and for manure as he had no sufficient money.
the last time bhimabai visited her parental home was on the occasion of the festival of nag panchami and she had complained that she was being ill treated and was sometimes given beating for bringing money from her parents.
therefore the giving or taking of property or valuable security must have some connection with the marriage of the parties and a correlation between the giving or taking of property or valuable security with the marriage of the parties is essential.
pw 5 sumanbai has deposed that bhimabai was receiving ill treatment as a result of domestic cause and to a specific question put by the court as to what she meant by domestic cause she gave a reply that there was a demand for money for defraying expenses of manure etc.
the judgment and order dated 23 february 2005 of the high court and the judgment and order dated 04 january 1993 of the learned sessions judge convicting the appellants under section 304 b ipc are set aside and the appellants are acquitted of the said charge.
for about six months bhimabai was treated well but thereafter the accused started asking her to bring rs 1000 1200 from her parents to meet the household expenses and also for purchasing manure.
the sureties and bail bonds furnished by her are discharged.
in view of the discussion made above the appeal is allowed.
she replied that she did not know why there was no mention in the said statement that the cause for ill treatment was a demand for money and a consequent beating.
the appellant No 2 is on bail.
she has specifically stated that for a period of six months after the marriage bhimabai was treated well and thereafter she had started complaining about the harassment being caused to her.
in her cross examination pw 5 sumanbai has stated that after news about the condition of bhimabai was given by a man from village palshi she along with her husband and some other relations went there and noticed that bhimabai was lying dead in the house and froth was coming out of her mouth.
the evidence adduced by the prosecution does not therefore show that any demand for dowry as defined in section 2 of the dowry prohibition act was made by the appellants as what was allegedly asked for was some money for meeting domestic expenses and for purchasing manure.
the explanation appended to sub section 1 of section 304 b ipc says that dowry shall have the same meaning as in section 2 of dowry prohibition act 1961.
he has admitted that it was appellant No 1 who had sent a person on motorcycle who had given information regarding bhimabai being unwell and that both the appellants were present at the time of her funeral.
the appellant No 2 kadubai is the mother of the appellant No 1 and both the appellants were residing in the same house in village palshi.
the specific case of the prosecution is that bhimabai ended her life by consuming poison because of harassment caused to her by the appellants for or in connection with demand of dowry.
a few days before nag panchami festival bhimabai came to her parental home and complained that the accused were not giving her proper food clothing and even footwear.
thereafter the accused treated bhimabai properly but after about four months they again started harassing her.
learned counsel for the appellants has also submitted that there is absolutely no evidence either direct or circumstantial to show that bhimabai committed suicide.
whenever bhimabai went to her parental home she used to tell her parents that her husband and mother in law accused appellants were harassing her and used to occasionally beat her.
