i have been implicated in this case falsely.
appeal dismissed.
we have considered the submission of the state counsel very carefully.
it is also clear from the evidence that the two spent cartridge cases recovered one from near mukhtiar kaur 's dead body and the second from the right barrel of the gun lying near the appellant had been sent to the forensic science laboratory which opined that one of the cartridges had been fired from the gun and the other could have been fired therefrom.
mr goburdhan has also cited mahmood v state of u p 1976 1 scc 542 1975 indlaw sc 643 shankarlal gyarasilal dixit v state of maharashtra 1981 2 scc 35 1980 indlaw sc 47 sharad birdhichand sarda v state of maharashtra 1984 4 scc 116 1984 indlaw sc 432 omwati smt and ors v mahendra singh.
there could perhaps be some truth in this suggestion as it is significant that though the appellant had an extended family living with him i e mother wife son living in the village and two young daughters who were studying outside and residing in a hostel but were frequent visitors home yet none of them has come forth to depose in his favour.
i never harassed mukhtiar kaur nor ever got her land mutated from her mother by fraud.
jora singh and gurdeep singh immediately removed ujjagar singh to the civil hospital dhuri in the jeep belonging to kulwant singh pw4.
some body suddenly came and fired at me.
it has also been submitted that in a case of attempted suicide a firearm must of necessity be used from a very close range and the absence of any blackening charring or burning around the wound on ujjagar singh clearly ruled out the possibility of such an attempt.
there was no other person.
the learned state counsel has however relied on the statement of pw16 dr sanjay uppal who was apparently the first doctor to have examined the appellant wherein he clearly testified that the blackened portion around the firearm injury had been removed by him.
with knife throat and wrist are the favourite sites.
i have been implicated falsely in this case.
