it was suggested that an agreement may be signed between them for the period from 1st september1998 until the matter was finally decided by the appellant under the tender on the existing terms and conditions with the charter hire being provisionally paid on ad hoc basis at 90 of the rate which was prevailing under the existing charter party.
october1998the respondent had informed the appellant that they were agreeable to apply new rates for use of the vessel from 1st july1998 provided all the nine vessels are used.
as such all said and done oil co ordination committee s proposal was not accepted.
issue.
however before the charter party was to come to an end on 29th june1998the indian oil corporation limited for short ioc acting as agent of the appellant issued a fax to various ship owners including the respondent herein requesting them to extend the validity of the charter party agreement dated 6th may1997 beyond 30th june1998 for a period of one month from 1st july1998 with option for two further extensions of 15 days each.
final voyage should the vessel be on her voyage towards the port of redelivery at the time of payment of hire is due payment of hire shall be made for such length of time as owners and charterers may agree upon as being estimated time necessary to complete the voyage less any disbursements made or expected to be made or expenses incurred or expected to be incurred by charterers for owners account and less the estimated amount of bunker fuel remaining at the termination of the voyage and when the vessel is redelivered any overpayment shall be refunded by the owners or underpayment paid by charterers.
vide order dated 12th.
issue no 2 whether there is any common practice that if the vessel is not re delivered at the end of the period mentioned in the time charter the vessel would be governed by the charter party under which originally it was chartered.
the respondent was asked to convey their acceptance to the said suggestion.
rendered by the high court of judicature at bombay whereby the learned single judge has set aside the order passed by the arbitral tribunal holding that they did not have jurisdiction to entertain and try the claim and counter claim made by the parties.
appeal dismissed.
the writ petition was ultimately disposed of on 20th august1999 it was only after a gap of about seven months that on 15th march2000the ioc informed the respondent about the evaluation of the tenders in terms of the order passed by the high court.
it was only on 31st december1998 when the ioc issued a fax to the respondent enclosing draft letter regarding charter party agreement to be signed between the charterers and owners with minor modification if necessaryrequesting the respondent to sign as per proposal by the 4th january1999on which date the respondent expressed its disinclination stating in reply fax that as per usual practice pending finalization of new charter the existing terms and conditions of the charter party continue to apply.
mr sudhir chandra learned senior counsel appearing on behalf of the appellant has assailed the impugned order on the sole ground that the charter party dated 6th may1997 having come to an end by efflux of time on 31st august1998the arbitration clause contained in it also perished and therefore in the absence of a fresh arbitration agreement claim of the respondent relating to the period 1st september1998 to 31st august1999 could not be referred to arbitration by invoking arbitration clause in charter party dated 6th may1997 laying emphasis on the fax message dated 26th august1998 addressed by the oil co ordination committee to the oil companies including the appellant inter alia informing them that no further extension of the current charter hire rate will be allowed learned counsel submitted that the said message made it clear to all concerned that charter party dated 6th may1997 would not be extended under any circumstance.
jag praja and jag prayog.
finally it was suggested that we therefore suggest that we sign an agreement with you for the period from 1st september1998 until the matter is finally decided by you under the tender on the existing terms and conditions with the charter hire being provisionally paid on an ad hoc basis at 90 of the rate which was prevailing under the existing charter party.
respect.
it was also submitted that the view taken by the high court being a plausible view interference in exercise of extra ordinary jurisdiction u art 136 of the constitution is unwarranted.
claims and counter claims were filed before the arbitral tribunal.
what is in dispute is whether the arbitration agreement between the parties had got extinguished after 31st august1998i e the date of expiry of the extended period of the charter party.
on 12th october1998the respondent informed the ioc that if all its nine vessels mentioned in the letter are used at a fair and reasonable rate for one year from 1st september1998 to 31st august1999 for which the tender had been floated they were agreeable to apply the new agreed rates for use of the said nine vessels from 1st july1998 on 31st october1998.
however on 31st october1998the appellant faxed ioc s message informing them of the extension of the existing coastal tanker fleet for the month of october1998 at reduced rates viz 80 of the charter party rates prevailing till 30th august1998 on receipt of the said letter the respondent vide their letter dated 5th november1998protested against the revision of the rates for the vessel not being considered under the new bid and stated in unequivocal terms that it was not possible for them to accept the proposal of the oil co ordination committee communicated to them vide letter dated 12th.
january1999coupled with the fact that they continued to use the vessel manifestly goes to show that except for the charter rate there was no other dispute between the parties.
indisputably the vessel in question had not been re delivered at least during the relevant period and the appellant continued to use the vessel beyond 31st august1998 having failed to re deliver the vessel in terms of cl 4 1 of the charter party the appellant can not plead that the charter party had been fully worked out.
as noted above after the extended period of charter party dated 6th may1997 had come to an end on 31st august1998.
thus the proposal by the oil co ordination committee was not accepted by the respondent.
admittedly after 31st august1998re delivery of vessel did not take place and therefore in terms of clause 23the vessel continued to be hired on the same terms and conditions except the term as to the hire charges on which there was disagreement between the parties.
in view of the foregoing discussion we do not find any infirmity in the view taken by the high court that charter party dated 6th may1997 had not come to an end by efflux of time and it got extended by the conduct of the parties warranting interference.
august1998they had no jurisdiction to decide the reference.
admittedly the vessels continued to be chartered by the appellant beyond the date of this letter.
issue no 1 whether the hon ble arbitral tribunal has no jurisdiction to adjudicate upon the dispute between the claimant and the respondent for the period september1998 to august1999.
the learned judge also felt that the tribunal had erred in totally excluding from its consideration cls 23 and 4 1 of the charter party dated 6th may1997whereunder the charter party was to come to an end on re delivery of the vessel.
the appellant m s bharat petroleum corporation limited is a government of india undertaking under the administrative control of the ministry of petroleum natural gas and is engaged in refining distributing and selling of petroleum products all over the country.
charterers to give owners 15 days notice to probable port of re delivery.
the learned arbitral tribunal overlooked this aspect of the matter.
accordingly on 29th june1998 an addendum was signed between the parties whereby the validity period of charter party was extended for one month with an option for two further extensions for a period of 15 days each.
it is clear from the pleadings and issue no 2framed by the arbitral tribunal that it was respondent s consistent stand that since the hired vessel had not been re delivered at the end of the time charter party the vessel would be governed by the terms and conditions in the charter party dated 6th may1997.
may1997 came to an end by efflux of time on 30th august1998.
and as the dispute between the parties related to the period subsequent to 31st.
the learned tribunal found issue no 2 in the negative and issue no 5 in the affirmative.
october1998 yet again while responding to appellant s fax dated 31st december1998whereby the respondent was required to sign a provisional charter party by 4th january1999vide their letter dated 4th january1999the respondent pointed out to the appellant that usual practice is that pending finalization of the new charter the existing terms and conditions of the charter party continue to apply and therefore they were willing to sign the agreement as contemplated by the appellant based on the existing terms and conditions.
shyam divan learned senior counsel appearing on behalf of the respondent on the other hand submitted that notwithstanding the fact that the period fixed originally under the charter party or under the addendum dated 29th june1998 had come to an end the subsequent conduct of the parties goes to show that charter of the vessel by the appellant beyond 31st august1998 continued to be governed by the terms and conditions stipulated in charter party dated 6th may1997 and therefore an arbitration agreement did exist between the parties.
notwithstanding the provisions of cl 4 hereof should the vessel be upon voyage at the expiry of the period of this charter charterers shall have the use of vessel at the same rate and conditions for such extended time as may be necessary for the completion of the round voyage on which she is engaged and her return to a port of redelivery as provided by the charter.
vide letter of even date i e 4th january1999the appellant suggested to the respondent that in the absence of a formal charter party with effect from 1st september1998a provisional arrangement for a period of four months effective from 1st september1998 with an option for extension of one month may be mutually agreed to by payment at the rate of 80 on charter hire prevailing on 30th june1998as ad hoc hire.
the respondent challenged the said award before the high court.
charter hire rate worked out by the committee for vessel jag praja for the period from 1st september1998 to 31st august1999 was communicated to the respondent.
it seems that being aggrieved of the decision of the ioc to invite revised price bids after opening of the sealed tenders one of the bidders filed a writ petition in the bombay high court questioning the said decision.
this appeal by special leave arises out of a judgment and order dated 1st march2005.
the ioc faxed to the respondent relevant portion of the message received by them from oil co ordination committee extending the period of usage of the existing coastal tanker fleet for the month of october1998at 80 charter hire rates prevailing till 30th june1998on provisional basis subject to adjustment of provisional charter hire with retrospective date from 1st september1998 against the revised charter hire to be finalised by the oil industry in response to the tender floated by ioc on 1st september1998 respondent s consent was asked for.
thus the short question for determination is whether on the expiry of the extended period of charter hire on 31st august1998charter party dated 6th may1997 came to an end and the arbitration agreement between the parties perished with it.
it was thus held that the charter party dated 6th may1997 did not come to an end by efflux of time and it was extended by the parties on the same terms and conditions except the rate of hire.
therefore we refrain from expressing any opinion on the scope and ambit of the arbitration clause though prime facie it appears to be quite widely worded.
the writ petition was disposed of vide order dated 20th august1999 while disapproving in principle the action of the ioc in inviting fresh price bids after opening the bids but without recording final opinion on the merits of the issues raised in writ petition the court disposed of the petition inter alia directing that i the charter hire rates should be fixed by the tender evaluation committee and ii as the tender was for the period ending 31st august1999 and the writ petition was being decided on 20th august1999the ioc will not be required to enter into a contract for the period from 1st september1998 to 31st august1999 it is not in dispute that the vessel jag praja with which we are concerned continued to be chartered by the appellant till 31st august1999.
by the impugned order the learned single judge has set aside the said award inter alia holding that arbitral tribunal has the jurisdiction to adjudicate the disputes between the parties as the vessel continued to be hired by the appellant for the period subsequent to 31st august1998 on the same terms and conditions as were contained in the charter party dated 6th may1997only subject to the revision or modification of the rate of hire to be determined by the oil co ordination committee.
