at times provision is made for appointment of different dates for coming into force of different parts of the same act.
as stated above quite often the commencement of an act is postponed to some specific future date or to such date as the appropriate government may by notification in the official gazette appoint.
explanation for the purposes of this clause an invention relating to a process for which a patent is claimed shall be deemed to have been publicly known or publicly used in india before the priority date of the claim if a product made by that process had already been imported into india before that date except where such importation has been for the purpose of reasonable trial or experiment only b that the invention so far as claimed in any claim of the complete specification is obvious and clearly does not involve any inventive step having regard to the matter published as mentioned in cl b or having regard to what was used in india before the priority date of the applicant 's claim c that the subject of any claim of the complete specification is not an invention within the meaning of this act or is not patentable under this act d that the complete specification does not sufficiently and clearly describe the invention or the method by which it is to be performed e that the applicant has failed to disclose to the controller the information required by s 8 or has furnished the information which in any material particular was false to his knowledge f that in the case of a convention application the application was not made within twelve months from the date of the first application for protection for the invention made in a convention country by the applicant or a person from whom he derives title.
they are fao no 29206 and fao.
s 116 2.
51section 54section 57section 60section 61section 63section.
save as otherwise expressly provided in sub section 2no appeal shall lie from any decision order or direction made or issued under this act by the central government or from any act or order of the controller for the purpose of giving effect to any such decision order or direction.
every appeal under this section shall be in writing and shall be made within three months from the date of the decision order or direction as the case may be of the controller or within such further time as the high court may in accordance with the rules made by it u s 158 allow.
act2005a dichotomy was brought in between pre grant and post grant opposition orders.
this amended section 117 g was also brought into force vide notification dated 3 4 2007 under notes on clauses attached to the statement of objects and reasons it has been clarified vide cl 62.
the legislature enacted the patents amendment act2005 even here not all provisions were simultaneously brought into force.
this was the major structural change in the patent law.
act1970 as amended by the patents amendment act1999 w e f 26 3 99.
where an application for a patent has been published but a patent has not been granted any person may in writing represent by way of opposition to the controller against the grant of patent on the ground a that the applicant for the patent or the person under or through whom he claims wrongfully obtained the invention or any part thereof from him or from a person under or through whom he claims b that the invention so far as claimed in any claim of the complete specification has been published before the priority date of the claim i in any specification filed in pursuance of an application for a patent made in india on or after the 1st day of january1912 or ii in india or elsewhere in any other document c that the invention so far as claimed in any claim of the complete specification is claimed in a claim of a complete specification published on or after the priority date of the applicant 's claim and filed in pursuance of an application for a patent in india being a claim of which the priority date is earlier than that of the applicant 's claim.
suffice it to note that ss 116 and 117a were not brought into force.
no 3 to move an application opposing grant of patent under s 252 the patent was granted to the appellant on 22 9 06 according to the appellant it was open to respondent no 3 to challenge the grant of patent by making post grant opposition under s 252 from which an appeal was maintainable to the appellate board.
20section 25section.
3 a where any such notice of opposition is duly given under sub section 2the controller shall notify the patentee.
under the said amendment act1999as stated above vide.
one more aspect needs to be mentioned.
on reading amended section 117 g it becomes clear that all appeals against any order or decision of the controller had to be transferred to the appellate board from such date as may be notified by the central government in the official gazette.
provision is also at times made for appointment of different dates for coming into force of different parts of the same act.
act2002on 4 4 2005.
this is the main rationale underlying s 252 of the said 1970 act.
vide s 23 of the patents amendment.
act2005the then existing s 25 was substituted.
but on no other ground.
for the purposes of this clause an invention relating to a process for which a patent is claimed shall be deemed to have been publicly known or publicly used in india before the priority date of the claim if a product made by that process had already been imported into india before that date except where such importation has been for the purpose of reasonable trial or experiment only e that the invention so far as claimed in any claim of the complete specification is obvious and clearly does not involve any inventive step having regard to the matter published as mentioned in cl b or having regard to what was used in india before the priority date of the applicant 's claim f that the subject of any claim of the complete specification is not an invention within the meaning of this act or is not patentable under this act g that the complete specification does not sufficiently and clearly describe the invention or the method by which it is to be performed h that the applicant has failed to disclose to the controller the information required by s 8 or has furnished the information which in any material particular was false to his knowledge i that in the case of convention application the application was not made within twelve months from the date of the first application for protection for the invention made in a convention country by the applicant or a person from whom he derives title j that the complete specification does not disclose or wrongly mentions the source or geographical origin of biological material used for the invention k that the invention so far as claimed in any claim of the complete specification is anticipated having regard to the knowledge oral or otherwise available within any local or indigenous community in india or elsewhere but on no other ground and the controller shall if requested by such person for being heard hear him and dispose of such representation in such manner and within such period as may be prescribed.
2 a person shall not be qualified for appointment as a technical member for the purposes of this act unless he.
