the term waiver has been described in the following words waiver is the abandonment of a right in such a way that the other party is entitled to plead the abandonment by way of confession and avoidance if the right is thereafter asserted and is either express or implied from conduct.
amended rules are in pari materia with rule 26 of the rules.
it is not in dispute that a appellant although filed an objection with regard to the draft scheme did not choose to pursue it.
appeal dismissed.
sub rule 3 of rule 21 of the bombay rules provides for serving of a special notice of at least three clear days upon the person interested in any plot or in any particular area comprised in the scheme before the town planning officer proceeds to deal in detail with the portion of the scheme relating thereto.
a all lands required by the appropriate authority.
for the purpose of preparing the preliminary scheme and final scheme the town planning officer shall give notice in form h of the date on which he will commence his duties and shall state the time as provided in rule 37 within which the owner of any property or right which is injuriously affected by the making of a town planning scheme shall be entitled u s 82 to make a claim before him.
in jaswantsingh mathurasingh1991 indlaw sc 972 suprait was reiterated that a tenant or a sub tenant is a person interested and is entitled to notice.
respondent no 4 was allotted a final plot bearing no 157 and the said 200 sq m of land of plot no 178 has merged in final plot no 165 owned by the respondent no 3.
such notice shall be published in the official gazette and in one or more gujarati newspapers circulated within the area of the appropriate authority and shall be pasted in prominent places at or near the areas comprised in the scheme and at the office of the town planning officer.
further it appears that if the interest of the landlord and of the tenant is common and in absence of any inter se dispute between the landlord and tenant even if any portion of the land which is in possession of the tenant is included in the scheme the proper remedy for the tenant would be to claim for compensation to that extent and if such compensation is not received by him he may resort to proper remedy available for recovery of the compensation to the extent of the area in his occupation.
emphasis supplied.
see also bhikhubhai vithlabhai patel ors v.
shall unless it is otherwise determined in such scheme vest absolutely in the appropriate authority free from all encumbrances b all rights in the original plots which have been re constituted into final plots shall determine and the final plots shall become subject to the rights settled by the town planning officer.
mr u u lalit learned senior counsel appearing on behalf of the appellant in support of this appeal inter alia would submit i.
on the day on which the preliminary scheme comes into force.
even if he had a claim he would be deemed to have waived the same for the reasons stated hereinafter.
interpretation and or application of the provisions of the gujarat town planning and urban development act1976 for short the act and the rules framed thereunder known as the gujarat town planning and urban development rules1979.
the action as per the s 188 of the indian penal code will be initiated against you before the criminal court pleased take note of the same.
b he did not file objections for re allotment and did not participate in the proceedings following acquisition instituted by the authorities under the act.
thereafter the notice below s 67 for the change in occupation was issued on 15 1 2000 to you.
33 procedure for eviction u s 68 1.
s 81 of the act enables the state to transfer of right from original to final plot or extinction of such right.
the primary meaning has been said to be the abandonment of a right in such a way that the other party is entitled to plead the abandonment by way of confession and avoidance if the right is thereafter asserted and is either express or implied from conduct.
but he must be in possession of the property on the crucial date i e when.
s 52 contemplates issuance of a notice in a prescribed manner and in the prescribed form.
nos 177 and 178 he was therefore in his own right entitled to final allotment of some plot.
rules 261263 and 33 of the rules read as under 26 procedure to be followed by town planning officer u s 51 and under sub s 1 of s 52 1.
it is true that waiver can not always and in every case be inferred merely from the failure of the party to take the objection.
a road widening project was proposed in terms of the said scheme.
before embarking upon the issue involved in this appeal we may notice the admitted fact of the matter.
c if the person to be evicted resists or obstructs the officer or servant deputed u cl b or.
statutory right however may also be waived by his conduct.
for short the bombay rules are in pari materia with the rules.
it is also not in dispute that the appellant filed an objection in regard to the draft scheme but did not eventually pursue the same.
sub rule 3 of rule 21 of the bombay rules provides for issuance of a special notice upon the person interested in any plot or in any particular plot comprised in the scheme.
applying the above principles to the present case it must be held that the benefit of notice provided under the act and rules being for the benefit of the appellant in which no public interests are involved he has waived the same.
it makes it obligatory on the part of the officer to give notice of the date on which he will commence his duties and shall state therein the time within which the owner of any property or rights which is injuriously affected by the making of the town planning scheme shall be advertised in one or more newspapers published in the regional language and circulating within the jurisdiction of the local authority and shall be posted in prominent places at or near the area comprised in the scheme and at the office of the town planning officer.
we are however not unmindful of the fact that a statute of town planning ex facie is not a statute for acquisition of a property.
for the reasons aforementioned the appeal is dismissed.
appellant was a tenant under the said respondent in respect of plot no 178 admeasuring 1067 sq m.
in that case an applicant to bring lands under the real property act filed his case in court under section 21more than three months after a caveat had been lodged and thereafter obtained an order that the caveator should file her case which she accordingly did.
m g makwana ors 1967 3 scr 65 1967 indlaw sc 138.
the draft scheme was approved 867 sq m of land had been acquired for public purpose out of the said plot no 178 while the proceedings relating to allotment of final plot were in progress he even did not file any objection thereto.
rule 213however of the bombay rules has been amended in tune with rule 26 of the rules.
lalit submits that his client is ready and willing to pay some reasonable amount to the respondent no 3 in whose favour plot no 165 has been finally allotted.
a learned single judge of the high court dismissed the said writ petition inter alia opining that the interest of landlord and tenant being common and in absence of any inter se dispute between them even if any portion of the land which remained in possession of the tenant was included in the scheme the proper remedy would be to claim compensation to that extent holding it appears that in the said decision the apex court while considering the scheme on the touch stone of the mandatory procedure to be followed by the authority under the bombay town planning rules has given directions to provide alternative accommodation based on the earlier decision in case of jaswantsingh mathurasingh and upheld the scheme.
the question however would be what would be the consequence of non compliance thereof vis  vis the conduct of the appellant himself.
notices therefor were issued both to the appellant as also the respondent No appellant objected thereto.
chapter v of the act provides for town planning schemes.
s 67 of the act provides that all lands required by the appropriate authority shall unless it is otherwise determined in such scheme vest absolutely in the appropriate authority free from all encumbrances with effect from the date on which the preliminary scheme comes into force.
