this view of the matter learned counsel for the petitioner has submitted that he may be permitted to withdraw this petition with permission to file a fresh petition on this very cause of action.
appeal allowed.
statement of shri hemant singh counsel for m s thakural mechanical works without oath.
any person aggrieved by the absence or omission from the register of any entry or by any entry made in the register without sufficient cause or by any entry wrongly remaining on the register or by any error of defect in any entry in the register may apply in the prescribed manner to a high court or to the registrar and the tribunal may make such order for making expunging or varying the entry as it may think fit.
first respondent withdrew the application against m s jain industries.
as it takes away somebody 's right it deserves strict construction.
it confers an exclusive right of use of the trade mark in relation to the goods in which the trade mark is registered.
the non user for a long time would disentitle a registered proprietor from renewal of the registration.
section 56 power to cancel or vary registration and to rectify the register  1.
sub s 3 covers a case falling within cl b and not the cl a thereof.
the submission of mr sudhir chandra.
two interpretations of the said provision s 461b are possible.
sc 530 1970 indlaw sc 300 para 88 to mean by the use of the expression for the time being in cl 22 of art 366.
if thukral did then it can not be said that there was no bona fide use thereof by its proprietor.
this amendment is intended to remove any ambiguity as for all other purposes the date of registration will be the date on which the application was filed vide cl 232 proviso to sub cl 1 also provides that the tribunal may refuse removal of the mark if it is shown that any proprietor had in fact made bona fide use of the trademark for goods or services of the same description or associated goods or services.
an ex parte order of injunction was passed on 19 12 1985 against the defendant appellant herein to the following effect.
thus a case of speculative assignment is specifically required to be made out.
a writ petition was filed there against by the first respondent.
in view of this situation learned counsel for the petitioner has submitted that he may be permitted to withdraw this petition with permission to file a fresh petition on this very cause of action after impleading m s thakural mechanical works etc.
it is not correct that no cause of action survived against jain industries.
the injunction matter in suit no 2408 of 1985 came up for hearing before a learned single judge of the high court.
in view of the submissions of m s thakural mechanical works i may be permitted to withdraw this petition with permission to file a fresh petition on this very cause of action.
in these circumstances the request of the plaintiff is granted and petitioner is permitted to withdraw this petition and file a fresh petition on this very cause of action.
indisputably the scope of the provisions for removal from register in terms of s 46 and 56 of the act stand on different footings.
may1965 in class 7 in respect of flour mills circulating and centrifugal pumps coupling for machines pulleys included in class 7and valves parts of machines in the name of pooran chand jain and kailash chand jain trading as jain industries1166phatak.
the prayer in the application was to take off the registered trade mark from the register in respect of centrifugal pumps goods so far as the registration made in favour of the appellant is concerned.
may1986 and may be renewed at the expiration of that period and of each succeeding period of a seven years.
for the purpose of appreciation of the rival contentions we may notice the findings of the board as also the high court.
i have no objection if the petitioner is permitted to withdraw this petition with permission to file a fresh petition on this very cause of action.
the appeal is allowed with costs.
the second rectification application filed by the first respondent however was transferred to the intellectual property appellate board.
appellant 's counsel appeared on that date and inter alia contended that presently it was the registered owner of the trade mark which was sought to be cancelled.
an assigner can transfer only such right which he possesses.
registrar of trade marks under section 4656 and 107 of the trade and merchandise marks act1958 for rectification of entry relating to the registered trade mark no 228867 in class 7 after.
the right of the first respondent as a proprietor of the trade mark by reason of a long user is required to be determined vis  vis m s jain industries as also the appellant in the suit filed by it which is pending.
it does not provide for a sun set law.
it only consented for grant of liberty in favour of the first respondent for filing of an application for the self same cause of action.
b defendants shall mention the name of the defendant firm thukral mechanical works sirhind on each and every centrifugal pump manufactured by them and sold in the name of field marshal.
section 48 registered users  1 subject to the provisions of section 49a person other than the registered proprietor of a trade mark may be registered as the registered user thereof in respect of any or all of the goods in respect of which the trademark is registered otherwise than as a defensive trade mark but the central government may by rules made in this behalf provide that no application for registration as such shall be enertained unless the agreement between the parties complies with the conditions laid down in the rules for preventing trafficking in trade marks.
let the statement of learned counsel for the petitioner be recorded.
the board could not while exercising its jurisdiction under s 461bof the act proceeded on the basis of such presumption.
it therefore can be taken away only when the conditions laid down therefor are satisfied.
the said application was dismissed.
its non user and rectification of the register could not in the aforementioned situation have been tagged with the cause of action if any against the appellant.
in view of that statement a submission was made on behalf of the first respondent that it may be permitted to withdraw the petition with liberty to file a fresh petition on the same cause of action.
while we say so we are not oblivious of the fact that trafficking in trade mark is to be discouraged.
it must not however be forgotten that s 461b provides for a special remedy.
the trade mark for which registration is obtained is used intermittently.
statement of shri k l aggarwal counsel for petitioner without oath.
under s 461it is proposed to clarify that the five years period will start from the date on which the trade mark is actually entered on the register.
the said m s jain industries however was not impleaded as a party therein.
our attention has again been drawn to a passage from law of trade marks geographical indications by shri k c kailasam wherein the judgment of the tribunal has been criticized in the following terms from the above legislative intent it would seem that the period of non use of the trade mark is to be reckoned continuously from the date of its registration.
the registration of the aforesaid trade mark has been renewed from time to time and will remain in force for a period of a seven years from 13th.
on application made in the prescribed manner to a high court or to the registrar by any person aggrieved the tribunal may make such order as it may think fit for cancelling or varying the registration of a trade mark on the ground of any contravention or failure to observe a condition entered on the register in relation thereto.
the terms also may bring within its umbrage the entire period of five years or more irrespective of the fact as to whether the registered proprietor was one or more than one as has been held by the high court.
whether the registered proprietor of the trade mark had taken recourse to trafficking or not must be determined in an appropriate proceeding.
the core question which arises for our consideration is as to whether in the aforementioned facts and circumstances of the case the application under s 461b was maintainable.
in kabushiki kaisha toshiba this court relied upon hardie trading ltd anr.
m s jain industries got itself registered and obtained periodical renewal thereof as is required under the act.
if that be so any registered proprietor could easily defeat an application for rectification by assigning the mark to some other person to have a fresh period of 5 years from the date of assignment and thus effectively frustrate the very object of the provision in s 471a and b further it is to be noted that an assignment is subject to the provisions of the act and any rights vested in any other person see.
against m s jain industries and the dy.
two interpretations thereto which are possible are 1 the said words would denote non use of the trade mark in relation to the goods by the appellant for a period of five years or longer and 2 the mark had not been used for a period of five years or longer either by the present proprietor thereof or his predecessor.
the high court on the other hand opined it was not anybody 's case before us that m s jain industries.
a fresh application was filed by the first respondent.
it seeks to enhance the period of moratorium of use of the registered trade mark from one month to three months so as to prevent speculative assignment.
this is intended to prevent the registered proprietor to by pass the act by such token use after he comes to know that an application for removal is about to be filed sub cl 3 protects a mark from being removed from the register on ground of non use if such non use is shown to have been due to special circumstances in the trade.
it claimed user of the said mark since 1963 and sought for rectification of the register by expunging the expression circulation and centrifugal pumps from the specification of goods.
before adverting thereto we may take notice of the relevant statutory provisions ss 461b481482 and 56 read as under section 46 removal from register and imposition of limitations on ground of non use  1 subject to the provisions of section 47a registered trade mark may be taken off the register in respect of any of the goods in respect of which it is registered on application made in the prescribed manner to a high court or to the registrar by any person aggrieved on the ground either a b that up to a date one month before the date of the application a continuous period of five years or longer had elapsed during which the trade mark was registered and during which there was no bona fide use thereof in relation to those goods by any proprietor thereof for the time being provided that except where the applicant has been permitted under sub s 3 of s 12 to register an identical or nearly resembling trade mark in respect of the goods in question or where the tribunal is of opinion that he might properly be permitted so to register such a trade mark the tribunal may refuse an application u cl a or cl b in relation to any goods if it is shown that there has been before the relevent date or during the relevant period as the case may be bona fide use of the trade mark by any proprietor thereof for the time being in relation to goods of the same description being goods in respect of which the trade mark is registered.
the meantime as a result of the ex parte ad interim injunction granted on 19th december 1985 by this court in suit no 2408 of 1985there was no question of thukral using the trademark field marshal till the injunction was vacated on 19th january1988.
the power to rectify the register conferred by this section shall include the power to remove a trade mark registered in part a of the register to part b of the register.
