appeal dismissed.
the next recovery relates to the ingots.
in other words there must be a chain of evidence so far complete as not to leave any reasonable ground for a conclusion consistent with the innocence of the accused and it must be such as to show that within all human probability the act must have been done by the accused.
v state of madhya.
they are 1 the circumstances from which the conclusion of guilt is to be drawn should be fully established.
the discovery of a fact in consequence of information received from an accused in custody must be deposed to.
i do not tell this even to p w 1.
at one time it was held that the expression fact discovered in the section is restricted to a physical or material fact which can be perceived by the senses and that it does not include a mental fact now it is fairly settled that the expression fact discovered includes not only the physical object produced but also the place from which it is produced and the knowledge of the accused as to this as noted in pulukuri kottaya 's case 1946 indlaw pc 23 supra.
again the circumstances should be of a conclusive nature and tendency and they should be such as to exclude every hypothesis but the one proposed to be proved.
the appeal is dismissed.
the prosecution relied upon only circumstantial evidence namely confessional statements of the accused leading to recovery of various incriminating materials.
even according to the statement of the subsequent investigating officer pw 42several blank papers with the signature of pw 22 and cw 1 had been by pw 40 and such documents had been used to create false records to implicate pws 1 to 4 it is to be noted that pw 2 himself was one of the suspected person at the initial stage of investigation.
that apart materials on record such as the statement of p w 22 recorded under section 164 of the code of criminal procedure1973.
p 12 dated 22 9 2003 made before p w 42 and subbiah and p w 24led to recovery of m dollar m 0 38 and key chain with key chain in m 0 39 from the toilet in the room of the accused.
learned counsel for the respondent on the other hand supported the judgment of the high court.
