infosys technologies limited.
hardie trading ltd 2003 indlaw sc 756 1 has been followed by this court in a recent decision in the case of kabushiki kaisha toshiba 2008 10 scc 766 2008 indlaw sc 1395.
on application made in the prescribed manner to a high court or to the registrar by any person aggrieved the tribunal may make such order as it may think fit for cancelling or varying the registration of a trade mark on the ground of any contravention or failure to observe a condition entered on the register in relation thereto.
we concur with the above statement.
private ltd v.
these three appeals by special leave are directed against the order dated september 92004 passed by intellectual property appellate board for shortipab whereby it ordered the removal of appellant 's mark infosys from the register of trade marks in respect of computer stationery computer manuals printed matter for computer instructional and teaching materials computer hardware and peripherals and machine and machine tools.
in this regard he relied upon a decision of the madras high court in agha hyder hussain anr v.
with reference to the affidavit dated july 142004 filed by the first respondent before the court of additional district judge he submitted that the said affidavit has no relevance in consideration as to whether the first respondent is an aggrieved person as section 46 1 of the 1958 act relates only to the period upto the date of the filing of the rectification application and the rights of the parties crystallized at that stage itself.
the ritz hotel v charles of the ritz 1989.
the name of the first respondent was changed to jupiter infosys p limited in august1995 and now since july2003the name is changed to jupiter international limited.
the question then arises whether it is sufficient for the applicant to show that he is a person aggrieved when he makes his application or he must continue to remain a person aggrieved until such time as the rectification removal application is finally decided.
we heard mr akhil sibal learned counsel for the appellant and mr vaibhav gaggar learned counsel for the first respondent at quite some length.
sections 46 and 56 read as follows s 46 removal from register and imposition of limitations on ground of non use   1 subject to the provisions of section.
we are afraid this is hardly an objection about maintainability.
appeals allowed.
the situations covered by this section include a the contravention or failure to observe a condition for registration b the absence of an entry c an entry made without sufficient cause d a wrong entry and e any error or defect in the entry.
an applicant shall not be entitled to rely for the purpose of clause b of sub section 1 or for the purposes of sub section 2 on any non use of a trade mark which is shown to have been due to special circumstances in the trade and not to any intention to abandon or not to use the trade mark in relation to the goods to which the application relates.
the relevant statement made in the affidavit dated july 142003 we were informed that the date of the affidavit is july 142004 reads as follows that in the meantime the defendant has already changed the trade mark namely jupiter international ltd in place of jupiter infosys ltd the copy of the incorporation on change of name which was issued by the registrar of the companies are being marked and annexed herewith as annexure a that now there is no dispute between the plaintiff and defendant under the trade mark.
the appellant is infosys technologies limited.
this is so because the pre requisite for exercise of power under section 461 is that the applicant is a person aggrieved.
the appellant also prayed for an interim order in the suit.
s 56 power to cancel or vary registration and to rectify the register 1.
learned counsel would submit that the appellant has for the first time argued before this court that the first respondent is not a person aggrieved andor not capable of maintaining the rectification proceedings with respect to each and every good for which the appellant has been registered since the first respondent has not been registered for all the goods.
the ipab proceeded with the matter in light of the issues that were already framed by the high court and heard the parties.
47a registered trade mark may be taken off the register in respect of any of the goods in respect of which it is registered on application made in the prescribed manner to a high court or to the registrar by any person aggrieved on the ground either a that the trade mark was registered without any bona fide intention on the part of the applicant for registration that it should be used in relation to those goods by him or in a case to which the provisions of section 45 apply by the company concerned and that there has in fact been no bona fide use of the trade mark in relation to those goods by any proprietor thereof for the time being up to a date one month before the date of the application or b that up to a date one month before the date of the application a continuous period of five years or longer had elapsed during which the trade mark was registered 18 and during which there was no bona fide use thereof in relation to those goods by any proprietor thereof for the time being provided that except where the applicant has been permitted under sub section 3 of section 12 to register an identical or nearly resembling trade mark in respect of the goods in question or where the tribunal is of opinion that he might properly be permitted so to register such a trade mark the tribunal may refuse an application under clause a or clause b in relation to any goods if it is shown that there has been before the relevant date or during the relevant period as the case may be bona fide use of the trade mark by any proprietor thereof for the time being in relation to goods of the same description being goods in respect of which the trade mark is registered.
the said suit was transferred to the court of the additional district judge tis hazari court delhi.
limited was changed to infosys technologies pvt.
