in judging a question of prejudice as of guilt the courts must act with a broad vision and look to the substance and not to the technicalities and their main concern should be to see whether the accused had a fair trial whether he knew what he was being tried for whether the main facts sought to be established against him were explained to him fairly and clearly and whether he was given a full and fair chance to defend himself.
that around 00 30 am the appellant again came into her house and touched her daughter in law sheela devi who woke up and raised an alarm and that the appellant immediately ran away.
the court may infer from this that a was misled and that the error was material.
the charge must also contain the particulars of date time place and person against whom the offence was committed as are reasonably sufficient to give the accused notice of the matter with which he is charged.
e a was charged with murdering haidar baksh on the 20th january1882and khoda baksh who tried to arrest him for that murder on the 21 st january1882 when charged for the murder of haidar baksh he was tried for the murder of khoda baksh.
prakashi devi and thereby committed an offence punishable u s 452 ipc within my cognizance.
the court having charged the accused with the offence of having trespassed into the house of prakashi devi with intent to assault her and having further charged him for having assaulted the said prakashi devi by outraging her modesty convicts him on the ground that though he did not assault or outrage the modesty of prakashi devi he had outraged the modesty of sheela devi that would lead to failure of justice.
sub s 1 thereof provides that no finding sentence or order of a court of competent jurisdiction shall be deemed invalid merely on the ground that no charge was framed or on the ground of any error omission or irregularity in the charge including any misjoinder of charge unless in the opinion of the court of appeal confirmation or revision a failure of justice has in fact been occasioned thereby.
8 scc 339 2008 indlaw sc 1064 and sanichar sahni vs state of bihar 2009 7 scc 198 2009 indlaw sc 736.
act1989 the magistrate committed the case to sessions court which was specified as a special court under the act.
he contended that as the charge levelled against him was not proved and as he was not required to defend himself against a charge that he assaulted and outraged the modesty of sheela devi he ought to have been acquitted.
where an accused is charged with having committed offence against one person but on the evidence led he is convicted for committing offence against another person without a charge being framed in respect of it the accused will be prejudiced resulting in a failure of justice.
there were two women present at the house at the time of the alleged incident namely prakashi devi and her daughter in law sheela devi.
in her cross examination prakashi devi stated that she has five sons that only her husband and one son named mahavir were staying with her that the other four sons were married and were not staying with her that on that night her husband was away in the fields and her son mahavir was also not present in the house.
the code is emphatic that whatever the irregularity it is not to be regarded as fatal unless there is prejudice.
in gurbachan singh v state of punjab air 1957 sc 623 1957 indlaw sc 181 following willie slaney this court held in judging a question of prejudice as of guilt courts must act with a broad vision and look to the substance and not to technicalities and their main concern should be to see whether the accused had a fair trial whether he knew what he was being tried for whether the main facts sought to be established against him were explained to him fairly and clearly and whether he was given a full and fair chance to defend himself.
if sheela devi alone had been present at the house at the time of the incident and the accused had assaulted and outraged the modesty of the said sheela devi but in the charge the name of the victim had been erroneously mentioned say as sushila devi or prakashi devi though there was no person by such nameand the inquiry exclusively referred to the assault and outraging the modesty of sheela devi the court could infer that the accused was not misled and the error in the charge was immaterial.
however when confronted with her statement recorded in the fir she admitted having stated that when the appellant had come first time at around 11 30 pm and broke the outside bulbs her son woke up and went out of the house.
her daughter in law sheela devi gave evidence as pw 2 and stated that she was married to one jaibir who worked in the military services that at 11 to 11 30 pm the accused scaled the door and broke the bulbs in the verandah of her house that when she identified the accused and raised an alarm the accused ran away that again he came around 00 30 am by scaling the door and caught her hand and that when she raised an alarm and when her mother in law woke up he ran away.
but when all is said and done what we are concerned to see is whether the accused had a fair trial whether he knew what he was being tried for whether the main facts sought to be established against him were explained to him fairly and clearly and whether he was given a full and fair chance to defend himself.
prakashi devi was examined as pw 1 she reiterated what was recorded in the fir that the appellant came into the house around 11 30 pm and broke the bulbs that he came again around 00 30 am and touched her daughter in law sheela devi and when her daughter in law woke up and raised an alarm the appellant ran away.
one of the contentions urged by the accused before the appellate court and high court was that the charge against him was that he attempted to outrage the modesty of prakashi devi pw 1 whereas the evidence was to show that he attempted to outrage the modesty of her daughter in law sheela devi.
s 212 of the code provides that the charge shall contain the particulars as to the time and place of the alleged offence and the person if any against whom or the thing if any in respect of which it was committed as are reasonably sufficient to give the accused notice of the matter with which he is charged.
thakkidiram reddy.
the respondent was chargesheeted for an offence u s 376 ipc and s 3 of the scheduled castes and scheduled tribes prevention of atrocities.
the court may infer from these facts that a was not misled and that the error in the charge was immaterial.
nor did he proceed with his defence on the understanding that he was being charged with having committed the offence with reference to sheela devi.
s 211 of the code relates to the contents of the charge.
he did not attempt to meet the case made out in the trial that the offence was against sheela devi.
the said illustrations are extracted below d a is charged with the murder of khoda baksh on the 21st january1882 in fact the murdered person 's name was haidar baksh and the date of the murder was the 20th.
the high court set aside the conviction on the technical ground that the trial court had no jurisdiction as it was a special court specified in under the sc st prevention of atrocities act.
the accused is entitled to know with certainty and accuracy the exact nature of the charge against him and unless he has such knowledge his defence will be prejudiced.
on the other hand if two persons were present in the house at the time of the incident namely prakashi devi and sheela devi and the accused is charged with trespassing into the house of prakashi devi and assaulting and outraging the modesty of the said prakashi devi and the witnesses refer only to the assault and outraging the modesty of sheela devi the court will have to infer that the accused was prejudiced if the accused had solely concentrated and focused his defence and entire cross examination to show that he did not commit the offences against prakashi devi.
when the accused is charged with having entered the house of prakashi devi and assaulted the said prakashi devi with intent to outrage her modesty and when the accused defended himself in regard to the said charge and concentrated on proving that the said charges were not true he can not be convicted for having assaulted and outraging the modesty of someone else namely sheela devi.
secondly on the same date time and place you assaulted and used criminal force against abovenamed prakashi devi with intent to outrage her modesty and thereby committed an offence punishable u s 354 ipc and within my cognizance.
