from the above definition it is clear thatdowry means any property or valuable security given or agreed to be given either directly or indirectly by one party to another by parents of either party to each other or any other person at before or at any time after the marriage and in connection with the marriage of the said parties but does not include dower or mahr under the muslim personal law.
p c m o 1 shall be destroyed after expiry of appeal time.
subsequently lw 3 pathan basheerunnisa sent her grandson pathan inayatullah khan lw 4 to the house of the parents of the deceased to inform them about the incident.
in our view the expression soon before her death can not be given a restricted or a narrower meaning.
they must be understood in their plain language and with reference to their meaning in common parlance.
out of this amount a sum of rs 15000 was paid at that time and it was promised that the balance dowry of rs 10000 would be paid in the month of october2002upon which the marriage was performed.
secondly that soon before her death she had been subjected to cruelty or harassment by the husband or any of the relatives of the husband for or in connection with any demand for dowry then such a death shall be called dowry death and the husband or the relative as the case may be will be deemed to have caused such a death.
accused pathan hussain basha and pathan nazeer abi have rightly been found guilty of the offence by the courts.
the customary payments in connection with birth of a child or other ceremonies are not covered within the ambit of the word dowry.
maintaining silence can not be equated to discharge of onus by the accused.
they were married in the year 2002 and she committed suicide by hanging on 15th.
it was expected of the accused to explain as to how and why his wife died as well as his conduct immediately prior and subsequent to the death of the deceased.
on 16th february2003at about 5 p m.
explanation ii  the expression valuable security has the same meaning as in s 30 of the penal code 45 of 1860.
applying these principles to the facts of the present case it is clear that the ingredients of section 304b read with section 498a ipc are completely satisfied in the present case.
however upon medical examination by the doctor she was declared brought dead.
at this stage it will be appropriate to refer to certain examples showing what has and has not been treated by the courts as dowry.
his daughter after the ramzan festival had informed him that the accused persons were harassing her and were even beating and abusing her.
the father of the bride could not pay the balance amount within time because he lacked the resources.
if this is so the legislature in its wisdom would have specified any period which would attract the provisions of this section.
in this actdowry means any property or valuable security given or agreed to be given either directly or indirectly a by one party to a marriage to the other party to the marriage or b by the parents of either party to a marriage or by any other person to either party to the marriage or to any other person at or before or any time after the marriage in connection with the marriage of the said parties but does not include dower or mahr in the case of persons to whom the muslim personal law shariat applies.
it is the first criteria which the prosecution must prove.
a ceiling fan was lying with the witness and he gave that to his son in law however he protested the same on the ground that the old fan is not acceptable to him and he would like to have a new fan which was bought for rs 650 by the witness and given to his son in law.
after bringing the soaps she went to the house of the accused persons and found that the accused was absent and the deceased was hanging on one side of the room.
dr m madhusudana reddy lw 13 who was the associate professor in forensic medicine at guntur medical college performed the post mortem over the body of the deceased.
it is the case of the prosecution that for non payment of dowry the accused persons harassed the deceased and subjected her to cruelty.
the unmarked property if any shall be destroyed after expiry of appeal time.
but even the rule of strict construction requires that the provisions have to be read in conjunction with other relevant provisions and scheme of the act.
all the expressions used under this section are of a very wide magnitude.
these are penal provisions but ultimately these are the social legislations intended to control offences relating to the society as a whole.
the expression in connection with the marriage can not be given a restricted or a narrower meaning.
however the expression would normally imply that there has to be reasonable time gap between t he cruelty inflicted and the death in question.
this was done in the presence of lw 10 and lw 11shaik ibrahim and mohd ghouse respectively.
they faced the trial and were convicted by learned sixth additional munsif magistrate guntur for committing an offence under sections 498a and 304b ipc.
the offences having been proved against the accused and keeping in view the attendant circumstances we are of the considered view that ends of justice would be met if the punishment awarded to the appellants is reduced.
113 b lays down that for the purpose of this sectiondowry death shall have the same meaning as in section 304 b of indian penal code.
the high court of andhra pradesh vide its judgment dated 26th october2006while allowing the appeal in part convicted accused nos 1 and 2 for the aforementioned offences however acquitted accused no 3namely pathan khadar basha.
lw 4pathan inayatullah khan the grandson of lw 3went to the house of the parents of the deceased and informed them about the unfortunate incident.
again in satvir singh v state of punjab20018 scc 633 2001 indlaw sc 224.
he had given only rs 15000 and had agreed to pay rs 10000 after four months.
this penal section clearly spells out the basic ingredients as well as the matters which are required to be construed strictly and with significance to the cases where death is caused by burns bodily injury or the death occurring otherwise than under normal circumstances in any manner within seven years of a marriage.
12 the definition of dowry under s 2 of the act reads as under 2 definition of dowry.
injuries were found to be antemortem in nature and the cause of death was stated to be asphyxia as a result of hanging.
1 the death of a woman should be caused by burns or fatal injury or otherwise than under normal circumstances 2 such death should have occurred within seven years of her marriage 3 she must have been subjected to cruelty or harassment by her husband or any relative of her husband and 4 such cruelty or harassment should be for or in connection with demand for dowry.
since these demands were not satisfied instantaneously he even left the deceased at her parental house.
appeals partly allowed.
in contradistinction to this aspect the legislature has applied the concept of deeming fiction to the provisions of section 304 b where other ingredients of section 304 b are satisfied in that event the husband or all relatives shall be deemed to have caused her death.
investigating officer arrested all the three accused persons.
the accused asked for rs 1000 with a ring for the deceased.
there being no rebuttal thereto there is no occasion to interfere in the judgments of the courts under appeal.
as already noticed we need not deliberate on this aspect as the accused before us has neither been charged nor punished for that offence.
the cruelty and harassment by the husband or any relative could be directly relatable to or in connection with any demand for dowry.
