section 5 makes it clear that the chief controlling authority in all matters connected with the land revenue in his division shall vest with the commissioner subject to superintendence directions and control of the state government.
section 257 reads as under 257 power of state government and of certain revenue and survey officers to call for and examine records and proceedings of subordinate officers.
section 11 provides that all revenue officers shall be subordinate to the state government.
thereafter the appellant filed letters patent appeal which was also dismissed by the division bench holding that when the state minister for revenue entertained the matter he was possessed of jurisdiction under section 257 of the maharashtra land revenue code and therefore the order passed by him under the said authority is within his jurisdiction power and competence.
a fair reading of sections 257 and 259 suggests that if revisional powers are exercised by a revenue officer having jurisdiction to do so further revisional power can be exercised by the superior officer or by the state government.
being aggrieved by the order passed in the said revision respondent no 2 lalwani preferred rts appeal no 81 of 2000 and the respondent no 3 genu kadu preferred rts appeal no 114 of 2000 both.
in fact the two authorities are interchangeable.
since the mutation entry no 1836 was cancelled by above order the talathi gave effect to these orders and effected the mutation entry no 2176 and showed the disputed properties in the name of the collector and deputy custodian of evacuee properties.
sc 1585 1964 indlaw sc 353 and hari shankar vs rao girdhari lal chowdhury air 1963 sc 698 1961 indlaw sc 157.
3 if in any case it shall appear to the state government or any officer referred to in sub section 1 or sub section 2 that any decision or order or proceedings so called for should be modified annulled or reversed it or he may pass such order thereon as it or he deems fit.
however said revision rts 330 of 2001 is tenable since the appeals as provided under section 247 and 249 intervene in between the revisional orders passed by the sub divisional officer and the commissioner.
hence the present appeal by special leave.
petition dismissed.
2 unless the state government directs otherwise all revenue officers in a division shall be subordinate to the commissioner and all revenue officers 2in a district including the city of bombay shall be subordinate to the collector.
thus in short we find that the scheme under maharashtra land revenue code is quite different scheme and it permits more than one revision.
after remand the sub divisional officer conducted inquiry and again passed an order on 29 10 1987 and confirmed the earlier order.
a similar question came for consideration before this court in the case of ishwar singh vs 2 scc 334 under the rajasthan cooperative societies act1965 in that ac t by section 128 power was conferred upon the state government and the registrar to call for and examine the records of any enquiry or proceedings of any other matter of any officer subordinate to them for the purpose of satisfying themselves as to the legality or propriety of any decision or order passed by such officer.
chapter ii deals with the revenue officers their powers and duties.
however the sub divisional officer has taken the said mutation in revision in rts revision no 14 of 1984 and has set aside the mutation by order dated 30 7 1985 there was appeal as against that order which was remanded.
before parting with the order we must make it clear that in view of the request made by the appellant before the high court not to enter into the merit of the case since the party may prosecute their remedies in the civil court for adjudication we have not expressed any opinion with regard to the merit of the case of the parties.
it was submitted by the counsel that section 128 related to two authorities i e the state government and the registrar.
the chief controlling authority in all matters connected with the land revenue in his division shall vest in the commissioner subject to the superintendence direction and control of the state government.
considering the entire scheme of the code and the provisions contained in sections 257 and 259we are of the definite opinion that the minister concerned of the state government can entertain second revision to satisfy the legality and propriety of the order passed by the revenue officer.
dismissing letter patents appeal preferred by the appellant against the order of the learned single judge who dismissed his writ petition and confirmed the orders passed by the state minister for revenue in the proceeding r t s 3402 pra kra 309 l 6 dated 18th october2002.
the directions were issued by the collector to the tahsildar to place the appellant in possession of the property as per the orders of the deputy collector and the deputy custodian of evacuee properties.
section 257 is the relevant provision which deals with the power of state government and of certain revenue and survey officers to call for and examine the records and proceedings of subordinate officers.
1 all revenue officers shall be subordinate to the state government.
the said revision was decided by the additional commissioner pune by order dated 22 11 2001 and the said revision was dismissed.
therefore the rts appeal no 128 of 1987 was preferred before the collector which was disposed off by the additional collector on 13 7 1993 by the said order the order of the third sub divisional officer was maintained.
in the said sale certificate the c t s no 129130 a130 b and 133 of village lonavala were mentioned.
thus viewed from any angle we find that the state minister for revenue when he entertained the matter state minister for revenue was possessed of jurisdiction under section 257 of the maharashtra land revenue code and therefore the order passed by him under the said authority is within his jurisdiction power and competence.
that a second revision to the high court under section 482 of the cr.
the said haji habib tar mohammed janu migrated to pakistan and while going to pakistan he sold his property to one smt.
since the collector noticed on complaint that the orders of the collector has been bypassed or surpassed by the subordinate revenue officers the collector by order dated 12 7 1999 directed the sdo to take these mutations namely mutation entry no 2377 and 2394 in revision and therefore the sub divisional officer maval division has taken these mutations in revision bearing rts revision no 12 of 1999 the said revision was decided by the sub divisional officer at maval on 28 1 2000 and those mutations were cancelled.
section 231 defines the revenue officer as under 2 31 revenue officer means every officer of any rank whatsoever appointed under any of the provisions of this code and employed in or about the business of the land revenue or of the surveys assessment accounts or records connected therewith.
in the absence of any express provisions of this code or of any law for the time being in force to the contrary an appeal shall lie from any decision or order passed by a revenue or survey officer specified in column 1 of the schedule e under this code or any other law for the time being in force to the officer specified in column 2 of that schedule whether or not such decision or order may itself have been passed on appeal from the decision of order of the officer specified in column 1 of the said schedule.
further in view of the fact that state government itself appoints the revenue officers including the commissioner under the scheme of the code and all revenue officers are subordinate to the state government as per section 11 of the act and even the chief controlling authority in all matters connected with the land revenue in his division is vested with the commissioner they are subject to the superintendence direction and control of the state government as provided under section 5 of the code.
there is nothing in the code to suggest that if these revisional powers are exercised by a revenue officer who has jurisdiction it can not be further exercised by a superior revenue officer or by the state government.
it uses the word or.
however instead of giving effect to those orders it appears that the revenue officers at tahsil level effected two mutations viz mutation no 2377 and 2394 by mutation entry no 2377 the name of respondent was again mutated in the record and by the mutation entry no 2394 the name of genu kadu was mutated in the record.
it is further found that when the orders of the collector directing to put the petitioner into possession were not obeyed by the subordinate revenue officers and the revenue officers effected the mutation entry no 2377 in favour of the respondent nos 3 gulabai desai and mutation entry no 2394 in favour of the respondent no 5 genu kadu and thereafter for second time the special divisional officer maval has exercised the revisional powers under section 257 and initiated proceeding rts revision 12 of 1999 in respect of the mutation entry no 2377 and 2394 the rts revision 1299 was allowed on 28 1 2000 as against that two rts appeals namely rts appeal no 81 of 2000 and rts appeal no 114 of 2000 were preferred by the respondent.
learned counsel relied upon the decision of this court in the case of state of kerala vs k m charia abdulla co air 1965.
the state government and any revenue of survey officer not inferior in rank to an assistant or deputy collector or a superintendent of land records in their respective departments may call for and examine the record of any inquiry or the proceedings of any subordinate revenue or survey officer for the purpose of satisfying itself or himself as the case may be as to the legality or propriety of any decision or order passed and as to the regularity of the proceedings of such officer.
