this appeal by special leave has been preferred by tata consultancy engineers against an award dated 20th december1978 of the industrial tribunal maharashtra bombay revising the wage scales of certain categories of employees and granting various other benefits.
tata consultant engineers at its inception was a partnership firm but subsequently the partnership was dissolved and in 1974 the undertaking became one of the divisions of tata sons limited.
it functions as a consulting organisation and a service industry and does not manufacture any product or carry on trade.
its work force consists of engineers and supervisors and different categories of workmen.
out of 665 employees at bombay the draftsmen and the administrative staff number 306 these workmen are members of the tata consultant employees union.
they served a charter of demands in july1974on the appellant and as their demands were not accepted and conciliation proceedings proved fruitless the state government made a reference of the dispute under s 101 dindustrial tribunal maharashtra for adjudication.
the reference was numbered i t no 292 of 1975.
the union filed a statement before the tribunal claiming an upward revision of the wage scales and dearness allowance and an increase from fifteen years to twenty years in the span for earning annual increments.
it was urged that the efficiency bar as a feature of the wage scales should be removed.
the dearness allowance it was claimed should be granted on a slab system.
the claim of the union was resisted by the appellant who maintained that the existing wage scales were fair and reasonable on a region cum industry basis and that it would not be possible for the appellant to bear the additional financial burden if the demands of the union were accepted.
there was fierce competition also it was asserted from other similar organisations.
the appellant had introduced various pay scales in 1973 and some time later they were revised.
there was no separate dearness allowance until january1977 when it was introduced for the first time.
house rent allowance was also paid.
the need for revising the wage scales was not disputed by the appellant.
in proceeding to revise the wage structure the tribunal took into account the two principles involved in the process the financial capacity of the industry to bear the burden of an increased wage bill and the prevailing wage structure on an industry cum region basis.
wage scale statements were filed by the parties before the tribunal pertaining to several engineering consultancy organisations but.
holding it impossible in the circumstances to apply the principle of industry cum region basis the tribunal turned to a consideration of the financial capacity of the company to bear an additional burden in this connection it proceeded on the footing that the appellant was a separate and independent division of tata sons limited and had no functional integrality with the other divisions.
the particular character of the appellant that it was a service industry and not a manufacturing concern was taken into account and it was observed that unlike a manufacturing business there was little scope for diversification in the case of an engineering consultancy.
nonetheless the tribunal observed there was every reason to expect that the appellant would be able to earn sound profits in the future and the instability in its business activities occasioned by the turbulent political situation in iran would be it was expected compensated by contracts secured in different developing countries.
the tribunal took note of the elaborate scales of wages already existing in the wage structure of the appellant and decided to modify the existing structure of the scales with flat increases in each category.
taking into account the circumstance that besides the staff of 306 workmen represented by the union there were several other employees who would also have to be paid the tribunal considered it fair in paragraph 23 of the award to give a flat increase of rs 150 in the category of draughtsmen and rs 100 in the case of other categories.
the revised wage scales the tribunal directed should take effect retrospectively from 1st january1976 it also laid down the principle enabling the actual fitment of the workmen in their respective wage scales as on that date and also provided for the number of increments to which they would be entitled having regard to the period of completed service.
sd k n wani industrial tribunal.
accordingly the contention raised on behalf of the appellant against retrospectivity of the wage scales must be rejected.
the challenge embodied in the second contention against the amendment of the award is more serious.
in making the application of 22nd.
december1978the union invoked the jurisdiction of the.
the jurisdiction given to the tribunal by rule 31 is closely circumscribed.
it must be a mistake or error amenable to clerical correction only.
to answer the question it is necessary to examine the basis of the award and the intent which flows from that basis.
the terms of reference in the state government s order required the tribunal to revise the scales of pay and dearness allowance and there was no mention of giving any ad hoc increase in the basic pay of individual workman.
no ad hoc increase to the pay of each individual workman was intended.
it will be noted that the pay scales of different categories were being restructured and the flat increase envisaged there related to an increase in the general pay scales of different categories.
individual workmen were not present to the mind of the tribunal.
no second flat increase was envisaged at all.
the amendment made by the tribunal has the effect of providing a second increase this time to each individual workmen.
if as the tribunal has stated in the amendment order the increase in paragraph 23 was intended to apply to each individual workmen there is nothing in the body of the award to form the foundation on which the actual figures in the restructured pay scales can be made to rest.
in so construing the statement exhibit c 51the tribunal has grievously erred.
the evidence contained in the award throughout provides incontrovertible proof that this flat increase was never originally intended in the award.
it is an accepted principle that consent by a party can not confer jurisdiction on a court.
what is without jurisdiction will remain so.
in the circumstances the order of 22nd december1978 is invalid so far as it amends paragraph 23 of the original award.
the corrigendum amending the award in consequence is liable to be quashed.
the second contention of the appellant is entitled to succeed.
reliance was placed on the hindustan times ltd new delhi v their workmen 1964 1 scr 234 1962 indlaw sc 436247 where it was observed by this court that dearness allowance should not remain fixed at any figure but should be on a sliding scale in order to neutralise a portion of the increase in the cost of living.
reference was also made to bengal chemical pharmaceutical works limited v its workmen.
it was open to the tribunal to adopt the position which it did.
it is not possible to maintain one part of the award and supersede another.
accordingly the appeal filed by the workmen must fail.
civil appeal no 2300 of 1979 is dismissed.
the application was as follows in the above reference your honour was pleased to pass an award on 20th december1978.
the union therefore prays the honourable tribunal to clarify the position and correct the award accordingly.
the endorsement made on the application by the advocate for the company does not indicate that the company had any objection to the award being corrected as sought by the employees union.
on the other hand the endorsement reads as if there was tacit agreement on the part of the company to the correction sought by the union.
the order dated december 221978 of the tribunal also does not reveal that there was any opposition by the company to the application for correcting the award.
even so we propose to examine whether the correction sought by the employees union was within the bounds of the authority of the tribunal or whether it was in effect a fresh award.
the primary and basic question considered by the industrial tribunal in making the award dated december 201978 was the question of revision of the wage scales.
implicit and intrinsically connected with the question of revision of the wage scales were the questions of fitment of employees into the wage scales and flat or ad hoc increase of salaries of workmen wherever considered necessary.
it can not possibly be doubted that an industrial tribunal deciding upon the wage scales of the employees of an establishment would have full liberty to propose ad hoc increase of salaries as part of the revision of wages.
nor can it be doubted that fitment into the revised pay scales is certainly a part of the revision of pay scales.
this in our opinion is elementary and fundamental to the jurisdiction of the industrial tribunal in revising wage scales.
in the present case the industrial tribunal on a consideration of the material placed before it came to the conclusion that the company was in an undoubted position to bear the additional financial burden.
at the end of paragraph 15 of the award the tribunal stated but there can be no doubt that the company can very well bear the additional burden.
the question is what should be the extent of such burden.
the copy of the letter dated july 231973alongwith.
the annexures from the company to the director general posts telegraphs delhi ex.
i will therefore proceed on the ground that the present company can bear the additional financial burden.
finally at the end of paragraph 21.
the tribunal said in view of this position the company can easily bear some burden that might fall as a result of the upward revision of the wage scales.
the question is to what extent the relief should be given to the employees.
the tribunal then considered the question whether draftsmen should get a higher flat increase and the question whether the existing scheme of dearness allowance should be revised.
the tribunal then observed the flat increase of rs 150 in the category of draftsmen and rs 100 in the case of the other categories would be fair.
if the pay of an employee does not coincide with any step in the revised pay scale and falls between two steps in the reclassified pay scales the basic pay of that employee shall be fixed at the step higher in the revised scale.
ii employees who have completed 4 years of service as on 1st january19762 increments.
all other employees with more than one year s service shall be given one increment.
since there was to be a flat increase of rs 150 and rs 100 in the case of draftsmen and other workmen respectively the revised wage scale had necessarily to commence with figures rs 150 and rs 100 above the existing wage scales.
the application before the tribunal was filed under rule 31 of the bombay industrial disputes rules 1957which is as follows.
a board court labour court tribunal or arbitrator may at any time suo moto or on an application made by any of the parties concerned may correct any clerical mistake or error arising from an accidental slip or omission in any proceedings report award or as the case may be decision.
the omission of the words to each employee first after the figure rs 150 and again after the figure rs 100 was clearly an accidental slip or omission which the tribunal was entitled to correct.
we are unable to see how it can be held to be otherwise.
we are not impressed with the submission of the learned counsel for the company that the corrigendum was in effect a fresh award.
we therefore see no ground for quashing the order dated december 221978 of the tribunal.
the result of the foregoing discussion is that civil appeal no 2299 of 1979 has to be dismissed in its entirety.
while we find lot of force in the submission of shri v m tarkunde learned counsel for the workmen that dearness allowance linked to cost of living index is ordinarily the best and the most scientific method of computing dearness allowance it can not always be said that an illegality warranting interference under article 136 is committed if some other method is adopted.
the tribunal has given satisfactory reason for adopting a different mode and we are not disposed to interfere with the award of the tribunal.
in the result both the appeals are dismissed without any order as to costs.
the order of the court was as follows.
in view of the opinion of the majority both the appeals are dismissed and there is no order as to costs.
