reference was also made to a decision of the bombay high court in lallu v jagmohan 1898 i l r 22 bom.
reliance was next placed on maharaja of kolhapur v sundaram iyer 1925 i l r 48 mad.
reliance was next placed on the decision in pavani subbamma v ammala rama naidu 1937.
bhagwati devi v chowdry bholonath thakur 1874 75 2 i a 256.
in the first instance he placed reliance on a decision of the madras high court in ratna chetty v narayana swami chetty 19i4 26 m l j 616.
the following remarks in the privy council decision in nathu ram mahajan v gangayabai 1938.
it was averred in the plaint that ramalakshmi obtained a vested interest in the suit properties under the will of her father and plaintiff was thus entitled to maintain the suit.
in view of this finding he granted the plaintiff a declaratory decree to the effect that the first defendant had only an estate for life in the suit properties and that the alienations made by her would not endure beyond her lifetime.
one lakshminarayana iyer a hindu brahmin who owned considerable properties in the tirunelveli district died on 13th december 1924 leaving him surviving a widow ranganayaki and a married daughter ramalakshmi.
the main issue in the suit was whether the widow took under the will an absolute estate or an estate like the hindu widow 's estate and whether the daughter 's interest therein was in the nature of a contingent remainder or whether she got in the properties a vested interest.
on the 18th september 1945 the suit out of which this appeal arises was instituted by the plaintiff the husband and the sole heir of ramalakshmi for a declaration that the said sale would not be binding on him beyond the lifetime of the widow.
on the 19th september 1945 an ad interim injunction was issued by the high court restraining the widow from alienating the properties in her possession and forming part of her husband 's estate inspite of this injunction on the 27th september 1945 she executed two deeds of settlement in favour of the other defendants comprising a number of properties.
vide sasiman v shib narain 491.
there was a clear prohibition forbidding the widow to make any transfers of the milkiuit estates and the slaves.
in vasantharao ammannamma v venkata kodanda rao pantalu 1939.
ranganayaki entered into possession of the properties on the death of her husband.
the subordinate judge held that the widow took under the will a limited life interest and not an absolute estate or even a widow 's estate under hindu law and that the daughter got there under a vested interest in the properties to which the plaintiff succeeded on her death.
the defendants pleaded that the plaintiff had no title to maintain the suit that the widow was entitled under the will to an absolute estate or at least to an estate analogous to and not less than a widow 's estate that the estate given to ramalakshmi under the will was but a contingent one and she having predeceased the widow no interest in the suit properties devolved on the plaintiff.
the unsuccessful defendants preferred an appeal against this decree to the high court of judicature at madras.
the plaintiff was allowed to amend his plaint and include therein a prayer for a declaration in respect of the invalidity of these alienations as well.
the restraint against alienation was repugnant to both a life estate and a widow estate and was not therefore taken into account.
ramalakshmi had married the plaintiff and had a number of children from him.
the high court by its judgment under appeal affirmed the decision of the trial judge and maintained his view on the construction of the will.
1 m l j 268.
on 21st february 1928 she settled the maintenance claim of lakshmi ammal and obtained a deed of release from her by paying her a sum of rs 3350 in cash and by executing in her favour an agreement stipulating to pay her a sum of rs 240 per annum.
in this situation the inference that the testator must have of necessity intended to confer on the widow power of alienation for those limited purposes can not be raised.
the decision of the appeal thus turns upon the question whether the testator 's intention was to give to his widow ail ordinary life estate or an estate analogous to that of a hindu widow.
the question in every case can not be determined merely on the theory that every hindu thinks only about a hindu widow 's estate and no more.
the substantial question to decide in the appeal is whether the estate granted by the testator to his widow was a fall woman 's estate under hindu law or merely a limited life estate in the english sense of that expression.
but she had no power to deal with the corpus of the estate.
the question as to the validity of the alienations was left undetermined.
during the pendency of the appeal the widow died on 14th february 1948.
the court 's primary duty in such cases is to ascertain from the language employed by the testator what were his intentions keeping in view the surrounding circumstances his ordinary notions as a hindu in respect to devolution of his property his family relationships etc.
she had complete control over the income of the property during her lifetime.
this decision therefore goes against the contention of the learned counsel but he placed reliance on the observations made in the judgment when the learned judge proceeded to say in deference to the view taken in maharaja of kolhapur v sundaram iyer 1925 i l r 48 mad 1 it may be possible to create an interest analogous to a woman 's estate in hindu law notwithstanding the addition of a gift over and that the estate taken by section need not necessarily be only a life estate in the english law sense of the term.
on the 24th july 1945 the widow describing herself as an absolute owner of the properties of her husband sold one of the items of the property to the 2nd defendant for rs 500.
the extent of the grant so far as the properties mentioned in the schedule are concerned to the daughter and the widow is the same.
a prayer was made that the widow be restrained from alienating the other properties in her possession.
what is given must be gathered from the language of the will in the light of the surrounding circumstances.
they were all alive in december 1924 when lakshminarayana died.
we therefore hold that the estate conferred on ranganayaki ammal was more like the limited estate in the english sense of the term than like a full hindu widow 's estate in spite of the directions above mentioned.
in construing the will of a hindu it is not improper to take into consideration what are known to be the ordinary notions and wishes of hindus with respect to the devolution of property.
the last decision referred to was the decision of the privy council in mahomed shumsool v shewukram 1874 indlaw pc 12 1874 75 2 i a 7 there a hindu inhabitant of bihar by a document of a testamentary character declared his daughter who had two daughters as his heir and after her two daughters together with their children were declared heirs and malik.
in our opinion even if that suggestion is accepted that for the limited purposes mentioned in the will the widow could alienate this power would fall far short of the powers that a hindu widow enjoys under hindu law.
the widow can not be held to have been given a full hindu widow 's estate under the will unless it can be said that under its terms she was given the power of alienation for necessary purposes whether in express terms or by necessary implication.
it can not be said that a hindu widow can only alienate her husband 's estate for payment of debts to meet maintenance charges and for her own maintenance.
mr krishnaswami iyengar sought to derive the greatest support for his contention from the decision in ram bahadur v jager.
they could not enjoy the same properties in the manner directed if the widow had a full hindu widow 's estate and had the power for any purpose to dispose of them and did so.
the widow in such a case takes as a demise and not as an heir.