he position of the sevayat and the effect of his dealings with the property dedicated to the idol has been expounded by rankin c j in surendrakrishna ray v shree shree ishwar bhubaneshwari thakuran 1933.
the shebait for the time being is the only person competent to safeguard the interests of the idol his possession of the dedicated property is the possession of the idol whose sevait he is and no dealing of his with the property dedicated to the idol could afford the basis of a claim by him for adverse possession of the property against the idol.
the question whether the idol itself shall be considered the true beneficiary subject to a charge in favour of the heirs or specified relatives of the testator for their upkeep or that on the other hand these heirs shall be considered the true beneficiaries of the property subject to a charge for the upkeep worship and expenses of the idol is a question which can only be settled by a conspectus of the entire provisions of the will pande har narayan v surja kunwari 1921 l r 48 i a 143 145 146 1921 indlaw pc 56.
but such persons have no legal duty to protect the endowment and until the shebait is removed or controlled by the court he alone can act for the idol.
this is an appeal on a certificate article 1331 of theconstitution from a judgment and decree passed by the appellate bench of the high court of calcutta.
no shebait can so long as he continues to be the sevait ever claim adverse possession against the idol.
i am quite unable to hold that it does because such a change of intention can only be brought home to the idol by means of the shebait 's knowledge and the idol can only react to it by the shebait.
against the shebaits on the idol 's behalf and in the present case it may be said that the acts of the shebaits must have i been notorious in the family.
they thus became entitled to the whole of the premises which had been purchased at the auction sale held on the 9th december 1936.
one dwarka nath ghose was the owner of considerable moveable and immoveable properties.
neither nagendra nor the appellants who derive their title from the auction sale held on the 9th december 1936 could therefore claim to have perfected their title to the premises.
that he did act as such shebait and that his possession of the premises.
true any heir or perhaps any descendant of the founder can bring a suit.
modifying on appeal the judgment and decree passed by mr justice bose on the original side of that court.
cal 54 1932 indlaw cal 59.
if nagendra was thus a sevayat of the idol it could not be urged that his possession could in any manner whatever be adverse to the idol and his dealings with the said premises in the manner he purported to do after the 12th october 1920 could not be evidence of any adverse possession against the idol.
it was contended on behalf of the appellants that the dedication of the premises.
adverse possession in such circumstances is a notion almost void of content.
we are in perfect accord with the observations made by rankin c j if a shebait by acting contrary to the terms of his appointment or in breach of his duty as such shebait could claim adverse possession of the dedicated property against the idol it would be putting a premium on dishonesty and breach of duty on his part and no property which is dedicated to an idol would ever be safe.
grey street to the idol as its permanent habitation with only the right given to the sevayats to reside in the said premises for the purposes of carrying on the daily and periodical seva and the festivals etc.
snehalata dutt filed in the year 1929 a suit being suit No 1042 of 1929 against nagendra the trustees under the said deed of settlement and the puisne mortgagees for realisation of the mortgage security.
the fact of their possession is in accordance with the idol 's title and the question is whether the change made by them in the intention with which they hold evidenced by an application of the rents and profits to their own purposes and other acts extinguishes the idol 's right.
but in the present case we have to see whether the possession of two joint shebaits becomes adverse to the idol when they openly claim to divide the property between them.
they are to be registered in the municipal records in the name of the deity the municipal bills have got to be taken also in his name and none of the testator 's representatives heirs successors executors administrators or assigns is to have any manner of interest in or right to the said premises or is to be competent to give away or effect sale mortgage etc.
a consent decree was passed in the said suit on the 9th september 1929.
on the 23rd february 1927 nagendra executed a deed of settlement of the said premises by which he appointed his wife labanyalata and his wife 's brother samarendra nath mitter trustees to carry out the directions therein contained and in pursuance of the deed of settlement he gave up possession of the said premises in favour of the trustees.
the learned judge however dismissed the suit of the idol in regard to the premises.