before the date of vesting the state never can nor does fix the compensation through the compensation officer in any of the agrarian reform laws and these compensation operations are post statutory exercises.
nor is it right to contend as the appellant did that the compensation officer 's jurisdiction was created by the order of remand by the high court.
shri achutananda purohit appellant was the intermediary in respect of vast forests and other lands comprised in the estate of jujumura in the district of sambalpur.
if the officer had no jurisdiction the land would be gone because of the vesting provision and no compensation would be forthcoming for want of jurisdiction a consequence the appellant never wants.
the high court after deciding various issues remanded the cases to the compensation officer under the act after over ruling most of the contentions pressed before it by the appellant.
b v of the act but in spite of it the direction was that the divisional forest officer should make the appraisement.
therefore there is no substance in the functus officio argument.
three civil appeals stemming from three revision petitions to the high court of orissa under the orissa estates abolition act 1951 orissa act i of 1952 for short the act have reached this court thanks to special leave granted to the appellant who is common in all the cases.
b v of the act make it clear that the date of vesting is the last date by which the calculation of compensation should have been made.
no it was created by the statute and canalised by the order of remand.
it is astonishing that anyone should urge as the appellant did that the date of vesting is the last date by which the calculation of compensation should have been made and since that had not been done the compensation officer had become functus officio in awarding compensation.
the appellant challenges the slab system of compensation provided in the act which awards smaller multiples for estates yielding larger incomes on the score of violation of the fundamental rights under the constitution.
this estate vested in the state on april 1 1960 by force of the act and the crucial question agitated before us consequentially turns on the quantum of compensation awardable under chapter v of the act.
if a notional income on the assumed basis can be used for fixing compensation a notional income tax can be calculated and deducted.
therefore deduction of income tax from the gross assets is illegal and unwarranted.
the compensation officer is charged with fixing the quantum in the prescribed manner.
a compensation assessment roll containing the gross asset and net income of each estate together with the compensation payable in respect of such estate has to be prepared by him.
the section is clear that the gross income from forests must be calculated on the basis of appraisal of the annual yield on the date of vesting firstly by a forest officer and secondly by the chief conservator of forests screening it and approving it.
strictly speaking the statutory requirement is for initial appraisal of the annual income by the forest officer.
it follows that after the present second remand the re appraisal of the annual net income can not be done solely by the forest officer without securing the approval of the chief conservator.
the dynamic rule of law with a social mission makes a meaningful distinction between rights steeped in the old system and compensation for deprivation of those interests on the one hand and the ordinary commercial transactions or regulation of rights untinged by social transformation urges on the other.
as admittedly compensation had not been calculated by the date of vesting the compensation officer lost his statutory jurisdiction to do so.
technicality can be frightened away by technicality.
the contention is that therefore in arriving at the next income the deduction of income tax is not permissible.
nor can the compensation officer by pass the chief conservator on the misunderstood strength of the high court 's first order of remand.
the take over of the forests of the appellant was effected as early as 1960 and 16 years have passed without the intermediary being out of the litigative woods.
the confusion that vitiates the argument is prompted by a circular letter of government regarding non deductibility of income tax due to the state from the amount of compensation lying to the credit of estate holders.
during the agricultural year immediately preceding the abolition the petitioners had not actually derived any income from the forests and as such they were under no obligation to pay any income tax on such income.
where the actual income is to be included in the gross assets in the case of forests the assumed income and not the actual income is to be included.
the slab system of calculation of compensation in the act providing smaller multiples for estates yielding larger income is unconstitutional.
this was wrong and contrary to section 26 as was contended by the appellant and in a way accepted by the high court.
both the state and the appellant filed appeals to the collector which were dismissed.
the act also provides for appeal second appeal and revision the last being to the high court and the earlier ones being to the collector and a board constituted under section 22.
in short section 27 properly construed can not lend itself to the meaning imputed to it by the appellant.
the provisions of section 373 read with section 262.
the statutory scheme of compensation for forest lands consists of machinery for assessment of the net income which is multiplied on a sliding scale and the method of challenge to the determination by the aggrieved owner of state.
the appraisement can be scientifically done by looking to the age of the trees as they stand now.
the direction given by the learned judge in the remand order is correct although it may require a little clarification.
it is open to the petitioners to give evidence that after the date of vesting many of the trees and forest produce have been removed.
moreover article 31a repels the applicability of articles 14 19 and 31 to the acquisition by the state of any estate or of any rights therein etc.