the high court further modified a portion of the order in view of the decision of this court in bhag singh v union territory of chandigarh.
aggrieved by the aforesaid award the appellant claiming as one of the owners of the property filed a statutory appeal to the high court.
it is clear that s 102 of the andhra pradesh act mentions that after acquisition the act was not to apply in respect of certain land.
that in any event what was the interest of abdul khader had to be determined in determining the question of payment of compensation to him and in so determining the facts and circumstances and the proceedings before the revenue authorities and entries and subsequent deletions had to be taken into consideration by the arbitrator.
by the scheme of the central act compensation was payable to persons who had interest in the land acquired.
despite the objection exercising the jurisdiction of the arbitrator to go into the question of protected tenant the arbitrator held that abdul khader was a protected tenant.
in the background of the totality of circumstances as manifest in the different orders it appeared to the arbitrator and the court that the entry which was made in favour of abdul khader as the protected tenant was of doubtful validity.
determination by the revenue authorities and non determination is not conclusive or decisive.
who are the persons who have interest in the land had to be decided in accordance with the law and the evidence.
in determining the amount of compensation payable to abdul khader under the central act his interests in the property had to be determined.
the high court was of the view that there was surfeit of evidence prior to the commencement of the andhra pradesh act that shaik hussain was a tenant of the land.
according to the appellant inasmuch as whether abdul khader was a protected tenant had not to be settled by the collector or the tribunal the arbitrator and the high court were in error in going to that question.
therefore it was submitted by the respondents that s 99 of the andhra pradesh act which made the determination by the tahsildar to be final and debarred other courts from going into the question did not apply in case of compensation payable.
we are of the opinion that the high court was not in error in so holding.
the arbitrator therefore exceeded his jurisdiction and the high court was in error.
furthermore under s 99 of the andhra pradesh act the bar was not against the arbitrator but against a civil court.
shri a k sen on behalf of the respondents on the other hand contended that the compensation payable in respect of the requisitioning and acquisition must be determined under the central act and the arbitrator was the authority to decide that question.
there being no such finding by the revenue officer on the other hand there being a finding mat abdul khader was not a protected tenant by the revenue authorities it was not open to the arbitrator to decide the question of protected tenancy.
a i r 1985 s c 1576 1985 indlaw sc 246 on the question of solarium and interest on the amount awarded.
on or about th of april 1948 sail nawaz jung the then ruler of mukkalla state south yeman in arabia settled some of the properties with which the appeal is concerned by a registered tamleeknama in favour of his son sultan awaz and his grandson galib bin awaz.
it was the observation of the revenue authorities that it was spurious.
the question of abdul khader 's right to compensation had to be decided in accordance with law.
this appeal by special leave is from the judgment and order of the high court of andhra pradesh dated 15th april1986.
there was an award by the arbitrator holding that as this court had left it open to decide whether abdul khader was a protected tenant.
it has to be borne in mind that in the award the arbitrator after exhaustively discussing the evidence on record held that abdul khader was a protected tenant and as such further held that he was entitled to 60 of the compensation money payable for the acquisition of the land excluding the land of buildings wells etc.
reference may be made to the decision in the case of archi appalareddi and another v special tahsildar land acquisition visakhapatnam municipality and mother1979 andhra weekly reporter vol 1 p 101where the court observed in the context of the land acquisition act that a tenant was a person interested as defined in clause b of s 3 of the land acquisition act.
the property in question was taken possession of on or about 12th of september1963.
the high court was of the view that the arbitrator was to decide that question and the arbitrator was not in error in deciding the issue in the manner it did.
shri shanker ghosh learned counsel for the appellant urged that under the said andhra pradesh act it was mandatory under s 99 read with s 102 of the said act in conjunction with the definition of s 2r of the act for the revenue authorities to decide whether abdul khader was a protected tenant or not.
the arbitrator has done so.
he had jurisdiction to do so.
for this reliance was placed on s 102 of the andhra pradesh act which lays down that the act will not apply to lands leased granted alienated or acquired in favour of or by the central government or the state government etc and on s 99 of the act which bars the jurisdiction of civil courts to deal with any question which is under the andhra pradesh act required to be settled to be decided or dealt with by the tahsildar tribunal or collector.
the purpose of the said act as the preamble states was inter alia to enable the land holders to prevent the excessive sub division of agricultural holdings and empower government to assume in certain circumstances the management of agricultural lands to provide for the registration of co operative farms and to make further provision for matters incidental thereto.
the high court has so held.
in this background the court addressed itself to the question whether abdul khader was a protected tenant or not entitled to 60 of the compensation.
hereinafter called the central act the gazette notification for the acquisition was issued on 12th march1970 the controversy in this case relates to the question whether abdul khader was a protected tenant under the andhra pradesh telangana area.
the appellant objected to that application but the high court on 1st april1985.
s 2r states that the expression protected means a person who is deemed to be a protected tenant under the provisions of the said act.
the question was whether on enforcement of the said act abdul khader respondent herein was a protected tenant.
the main question centres around the right of abdul khader respondent no 1 herein to the compensation awarded by the arbitrator it is therefore necessary to refer to the relevant portion of the said order which inter alia stated as follows by perusal of the tenancy register of 1958 it is evident that sri mohd abdul khader is not a genuine protected tenant.
the explanation to sub s 3 of s 40 of the said act provides who should be deemed to be the heirs of a protected tenant.
in another context the high court of andhra pradesh enunciated the position that it was necessary to determine the interest of the persons claiming compensation.
on or about 3rd february1970 the collector issued notice for acquisition of the property u s 71 of the requisitioning and acquisition of immovable property act1952 being act 30 of 1952.
the land acquisition officer or the court as the case may be had to ascertain the value of a claimant 's right in the property acquired and compensate him in that behalf.
suspecting that the entry in the protected tenancy register might not be genuine on or about 24th of october1970 the tahsildar passed an order cancelling that entry.
he has a right to object to the acquisition andor the quantum of compensation.
the high court dealt with the value of the land.
he had claimed rights as a tenant during the requisition.
in 1954there was wakfnama by the said sail nawaz jung.
the order was passed by the district revenue officer who held that abdul khader was not a protected tenant.
it might appear that a fruit pucker gets 60 of the compensation while the owners get only if that is the law.
chapter iv of the andhra pradesh act deals with protected tenants and s 34 of the said act provides who is to be considered as a protected tenant and uses the expression that a person shall subject to the provisions of sub ss 2 and 3be deemed to be a protected tenant in respect of the land if he has fulfilled the conditions mentioned in clauses a and b of sub s 1 of s 34 of the said act.
on behalf of the appellant it was submitted that there was a complete bar for any civil court to go into the question whether abdul khader was a protected tenant and as such the arbitrator and the high court had no jurisdiction to decide this question.
in this appeal we are concerned with the question whether the high court was right in upholding the award of the arbitrator so far as it has held in favour of abdul khader and his rights to get 60 of the compensation.
the military estate officer secunderabad of.
the high court shall decide the question of jurisdiction referred to above in light of the submissions to be made by both the parties.
the high court thereafter discussed the facts mentioned hereinbefore about the order of the district revenue officer and the orders of this court referred to hereinbefore.
no document was filed to show that abdul khader was declared by the revenue courts as a protected tenant.