suffice it to say that under the amended provisions of the west bengal land reforms act tank fishery being included in the land would vest in the state by combined reading of sections 3a and 14 and therefore the state can not be divested of the rights accruing by the amended provisions until the amended provisions are declared invalid by a competent court of law.
the aforesaid order can not be held to operate as res judicata taking away the rights of the state of west.
the respondents are the members of one sarkar family in the city of calcutta.
the receiver appointed by a court is an officer of the court.
the next question that arises for consideration is what is the effect of the amendment to the west bengal land reforms act which was amended in the year 1986 but with retrospective effect.
the three appellants are the state of west bengal in appeal arising out of slp c no 401 of 1993the state fishery development corporation ltd in appeal arising out of slp c no 13516 of 1992 and bansilal farms in appeal arising out of slp c no 13314 of 1992.
bengal in respect of the nalban fishery as the state was not a party to the proceedings.
by virtue of the extended definition of land in section 2 7 and the amended provisions of section 3a of the land reforms act tank fishery like nalban fishery come within the definition of and it vests in the state by operation of section 31 read with section 14.
the state of west bengal was neither a party to the proceedings nor was noticed by the high court before passing the order.
bengal requisitioned large extent of fisheries including the disputed nalban fishery on 5 11 1969 in exercise of power under section 31 of the west bengal land requisition and acquisition act of 1948 hereinafter referred to as the requisition act pursuant to the aforesaid requisition order the state of west bengal took possession of the nalban fishery on 8 11 1969 members of the sarkar family challenged the order of requisition by filing a writ petition in calcutta high court in november1969 which was registered as civil rule no 7317 w of 1969 the aforesaid writ petition was dismissed by the learned single judge.
it is no doubt true that a writ petition has been filed challenging the validity of the aforesaid act and notification issued there under in relation to vary nalban fishery which is still pending and therefore it would not be proper for us to examine the provisions of the emended west bengal land reforms act and to express any opinion thereon.
on the question of vesting of the tank fishery under the amended provisions of the west bengal land reforms act mr.
we would further observe that the state should determine the amount of compensation which the sarkar family is entitled to under the relevant provisions of the act under which nalban fishery vests with the state of west bengal and the compensation amount be paid on being determined in accordance with the law to the family members of sarkar family in whose favour nalban fishery had been allotted under the compromise decree by this court.
the calcutta high court both the learned single judge as well as the division bench committed serious error of law in directing the receiver to take possession of nalban fishery from the state of west bengal and deliver the vacant possession of the same to the members of the sarkar family.
it is also not disputed that the state of west bengal though was not a party to the suit but in course of proceeding before this court by an order of the court the said state of west bengal was impleaded as a party.
in view of our earlier conclusion that the rights and interest of the state of west bengal was not in any way be affected by the so called partition and allotment of the nalban fishery inter se amongst the members of the sarkar family the said order dated 63 10 1980 passed by the learned single judge of the calcutta high court will not stand on the way of the state in claiming and putting forth its interest and right over the nalban fishery.
the learned counsel also urged that in any view of the matter on the amendment of the west bengal land reforms act in the year 1936 giving it retrospective effect and defining land to include tank fishery the nalban fishery vests in the state of west bengal and therefore the high court could not have issued the impugned direction.
does not in any way take away rights of the state of west.
a suit for partition was filed by one of the co sharers of said sarkar family in the high court of calcutta on 3 9 1955which was registered as suit no 2539 of 1955 the schedule of properties included the disputed nalban fishery.
bengal and therefore it would not be open for the said state in application for execution of the decree to raise the question of vesting of the nalban fishery with the state and the court would not interfere with the direction given by the learned single judge and division bench of the calcutta high court.
a learned single judge of the calcutta high court passed a preliminary decree in the said suit on 11 8 1960 one of the co sharers of the sarkar family preferred an appeal against the preliminary decree before the division bench which was registered as appeal no200 of 1960 during the pendency of the aforesaid appeal the state of west.
these three appeals by special leave are directed against one and the same judgment dated 25 09 l992 of the division bench of calcutta high court.
the direction of the learned single judge on the other hand is to carry out the directions of the supreme court in respect of the nalban fishery.
the dismissal of the special leave petition as aforesaid affirmed that the nalban fishery had been legally requisitioned by the state of west bengal and the state was in possession of the same since 8 11 1969.
since we have been informed that the writ petition challenging the amended act is still pending in the calcutta high court we may observe that our conclusion hereunder in relation to applicability of the amended provisions of the west bengal land reforms act so far as nalban fishery is concerned would be subject to the constitutionality itself to be decided by the high court in the pending writ petition.
bengal in any manner whatsoever to the fisheries in question if they are vested in the state under the provisions of west bengal estates acquisition act1953.
the appeal to the division bench was preferred against the aforesaid order of dismissal which was registered as f m a no 126 of 1970 the division bench dismissed the appeal by its order dated 5 7 1971 sarkar family moved this court in slp c no 1452 of 1972 by order dated 17 11 1972.
as has been stated earlier the possession which was taken by the earlier receiver was a symbolical one and factually the state had not been divested of its possession which it took on 8 11 1969 in our considered opinion the succeeding receiver rightly took into account the directions of this court passed on 18 4 1979 and 24 4 1979 and rightly took the view that the rights and interest of the state in relation to nalban fishery is not affected in any manner by the so called allotment of the fishery in the partition decree amongst the members of the sarkar family.
the subsequent incumbent to the post of district magistrate 24 parganas who became the receiver by virtue of his official position had no further jurisdiction to re deliver possession of the nalban fishery to the state of west bengal and the comments already made by the high court on the report of the subsequent receiver sufficiently indicate how he had acted with the bias mind and consequently the nalban fishery having not vested in the state of west bengal under the acquisition act the decree passed by the supreme court on 18 4 1979 remains operative.
we do not find any illegality in the act of the succeeding receiver in rectifying the earlier mistake and re delivering the possession of nalban fishery to the state of west bengal.
under the circumstances the said receiver rightly intimated this court about the mistake committed by him and re delivered possession of nalban fishery to the state of west bengal.
further while directing the receiver to handover possession of the various fisheries covered by the final decree to the parties to whom they have been allotted under the decree this court also protected the interest of the state by observing we made it quite clear that this will not in any manner prejudice or affect the right of the state to its claim over the fisheries under the west bengal acquisition act 1955 west bengal act 1 of 1954 or under any other statute.