while the learned additional sessions judge made a reference to the high court for confirmation of death sentence under section 366 cr.
in dhananjoy chatterjee 's case 1994 indlaw sc 1743 supra the decision of this court in sharad birdhichand sarda v state of maharashtra 1984 4 scc 116 1984 indlaw sc 432 was relied on.
v absconding of the accused was the accused absconding at all.
the trial court sentenced the appellant to death under section 302 ipc and to undergo rigorous imprisonment for life and pay a fine of rs 10000 in default of payment to undergo further r i for 3 years under section 3762f ipc.
the accusation has to be proved to hilt in a court of law.
a vigilant investigating officer well versed with the techniques of the job is in a position to collect the threads of evidence finding out the path which leads to the culprit.
the accused appellant has been held guily of of fences punishable under section 302 and section 3762f of indian penal code.
the ends which the administration of cirminal justice serves are not achieved merely by catching hold of the culprit.
in the opinion of one learned judge the circumstantial evidence on which rests the prosecution case was not sufficient to record a finding of guilty against the appellant on any of the charges framed against him.
the evidence of investigating officer given in the court should have a rhythm explaining step by step how the investigation proceeded leading to detection of the offender and collection of evidence against him.
such offences put to test the wits of an investigating officer.
this is necessary to exclude the likelihood of any innocent having been picked up and branded as culprit and then the gravity of the offence arousing human sympathy persuading the mind to be carried away by doubtful or dubious circumstances treating them as of beyond doubt evidentiary value.
in dhananjoy chatterjee v state of west bengal 1994 2 scc 220 1994 indlaw sc 1743 wherein one of us dr a s anand j as his lordship then was spoke for the bench.
thus none of the pieces of evidence relied on as incriminating by the trial court and the high court can be treated as incriminating pieces of circumstantial evidence against the accused.
shri sushil kumar jain the learned counsel for the accused appellant has placed reliance on shankarlal gyarasilal dixit v state of maharashtra air 1981.
the criminal reference and the criminal appeal were heard by a division bench of rajasthan high court.
conviction of the accused appellant under sections 302 and 3762f of indian penal code is set aside.
in the opinion of the other learned judge the prosecution evidence was sufficient to sustain the conviction as recorded by the trial court though the case was not one of those rarest of rare cases as would warrant death sentence being awarded to the appellant.
the factum of a cognizable crime having been committed is known but neither the identity of the accused is disclosed nor is there any indication available of the witnesses who would be able to furnish useful and relevant evidence.
in the result the high court has declined the confirmation of death sentence but upheld the conviction on both the charges found proved and dismissed the appeal laying challenge to the conviction subject to modification in the sentence by substituting sentence of life imprisonment for death sentence under section 302 ipc.
the pieces of circumstantial evidence which have been found proved and held as forging an incriminating chain against the accused are as under i last seen together ii abnormal conduct of the accused iii recovery of underwear and baniyan which was found to be stained with semen and blood group b which is also the blood group of the deceased iv false plea of alibi and v accused absconding since the date of offence.
this court held as under in a case based on circumstantial evidence the circumstances from which the conclusion of guilt is to be drawn have not only to be fully established but also that all the circumstances so established should be of a conclusive nature and consistent only with the hypoth esis of the guilt of the accused.
in view of the difference of opinion the learned acting chief justice assigned the case for hearing by a third judge under section 392 of cr.
those circumstances should not be capable of being explained by any other hypothesis except the guilt of the accused and the chain of the evidence must be so complete as not to leave any reasonable ground for the belief consistent with the innocence of the accused.
we are clearly of the opinion that the accused appellant has not taken a plea of alibi and therefore the question of finding it false and then drawing an inference adverse to him does not arise at all.
to constitute evidence of last seen together the evidence must definitely permit an inference being drawn that the victim and the accused were seen together at a point of time in close proximity with the time and date of the commission of crime.
grave injustice has been done to the accused by holding it as a fact that the accused was absconding after the date of the incident and then treating the so called absconding as a piece of incrimi nating circumstantial evidence against the accused.
p c the appellant preferred an appeal putting in issue his conviction and sentence.
the plea of alibi postulates the physical impossibility of the presence of the accused at the scene of offence by reason of his presence at another place.
no evidence is available to show as to what was the blood group of the accused and therefore the possibility of blood on the underwear being of the accused himself can not be and is not ruled out.
in law this term is used to express that defence in a criminal prosecution where the party accused in order to prove that he could not have committed the crime charged against him offers evidence that he was in a different place at that time.
we are left with circumstance No 3 only i e recovery of underwear and baniyan stained with semen and human blood group b which alone in the fact and circumstances of the case discussed hereinabove can not form basis of conviction of the accused appellant for the offence charged.
the fact remains that the testimony of shalu pw 7 aged 4 years even if taken at its face value does not constitute such a circumstance as to draw an incriminating inference against the accused and connect him with the crime.
the plea taken should be capable of meaning that having regard to the time and place when and where he is alleged to have committed the offence he could not have been present.
from the evi dence of shalu pw7 such an inference can not be drawn.
the trial court and the high court have proceeded on an assumption of availability of five pieces forging links in the chain of circumstantial evi dence out of which we have found as stated hereinabove four of the alleged circumstances not to be pieces of incriminating circumstantial evidence at all.
denial by an accused of an assertion made by his employer that the accused was on leave of absence from duty on the date of offence does not by any stretch of reasoning or logic amount to pleading alibi.
it needs no reminder that legally estab lished circumstances and not merely indignation of the court can form the basis of conviction and the more serious the crime the greater should be the care taken to scrutinize the evidence lest suspicion takes the place of proof.
what is being treated as the plea of alibi by the trial court and the high court is this.
he is acquitted of the charges framed against him.
there is no evidence adduced by the prosecution to hold that soon after the date of the offence the accused was found missing from his residence or the place of his employment and was not available though searched at the place or places where normally he ought to have been.