v state of mysore and ors.
sc 9011960 indlaw sc 472 shree meenakshi mills ltd v union of india air 1974.
see parbhani transport co operative society ltd v regional transport authority aurangabad and others air 1960.
in kasinka trading and anr v union of india and anr.
as was observed in punjab communications ltd v union of india of others air 1999 sc 1801 1999 indlaw sc 1548 the change in policy can defeat a substantive legitimate expectation if it can be justified on wednesbury reasonableness.
v hindustan development corporation and others air 1994.
the appellants question correctness of the judgment rendered by a division bench of the madras high court which held that the withdrawal of benefits extended to the appellants as subsidy was in order.
of tamil nadu ors on 27 1 1984 and in c a 86052002 i e bannari amman sugars ltd v commercial tax officer.
the appellants questioned legality or the g o ms No 989 dated 1 9 1988 directing discontinuance of purchase tax exemption in case of mills which exceeded the ceiling of rs 300 lakes during the period of five years and government letter dated 28 12 1988 which made the aforesaid g o ms No 989 of 1 9 1988 operative retrospectively from 1 4 1988.
the leading case on the subject is central london property trust ltd v high trees house ltd 1947 1 k b 130.
v u p state electricity board and others air 1997.
whether the same is permissible in law has to be decided by the high court.
a restriction can not be said to be unreasonable merely because in a given case it operates harshly.
the commercial productions were started in case of appellants in c a No 86062002 i e ponni sugars erode ltd v govt.
v shree durga oil mills and anr.
sc 1021 1970 indlaw sc 341 radhakrishna v state of bihar air 1977.
initially the writ petitions were filed before the high court but after constitution of the tamil nadu taxation special tribunal hereinafter referred to as the tribunal the writ petitions were transferred to the tribunal which held that on application of the principles of promissory estoppel and legitimate expectation the withdrawal of benefit was not sustainable in law.
that principle was adopted by this court in union of india v indo afghan agencies ltd air 1968.
a constitution bench in r chitralekha etc.
the government has exercised their right to modify the scheme in the interest of public revenue.
this court 's observations in g b mahajan v jalgaon municipal council air 1991 sc 1153 1990 indlaw sc 438 are kept out of lush field of administrative policy except where policy is inconsistent with the express or implied provision of a statute which creates the power to which the policy relates or where a decision made in purported exercise of power is such that a repository of the power acting reasonably and in good faith could not have made it.
the principle enunciated in the high trees case supra was also recognized by the house of lords in tool metal manufacturing co ltd v tungsten electric co ltd 1955.
the materials which were produced before the high court and on the basis of which it is decided that the decision of the government is in order were not even pleaded in the pleadings and during arguments.
the high court erroneously came to hold that the state government had not filed any counter.
if the state acts within the bounds of reasonableness it would be legitimate to take into consideration the national priorities and adopt trade policies.
otherwise a resourceful litigant having vested interest in contract licences etc can successfully indulge in getting welfare activities mandated by directing principles thwarted to further his own interest.
as the correctness of factual basis justifying withdrawal is in issue fair play certainly warranted grant of opportunity to the appellants to present its side of the picture.
see century spinning co v ulhasnagar municipal council air 1971.
sc 718 1967 indlaw sc 411 and turner morrison and co ltd v hungerford investment trust ltd 1972 1 scc 857 1972 indlaw sc 190.
in other words there was clear violation of the principles of natural justice.
to the aforesaid limited extent the matter is remitted to the high court for fresh consideration.
sc 3651973 indlaw sc 291 hari chand sarda v mizo district council and another air 1967 sc 829 1966 indlaw sc 125 krishnan kakkanth v government of kerala and others air 1997.
reasonableness of restriction is to be determined in an objective manner and from the standpoint of interest of the general public and not from the standpoint of the interests of persons upon whom the restrictions have been imposed or upon abstract consideration.
the contents of the files which were produced before the high court and on which reliance was placed to hold against the appellants are not known to the appellants.
another point which was specifically raised before the high court but has not been dealt by it is the legality of the action in directing retrospective withdrawal of the benefit by a letter of the government.
it is therefore clear that the choice of police is for the decision maker and not the court.
the respondents have not acted on the basis of the government orders for establishing the units.
canalisation of a particular business in favour of even a specified individual is reasonable where the interests of the country are concerned or where the business affects the economy of the country.
the stand taken by the present appellants before the tribunal and the high court was rejected.
the reasonableness in administrative law must therefore distinguish between proper course and improper abuse of power.
no inducement was made in the government orders to establish the units.
the order granting subsidy can be withdrawn in public interest.
it is generally agreed that legitimate expectation gives the applicant sufficient locus standi for judicial review and that the doctrine of legitimate expectation to be confined mostly to right to a fair hearing before a decision which results in negativing a promise or withdrawing an undertaking is taken.
the appellants were taken by surprise by production of materials which were not even disclosed to the appellants.
sc 128 1996 indlaw sc 1845 and union of india and another v international trading co and another 2003 5 scc 437 2003 indlaw sc 472.
in shrijee sales corporation and anr v union of india 1997 3 scc 398 1996 indlaw sc 1561 it was observed that once public interest is accepted as the superior equity which can override individual equity the principle would be applicable even in cases where a period has been indicated for operation of the promise.
every state action must be informed by reason and it follows that an act uninformed by reason is per se arbitrary.
there was no material to show existence of any overriding public interest to rule out application of the aforesaid doctrine there was no scope for retrospective withdrawal.
in any event the retrospective withdrawal of the benefit on the basis of an executive decision is impermissible.
if a denial of legitimate expectation in a given case amounts to denial of right guaranteed or is arbitrary discriminatory unfair or biased gross abuse of power of violation of principles of natural justice the same can be questioned on the well known grounds attracting article 14 but a claim based on mere legitimate expectation without anything more can not ipso facto give a right to invoke these principles.
the basic requirement of article 14 is fairness in action by the state and non arbitrariness in essence and substance is the heart beat of fair play.
but there has to be a word of caution.
the caution particularly in the changing scenario becomes all the more important.
that is and ought to be a difficult onus for an applicant to discharge.
further is no particular formula of words required for compliance with article 1661.
in determining whether there is any unfairness involved the nature of the right alleged to have taken infringed the underlying purpose of the restriction imposed the extent and urgency of the evil sought to be remedied thereby the disproportion of the imposition the prevailing condition at the relevant time enter into judicial verdict the reasonableness of the legitimate expectation has to be determined with respect to the circumstances relating to the trade or business in question.
see union of india and others.
the protection of such legitimate expectation does not require the fulfilment of the expectation where an overriding public interest requires otherwise.
the doctrines of promissory estoppel and legitimate expectation were applicable to the facts of the case.
its object is to interpose equity shorn of its form to mitigate the rigour of strict law as noted in anglo afghan aencies 's case1967 indlaw sc 411 supra and sharma transport represented by d p sharma v government of a p and others 2002 2 scc 188 2001 indlaw sc 19917.
something overwhelming must appear before the court will intervene.
in support of the appeals the primary stands raised by the appellants are.
where a particular mode is prescribed for doing an act and there is no impediment in adopting the procedure the deviation to act in different manner which does not disclose any discernible principle which is reasonable itself small be labelled as arbitrary.
a question whether the impugned action is arbitrary or not is to be ultimately answered on the facts and circumstances of a given case.
in fact the government of tamil nadu vide g o ms.
the doctrine of promissory estoppel had no application to the facts of the case at that stage.
the doctrine does not give scope to claim relief straightway from the administrative authorities as no crystallized right as such involved.
the rule laid down in high trees case supra again came up for consideration before the king 's bench in combe v bombe 1951 2 k b 215.
the wide sweep of article 14 and the requirement of every state action qualifying for its validity on this touchstone irrespective of the field of activity of the state is an accepted tenet.
if it is a question of policy even by ways of change of old policy the courts can not intervene with the decision.
sometimes when the courts have intervened on policy grounds the court 's view of the range of policies open under the statute or of what is unreasonable policy has not got public acceptance.
it can be one of the grounds to consider but the court must lift the veil and see whether the decision is violative of these principles warranting interference.
the state questioned correctness of the judgment before the high court which as noted above held the g o ms and the govt.
the grant of subsidy is a concession and the government has got good reasons for modifying the scheme in public interest.
the rule of promissory estoppel can be invoked only if on the basis of representation made by the government the industry was established to avail benefit if of exemption.