see bombay dyeing manufacturing co ltd v the state of bombay and others air 1958 sc 338 savitra khandu beradi v nagar agricultural sale and purchase co operative society ltd ahmednagar and others.
co ltd v the commissioner of income tax.
in janak raj v gurdial singh and anr.
in board of control for cricket in india and another v netaji cricket club and others 2005 4 scc 741 2005 indlaw sc 1243.
see zain ul abdin khan v muhammad asghar ali khan 15 ia 12 1887 indlaw pc 13.
we may further notice that the learned special court relied upon a decision in custodian v union of india and ors.
air 1957 bom 178 1957 indlaw mum 110 and hari raj singh v sanchalak panchayat.
these appeals are directed against a judgment and order dated 17 october 2003 passed by the special court constituted under the special courts trial of offences relating to transactions in securities.
late harshad mehta were persons notified in terms of the act which was enacted to provide for the establishment of a special court for the trial of offences relating to transactions in securities and for matters connected therewith.
therefore the phrase taxes due can not refer merely to a liability created by the charging section to pay the tax under the relevant law.
the said decision has been affirmed by this court in gurjoginder singh v jaswant kaur.
in terms of the provisions of the act along with late harshad mehta the custodian had notified 29 entities in terms of section 3 of the act comprising three of his younger brothers wife of late harshad mehta wives of two of his younger brothers and other corporate entities a partnership firm and three hufs.
in the former event even if such a decree is set aside the interest of the bona fide purchaser in an auction sale is saved.
iin view of the decision of this court in l s synthetics ltd v fairgrowth financial services ltd and another 2004 11 scc 456 2004 indlaw sc 715 all properties belonging to the notified persons being subject to automatic attachment could be applied for discharge of the joint liabilities of the harshad mehta group in terms of section 11 of the act.
v the appellants having preferred appeals against the income tax orders of assessment passed by the authority and the same having been set aside no liability to pay income tax by the appellants as of now being existing the residential properties could not have been sold.
v as regard sale of residential properties an appropriate order may be passed by the learned judge special court in the light of the observations made hereinbefore.
we are therefore of the opinion that the provisions of the limitation act have no application so far as directions required to be issued by the special court relating to the disposal of attached property are concerned.
the provision contained in the act being stringent in nature the purport and intent thereof must be ascertained having regard to the purpose and object it seeks to achieve.
application No 41 of 1999 seeking permission of the special court for sale of residential premises commonly known as madhuli of eight notified entities.
if in the meanwhile orders of assessment are passed by the income tax authorities the custodian shall be at liberty to bring the same to the notice of the learned special court which shall also be taken into consideration by the learned judge special court.
act 1992 for short the act in misc.
if the orders of assessment have been set aside the liabilities of the appellants have to be worked out on the basis of the new orders of assessment.
the appellants herein who are related to one harshad section mehta since deceased purchased nine residential flats in a building called madhuli apartments in worli area of mumbai.
the said nine flats it is said were merged and redesigned for joint living of the entire family.
the properties of late harshad mehta and the appellants herein being notified persons stood attached in terms of the provisions of the act.
the principle of lifting the corporate veil however ipso facto would not apply to the individuals.
reliance in this behalf has been placed on b c dalal 2005 indlaw sc 1826 v custodian.
application being 4 of 2001 was filed by the custodian praying for the sale of commercial premises.
application nos.
the family of the appellants consists of four brothers their wives children and their widowed mother.
it is no doubt true that the law of limitation bars a remedy but not a right.
whether the special court has the power to absolve a notified person from payment of penalty or interest for a period subsequent to the date of his notification section in the alternative is a notified person liable to payment of penalty or interest arising from his inability to pay taxes after his notification.
it is not in dispute that the tax liabilities of the appellants individually were assessed on the basis of best judgment assessment.
the custodian shall permit the members of family of late shri harshad mehta to occupy the flats during the time that the process of the sale of the flats goes on.
the ratio of the said decision as regard applicability of the limitation act was further considered by a division bench of this court in fairgrowth investments ltd v custodian 2004 11 scc 472 2004 indlaw sc 868 wherein it was held that section 5 of the limitation act will have no application in relation to an application falling under sub s 2 of section 4 of the act stating it is enough for the purpose of this appeal to hold that section 292 of the limitation act 1963 does not apply to proceedings under section 42 of the special court trial of offences relating to transactions in securities act 1992.
iiithe order of assessment under the income tax act having become final and binding as on the date when the orders of assessment were passed and thus mere filing of appeals were not sufficient for raising a contention that the taxes did not become due.
in terms of the provisions of the act the special court had been conferred a very wide power.
so long such orders of assessment are not passed by the competent assessing authorities it can not be said that the appellants are liable to pay a huge amount by way of income tax dues on the basis of such orders of assessment which have since been set aside.
the books of accounts and other documents on the basis whereof the auditor 's report had been made having not been allowed to be inspected by the appellants herein on the plea that they had the knowledge thereabout the same could not have been taken into consideration for the purpose of passing of the impugned order or otherwise.
it is not in dispute that the said applications are pending for consideration before the special court.
a chartered accountants firm was appointed by the learned special judge by an order dated 17 september 2003 to represent all notified entities in the family of late harshad mehta for the purpose of ascertaining their tax liabilities.
iiiwhether the tax liabilities could not have been held to be due as the order of assessments did not become final and binding.
the special court can for this purpose examine whether there is any fraud collusion or miscarriage of justice in assessment proceedings.
the right of a person notified to file an application or to raise a defence that he is not liable in terms of the provisions of the act or in any event the properties attached should not be sold in discharge of the liabilities can be taken at the initial stage by filing an application in terms of sub s 2 of section 4 of the act.
it is not in dispute that the learned special court on or about 3 august 1993 issued directions in various proceedings before it appointing auditors to prepare and audit the books of accounts of all notified persons for the period 1 april 1990 and 8 june 1992 i e the date of the notification.
ii having regard to the fact that only three entitles out of eight were involved in the offences the liability of harshad mehta could not have been clubbed for the purpose of directing attachment and consequent sale of the properties which exclusively belong to them.
the assessee who is before the special court is a person liable to be charged with an offence relating to transactions in securities.
the appellants herein and the said.
what would be the effect of the jurisdictional question as regard maintainability of the said application being barred by limitation would indisputably fall for consideration before the special court.
the act confers wide power upon the custodian and the learned special court and in that view of the matter having regard to the principles of natural justice the judgment and order of the learned judge special court should have furthermore been supported by sufficient and cogent reasons.
the flats have been sold on the basis of the joint liabilities of the appellants together with harshad mehta and other companies as a group.
although in relation to a body corporate incorporated and registered under the indian companies act the doctrine of lifting the corporate veil would be applicable but the same can not be applied in case of individuals.
furthermore the question as regard liability of the parties should have been determined at the stage of section 9 a of the act.
a corporate veil indisputably can be lifted on several grounds.
this is because the tax liability of a notified person having priority under section 112a is only tax liability pertaining to the statutory period.
the custodian may also take assistance and or further assistance from a chartered accountant of his choice.
indlaw sc 732 v custodian and others 1998 5 scc 1 wherein the following questions were framed what is meant by revenues taxes cesses and rates due.
the custodian in a case of this nature may however show that the transactions entered into apparently by harshad mehta were intimately connected with acquisition of properties in the name of others.
in any event it is for parliament to enact a law that meets all contingencies.
the appellants herein are notified persons in terms of the provisions of the act.
the liabilities of harshad mehta who was a sui generis could have been recovered from the properties held and possessed by him or from the companies floated by him but not from the individual entities at least two of whom being medical practitioners have their income from other sources.
such subsequent events could also be taken into consideration for the purpose of review.
in view of our foregoing discussions we are of the opinion that i the contention of the appellants that they being not involved in offences in transactions in securities could not have been proceeded in terms of the provisions of the act can not be accepted in view of the fact that they have been notified in terms thereof.
applications filed by the appellants herein for release of the residential flats as well as the commercial premises from attachment were dismissed.
v the assets and liabilities of each of the entities having been audited by the chartered accountants it is evident from the reports that in all cases liabilities exceed the assets.
v hitesh mehta rs 73 crores vi.
in any event ordinarily a bona fide purchaser for value in an action sale is treated differently than a decree holder purchasing such properties.
in the context of section 112 therefore the taxes due refer to taxes as finally assessed.
it is significant that in the present case the liability had even been quantified and a demand had been created in the sum of rs 149776 by means of the notice dated november 21 1957 during the pendency of the assessment proceedings before the income tax officer and before the finalisation of the assessment.
in tejkumar balakrishna ruia v a k menon and another 1997 9 scc 123 1996 indlaw sc 2403 this court held in our view the terms of sub s 3 of section 3 are clear.
the courts must interpret the law as it reads.
co ltd 1971 indlaw sc 841 supra this court has held although that liability can not be enforced till the quantification is effected by assessment proceedings the liability for payment of tax is independent of the assessment.
three firms of chartered accountants were appointed to prepare statement of accounts and liabilities of each of the appellants herein.
v thus taking into consideration the total of the decretal amount and the income tax liability it is clear that the total assets of harshad mehta group would be far below the liabilities.
it is open to the appellants herein to show that even if they continued to be notified the custodian was not right in clubbing all the individual members of the family as a single entity styled as harshad mehta group.
while a purposive interpretation is permissible where two interpretations are possible the purposive interpretation must be such as preserves the constitutionality of the provision.
we direct the custodian to permit the appellants to have inspection of all the documents in his power or possession in the premises of the special court in the presence of an officer of the court.
in regard to question No 5 this court agreed with the finding of the special court that neither penalty nor interest can be considered as tax under section 112a of the act.
the custodian does not appear to have preferred claims before the special court on behalf of the largest lender on the so called group against those he had to recover loans.
in other words taxes as assessed which are presently payable by the notified person are taxes which have to be taken into account under section 112a while distributing the property of the notified person.
lifting the corporate veil.
the intent and purport of parliament enacting the said act furthermore must be given its full effect.
a reply and or rejoinder thereto shall be filed within one week from the date of the receipt of the copy of the objection.
iiwhether individual liabilities of the appellants ought to have been separately considered by the special court as not a part of harshad mehta group.
does the special court have any discretion relating to the extent of payments to be made under section 112a from out of the attached funds property.
the apprehension expressed by the special court does not appear to be well founded if what a notified person obtains by way of purported income or gift or inheritance is really his own money such money would upon establishment of the fact stand attached automatically under the provisions of section 33.
does the word due refer merely to the liability to pay such taxes etc or does it refer to a liability which has crystallised into a legally ascertained sum immediately payable.
as regard question No 1 it was held in the present case the words taxes due occur in a section dealing with distribution of property.
we therefore are of the opinion in the interest of justice that it is necessary to give another opportunity of hearing to the appellants.
such tax liability may be discharged either under the directions of the special court under section 112c or the taxing authority may recover the same from any subsequently acquired property of a notified person vide tejkumar balakrishna ruia v a k menon 1996 indlaw sc 2403 or in any other manner from the notified person in accordance with law.
on the other hand the contention of the custodian is that the appellants had not only taken huge loans or advances from harshad mehta in one capacity or the other but also even transactions and shares were made by harshad mehta on their behalf.
the learned judge special court shall take up the matter relating to confirmation of the auction sale in respect of the commercial properties immediately and pass an appropriate order thereupon within four weeks from the date of receipt of copy of this order.
we therefore would direct that the confirmation of sale of those flats be considered and appropriate order thereupon may be passed by the learned special court while considering the matter afresh.
the appellants shall file their objections to the said report if any within ten days thereafter.
although we do not intend to enter into the correctness or otherwise of the said contention of the appellants at this stage however there can not be any doubt whatsoever that they being notified persons all their properties would be deemed to be automatically attached as a consequent thereto.
the contention of the appellants to the effect that their properties should have been attached only towards the liabilities incurred by the parties in respect of the transactions made during the statutory period can not be accepted as all the appellants being notified the attachment of the assets would be automatic.
the appellants shall be entitled to take the help of a chartered or cost accountant and may make notes therefrom for their use in the pending proceeding.
l s synthetics ltd 2004 indlaw sc 715 supra.