in the present case the legislature intended to provide for two types of scrutiny followed by one statutory appeal to the appellate board against post grant proceedings.
the legislature intended to provide for only one statutory appeal to the appellate board but by not bringing s 61 into force till 2 4 07appeals filed during the interregnum as in this case became vulnerable and liable to be dismissed as misconceived as is contended by the appellant.
quite often the commencement of an act is postponed to some specified future date or to such date as the appropriate government may by notification in the official gazette appoint.
the legislature intended to have a dichotomy between pre grant opposition and post grant opposition.
therefore the legislature intended an appeal under section 117a2 to the appellate board from any decision order or direction of the controller inter alia under s 254 which refers to the power of the controller to maintain amend or revoke the patent.
that amended s 117 g is consequential to the enforcement of the jurisdiction of the appellate board u s 64 which results to revocation of patent.
for the sake of convenience we refer to the facts mentioned in civil appeal no of 2008 arising out of s l p c no 15729 of 2008 filed by j mitra co pvt ltd.
taking into account the complexities involved in this case on account of a hiatus created by reason of the law not being brought into force in time we are of the view that the first appeals filed by respondent no 3 in the high court being fao.
the result is that although the legislature intended to provide for only one statutory appeal to the appellate board by reason of s 61 of the patents amendment act2005 not being brought into force till 2 4 07 a strange situation developed.
in short by the patents amendment act2005for the first time a dichotomy was introduced in the patent law between opposition to the pre grant and opposition to the post grant of patent.
the legislature intended to obliterate appeal from pre grant proceedingswhich existed earlier.
in cases of orders passed in post grant opposition.
moreover it may be noted that even section 117g which refers to transfer of pending proceedings to the appellate board is also brought into force vide notification dated 3 4 07 keeping in mind the peculiar nature of the problem in hand we are of the view that ends of justice.
the appellate board after 2 4 07 is entitled to hear appeals only arising from orders passed by the controller under s 254i e.
a right of appeal was available to the aggrieved party against orders passed under s 25 the said appellate remedy was available by way of an appeal to the high court.
therefore there is no point in transferring the pending fao no 29206 and fao no 29306 to the appellate board which has no authority to decide matters concerning pre grant opposition.
on reading amended section 117 g it becomes clear that all appeals against any order or decision of the controller had to be transferred to the appellate board from such date as may be notified by the central government in the official gazette.
amendment act1999 against orders passed by the controller in pre grant opposition proceedings.
this was the major structural change in the patent law.
an act can not be said to commence or to be in force unless it is brought into operation by legislative enactment or by the exercise of authority by a delegate empowered to bring it into operation.
however the legislature intended that there shall be only one statutory appeal against grant of patent.
thus proceedings commenced before the controller of patents in the year 2000 when the appellant herein sought a patent of their device which was opposed by respondent no 3 in the year 2000 by then the patents amendment act1999 had amended the patents act1970 w e f 26 3 99 s 25 of the patents act1970 as amended by patents amendment act1999 dealt with opposition to a patent vides s 25 at that time appeals against decisions made by the controller pertaining to pre grant oppositions under s 25 were maintainable before the high court u s 1162 of the indian patents act1970.
similarly under the patents amendment act2005appeal was restricted to the post grant opposition orders and that appeal lay before the appellate board and not to the high court.
respondent no 3in both the cases preferred first appeals to the high court u s 116 as it then stood.
according to the appellant on 23 8 06 the controller rejected its pre grant opposition and on that day post grant opposition avenue was open to respondent no 3 vide s 252 according to the appellant under the amended s 25 on rejection of pre grant opposition it was open to respondent.
according to the appellant this was a structural change in the principal act.
e that the invention so far as claimed in any claim of the complete specification is obvious and clearly does not involve any inventive step having regard to the matter published as mentioned in cl b or having regard to what was used in india before the priority date of the claim h that the patentee has failed to disclose to the controller the information required by s 8 or has furnished the information which in any material particular was false to his knowledge i that in the case of a patent granted on convention application the application for patent was not made within twelve months from the date of the first application for protection for the invention made in a convention country or in india by the patentee or a person from whom he derives title j that the complete specification does not disclose or wrongly mentions the source and geographical origin of biological material used for the invention k that the invention so far as claimed in any claim of the complete specification was anticipated.
no 3 to move an application opposing grant of patent under s 252 the patent was granted to the appellant on 22 9 06 according to the appellant it was open to respondent no 3 to challenge the grant of patent by making post grant opposition under s 252 from which an appeal was maintainable to the appellate board.
according to the appellant with the change in s 25 brought about by patents amendment act2005a dichotomy was introduced in the patents act1970 according to the appellant that dichotomy was between pre grant opposition and post grant opposition.
the ground of challenge under s 251 is identical to s 252 of the said 1970 act.
span diagnostics limited respondent no 3 herein is a public limited company established in 1972 to indigenously develop and manufacture a comprehensive range of ready made diagnostic reagents made by clinical pathology laboratories.
no 29306would remain in the high court.
act2005is that even after a patent is grantedpost grant opposition can be filed under s 25 2 for a period of one year.
after scrutiny the said application stood notified by the patent office on 20 11 2004.
in 2002the legislature desired an amendment to the law and intended to create an appellate forum to hear appeals against orders passed by the controller consequently patents amendment.
under the patents amendment act2005appeal is provided to the appellate board against the order of the controller under s 254 however that statutory appeal is maintainable only in post grant opposition proceedings whereas respondent no 3 herein has instituted first appeals under the law then prevailing challenging the order rejecting pre grant opposition dated 23 8 06.
3 appellant herein filed its application for grant of patent.
this is the main rationale underlying s 252 of the said 1970 act.
it is during this interregnum that respondent no 3 filed its fao no 29306 in the high court under section 116as.
however s 25 was brought into force vide notification dated 20 5 2003 even as on 20 5 2003 vide s 25 only one right to oppose a patent at the pre grant stage was available and appeal against an order passed by the earlier lay before the high court under the then existing s 116 of the patents.
for the purposes of this clause an invention relating to a process for which a patent is claimed shall be deemed to have been publicly known or publicly used in india before the priority date of the claim if a product made by that process had already been imported into india before that date except where such importation has been for the purpose of reasonable trial or experiment only e that the invention so far as claimed in any claim of the complete specification is obvious and clearly does not involve any inventive step having regard to the matter published as mentioned in cl b or having regard to what was used in india before the priority date of the applicant 's claim f that the subject of any claim of the complete specification is not an invention within the meaning of this act or is not patentable under this act g that the complete specification does not sufficiently and clearly describe the invention or the method by which it is to be performed h that the applicant has failed to disclose to the controller the information required by s 8 or has furnished the information which in any material particular was false to his knowledge i that in the case of convention application the application was not made within twelve months from the date of the first application for protection for the invention made in a convention country by the applicant or a person from whom he derives title j that the complete specification does not disclose or wrongly mentions the source or geographical origin of biological material used for the invention k that the invention so far as claimed in any claim of the complete specification is anticipated having regard to the knowledge oral or otherwise available within any local or indigenous community in india or elsewhere but on no other ground and the controller shall if requested by such person for being heard hear him and dispose of such representation in such manner and within such period as may be prescribed.