the appellants challenge the acquisition of their agricultural lands by the state of uttar pradesh for the construction of the district jail of shahjahanpur.
the valuable right of the appellants under section 5a of the act can not flatten and steamrolled on the ipsi dixit of the executive authority.
for the reasons aforesaid we hold that the state government was not justified in the facts of this case to invoke the emergency provision of s 174 of the act.
the high court also approved the invoking of emergency provisions u s 17 of the act as per the guidelines given in essco fabs private limited and another vs state of haryana and another.
in dlf qutab enclave complex educational charitable trust vs state of haryana and ors 2003 5 scc 622 2003 indlaw sc 124this court construed the statute on town planning law and held expropriatory statute as is well known must be strictly construed.
in the facts of this case such acquisition can not be made by invoking emergency provisions of s 17 if so advised government can initiate acquisition proceeding by following the provision of section 5a of the act and in accordance with law.
the impugned notifications u ss 4 and 6 of the act in so far as they relate to the appellants land are quashed.
these principles again found support in the decision of this court in chairman indore vikas pradhikaran vs pure industrial coke and chemicals.
being aggrieved by the aforesaid notifications the appellants moved a writ petition before the high court u art 226 of the constitution of india.
in construing the concept of public purpose the mandate of art 13 of the constitution that any pre constitutional law can not in any way take away or abridge rights conferred under part iii must be kept in mind.
the possession of the appellants in respect of their land can not be interfered with except in accordance with law.
in hindustan petroleum corporation limited vs darius shahpur chennai and ors.
this court is of the opinion that the concept of public purpose in land acquisition has to be viewed from an angle which is consistent with the concept of a welfare state.
the meaning of public purpose in acquisition of land must be judged on the touchstone of this expanded view of part iii rights.
this court also held that in view of the ratio in union of india vs mukesh hans2004 8 scc 14 2004 indlaw sc 1413sub s 4 of s 17 can not be pressed into service by officers who are negligent and lethargic in initiating acquisition proceedings.
the concept of public purpose can not remain static for all time to come.
admittedly the land acquisition act a pre constitutional legislation of colonial vintage is a drastic law being expropriatory in nature as it confers on the state a power which affects person 's property right.
the history behind insertion of section 5a in the act of 1894 seems to be a decision of the division bench of calcutta high court in j e d ezra vs the secretary of state for india and ors reported in 7 c w n 249 in that case the properties of ezra were sought to be acquired under the pre amended provision of the act for expansion of the offices of the bank of bengal.
the high court in its decision dated 25 11 2009 refused to interfere with the selection of the site for the construction of the jail premises on the ground that it was not required to do so unless it found the selection of the site was wholly arbitrary.
the construction of jail is certainly in public interest and for such construction land may be acquired.
any attempt by the state to acquire land by promoting a public purpose to benefit a particular group of people or to serve any particular interest at the cost of the interest of a large section of people especially of the common people defeats the very concept of public purpose.
therefore the concept of public purpose on this broad horizon must also be read into the provisions of emergency power u s 17 with the consequential dispensation of right of hearing under section 5a of the said act.
in this context we reiterate the principle laid down by this court in authorised officer thanjavur and another vs s naganatha.
as early as in 1964this court in nandeshwar prasad and ors vs.
the concept even though sought to be defined u s 3f of the act is not capable of any precise definition.
even though the concept of public purpose was introduced by pre constitutional legislation its application must be consistent with the constitutional ethos and especially the chapter under fundamental rights and also the directive principles.
the same principle has been reiterated subsequently by a three judge bench of this court in state of maharashtra and anr vs.
it was urged that it was clear from the counter of the respondent that the contemplation of a new prison was under consideration of the state government for several years.
in our opinion therefore the contention of learned counsel for the respondent authorities is not well founded and can not be upheld that once a case is covered by sub ss 1 or 2 of s 17 of the act sub s 4 of s 17 would necessarily apply and there is no question of holding inquiry or hearing objections under section 5 a of the act.
this slow pace at which the government machinery had functioned in processing the acquisition clearly evinces that there was no urgency for acquiring the land so as to warrant invoking s 17 4 of the act.
a of the act.
even though right to property is no longer fundamental and was never a natural right and is acquired on a concession by the state it has to be accepted that without right to some property other rights become illusory.
these appeals have been preferred from the judgment and order of the high court dated 25 11 2009 in writ petitions civil no 464572009.
the importance and scheme of section 5a was construed by this court in several cases.
the judiciary in its sphere shares the revolutionary purpose of the constitutional order and when called upon to decode social legislation must be animated by a goal oriented approach.
but such acquisition can be made only by strictly following the mandate of the said act.
b e billimoria and ors 2003 7 scc 336 2003 indlaw sc 618 in the context of ceiling law.
this court therefore held that once a case is covered under sub s 1 or 2 of section 17sub s 4 of s 17 would not necessarily apply.
if public purpose can be satisfied by not rendering common man homeless and by exploring other avenues of acquisition the courts before sanctioning an acquisition must in exercise of its power of judicial review focus its attention on the concept of social and economic justice.
but even in such cases i e cases of urgency or unforeseen emergencyenquiry contemplated by section 5 a can not ipso facto be dispensed with which is clear from sub s 4 of s 17 of the act.
it must be accepted that in construing public purpose a broad and overall view has to be taken and the focus must be on ensuring maximum benefit to the largest number of people.
january2005the said committee recommended to the state government the shifting of the district jails from congested areas to outside the city limits within the district.