this court in tarsem singh v state of punjab2008.
maintaining silence can not be equated to discharge of onus by the accused.
such a presumption can be drawn by the court keeping in view the evidence produced by the prosecution in support of the substantive charge under section 304 b of the code.
again in satvir singh v state of punjab20018 scc 633 2001 indlaw sc 224.
the court can not ignore one of the cardinal principles of criminal jurisprudence that a suspect in the indian law is entitled to the protection of art 20 of the constitution of india as well as has a presumption of innocence in his favour.
in the present case the prosecution by reliable and cogent evidence has established the guilt of the accused.
applying these principles to the facts of the present case it is clear that the ingredients of section 304b read with section 498a ipc are completely satisfied in the present case.
the expression demand for dowry will have to be construed ejusdem generis to the word immediately preceding this expression.
in the case of ashok kumar v state of haryana 2010 12 scc 350 2010 indlaw sc 502this court explained these terms in some elucidation and the effect of the deeming fiction appearing in the section as follows 11 the appellant was charged with an offence under section 304 b of the code.
denial can not be treated to be the discharge of onus.
the cruelty and harassment by the husband or any relative could be directly relatable to or in connection with any demand for dowry.
in other words the offence shall be deemed to have been committed by fiction of law.
the expression in connection with the marriage can not be given a restricted or a narrower meaning.
however there must be existence of proximate link between the acts of cruelty along with the demand of dowry and the death of the victim.
similar view was expressed by this court in yashoda v state of m p20043 scc 98 2004 indlaw sc 132 where this court stated that determination of the period would depend on the facts and circumstances of a given case.
these are penal provisions but ultimately these are the social legislations intended to control offences relating to the society as a whole.
this court in madhu sudan malhotra v kishore chand bhandari1988 supp.
this court in ran singh v state of haryana2008 4 scc 700 2008 indlaw sc 120 held that the payments which are customary payments for example given at the time of birth of a child or other ceremonies as are prevalent in the society or families to the marriage would not be covered under the expression dowry.
in our view the expression soon before her death can not be given a restricted or a narrower meaning.
by a deeming fiction in law the onus shifts on to the accused to prove as to how the deceased died.
at the time of marriage it was promised that a dowry of rs 25000 besides other formalities would be paid by the side of the wife to the husband.
dowry is something which existed in our country for a considerable time and the legislature in its wisdom considered it appropriate to enact the law relating to dowry prohibition so as to ensure that any party to the marriage is not harassed or treated with cruelty for satisfaction of demands in consideration and for subsistence of the marriage.
the concept of deeming fiction is hardly applicable to the criminal jurisprudence.
it is of some significance that these expressions should be given appropriate meaning to avoid undue harassment or advantage to either of the parties.
it was expected of the accused to explain as to how and why his wife died as well as his conduct immediately prior and subsequent to the death of the deceased.
onus has to be discharged by leading proper and cogent evidence.
in other words the rule of law requires a person to be innocent till proved guilty.
in contradistinction to this aspect the legislature has applied the concept of deeming fiction to the provisions of section 304 b where other ingredients of section 304 b are satisfied in that event the husband or all relatives shall be deemed to have caused her death.
but even the rule of strict construction requires that the provisions have to be read in conjunction with other relevant provisions and scheme of the act.
however the expression would normally imply that there has to be reasonable time gap between t he cruelty inflicted and the death in question.
it is for the accused to show that the death of the deceased did not result from any cruelty or demand of dowry by the accused persons.
the expression in connection with the marriage even in common parlance and on its plain language has to be understood generally.
we are of the considered view that the concept of reasonable time is the best criteria to be applied for appreciation and examination of such cases.
this clearly shows the intent of the legislature that these expressions are of wide meaning and scope.
there being no rebuttal thereto there is no occasion to interfere in the judgments of the courts under appeal.
once the prosecution proves its case with regard to the basic ingredients of section 304 b the court will presume by deemed fiction of law that the husband or the relatives complained of has caused her death.
such demand or harassment may not strictly and squarely fall within the scope of these provisions unless definite evidence was led to show to the contrary.
the explanation to this section requires that the expression dowry shall have the same meaning as in s 2 of the act.
the accused did not care to explain as to how the death of his wife occurred.
we have already referred to the provisions of section 304 b of the code and the most significant expression used in the section is soon before her death.
in other words there should be a reasonable if not direct nexus between her death and the dowryrelated cruelty or harassment inflicted on her.
similarlyin connection with the marriage is an expression which has to be given a wider connotation.
we have examined the provisions of s 2 of the act in a very limited sphere to deal with the contentions raised in regard to the applicability of the provisions of section 304 b of the code.
in the case of biswajit halder alias babu halder and others v state of w b 2008 1 scc 202 2007 indlaw sc 304the court stated the ingredients of this provision as follows 10 the basic ingredients to attract the provisions of section 304 b are as follows.
secondly that soon before her death she had been subjected to cruelty or harassment by the husband or any of the relatives of the husband for or in connection with any demand for dowry then such a death shall be called dowry death and the husband or the relative as the case may be will be deemed to have caused such a death.
they must be understood in their plain language and with reference to their meaning in common parlance.
this penal section clearly spells out the basic ingredients as well as the matters which are required to be construed strictly and with significance to the cases where death is caused by burns bodily injury or the death occurring otherwise than under normal circumstances in any manner within seven years of a marriage.
it is the case of the prosecution that for non payment of dowry the accused persons harassed the deceased and subjected her to cruelty.
these matters of course will have to be examined on the facts and circumstances of a given case.
the offences having been proved against the accused and keeping in view the attendant circumstances we are of the considered view that ends of justice would be met if the punishment awarded to the appellants is reduced.
if this is so the legislature in its wisdom would have specified any period which would attract the provisions of this section.
16 scc 155 2008 indlaw sc 1962 held that the legislative object in providing such a radius of time by employing the words soon before her death is to emphasise the idea that her death should in all probabilities has been the aftermath of such cruelty or harassment.
these are the provisions relating to human behaviour and therefore cannot be given such a narrower meaning which would defeat the very purpose of the provisions of the act of course these are penal provisions and must receive strict construction.
further the interpretation given should be one which would avoid absurd results on the one hand and would further the object and cause of the law so enacted on the other.
12 the definition of dowry under s 2 of the act reads as under 2 definition of dowry.