reference was also made to a decision of the bombay high court in lallu v jagmohan 1898 i l r 22 bom.
reliance was next placed on maharaja of kolhapur v sundaram iyer 1925 i l r 48 mad.
reliance was next placed on the decision in pavani subbamma v ammala rama naidu 1937.
bhagwati devi v chowdry bholonath thakur 1874 75 2 i a 256.
vide sasiman v shib narain 491.
ranganayaki entered into possession of the properties on the death of her husband.
on the 19th september 1945 an ad interim injunction was issued by the high court restraining the widow from alienating the properties in her possession and forming part of her husband 's estate inspite of this injunction on the 27th september 1945 she executed two deeds of settlement in favour of the other defendants comprising a number of properties.
on the 18th september 1945 the suit out of which this appeal arises was instituted by the plaintiff the husband and the sole heir of ramalakshmi for a declaration that the said sale would not be binding on him beyond the lifetime of the widow.
on 21st february 1928 she settled the maintenance claim of lakshmi ammal and obtained a deed of release from her by paying her a sum of rs 3350 in cash and by executing in her favour an agreement stipulating to pay her a sum of rs 240 per annum.
this decision therefore goes against the contention of the learned counsel but he placed reliance on the observations made in the judgment when the learned judge proceeded to say in deference to the view taken in maharaja of kolhapur v sundaram iyer 1925 i l r 48 mad 1 it may be possible to create an interest analogous to a woman 's estate in hindu law notwithstanding the addition of a gift over and that the estate taken by section need not necessarily be only a life estate in the english law sense of the term.
in vasantharao ammannamma v venkata kodanda rao pantalu 1939.
on the 24th july 1945 the widow describing herself as an absolute owner of the properties of her husband sold one of the items of the property to the 2nd defendant for rs 500.
1 m l j 268.
in the first instance he placed reliance on a decision of the madras high court in ratna chetty v narayana swami chetty 19i4 26 m l j 616.
the subordinate judge held that the widow took under the will a limited life interest and not an absolute estate or even a widow 's estate under hindu law and that the daughter got there under a vested interest in the properties to which the plaintiff succeeded on her death.
it was averred in the plaint that ramalakshmi obtained a vested interest in the suit properties under the will of her father and plaintiff was thus entitled to maintain the suit.
the following remarks in the privy council decision in nathu ram mahajan v gangayabai 1938.
the high court by its judgment under appeal affirmed the decision of the trial judge and maintained his view on the construction of the will.
the restraint against alienation was repugnant to both a life estate and a widow estate and was not therefore taken into account.
one lakshminarayana iyer a hindu brahmin who owned considerable properties in the tirunelveli district died on 13th december 1924 leaving him surviving a widow ranganayaki and a married daughter ramalakshmi.
in view of this finding he granted the plaintiff a declaratory decree to the effect that the first defendant had only an estate for life in the suit properties and that the alienations made by her would not endure beyond her lifetime.
the defendants pleaded that the plaintiff had no title to maintain the suit that the widow was entitled under the will to an absolute estate or at least to an estate analogous to and not less than a widow 's estate that the estate given to ramalakshmi under the will was but a contingent one and she having predeceased the widow no interest in the suit properties devolved on the plaintiff.
a prayer was made that the widow be restrained from alienating the other properties in her possession.
the last decision referred to was the decision of the privy council in mahomed shumsool v shewukram 1874 indlaw pc 12 1874 75 2 i a 7 there a hindu inhabitant of bihar by a document of a testamentary character declared his daughter who had two daughters as his heir and after her two daughters together with their children were declared heirs and malik.
the unsuccessful defendants preferred an appeal against this decree to the high court of judicature at madras.
the plaintiff was allowed to amend his plaint and include therein a prayer for a declaration in respect of the invalidity of these alienations as well.
the substantial question to decide in the appeal is whether the estate granted by the testator to his widow was a fall woman 's estate under hindu law or merely a limited life estate in the english sense of that expression.
ramalakshmi had married the plaintiff and had a number of children from him.
during the pendency of the appeal the widow died on 14th february 1948.
they were all alive in december 1924 when lakshminarayana died.
mr krishnaswami iyengar sought to derive the greatest support for his contention from the decision in ram bahadur v jager.
the main issue in the suit was whether the widow took under the will an absolute estate or an estate like the hindu widow 's estate and whether the daughter 's interest therein was in the nature of a contingent remainder or whether she got in the properties a vested interest.
2 m l j 562 were next cited as the will gave her the right to enjoy the income of the estate during her lifetime it was evidently contemplated that she should as provided by the hindu law in the case of a widow be in possession of the estate.
there was a clear prohibition forbidding the widow to make any transfers of the milkiuit estates and the slaves.
she had complete control over the income of the property during her lifetime.
ramalakshmi died on 25th april 1938 during the lifetime of the widow.
under that law she has the power to alienate the estate for the benefit of the soul of the husband for pilgrimage and for the benefit of the estate and for other authorized purposes.
the court 's primary duty in such cases is to ascertain from the language employed by the testator what were his intentions keeping in view the surrounding circumstances his ordinary notions as a hindu in respect to devolution of his property his family relationships etc.
the question as to the validity of the alienations was left undetermined.
leave to appeal to the supreme court was granted and the appeal was admitted on the 27th november 1951.
assuming that it is possible to create a hindu woman 's estate not with standing the addition of a gift over the question nevertheless whether that had been done in a given case must depend on the terms of the particular instrument under consideration.
it was strenuously argued by mr k section krishnaswami iyengar that lakshminarayana iyer was a brahmin gentleman presumably versed in the sastras living in a village in the southernmost part of the madras state that his idea of a restricted estate was more likely to be one analogous to a hindu woman 's estate than a life estate a understood in english law wherein the estate is measured by use and not by duration and that if this will was construed in the light of the notions of lakshminarayana iyer it should be held that the widow got under it a hindu widow 's estate and the daughter got under it a contingent remainder in the nature of spes and on her death there was nothing which could devolve on the plaintiff and he thus had no locus standi to question the alienations made by the widow.
it was argued that such a power was implicit within the acts she was authorized to do that is to say when she was directed to pay the debts and settle the maintenance of ramalakshmi it was implicit within these directions that for these purposes if necessity arose she could alienate the properties.