vide dhakeswari cotton mills ltd v commissioner of income tax west bengal 1954 indlaw sc 213.
this has been clearly recognised even in the various decisions of the labour appellate tribunal e g nizam sugar factory ltd hyderabad v their workmen 1952.
and also in great western garment co ltd v minister of national revenue 1948.
i l l j 386 textile mills madhya pradesh v their workmen 1952 2 l l j 625and famous cine laboratory v their workmen 1953.
on an appeal taken by the appellant to the industrial court textiles and hosiery kanpur the industrial court accepted the contention of the appellant allowed the appeal and set aside the award.
during the year 1948 the appellant made a profit of rs 1197648 11 9.
the principles for the grant of bonus were discussed and a formula was evolved by the full bench of the labour appellate tribunal in millowners association bombay v rashtreeya mill mazdoor sangh bombay 1950.
2 l l j 247as.
this position was recognised in sutton v attorney general 1923.
this contention can be shortly answered by referring to our decision in bharat bank ltd delhi v employees of the bharat bank ltd delhi 1950 s c r 459 1950 indlaw sc 48 where we held that the industrial tribunals were tribunals within the meaning of article 136 and further that article 136 has vested in this court exceptional and overriding power to interfere where it reaches the conclusion that a person has been dealt with arbitrarily or that a court or tribunal within the territory of india has not given a fair deal to a litigant.
the industrial dispute which thus arose was referred for enquiry and recording of an award to the regional conciliation board textile kanpur.
both the industrial court as well as the labour appellate tribunal found as a fact that there was a trading loss of rs 502563 1 10 during the year 1949 and also.
during the year 1949 the selling rates for cloth and yarn were controlled by the government and were approximately 4 per cent.
the respondent thereupon appealed to the labour appellate tribunal which substantially agreed with the industrial court on questions of fact as well as the general position in law but imported considerations of social justice and treating this as a special case where social justice would demand that labour should have bonus for the year where for that very year capital had not only a reasonable return but much in excess of that allowed the appeal and directed the appellant to pay to the workmen bonus at the rate of annas 4 per rupee within six weeks of their decision.
the appellant also paid ex gratia to the workmen bonus at the rate of annas 2 per rupee of their basic earnings making it clear by their notification dated the 7th april 1950 that the directors had sanctioned the payment at that rate in spite of the appellant having suffered a trading loss for the year that it was being paid entirely at the discretion of the appellant and was not related to or connected with any contract of employment of any worker.
the result therefore is that the decision of the labour appellate tribunal appealed against must be reversed and that of the industrial court textiles and hosiery kanpur restored.
this appeal with special leave is directed against the judgment and order of the labour appellate tribunal of india in a dispute regarding the workers claim for bonus.
it paid 24 3 per cent.
as a result of all these circumstances the appellant suffered a trading loss of rs 502563 1 10.
dividend on ordinary shares being the maximum that could be paid under the public companies limitation of dividend ordinance of 1948 and also paid to the workers their full share of bonus at annas 4 in a rupee of their basic earnings.
the basic wages were increased from the 1st december 1948 by order of the government of uttar pradesh and the total wages paid were therefore higher than those in the previous year.
on the 4th may 1950 the secretary of the respondent union petitioned to the provincial conciliation officer textile that there was more production in 1949 than in 1948 that there was no reason to hold that the profit in 1949 was less than in the previous year and that the rate of bonus was wrongly reduced and asked that bonus for 1949 should also be paid at the rate of annas 4 per rupee.
the trading loss was deducted from this amount leaving a credit balance of rs 749308 11 7 and that amount was shown as the profit for the year 1949 in the balance sheet for that year.
it is also significant to note that even while importing considerations of social justice the labour appellate tribunal was oblivious of the fact that it was by their own acts of indiscipline and strike that the workers of the appellant company themselves contributed to the trading losses incurred by the appellant and it hardly lay in their mouth then to contend that they were none the less entitled to a payment of bonus commensurate with the dividend paid to the shareholders out of the undistributed profits of the previous years.
further the management were unable to secure cotton which resulted in the curtailment of the working hours.
to a similar effect are the observations in kenicott v supervisors of wayne county 1873 83 u s 452 21 l ed.
but second the meaning of the word bonus is not given to it by the objection.
to the ordinary shareholders was distributed after transferring the aggregate sum of rs 1251871 13 5 from the reserves.
the labour appellate tribunal did not accept the contention of the respondent that bonus should be linked to dividends nor did it rest its decision on the respondent having a right title and interest in the reserves and the undistributed profits of the appellant.
it is therefore clear that the claim for bonus can be made by the employees only if as a result of the joint contribution of capital and labour the industrial concern has earned profits.
the conciliation board by a majority decision repelled the contention of the appellant and awarded the payment of bonus at annas 4 per rupee.
ordinance of 1948 the whole of the profits of 1948 could have been distributed after paying the workers bonus in that year of four annas in the rupee.
the ratio which applies in the case of the shareholders who acquire the right title and interest of their predecessorsin interest does not apply to the labour force and the fact that the shareholders get a dividend by transfer of funds from the reserves and undistributed profits of the previous years would not entitle the workers to demand bonus out of those funds if the working of the industrial concern during the particular year has resulted in a trading loss.
the question which therefore arises for our consideration is mainly whether the workers are entitled to the payment of a bonus in spite of the employer having worked at a loss during the year and incidentally whether the workers have any right title or interest in the reserves and the undistributed profits of the previous years.
the considerations of social justice imported by the labour appellate tribunal in arriving at the decision in favour of the respondent were not only irrelevant but untenable.
there are however two conditions which have to be satisfied before a demand for bonus can be justified and they are 1 when wages fall short of the living standard and 2 the industry makes huge profits part of which are due to the contribution which the workmen make in increasing production.
an aggregate sum of rs 1251871 13 5 was thus brought into the balance sheet by these two transfers.
there was a strike in the month of october and the mills were closed for nearly a month.
d l r 25 233.