the case of jaswant singh v the state of puniab.
in support of this contention three decisions have been cited before us namely bhagat ram v state of punjab 1954 indlaw sc 188 madan mohan singh v state of u p privy council 82.
of india took steps to acquire some lands of agriculturists pursuant to which a notification dated november 27 1962 was issued under section 4 of the land acquisition act 1894 for acquiring 51 79 acres of land situated in the state of ahmedpur.
and gokulchand dwarkadas mordrka v the king 1948 indlaw pc 39.
of india does not cover the trial of the charge under section 51c of the prevention of corruption act.
this appeal is by special leave against the judgment of the high court of punjab and haryana confirming the conviction of the accused under section 51c of the prevention of corruption act 1947 as also the sentence awarded by the sessions judge of one year 's rigorous imprisonment and a fine of rs 2500 in default six months rigorous imprisonment.
a chargesheet was filed against the appellant under section 5 1 c and 5 1 d read with 5 2 of the prevention of corruption act on 5 8 1966 after obtaining sanction from the govt.
on the next day another notification was issued under section 6 of the land acquisition act on november 28 1962 and in view of the emergency action under section 17 was taken for obtaining possession of the land with a view to its development.
it may be mentioned that though a complaint was made in the application for a certificate for leave to appeal to this court that the learned single judge of the high court should have acquitted the appellant on the sole ground that there was no proper sanction for the prosecution of the appellant under section 51 c of the prevention of the corruption act this question does not seem to have been urged before the high court.
we do not think in these circumstances there is any justification whatever for interfering with the concurrent findings of the trial court and the high court that the appellant is guilty of an offence under section 51c read with section 52 of the prevention of corruption act and consequently the appeal is dismissed.
the case of the prosecution initially was that after the land so acquired with the standing crop was taken possession of by the appellant.
the facts disclose the commission of the offence of criminal misconduct as defined in section 51d read with section 52 of the prevention of corruption act 1947 by major som nath accused.
in the present case there is nothing on the face of the sanction and no extraneous evidence to show that the sanctioning authority knew the facts alleged to constitute a breach of the order and the sanction is invalid.
the facts of the case in brief are that in view of the chinese invasion air field at sirsa required to be extended for which purpose the ministry of defence govt.
and which had been valued at rs 11073 13 by the revenue authorities dishonestly or fraudulently allowed moti ram of sirsa to misappropriate the said standing crop and thereby contravened section 51c of the prevention of corruption act punishable with section 52 of that act.
the accused was however convicted under the first charge for an offence under section 51c in that he being a garrison engineer incharge of the air field.
before the land was actually acquired the appellant who was a major in the military engineering service was working as a garrison engineer and was inching of the extension.
section 61 of the act bars the jurisdiction of the court to take cognizance of an offence for which previous sanction is required and has not been given.
for a sanction to be valid it must be established that the sanction was given in respect of the facts constituting the offence with which the accused is proposed to be charged.
there is therefore no basis for sanction for a charge under section 51c.
he had in anticipation of acquisition and execution of the work appointed a b ranadive p w 14 as assistant garrison engineer who was to be responsible for all the matters connected with the acquisition of land demarcation of boundaries as an engineer inching for execution of the contract and responsible for the maintenance of the air field.
the special judge acquitted the appellant of the second charge namely that being a public servant he had by corrupt or illegal means or by otherwise abusing his position as a public servant obtained for himself a sum of rs 2500 from moti ram of sirsa for cutting the crops and thereby committed offence under section 51d punishable under section 52.
under that clause sanction has to be given to a prosecution for the contravention of any of the provision of the order.
he sold the crop to moti ram and kewal chand for rs 2500 and facilitated the cutting and taking away of the crop by postponing the handing over of the possession to the contractor till the 5th april 1963 and misappropriated the money.
considered for the purposes of according sanction were a that the appellant as a public servant was entrusted with crops situated on the land acquired for the extension of air field sirsa b that by abusing his position as a public servant he allowed the standing crops to be cut from the said land.
against that conviction and sentence he appealed to the high court which maintained the conviction and sentence.
it was also contended that the high court had not considered the contradictions in the earlier statement made by some of the witnesses to the military authorities and that it relied on many of the documents for affirming the conviction of the appellant without their actually being put to him under section 342.
in our view there is no justification for holding that the conviction under section 51c read with 52 is bad for want of the requisite sanction.
before we consider these contentions it is necessary to determine another submission of the learned advocate for the appellant which goes to the root of the jurisdiction of the court to try the offence under section 51c.
the learned advocate for the appellant has meticulously taken us through the entire documentary and oral evidence and commented at length upon the various contradictions and incongruities in the case of the prosecution with a view to establishing that when the appellant took possession of the land there was no crop standing on it that tile possession of the land was in fact delivered to telu ram contractor on 10 1 1963 that the said contractor had admitted that possession of the entire land was received by him that he carried on the construction work in extending the aerodrome that 200250 donkeys were also used for doing the work by reason of which the crop was damaged before tehsildar had put the appellant in possession of the land and as a matter of fact there was no crop thereon when he got the possession of the land.
that the sanction given by the govt.
secondly the evidence that was necessary to unfold the story of the prosecution has not been produced by the prosecution but the trial court and the high court ignored this lacunas in the prosecution case.
the trial court as well as the high court are in our view justified in holding that crops of sarson gram and lusan were standing on the land acquired by the military for extension of the aerodrome.
24 bears the signature of n l handa the tehsildar and of sukhchain lal jain p w 11 on behalf of the military estate officer and the appellant.
the prosecution for offence under section 51d therefore is not barred because the proceedings are not without previous sanction which was validly given for the offence of receiving a bribe from pal singh but the offence of habitually receiving illegal gratification could not be taken cognizance of and the prosecution and trial for that offence was void for want of sanction which is a condition precedent for the courts taking cognizance of the offence alleged to be committed and therefore the high court has rightly set aside the conviction for that offence.
if so a charge under section 51c would implicate those persons also in the commission of an offence which certainly would not have been in the contemplation of the authorities granting the sanction.