non registration of the user agreement by sen raleigh and the appellant was due to the default of the latter.
this question was considered by this court in american home products corporation vs mac laboratories pvt ltd and anr 1985 indlaw sc 464 and they need no reiteration.
the respondents entered into an agreement with sudhir kumar sen on november 31948 to render technical know how to the indian company to be formed which would manufacture bicycles and market them under raleigh 's indian trade marks.
an agreement dated december 201976 was entered into between the appellant as registered user and the respondent in respect of 12 trade marks for a period of 5 years.
the discretion therefore was not to be extended in favour of the appellant.
the admitted facts are that the respondents through their agents had registered trade mark raleigh and other trade marks 12 marks under the indian merchandise marks act1889 4 of 1989 and the trade marks act1940 5 of 1940 the trade and merchandise marks act1958 43 of 1958 for short the act which came into force with effect from october 31958 has repealed the predecessor act and now the act is in operation.
by agreement dated december 291962sen raleigh and the respondents agreed that sen raleigh was registered user for further period up to 1976 sen raleigh was taken over by the government of india on september 81975 under the idr act and the government took over the management of sen raleigh limited.
the appellant can not be said to be either the proprietor of the trade mark since 1976since the agreement lapsed or permitted user  the high court therefore was wrong in holding that 5 years period had not lapsed.
on admitted position and in the facts and circumstances we are of the view that the appellant was a ago user of the trade mark of the respondent in passing off the bicycles under the trade mark of the respondent who admittedly is a registered proprietor.
in view of the appellant 's conduct it was taking advantage of its own wrong.
the conduct of the respondents was not violative of s 32b and c the court in those circumstances declined to rectify the trade mark and strike it off from the register of trade marks.
on october 241980sen raleigh was nationalized and got vested in the appellant corporation by publication of the notification under idr act.
it is not in dispute that till date of filing of the application the appellant used the trade mark in passing off the bicycles under the trade mark of the respondent.
in k r beri and co vs.
the discretion exercised by the court must be judged in the light of the facts and circumstances the appellant having used the trade mark it does not lie in the mouth of the appellant to contend that he is not a permitted user or a bona fide user of the trade mark.
on march 51982the respondent wrote a letter to the appellant that in the absence of a new agreement they were instructing their advocate to prevent the appellant by restraint proceedings to use the trade mark effective from april 11982.
suffice it to hold that subs 3 of s 46.
on march 281978joint application by sen raleigh and the appellant duly signed by the respondent as proprietor and sen raleigh limited as registered user came to be made before the registrar of trade marks.
the expression therefore should not be restricted to user by the proprietor himself or any registered user but should also take into account bona fide authorized user.
the appellant must be presumed by course of conduct that he is a bona fide user for the purpose of s 461b.
on appeal the division bench in appeal no 1391 confirmed the same holding that on and from october 251980the respondent had allowed and permitted the appellant to manufacture bicycles etc according its specifications and to pass off the goods under their trade marks.
raleigh was recorded as permitted users of the trade marks.
suffice it to state that the appellant as a fact had used the trade mark of the respondent in passing off the bicycles manufactured by it.
though the appellant has not used the trade mark by itself since 1954 and after the expiry of the permitted use by sen raleigh until the notice was issued by the respondent directing the appellant not to use the trade mark the appellant came to use the same in passing off bicycles manufactured by it under trade mark of the respondent.
on march 241982the appellant made an application under sections 3246 and 56 of the act against the respondents in the high court of calcutta in suit no 26692 pleading inter alia that the respondents had failed to provide technical assistance by passing the technical know how to sen raleigh after november 11976 neither the appellant nor sen raleigh were registered users of the trade mark after november 11976.
in these circumstances we are of the view that the high court has properly exercised its discretion and refused to rectify and strike off the trade mark from the register of trade marks of the registrar.
it is also not necessary to go into the question whether the application filed by the appellant u s 481 and its pendency would be a special circumstance in favour of the respondent.
the question is whether the trade connection exists to dispel the charge of trafficking in the trade mark.
is not attracted to the facts in this case.
there must be real trade connection between the proprietor of the trade and licensee of the goods and the intention to use the trade mark must exist at the date of the application for registration of trade mark and such intention must be genuine and bona fide and continue to subsist in order to disprove the charge of trafficking in trade mark.
the appellant was unable to prove that there had been no such user of the trade mark for a continuous period of 61 months or longer and the lack of bona fide intention the expression by any registered proprietors in s 461b should not be restricted to user by proprietor or registered user who should also include bona fide or authorized users the legislature did not intend to register proprietor to be deprived of their property at the instance of user whose use is unregistered.
the question then is whether the discretion has been properly exercised by both the division bench as well the single judge in refusing to take off the trade mark from the register by striking off trade mark from the register of the registrar of trade marks.
by proceedings dated june 131984the registrar of trade marks informed the appellant that the registered user 's applications were abandoned since the appellant failed to comply with the statutory requirements.
after termination of the collaboration and user agreement between the appellant and the respondents it was likely to cause confusion and deception amongst the trade and public.
in the absence of such a findings the high court was wrong in law in refusing to rectify the trade mark and striking it off the register.
the power u s 46 is discretionary.
it must be shown that the non use of the trade mark is due to special circumstances of the trade and not due to some other cause which would have operated whether the special circumstances had arisen off not.
it is contended that the registered user must be understood to be the user by the proprietor or authorized user registered under section 48 the period of 5 years should be computed from that date of expiry of registered user.
the agreement dated december 291962 was modified and the respondents were given option to terminate the agreement.
the division bench therefore was wrong in its conclusion that the appellant has failed to establish it.
it must therefore be held that though the deemed presumption under sub s 2 of s 48 is referable to the permitted user or the registered user and it does not extend to unregistered permitted user the connecting link of passing off the goods between the licensor 's trade mark and the lincesee should bona fide be with the permission or consent which may be express or implied by long course of dealings.
it must therefore be duty of the registered proprietor to show what non user was strictly due to the special circumstances of trade and not of any intention on the part of the registered proprietor not to use the trade mark during the relevant period.
then the burden shifts to the proprietor of the trade mark to affirmatively prove the special circumstances for non user of trade mark.
on the other hand it is for the respondent to prove the same.
the operation of s 482 must be construed in such a way that the bona fide user even by a non registered user so long as there exist a rational connection between the proprietor of the trade mark and passes off the goods in the market manufactured by the appellant is construed to be a bona fide user for and on behalf of the registered proprietor namely the respondents.
the high court recorded a finding and it is not disputed across the bar that the appellant had entered into an agreement with sen raleigh which was a permitted user and used the trade mark till november 11976 and thereafter by registered user agreement dated december 201976 used trade mark for a period of 5 years.