municipal corporation of delhi aggrieved against the judgment and final order dated 26 03 2004 passed by the high court delhi in criminal revision petition no 185 of 2004 by which order the high court gave the benefit of probation under section 4 of the probation of offenders act1958.
in the case of r mahalingam v g padmavathi and anr.
the word shall in sub section 2 of section 4 is mandatory and the consideration of the report of the probationer officer is a condition precedent to the release of the accused as reported in the case of state v naguesh g shet govenkar and anr air 1970.
in the instant case non production of the order and even non mentioning of the conviction and sentence in the criminal case no 202 of 1997 tantamounts to playing fraud on the court.
in the case of ram singh and ors v.
it is the specific case of the appellant herein that the high court has not afforded to the appellant an opportunity to file counter affidavit.
herein after referred to as pob act to the second respondent gurcharan singh but maintained the conviction preferred the above appeal.
the offender can only be released on probation of good conduct under this section when the court forms an opinion having considered the circumstances of the case the nature of the offence and the character of the offender that in a particular case the offender should be released on probation of good conduct.
in the above background two questions of law arise for consideration by this court 1 whether the high court was correct in extending the benefit of the probation of offenders act1958 to the accused respondent without calling for a report from the authorities relating to the conduct of the respondent as per section 4 of the act.
it was therefore submitted that the sentence imprisonment awarded by the metropolitan magistrate has been suspended under section 389 of the criminal procedure code by the court of additional sessions judge delhi in view of the pendency of the appeal against the order of conviction is a continuation of proceedings and therefore there is no conviction against the answering respondent so long as the same is not decided by the court of sessions.
learned senior counsel appearing for the contesting respondent submitted that the order of the high court does not require any reconsideration by this court and that the high court while extending the benefit of pob act had clearly recorded in the order that the counsel for the state of delhi is not averse to the grant of benefit of probation to the answering respondent and therefore the requirement under section 42 of the pob act has been waived off by the state and that the high court took into consideration the fact that the answering respondent has faced the agony of trial for over 12 years and has also undergone some period in custody and while maintaining the conviction of the answering respondent the benefit of probation was extended to him.
the high court vide its order dated 26 3 2004 held that the accused suffered the agony of trial lasting for 12 years.
the trial court after the conclusion of the trial convicted the second respondent under sections 332 and 461 of the dmc act and sentenced him to six months simple imprisonment and imposed a fine of rs 5000 annexure p 1.
the said court by an order and judgment dated 23 3 2004 dismissed the appeal by holding that there was no infirmity in the order passed by the trial court annexure p 2.
we therefore have no hesitation in setting aside the order impugned and remit the matter to the high court for fresh disposal strictly in accordance with law.
he further contended that the trial court has committed serious error in exercising jurisdiction while not granting the benefit of probation to the answering respondent and the order of the trial court was therefore rightly and justifiable modified by the high court.
such a previous convict can not be released in view of section 4 of the pob act.
aggrieved by that order the second respondent accused filed an appeal before the sessions court delhi.
it was further contended that the respondent has not contested the revision in the high court on merits and confined his submission to the benefit of section 4 of the pob act being extended to him.
the appellant would have filed the orders passed by the criminal courts convicting the respondent herein had an opportunity been given to the appellant.
it was therefore submitted that the high court passed the said order in the presence of the counsel of all the parties.
the court is bound to call for a report as per section 4 of pob act but the high court has failed to do so although the court is not bound by the report of the probationer officer but it must call for such a report before the case comes to its conclusion.
the appellant aggrieved by the judgment of the high court preferred the above appeal by way of special leave petition before this court.
concluding his arguments he submitted that the respondent has been released after compliance of the order passed by the high court by furnishing the bone of good conduct and security to the satisfaction of the additional court of metropolitan magistrate delhi and there is no report of any misconduct or breach of the bond of good conduct by the answering respondent since the date of the order of the high court therefore the order of the high court is not liable to be interfered with.
learned senior counsel appearing for the second respondent submitted that in s t no 202 of 1997a judgment was given by the metropolitan magistrate on 10 9 2002 and the respondent filed an appeal no 374 of 2002 before the court of sessions patiala house new delhi challenging the said order of conviction and in that appeal the court of additional sessions judge patiala house suspended the sentence during the pendency of the appeal upon furnishing a personal bond for a sum of rs 25000 with one surety of the like amount to the satisfaction of the trial court.
the section itself is clear that before applying the section the magistrate should carefully take into consideration the attendant circumstances.
at the time of arguments the advocate for the accused submitted before the high court that the accused did not wish to challenge the conviction on merits and stated it a fit case of accused to be admitted to the benefit of pob act on the ground that the accused faced trial for 12 years in the lower courts and remained in jail for three days.
f i r was prepared on the report of mr m k verma who forwarded the f i r before zonal engineer who ordered to issue notice under section 343344 of the delhi municipal corporation act1957 for short the dmc act subsequently the second respondent along with kuldeep singh were prosecuted for commission of offences under sections 332 and 461 of the dmc act before the designated municipal court.
the high court was correct in passing the impugned judgment in view of the fact that the respondent has been convicted in another criminal case no 202 of 1997 by the trial court new delhi.