the state of gujarat anr 1974 indlaw sc 253.
therefore the terms of a contract between the parties can be proved not only by their words but also by their conduct.
what is in dispute is whether the arbitration agreement between the parties had got extinguished after 31st august1998i e the date of expiry of the extended period of the charter party.
it is no doubt true that the general rule is that an offer is not accepted by mere silence on the part of the offerree yet it does not mean that an acceptance always has to be given in so many words.
on a conjoint reading of the said clauses it is plain that the appellant was under an obligation to re deliver the vessel as per the procedure contemplated in the afore noted clauses.
thus the short question for determination is whether on the expiry of the extended period of charter hire on 31st august1998charter party dated 6th may1997 came to an end and the arbitration agreement between the parties perished with it.
rendered by the high court of judicature at bombay whereby the learned single judge has set aside the order passed by the arbitral tribunal holding that they did not have jurisdiction to entertain and try the claim and counter claim made by the parties.
the respondent challenged the said award before the high court.
having come to the conclusion that an arbitration agreement existed between the parties the question which remains to be considered is whether the disputes between the parties should be referred to the same arbitral tribunal which had come to the conclusion that in the absence of any arbitration agreement it did not have jurisdiction to entertain and try the claims and counter claims.
admittedly the vessels continued to be chartered by the appellant beyond the date of this letter.
by the impugned order the learned single judge has set aside the said award inter alia holding that arbitral tribunal has the jurisdiction to adjudicate the disputes between the parties as the vessel continued to be hired by the appellant for the period subsequent to 31st august1998 on the same terms and conditions as were contained in the charter party dated 6th may1997only subject to the revision or modification of the rate of hire to be determined by the oil co ordination committee.
thus the proposal by the oil co ordination committee was not accepted by the respondent.
it seems that being aggrieved of the decision of the ioc to invite revised price bids after opening of the sealed tenders one of the bidders filed a writ petition in the bombay high court questioning the said decision.
in support of the proposition that the concurrence of a party can be gathered from his conduct like continued user of the vessel in the present case without any objection to respondent s letter dated 4th january1999reliance is placed on a decision of this court in the godhra electricity co ltd anr.
the appellant m s bharat petroleum corporation limited is a government of india undertaking under the administrative control of the ministry of petroleum natural gas and is engaged in refining distributing and selling of petroleum products all over the country.
under certain circumstances offerree s silence coupled with his conduct which takes the form of a positive act may constitute an acceptance an agreement sub silentio.
according to the tribunal on and after 1st september1998charter party agreement dated 6th may1997 was superseded by a fresh agreement and a term of the agreement was that the charter hire rate would be determined by the oil co ordination committee of the ioc in nutshell the tribunal was of the view that with the performance original charter party dated 6th may1997 got extinguished.
in our view the principle of sub silentio is clearly attracted in the present case.
and thus the arbitration clause in the said charter party operated in respect of these and other allied purposes.
may2003 the arbitral tribunal came to the conclusion that the appellant having invoked the arbitration clause contained in charter party agreement dated 6th may1997which was valid upto 31st august1998.
an agreement called the time charter party in legal parlance was entered into between the appellant and the respondent on 6th may1997 for letting on hire vessels for a period of two years from 22nd september1996 to 30th june1997 and from 1st july1997 to 30th june1998on the terms and conditions set out in the said agreement.
it was thus held that the charter party dated 6th may1997 did not come to an end by efflux of time and it was extended by the parties on the same terms and conditions except the rate of hire.
indisputably the vessel in question had not been re delivered at least during the relevant period and the appellant continued to use the vessel beyond 31st august1998 having failed to re deliver the vessel in terms of cl 4 1 of the charter party the appellant can not plead that the charter party had been fully worked out.
it was also submitted that the view taken by the high court being a plausible view interference in exercise of extra ordinary jurisdiction u art 136 of the constitution is unwarranted.
in view of the foregoing discussion we do not find any infirmity in the view taken by the high court that charter party dated 6th may1997 had not come to an end by efflux of time and it got extended by the conduct of the parties warranting interference.
before we proceed to examine the rival stands we may note at the outset that neither the arbitral tribunal nor the high court have gone into the question whether the claim made by the respondent would otherwise fall within the ambit of the arbitration clause in the charter party or not.
the writ petition was disposed of vide order dated 20th august1999 while disapproving in principle the action of the ioc in inviting fresh price bids after opening the bids but without recording final opinion on the merits of the issues raised in writ petition the court disposed of the petition inter alia directing that i the charter hire rates should be fixed by the tender evaluation committee and ii as the tender was for the period ending 31st august1999 and the writ petition was being decided on 20th august1999the ioc will not be required to enter into a contract for the period from 1st september1998 to 31st august1999 it is not in dispute that the vessel jag praja with which we are concerned continued to be chartered by the appellant till 31st august1999.
but it was still in existence for some purposes viz the effect of vessel s non re delivery as per the prescribed mechanism and its continued use beyond the stipulated time.
thereafter in september1998the ioc for and on behalf of the oil industry floated a fresh tender for carriage of petroleum products along the indian coast on time charter basis for a period of one year commencing from 1st september1998 to 31st august1999on the terms and conditions set out in the tender document.
therefore the factual scenario in the instant case leads to an inescapable conclusion that notwithstanding the expiry of the period fixed in the time charter party dated 6th may1997the said charter party did not get extinguished inter alia for the purpose of determination of the disputes arising thereunder and the arbitration clause contained therein could be invoked by the respondent.
correctness of this order of the high court is questioned in this appeal.
the respondent m s great eastern shipping company limited is engaged in the business of shipping and allied activities and owns a fleet of tanker vessels for charter including the vessel known as jag praja.
however the oil coordination committee by their fax message dated 26th august1998declined the request of the oil companies including the appellant for further extension of charter party beyond 31st august1998 the said fax message was an internal communication between the oil coordination committee and the oil companies.
in response to the said tender the respondent and other vessel owners submitted their bids.
and as the dispute between the parties related to the period subsequent to 31st.
the learned judge also felt that the tribunal had erred in totally excluding from its consideration cls 23 and 4 1 of the charter party dated 6th may1997whereunder the charter party was to come to an end on re delivery of the vessel.
it appears that since charter party dated 6th may1997 was coming to an end on 31st august1998the oil companies sought permission of the oil co ordination committee a wing of the ministry of petroleum and natural gas for further extension of the charter party.
the respondent agreed to the said proposal.
the name of the arbitrator was also communicated to the appellant.
however before the charter party was to come to an end on 29th june1998the indian oil corporation limited for short ioc acting as agent of the appellant issued a fax to various ship owners including the respondent herein requesting them to extend the validity of the charter party agreement dated 6th may1997 beyond 30th june1998 for a period of one month from 1st july1998 with option for two further extensions of 15 days each.
on the basis of the pleadings of the parties the arbitral tribunal framed as many as eight issues.
the appellant intervened in the said matter.
shyam divan learned senior counsel appearing on behalf of the respondent on the other hand submitted that notwithstanding the fact that the period fixed originally under the charter party or under the addendum dated 29th june1998 had come to an end the subsequent conduct of the parties goes to show that charter of the vessel by the appellant beyond 31st august1998 continued to be governed by the terms and conditions stipulated in charter party dated 6th may1997 and therefore an arbitration agreement did exist between the parties.