maharana shri bhagwat singhji bahadur of udaipur v union of india and anr air 1971.
in the case of american home products corporation v mac laboratories pvt ltd.
respondent no 1 thereafter filed a suit in the delhi high court for grant of a decree of permanent injunction being suit no 2408 of 1985 alleging infringement of the said mark andor claiming right of passing off in respect thereof.
it may mean the moment or existing position as was held by this court in the case of jivendra nath kaul v collector district magistrate and anr 1992.
in the suit only the competing right of the first respondent qua the appellant can be determined and not a right against m s such a right can not be determined in a proceeding under s 461b of the act which is restricted to non user of the registered trade mark.
the second rectification application filed by the first respondent however was transferred to the intellectual property appellate board.
a title to a trade mark derived on assignment as provided for under the act can not be equated with a defective title acquired in any other property as admittedly on the date of assignment the right of the registered trade mark was not extinguished.
the act was enacted to provide for the registration and better protection of trademarks and for the prevention of the use of fraudulent marks of merchandise.
indisputably appellant filed an application in form tm 24 on 17 6 1986 the assistant registrar trade marks passed an order on 10 11 1986 certifying that the trade mark field marshal brand word per se is registered under no 228867 in part a of the register as of the date 13th.
a fresh application was filed by the first respondent.
a learned single judge of the delhi high court however refused to stay the operation of the order of the board dated 27 10 2004 an appeal was preferred there against.
the division bench of the high court thereafter while disposing of both the writ petition and the letters patent appeal allowed the writ petition and set aside the order of the board and directed it to adjudicate the dispute on merits.
an ex parte order of injunction was passed on 19 12 1985 against the defendant appellant herein to the following effect.
indisputably first respondent filed an application under section 4656 and 107 of the act marked as c o no 9 of 1986contending that m s jain industries having not used the trade mark in respect of centrifugal pumps for a period more than five years and one month the mark should be taken off the register.
allegedly on the premise that the first respondent is the proprietor of the said mark by reason of long user and thus acquired a reputation in that behalf a legal notice was issued upon it questioning its right to use the said mark in respect of centrifugal pumps by the appellant laying a claim that it had been using the said mark since 1963.
interpretation of the provisions of s 461b of the trade and merchandise marks act1958 hereinafter called and referred to for the sake of brevity as the said act is involved herein.
it claimed user of the said mark since 1963 and sought for rectification of the register by expunging the expression circulation and centrifugal pumps from the specification of goods.
v addisons paint chemicals ltd 2003 11 scc 92 2003 indlaw sc 756 in our opinion the phrase person aggrieved for the purposes of removal on the ground of non use under s 46 has a different connotation from the phrase used in s 56 for canceling or expunging or varying an entry wrongly made or remaining in the register.
the right of the first respondent as a proprietor of the trade mark by reason of a long user is required to be determined vis  vis m s jain industries as also the appellant in the suit filed by it which is pending.
the board could not while exercising its jurisdiction under s 461bof the act proceeded on the basis of such presumption.
the court while construing a statute takes into consideration the parliamentary intent in amending the provisions thereof.
registrar of trade marks under section 4656 and 107 of the trade and merchandise marks act1958 for rectification of entry relating to the registered trade mark no 228867 in class 7 after.
both the appellant and the respondent no 1 were the infringers of the right of m s jain industries as it was the registered proprietor of the trade mark in respect of the goods in question namely centrifugal pumps.
prima facie therefore appellant has been held to be the registered owner of the trade mark.
the principle of purchaser of a property has a duty to make enquiriestherefore cannot apply in a case of this nature.
the question which therefore arises is as to who can prove that he had the bona fide intention to use the trade mark on the date of application for registration.
in kabushiki kaisha toshiba v tosiba appliances co ors 2008 8 scale 354 2008 indlaw sc 1395this court held we do not find any force in the aforementioned submission.
the second contention of mr that the appellant was an infringer of the trade mark is again a question of fact.
jurisdiction of the board being dependent on determination of the foundational facts the same was required to be established on the basis of the averments made in the application and not otherwise.
the board has taken the view that the period of five years and one month will begin to run from the date on which thukral became the proprietor of the trademark that is30th may1986 and therefore the rectification application could have been filed by the appellant only sometime in 1991 opining that an application for rectification against the appellant within a period of seven and a half months from the date of assignment of the trade mark was not maintainable the application was dismissed.
jain industries by a deed of assignment assigned the said trade mark along with its goodwill in favour of the appellant.
the cause of action which permitted the first respondent to file an application for rectification against m s jain industries was non user thereof by it.
the right of a registered trade mark is not lost automatically on the expiry of five years and one month.
a registered proprietor of a trade mark should not be permitted to circumvent the law of user of the trade mark for a long time by assigning the same from time to time.
the cause of action is continuous from day to day till the impugned registration is cancelled rectified.
it confers an exclusive right of use of the trade mark in relation to the goods in which the trade mark is registered.
a writ petition was filed there against by the first respondent.
it only consented for grant of liberty in favour of the first respondent for filing of an application for the self same cause of action.
the order of injunction was vacated.
in view of that statement a submission was made on behalf of the first respondent that it may be permitted to withdraw the petition with liberty to file a fresh petition on the same cause of action.
when the applicant before the board establishes the fact in regard to non user of the mark for a period of more than five years on the part of the registered owner the latter may show that his case falls within the purview of sub s 3 of s 46.
appellant 's counsel appeared on that date and inter alia contended that presently it was the registered owner of the trade mark which was sought to be cancelled.
first respondent is the registered proprietor of a trade mark field marshal for diesel engines since 1964 bearing no 228867 one m s jain industries got the trade mark field marshal registered under clause 7inter alia for flour mills centrifugal pumps couplings for machines pulleys included in class 7 and valves parts of machines the said registration was renewed for the periods 13 5 1972 and 12 5 1979 13 5 1979 and 12 7 1986 and 13 7 1986 and 12 7 1993 appellant is said to have commenced its business of manufacturing and selling centrifugal pumps also under the mark field marshall.
both the findings of the high court which we have noticed hereinbefore are findings on question of law and in that view of the matter the contention of mr sudhir chandra that the merit of the matter is yet to be gone into by the board can not be a ground for ignoring the submissions made at the bar.
so long as the right to assign a registered trade mark remains valid once the same is validly assigned the assignee derives the same right as that of the assignor in terms of the statute.
the factual matrix of the matter which is not much in dispute is as under.
notice for april 81986 meanwhile a temporary ex parte injunction is issued against the defendants restraining them from manufacturing or selling either themselves or through any dealer or representative diesel oil engines or parts thereof with the trade mark field marshal andor any other trade mark identical therewith and all goods falling in cl 7 of the trade and merchandise mark rules.