this position was illuminatingly stated by this court in sevaka perumal v state of t n 1991 3 scc 471 1991 indlaw sc 683.
vide state of m p vs bablu natt 2009 2 scc 272 2008 indlaw sc 2027 alister anthony pareira vs state of maharashtra 2012 2 scc 648 2012 indlaw sc 12 and soman vs state of kerala 2013 11 scc 382 2012 indlaw sc.
this position was highlighted in state of maharashtra v balram bama patil 1983 2 scc 28 1983 indlaw sc 414 girija shanker v state of u p 2004 3 scc 793 2004 indlaw sc 78 and r prakash v state of karnataka 2004 9 scc 27 2004 indlaw sc 117.
placing reliance upon the judgment of this court in hari singh vs sukhbir singh ors 1988 4 scc 551 1988 indlaw sc 27 learned counsel for the appellants additionally submitted that in terms of section 357 3 cr.
it is therefore the duty of every court to award proper sentence having regard to the nature of the offence and the manner in which it was executed or committed etc.
the conviction of a 1 section 325 ipc a 3 and a 4 section 323 ipc is confirmed and the sentence is reduced to the period already undergone by each of them.
for the purpose of conviction section 307 ipc prosecution has to establish i the intention to commit murder and ii the act done by the accused.
state of m p v saleem 2005 5 scc 554 2005 indlaw sc 413 undue sympathy to impose inadequate sentence would do more harm to the justice system to undermine the public confidence in the efficacy of law and society could not long endure under such serious threats.
the section makes a distinction between the act of the accused and its result if any.
therefore an accused charged section 307 ipc can not be acquitted merely because the injuries inflicted on the victim were in the nature of a simple hurt.
the court has to see whether the act irrespective of its result was done with the intention or knowledge and under circumstances mentioned in the section.
this appeal is preferred against the judgment dated 19 8 2011 passed by the high court of punjab and haryana in criminal appeal no 181 sb of 2000 whereby the high court partly allowed the appeal filed by the appellants thereby confirming the conviction of the appellants with certain modifications.
the high court vide impugned judgment dated 19 8 2011 modified the judgment of the trial court thereby convicted jage ram a 1 section 325 ipc and sentenced him to undergo rigorous imprisonment for one year convicted second accused rajbir.
the intention of the accused is to be gathered from the circumstances like the nature of the weapon used words used by the accused at the time of the incident motive of the accused parts of the body where the injury was caused and the nature of injury and severity of the blows given etc.
aggrieved by the said judgment the accused appellants filed criminal appeal before the high court of punjab and haryana.
the burden is on the prosecution that accused had attempted to commit the murder of the prosecution witness.
high court modified the sentence of madan a 3 rakesh a 4 section 323 ipc and sentenced them to undergo rigorous imprisonment for six months two counts respectively.
the determinative question is the intention or knowledge as the case may be and not the nature of the injury.
to justify a conviction section 307 ipc it is not essential that fatal injury capable of causing death should have been caused.
at that time jage ram a 1 and his sons rajbir singh.
having regard to the fact that the occurrence was of the year 1994 considering the other facts and circumstances of the case the sentence of imprisonment imposed on jage ram a 1 madan a 3 and rakesh a 4 is reduced to the period already undergone by them.
it is not essential that bodily injury capable of causing death should have been inflicted.
it was submitted that the medical evidence sufficiently corroborated the oral evidence and the prosecution has established the intention of the 2nd accused in causing attempt to commit murder of sukhbir and in appreciation of the evidence courts below recorded concurrent findings convicting the second accused section 307 ipc and the same warrants no interference.
briefly stated case of the prosecution is that on the fateful day i e 18 11 1994 at about 8 00 a m in the morning the complainant jagdish pw 5 along with his two sons namely sukhbir and mange ram pw 6 were busy in cutting pullas reeds from the dola of their field.
injured sukhbir was vomiting in the hospital and later on he was referred to general hospital gurgaon as his condition deteriorated.
in the heat of passion the accused have caused injuries to the complainant party.
raju a 2 gave a pharsi blow on the head of sukhbir jage ram a 1 caused injury to jagdish pw 5 with two jaily blows.
p c that the compensation may be awarded to the victim and the sentence be modified to the period already undergone.
in the fight the accused persons started inflicting injuries to the complainant and his sons rajbir.
raju a 2 rakesh a 3 and madan a 4 armed with jaily pharsi and lathis respectively entered the land where the complainant was working with his sons and asked them not to cut the pullas as it was jointly held by both the parties.
learned counsel for the appellants contended that the second appellant is in custody for more than three years and since the occurrence was in the year 1994 prayed for reduction of the sentence imposed on the second appellant to the period already undergone.
per contra learned counsel appearing for the respondent state contended that the evidence of all the witnesses satisfactorily establishes the overt act of the accused persons and jagdish pw 5 and mange ram pw 6 being the injured witnesses the veracity of these witnesses can not be doubted.
having regard to the weapon used for causing the head injuries to sukhbir nature of injures situs of the injury and the severity of the blows courts below recorded concurrent findings convicting the 2nd appellant section in our considered view the conviction of the second appellant rajbir.
sentence section 325 ipc two counts was modified as the sentence section 323 ipc and he was sentenced to undergo six months rigorous imprisonment.
question of awarding sentence is a matter of discretion and the same has to be exercised by the courts taking into consideration all the relevant circumstances.
in the light of the above considering the case in hand the occurrence was of the year 1994 when the complainant party was cutting pullas the accused asked them not to cut the pullas which resulted in the wordy altercation.
the injured witnesses were taken to the primary health centre taoru where dr pardeep kumar medical officer medically examined the injured persons.
what sentence would meet the ends of justice would depend upon the facts and circumstances of each case and the courts must keep in mind the gravity of the offence motive for the crime nature of the offence and all other attendant circumstances.
upon consideration of oral and documentary evidence the learned additional sessions judge vide judgment dated 17 2 2000 convicted all the accused persons sections 307 and 325 ipc and sentenced them to undergo rigorous imprisonment for five years and one year respectively and a fine of rs 500 each with default clause.
in the case of state of m p vs kashiram ors.
in this appeal the appellants assail the correctness of the impugned judgment.
although the nature of injury actually caused may be of assistance in coming to a finding as to the intention of the accused such intention may also be adduced from other circumstances.
whether the accused person intended to commit murder of another person would depend upon the facts and circumstances of each case.