The Judgment of the Court was delivered by DAS GUPTA J.
Against this decision the sellers appealed.
In certain circumstances eg if the seller takes the bill of  lading to his own order and parts with it to a third person the property in the goods it has been held does not pass to the buyer even on shipment.
The correctness of the proposition that in the absence of special agreement the property in the goods does not pass in the case of a FOB contract until the goods are actually put on board is not disputed before us.
The question whether there was such a different agreement has to be decided on a consideration of all the surrounding circumstances.
That was laid down in Brandt s case 1 and though in a later case in Hardy vs Pound 2 the Court of Appeal in England held that the judgment in Brandt s case 1 does not cover every FOB contract and that in the special facts of the particular case before them it was for the sellers to obtain the licence and this view was approved by the House of Lords  it is in our opinion correct to state that the presumption in FOB contracts is that it is the duty of the buyers to obtain export licence though in the circumstances of a particular case this duty may fall on the sellers.
We see however no justification for thinking that in this clause the time of the export  means the time 1 2 930 when the goods cross the customs frontier.
What the court had to consider in these cases was not however when export commences within the meaning of the Exports Control Order but when the course of export commences for the purpose of article 2861b of the Constitution.
We have therefore come to the conclusion that there is no circumstance which would justify a conclusion that the parties came to a special agreement that though the sales were on FOB contracts property in the goods would pass to the buyer at some point of time before shipment.
It is therefore contended that  a person  in section 8b should be interpreted to include a registered dealer or anybody else.
The scheme of the Legislature clearly is that where the intention as declared has not been carried out purchase tax should be levied.
