 J was delivered by MUDHOLKAR J HIDAYATULLAH.
 The order was made by the Chairman of the Board Mr R C Dutt on behalf of the Board by virtue of the powers conferred on him by certain rules to which we shall refer later.
On June 4 1965 the Company preferred a writ petition under article 226 of the Constitution in the Punjab High Court for the issue of a writ of mandamus or other appropriate writ direction or order quashing the order of the Board dated May 19 1965.
The order of the Board was challenged on 5 grounds which are briefly as follows 1 that the order was made mala fide 2 that in making the order the Board had acted on material extraneous to the matters mentioned in section 237b of the  3 that the order having in fact been made at the instance of the shareholders is invalid and on a true construction of section 237 this could not be done 4 that the order was invalid because it was made by the Chairman of the Board and not by the Board and 5 that the provisions of section 237b are void as offending articles 14 and 191 g of the Constitution.
According to the appellants before entering into a collaboration agreement with Ms L A Mitchell Ltd the appellant No 2 Balasubramanian was negotiating with a German firm named Kali Chemie A G of Hanover for obtaining their collaboration.
324 order to do justice then the Board would have no objection to producing the same for the Court s perusal provided it is not shown to the petitioners.
Apart from this we do not think that the conclusions set out in paragraph 14 are extraneous to the matters indicated in the order of May 19 1965.
Section 235 deals with Investigation of affairs of company on application by members or report by Registrar.
Clause a of this section provides that in the case of a company having a share capital the investigation can be ordered either on the application of not less than 200 members or of members holding not less than one tenth of the total voting power therein.
At any rate the case was argued on this footing.
In other words this is an argument that the order was made mala fide.
The Board.
