Civil Appeal No 1709 of 1988.
From the Judgment and Order dated 9101987 of t he Central Administrative Tribunal Chandigarh in Appln.
WITH SLP Civil No 6998 of 1988 VC Mahajan Mrs Indu Goswami CV Subba Rao P Parmeshwaran for the Appellant in CA No 1709 of 1988.
The Judgment of the Court was delivered by K JAGANNATHA SHETTY J.
The civil appeal by speci al leave and the connected SLP raise an important issue as to the power of the Central Administration Tribun al Tribunal to examine the adequacy of penalty awarded by the competent authority to a Government servant in discipl i nary proceedings.
Short factual background is this Parmanand Respondent in the appeal was a Time Keeper in Beas Sutlej Link Project Sundernagar.
He was incharge of preparing the pay bills and other bills of the work charg ed employees of the project.
A bogus identi ty card in the name of Ashok Kumar TNo.
59 T with the sign a tures of the issuing officer was also prepared by the r e spondent although it was not his duty to prepare the ident i ty card.
While Suraj Singh by impersonation was receiving the pay of Ashok Kumar he was recognised by the Cashier since he kn ew him personally.
He also prepared a bogus identity card in the name of the abo ve Shri Ashok Kumar and initiated it below the signatures of issuing officer and this identity card Was used by Sh ri Suraj Singh Cleaner Token No 210 K Boggi Tunnelli ng Division at the time of attempting to receive the pay of Shri Ashok Kumar from the Cashier.
 After a detailed enquiry against the respondent and t wo others the Inquiry Officer found all the three guilty of the charge framed against each of them.
Consequentl y the said writ petition stood transferred to the Tribunal by operation of section 29 of that Act.
access to the records which 24 were fabricated at the relevant time the Inquiry Officer h ad come to the conclusion that the applicant was the mast er mind behind the scheme to defraud the Project.
In view of the foregoing it cannot be termed th at the finding returned by the Inquiry Officer is without a ny evidence.
 It was also observed that there was no denial of a reasonable opportunity for the respondent to set up prop er defence.
After reaching this conclusion the Tribunal pr o ceeded to examine the adequacy of penalty awarded to t he respondent.
In the intere st of 25 justice it is necessary to modify the punishment awarded to the applicant.
 The Tribunal seems to suggest that the respondent w as not the only master mind to commit the fraudulent act a nd there were others too and as such he should not be mea s ured with a different yardstick.
The Tribunal however h as held that the respondent was guilty of entering the name of Ashok Kumar in the pay roll of May 4969.
Being aggrieved by the reduction of penalty the Uni on of India has preferred the Civil Appeal No 1709 of 198 8.
