1947 relating to Door No 3 Item 2 in Schedule A to the plaint covered an area of 8700 sq.
The present appeal by Special Leave granted on 37.
We therefore answer the first question posed by us in the affirmative.
The Division Bench observed   .
In a suit by a landlord against his tenant for eviction the determination of the tenancy is merely one of the constituents of the cause of action that the landlord has to prove against his tenant in order to succeed in the suit.
He submitted that if the tenants had filed a suit for declaration that the order passed in the earlier proceedings as a nullity that would have been bound to fail.
In deciding whether the decision constitutes res judicata or not we are not entitled to go into the correctness of that decision.
It was only this limited aspect eviction on the ground of non bona fide denial of title that was under consideration of the Court under section 102vii of the Act read with the proviso to section 101 and the Court s observa tions on the question of title were one on a collateral issue.
Under Rule 122 he is required to decide applications by recording a brief note of the evidence of parties and 561 witnesses and decide matters after giving the parties an opportunity to state their case more or less in the manner in which a Court of Small Causes decides cases before it.
We think that this contention is well founded.
All that the Rent Controller has to do is to satisfy himself that the person seeking eviction or fixation of fair rent is a landlord who has prima facie  the right to receive the rents of the property in question.
For deciding these issues he may have no doubt also to consider the oral and documentary evidence adduced by the parties.
For instance the owner may claim title under an adoption or a will or a trust deed or a gift deed and there may be contentious claims among several persons which it will not be possible for the Rent Controller to decide.
However if the property is an inam village whether the inam village is an inam estate is within his exclusive jurisdiction and in regard to it the jurisdic tion of the Civil Courts is clearly barred.
The trial Judge rejected the application holding that question of the applicability of the Act was res judicata since it had been finally decid ed by the High Court between the same parties in respect of the same land in the earlier proceeding for fixation of standard rent.
The order was confirmed by the first appel late court and on furher appeal by the High Court.
These documents were executed on January 7 1953 but the respondent contin ued in the possession of the house property throughout.
Reliance was also placed on section 92 of the Indian Evidence Act.
The High Court held that the sale deed and rent note were sham documents that the decrees of the Court of Small Causes did not operate as res judicata and that section 92 of the Indian Evidence Act did not preclude the respondent from establishing the true nature of the transac tion.
Section 973 of the Amendment Act declares that the new provi sion applies to pending suits proceeding appeals and applica tions.
vs Smt.
It is the quantum of fair rent that arises for deter mination by the Rent Controller.
