A V Viswanatha Sastri V Vedantachari and K Sundararajan for the appellant.
August 14.
It is alleged that on January 10 1942 an agreement was entered into between the Rajah of Venkatagiri and one Sri Balumuri Nageswara Rao whereby the Rajah agreed to give annual leases in respect of certain slate quarries within his estate for five years in succession commencing from February 1942 if the Rajah was satisfied with the work carried on by the lessee during the preceding year.
The order required the Government to hold the enquiry and pass the appropriate orders within three months from the date of that order.
Thereupon the Board of Revenue passed an order on December 27 1955 declaring that the lease to the appellant had been granted subsequent to July 1 1945 and that as the lease was for a period exceeding one year it was not enforceable against the Government according to the second proviso to section 20 1 of the Abolition Act.
The appellant promptly filed writ petition No 1 of 1956 praying for the issue of a writ of mandamus directing the State of Andhra Pradesh to forbear from terminating his leasehold right in the slate quarries.
The long title and the preamble to the Abolition Act indicate it is urged that the object of the Act is to provide for the acquisition of the rights of landholders and that the policy of the Act is not to interfere with the rights of other persons in the estate.
This assumption however is not borne out by the substantive provisions of the Act itself.
It may be conceded 71 558 that normally this is the correct approach to the problem but the argument loses much of its force.
Those provisions proceed on the assumption that certain laws passed under the Government of India Act 1935 did offend section 299 of that Act and expressly save those Acts.
In the circumstances the court must interpret the Abolition Act as it finds it by giving the ordinary and natural meaning to the words used by the Madras legislature and uninfluenced by any pre conceived notion as to validity of the Abolition Act.
2 of section 20 of the Abolition Act.
Under that sub section a person can claim compensation only when his right is terminated by the Government under the foregoing proviso.
The argument is that the second proviso is merely declaratory and the third proviso supplies the machinery for giving effect to the provisions of the second proviso.
There is no warrant for saying that the avoidance must be under the terms of the third proviso.
The second proviso makes rights created after July 1 1945 unenforceable as against the Government.
