the shebait for the time being is the only person competent to safeguard the interests of the idol his possession of the dedicated property is the possession of the idol whose sevait he is and no dealing of his with the property dedicated to the idol could afford the basis of a claim by him for adverse possession of the property against the idol.
a petition made by the purchasers on the 12th january 1937 for setting aside the sale was rejected by the court on the 15th march 1937.
the second mortgage was executed on the 4th june 1926 and the third mortgage on the 22nd february 1927.
he position of the sevayat and the effect of his dealings with the property dedicated to the idol has been expounded by rankin c j in surendrakrishna ray v shree shree ishwar bhubaneshwari thakuran 1933.
the question whether the idol itself shall be considered the true beneficiary subject to a charge in favour of the heirs or specified relatives of the testator for their upkeep or that on the other hand these heirs shall be considered the true beneficiaries of the property subject to a charge for the upkeep worship and expenses of the idol is a question which can only be settled by a conspectus of the entire provisions of the will pande har narayan v surja kunwari 1921 l r 48 i a 143 145 146 1921 indlaw pc 56.
this is an appeal on a certificate article 1331 of theconstitution from a judgment and decree passed by the appellate bench of the high court of calcutta.
grey street to the idol as its permanent habitation with only the right given to the sevayats to reside in the said premises for the purposes of carrying on the daily and periodical seva and the festivals etc.
the only thing which was urged by shri n c chatterjee in support of his contention was that the right to reside in the premises was given to the sevayats and that according to him detracted from the absolute character of the dedication.
the first mortgage was created by him in favour of snehalata dutt on the 19th may 1926.
the learned judge however dismissed the suit of the idol in regard to the premises.
on the 22nd november 1951 the idol applied to the high court for leave to file cross objections against that part of the judgment and decree of the high court which dismissed its claims with regard to the premises no 402 a grey street.
snehalata dutt filed in the year 1929 a suit being suit No 1042 of 1929 against nagendra the trustees under the said deed of settlement and the puisne mortgagees for realisation of the mortgage security.
the idol was declared entitled to possession of the said premises with mesne profits for three years prior to the institution of the suit till delivery of possession but was ordered to pay as a condition for recovery of possession of the said premises a sum of rs 19000 to the appellants with interest thereon at the rate of 6 per cent.
there is thus a clear indication of the intention of the testator to absolutely dedicate the said premises to the deity and it is impossible to urge that there was a partial dedication of the premises to the deity.
the petition for special leave was therefore allowed to be withdrawn and no objection now survives in regard to the decree passed by the trial court dismissing the idol 's claim to the premises No 402 a.
the idol filed on the 20th november 1950 cross objections against the decree for rs 19000 and interest thereon as also the dismissal of the suit in regard to the premises.
a certificate article 1331 of theconstitution was granted on the 4th june 1951 and the high court admitted the appeal finally on the 6th august 1951.
i am quite unable to hold that it does because such a change of intention can only be brought home to the idol by means of the shebait 's knowledge and the idol can only react to it by the shebait.
the fact of their possession is in accordance with the idol 's title and the question is whether the change made by them in the intention with which they hold evidenced by an application of the rents and profits to their own purposes and other acts extinguishes the idol 's right.
3 of the will is an absolute dedication of the premises.
cal 54 1932 indlaw cal 59.
the high court rejected the said application stating that there was no rule allowing cross objections in the supreme court.
but such persons have no legal duty to protect the endowment and until the shebait is removed or controlled by the court he alone can act for the idol.
against the shebaits on the idol 's behalf and in the present case it may be said that the acts of the shebaits must have i been notorious in the family.
it was contended on behalf of the appellants that the dedication of the premises.
they thus became entitled to the whole of the premises which had been purchased at the auction sale held on the 9th december 1936.