there remains the decision of this court in k v krishna murthy iyer v the state of madras in on which mr bhimasankaram strongly relied.
the decision in sarwan singh v the state of punjab 1957 b c r 953 on which reliance has been placed by the high court has been explained by this court in the case of maj e g barsay v the state of bombay.
i was tried before the court of sessions visakhapatnam for offences under section 120 b indian penal code section 409 section 477 a and section 471 read with section 467 i p c while respondent No 2 was tried for an offence under section 120 b and for offences under sections 409 read with section 109 477 a and 471 read with section 467 i p c each of the respondents was convicted of the first two offences but.
the decision in queen empress v grees chunder banerjee 1884 i l r 10.
similarly in ram prashad singh v lakhpati koer 1902 i l r 30.
mody v the state of bombay.
further according to him the evidence of the approver was found by the additional sessions judge to be unreliable and therefore the first condition referred to in sarwan singh v the state of punjab was not satisfied.
the respondent No i alone was convicted of the other two offences.
for it is a rule of construction that all the provisions of a statute are to be read together and given effect to and that it is therefore the duty of the court to construe a statute harmoniously.
the high court allowed the two appeals acquitted the respondents and dismissed the application for revision preferred by the state.
p c for the enhancement of the sentences passed on the respondents.
the state on the other hand preferred an application for revision under section 439 cr.
in willie william slaney v the state of madhya pradesh all the learned judges were in agreement on the point that this section and section 535 cover every case in which there is departure from the rules set out in ch.
in re the appellant i l r 1957 mad 715 and the cases referred to therein in particular the decision in winson v queen 1866 l r i q b what has been held in all these cases is that where the trial of a person who was charged with having committed an offence or offences jointly with several persons is separated from the trial of those persons he would be a competent witness against them though of course there will always be the question as to what weight should be attached to his evidence.
on a plain construction of the provisions of section 239 therefore it is open to the court to avail itself cumulatively of the provisions of the different clauses of section 239 for the purpose of framing charges and charges so framed by it will not be in violation of the law the provisions of sections 233 234 and 235 notwithstanding.
on the other band there is the decision of this court in the state of andhra pradesh v kandinmlla subbaiah which is to the effect that where several persons had committed offences in the course of the same transactions they could jointly be tried in respect of all those offences under section 239 of the code of criminal procedure and the limitation placed by section 234 of the code could not come into operation.
the state of andhra pradesh has come up before this court in appeal by obtaining special leave under article 136 of the constitution.
as the aeco did not have the necessary capital to undertake the work raju floated in the year 1933 a public limited company called visakhapatnam electric supply corporation ltd and another in the year 1936 called the anakapalli electric supply corporation ltd the aeco transferred its licences for the supply of electrical energy to the consumers of visakhapatnam to vesco and similarly transferred to aeco the licence to supply electrical energy to consumers at anakapalli.
it obtained licences from the government under the electricity act for supply of electrical energy to visakhapatnam anakapalli and some other places.
lord robertson during the course of the hearing has observed that no inference can be drawn from the absence of any entry relating to any particular matter which observation supports the view taken in queen empress v girish chander banerjee 1884 i l r 10 c l 1024.
is not strictly germane to the question considered by the high court that is clubbing together all the provisions of the various clauses of section 239.
but entry 7 a in part v of sch.
the first charge is in respect of the conspiracy alleged to have been entered into by the two respondents k v ramana the approver and others known and unknown to commit criminal breach of trust of the funds of vesco and in order to screen its detection to falsify the accounts of vesco and to use forged documents as genuine.
the aeco as managing agents of vesco had appointed in the year 1939 one d v appala raju a trusted employee as its representative and as the secretary of vesco.
mr bhimasankaram then relying upon the decision in r v dawson 1960 2 w l r 435 contended that in any event it was not desirable to try the respondents at the same trial for as many as 83 offences and pointed out that these observations had received the approval of this court in the state of andhra pradesh v kandimalla subbaiah 1962 2 b c r 194.
the respondent No.
the entries in the account books of vesco show that certain sums of money were paid to various parties crompton engineering co lumin electric co d brothers radio and electrical madras vizagapatam municipality p v ramanayya bros and andhra power system.
finally the high court held that the examination of the respondent under section 342 of the code was unfair for a number of reasons and that the additional sessions judge had failed to perform an important duty in that he did not call the attention of the respondents to the provisions of section 342 which enable an accused person to give evidence in his own behalf.
it is thus apparent that offences committed within a space of 12 months were tried along with offences committed beyond that period.
the approver 's evidence was held by the high court to be inadmissible because the pardon granted to him was illegal.
iii when it refers to the power of a district magistrate under section 337 1 does not exclude the power under the proviso.
in the first place according to the high court joint trial of two or more persons in respect of different offences cornmitted by each of them is illegal and that here as they were charged with having committed offences under section 120 b section 409 section 477 a and section 476467 i p c they could not be tried jointly.
the opening words of the section show that it is an enabling provision and therefore the court has a discretion to avail itself cumulatively of two or more clauses.
the high court set aside the conviction of the respondents on a number of grounds.
the same practice was followed at the meeting of the general body of the shareholders.
whether they can or can not be read cumulatively must be determined by consideration of the language used in those clauses.
according to him under that section only the powers of a district magistrate meaning thereby only the powers under entry 7 a in part v of sch.
i secured the promotion of the approver k v ramana who was originally accounts clerk to the post of senior accountant.
of course the view taken by the additional sessions judge is not binding on the high court.
as distinguished from the power under the proviso to section 337 1 can be conferred upon an additional district magistrate.
it is the prosecution case that as secretary of vesco and the resident representative of the managing agents the respondent No i was attending to the day to day affairs of vesco which included the receiving of all sums of money due to vesco spending money for the purpose of vesco attending to the appointment supervision and control of the staff of vesco purchasing materials required for the purpose of vesco and supervising over the accounts of vesco.
the aeco was appointed managing agent for each of these corporations under separate agreements.
the respondents preferred appeals before the high court challenging their convictions and sentences.
iii to the code a magistrate first class has the power to grant pardon under section 337 but it is limited by the proviso thereto to certain classes of cases.
od september 13 1954 ramana offered to make a full confession to the additional district magistrate independent who was empowered to grant pardon under section 337 of i he code of criminal procedure.
ramana made false entries on seven different dates in the account books between september 19 1947 and march 18 1952 and thus committed an offence under section 477 a i p c the fourth charge is that the two respondents along with the approver.
ramana forged six documents on different dates between march 28 1949 and november 12 1951 and thus committed an offence under section 471 read with section 467 i p c as we have pointed out earlier the respondent No i alone was convicted by the additional sessions judge in respect of the third and fourth charges.
bearing in mind the fact that the provisions in the former part of chapter xix are applicable to charges made with the aid of section 239 only so far as may be it would not be right to construe section 239 as being subject to the provisions of sections 233 to 236.
in coming to the conclusion that the provisions of various clauses of section 239 can not be applied cumulatively the high court has relied upon the decision in re vankavalapati gopala rao 1956 airandhra 21.
in that case this court upheld the order of the high court of madras in quashing the charges in the exercise of its inherent powers even before the conclusion of the trial.
now since section 2341 can not be properly read a overriding section 2351 there is no valid reason for construing it as overriding the provisions of section 239 either.
in the year 1929 the andhra engineering co which was originally a partnership firm formed by one d l n raju was converted into a private limited company with its headquarters at visakhapatnam.
a c and d of section 239 as well as that occurring in section 2351 ought to be given the same meaning according to the normal rule of construction of statutes.
the whole question has again been examined by this court recently in birichh bhuian v the state of bihar subba rao j who delivered the judgment of the court has stated the position thus even if we were to assume that there has been a misjoinder of charges in violation of the provisions of sections 233 to 239 of the code the high court was incompetent to set aside the conviction of the respondents without coming to the definite conclusion that misjoinder had occasioned failure of justice.
as already stated the additional sessions judge convicted both the respondents the respondent No i in respect of each head of the offences with which he was charged and the respondent No 2 in respect only of the offences of conspiracy and misappropriation.
the power conferred by sub s 1 of section 337 on the different clauses of magistrates is of the same character.
a mention may be made of the fact that in june 1952 the vesco undertaking was acquired by the government under the provisions of the electricity undertaking acquisition act but nothing turns on it.
for the pardon granted in this case can be regarded as being within the ambit of section 337 1 for another reason.
the better course would be for us to set aside the acquittal of the respondents and send back the appeal to the high court or being decided on merits.
the knowledge of the financial position of vesco obtained by them used to be derived essentially from the respondent No 1.
thus while it is clear that the sections preceding section 239 have no overriding effect on that section the courts are not to ignore them but apply such of them as can be applied without detracting from the provisions of s 239.
we can not however give the expression such a restricted meaning.
on the next day the police placed an armed guard around the office of the respondent No i and seized a number of papers.
the second charge is for an offence of criminal breach of trust punishable under section 409 and the accusation therein is that the two respondents along with ramana misappropriated 69 items aggregating to a little over rs 3 20 000.
this is quite clear from the provisions of section 537 of the code as amended by act 26 of 1955.
for even in the absence of those words the earlier provisions could not have been ignored.
the decision of the allahabad high court in t r mukherji 's case il is directly in point and is clearly to the effect that the different clauses of section 239 are mutually exclusive in the sense that it is not possible to combine the provisions of two or more clauses in any one case and to try jointly several persons partly by applying the provisions of one clause and partly by applying those of another or other clauses.
in so far as the respondent No 2 is concerned the high court has held that since he was charged with a specific offence under s 409 i p c he could not be convicted of mere abetment of an offence.
it is true that the respondent No i alone was convicted by the additional sessions judge of this offence and the offence under section 467 read with section 471 but the validity of a pardon is to be determined with reference to the offence alleged against the approver alone and not with reference to the offence or offences for which his associates were ultimately convicted.
but it would be open to the court to resort to those provisions even in the case of a joint trial of several persons permissible under section 239 s 236.
his dual capacity enabled the respondent No i to earn the confidence not only of the directors of aeco but also of those of vesco.
the respondent No 2 was asked by the respondent No i to maintain a private note book.
it was contended by mr chari that the expression former part would apply to the first sub division of chapter xix which deals with the form and content of the charges and the powers of the court with regard to the absence of charge and alteration of charge.
a and d of section 239.
a similar view was expressed by the same high court in the case which was reversed by this court in the state of andhra pradesh v kandinalla subbaiah 1962 2 scr 194 and it was held that conspiracy to commit an offence being itself an offence a person can be separately charged with respect to such a conspiracy.
a conspiracy must be regarded as one transaction and there fore a single individual charged with it could be tried with the aid of section 2351 for all the acts committed by him in furtherance or in pursuance of the conspiracy without the limitations imposed by s 2341.
the prosecution be established by reference to section 34 of the indian evidence act which reads thus.
here one of the offences alleged against the respondents is criminal breach of trust punishable under section 409 i p c it is not exclusively triable by a court of sessions and the punishment as set out in the 7th column of schedule ii cr.
the vesco had no managing director but at each meeting of its board of directors one of the directors used to be elected chairman.
each clause is an exception to the general rule enacted in section 233 cr.
4 that the court abused its powers under s 342 cr.
further according to the high court where a conspiracy has yielded its fruits the conspirators can be charged with the actual offences committed and not with conspiracy to commit those offences.
the original managing agency agreement in favour of aeco with respect to vesco was for a period of 15 years i e from 1933 to 1948 and was later renewed for the remaining term of the currency of the licence granted by the government under the electricity act.
the offence of conspiracy is an entirely independent offence and though other offences are committed in pursuance of the conspiracy the liability of the conspirators for the conspiracy itself can not disappear.
i continued to be the secretary of vesco and resident representative of the managing agents throughout the period of conspiracy.
clearly therefore all the accused persons could be tried together in respect of all the offences now comprised in charge No 1.
indeed the very expression so far as may be empha sises the fact that while the earlier provisions have to be borne in mind by the court while applying section 239 it is not those provisions but the latter which is to have an overriding effect.
his point is that the proviso to section 3371 confers the power on the district magistrate to grant pardon in a case pending before another magistrate and not on a district magistrate and therefore his power to grant pardon in such cases can not be conferred under sub s 2 of section 10 on an additional district magistrate.
the explanations of the managing agents and the directors of vesco with respect to the items mentioned in the orders of the board used also to be placed by him before the shareholders.
c of section 239 is subject to the provisions of section 234.
now if the respondent No 1 were alone tried upon the second third and the fourth charges the provisions of section 2351 could have been pressed in aid if the allegations were that the offences were so connected together as to form one and the same transaction and the validity of the trial would not have been open to any attack.
therefore a pardon granted by him in such a case would be illegal.
unless therefore the provisions of section 239 are applicable it would follow that there was a misjoinder of charges.
the first reason is that none of the offences alleged to have been committed falls within section 337 of the code of criminal procedure and the second reason is that the pardon was granted by an authority not empowered to grant it.
the main reasons upon which the conclusion of the high court is based are firstly that there could be no clubbing together of the provisions of the various clauses of section 239 and secondly that the respondents were charged with more than three offences of the same kind and that this was in contravention of section 239 c.
the argument before the high court was and before us is that the absence of an entry can not of electricity duty to government.
both the sets of facts are relevant that is non receipt of the amounts by the firms and non existence of entries in their account books pertaining to those amounts.
the magistrate before whom the enquiry or trial is proceeding or the district magistrate would be the only authorities competent to grant a pardon in such a case.
iii to the code of criminal procedure the power to grant pardon will continue to have that power and therefore a pardon granted by a judicial magistrate in contravention of the government order will not be rendered invalid.
according to the prosecution the second raju was not bestowing sufficient care and attention on the affairs of vesco.
of which the respondent No i was a director.
is also an enabling provision to be availed of in case of doubt and it is meaningless to say that section 239 is subject to section 236.
he died in the year 1939 and was succeeded by r k n g raju an advocate of rajahmundry.
various sentences were passed against them by the additional sessions judge visakhapatnam who presided over the court.
as we are remanding the appeal to the high court for a fresh decision after full consideration of the evidence adduced in the case it would be open to it to consider this matter particularly while judging the credibility of the evidence of the approver.
consequent on the separation.
he contends that section 337 1 speaks of the district magistrate which expression does not include an additional district magistrate.
the aeco on the other band always had a managing director first of whom was d l n raju.
apart from this the question whether the provisions of sections 233 to 236 have or have no overriding effect on section 239.
the vesco had its own board of directors while the aeco had also its own separate board of directors.
the high court has also held that his evidence is unreliable and further that the additional sessions judge was in error in allowing him to refresh his memory by referring to various documents in a manner not permitted by section 159 of the evidence act.
what it must now do is to consider the entire evidence and decide for itself whether it is sufficient to bring home all or any of the offences to the respondents.
the offences are of the same kind and must be deemed to have been committed in the course of the same transaction because of association and mutual connection.
the respondent No 1 even after his appointment on two posts connected with vesco continued to work with the aeco also whose business had by then been confined only to that of managing agents of the four companies floated by d l n raju.
as secretary of vesco it was his duty to convene the meetings of the board of directors to present before them the periodical statement of receipts and expenditure of vesco to convene meetings of the general body to prepare the managing agents report and the director 's report as also to see to the presentation of auditors report and the statement of accounts.
the offence under section 467 read with section 471 is punishable with imprisonment for life or imprisonment of either description for a period of 10 years but it is exclusively triable by a court of session and therefore in so far as such offence is concerned the argument of mr bhimasankaram would not even have been available.
d by itself all of them can be tried jointly for the different offences committed by each of them in the course of the same transaction and if cl.
the additional district magistrates independent would also be under the control of the government through the board of revenue.
the accounts maintained by the vesco used to be explained by him not only to the directors but also to the shareholders.
according to it the provisions of section 239 were of no avail.
no corresponding advantage can be gained by the accused persons by following the procedure of separate trials.
this court has thus clearly read the provisions of the various clauses cumulatively and we see no reason to read them differently.
the power to grant pardon in a case pending before another magistrate is no doubt conferred by the proviso only on the district magistrate.
some time later other industrial concerns the andhra cements ltd vi jayawada and the east coast ceremics.
on the strength of these considerations mr chari for the state contends that if the words any offence punishable with imprisonment which may extend to 10 years were interpreted to mean offences which were punishable with imprinsonment of less than 10 years grave offences which are not exclusively triable by a court of sessions will be completely out of section 337 1.
therefore even if the expression same transaction alone had been used in section 2351 it would have meant a transaction consisting either of a single act or of a series of connec ted acts.
no doubt under entry 9 a in part iii of sch.
the reason why two alternative maximum sentences are given in col 7 that is transportation for life now imprisonment for life and imprisonment not exceeding 10 years appears to be that the offence is not exclusively triable by a court of session and could also be tried by a magistrate who except when empowered under section 30 would be incompetent to try offences punishable with transportation for life now imprisonment for life and the further reason that it should be open to the court of session instead of awarding the sentence of transportation for life to a convicted person to award him imprisonment in a jail in india itself for a period not execeeding 10 years.
thus this is a special provision available in case of doubt and is neither subject to the limitations prescribed by section 233 nor those of the other preceding provisions.
in coming to this conclusion it has relied upon the provisions of section 356 2a of the code of criminal procedure.
similarly there is section 5 of the evidence act which reads thus it is the case of the prosecution that the alleged payments were never made by vesco to the various firms.
it will be noticed that transportation for life was not the only punishment provided for an offence under section 409 of the indian penal code even before the amendment made to the indian penal code by section 117 of the act 26 of 1955 the other alternative being imprisonment up to 10 years.
but it does not follow that where crimes have been committed the liability to punishment already incurred under section 120 b by having entered into a criminal conspiracy is thereby wiped away.
according to mr bhimasankaram the pardon tendered to the approver was illegal and if the pardon is illegal his evidence is wholly inadmissible.
it could not have been the intention of the legislature to create such a situation.
on the face of it this is a valid charge.
mr bhimasankaram supports the reason given by the high court for coming to the conclusion that there was a misjoinder of charges.
in 1944 this person resigned from his appointments and started his own business in radio and electrical goods in the name of d brothers.
there is therefore no warrant for drawing a distinction between the powers of the district magistrate and the powers of a district magistrate.
secondly according to him no direction has in fact been shown to have been made by the state government conferring upon an additional district magistrate the power of the district magistrate to grant pardon.
ganeswara rao was also an old employee of aeco having been appointed a stenotypist in the year 1923 on an initial salary of rs p m eventually he became the head clerk therein.
it is under these provisions that the account books of the firms must be held to be relevant.
rajahmurthy were started apparently by raju himself and the aeco was appointed the managing agent of each of these concerns.
alternatively the state government has not made any directions under sub s 2 of section 10 specifying the powers of the district magistrate which would lie exercisable by the additional district magistrate concerned.
it is permissible therefore for the prosecution to lead evidence to drove both these facts.
the expression same transaction occurring in cls.
this means that the trial for an offence under section 147 will have to be separated from the trial for the different offences committed by them.
a is unavailable they could not be tried for the offence under section 147 at the same trial.
the very object of this provision is to allow pardon to be tendered in cases where a grave offence is alleged to have been committed by several persons so that with the aid of the evidence of the person pardoned the offence could be brought home to the rest.
we therefore agree with the high court that the account books of the various concerns to whom payments are said to have been made by the respondents are not by themselves evidence of the fact that no payments were received by them.
what we have said about pardon in respect of an offence under section 409 would apply equally to that for one under section 120 b because the punishment for it is the same as that for the offence under section 409.
section 224 deals with the interpretation of the language of the charge and section 225 with the effect of errors in the charge.
the same offence committed by all of them is that under section 147 and all of them can be tried jointly in respect of that offence under cl.
eventually their choice fell on g v subba raju p w 25 a resident of manchili who held a large number of shares in the aeco and who was besides related to r k n g raju by marriage.
according to the prosecution the respondent No i wanted to take advantage of this fact and conceived of a scheme for misappropriating as much money belonging to vesco as possible before the managing agency agreement of aeco came to an end in october 1948.
the court has in addition to ascertain whether his evidence has been corroborated sufficiently in material particulars.
charge of conspiracy according to the high court can be validly made only when the prosecution establishes that every conspirator expected to receive a personal benefit from it and that the prosecution has not been able to establish that the respondent No 2 or the approver evidently had any such expectations since they did not in fact receive any corresponding benefit.