three civil appeals stemming from three revision petitions to the high court of orissa under the orissa estates abolition act 1951 orissa act i of 1952 for short the act have reached this court thanks to special leave granted to the appellant who is common in all the cases.
shri achutananda purohit appellant was the intermediary in respect of vast forests and other lands comprised in the estate of jujumura in the district of sambalpur.
nor is it right to contend as the appellant did that the compensation officer 's jurisdiction was created by the order of remand by the high court.
before the date of vesting the state never can nor does fix the compensation through the compensation officer in any of the agrarian reform laws and these compensation operations are post statutory exercises.
b v of the act but in spite of it the direction was that the divisional forest officer should make the appraisement.
the provisions of section 373 read with section 262.
v gross income from forests calculated on the basis of the appraisement made of annual yield of the forests on the date of vesting by a forest officer subject to the approval of the chief conservator of forests such forest officer being not below the rank of a divisional forest officer to be appointed in this behalf by the state government.
b v of the act make it clear that the date of vesting is the last date by which the calculation of compensation should have been made.
therefore deduction of income tax from the gross assets is illegal and unwarranted.
no it was created by the statute and canalised by the order of remand.
where the actual income is to be included in the gross assets in the case of forests the assumed income and not the actual income is to be included.
the high court after deciding various issues remanded the cases to the compensation officer under the act after over ruling most of the contentions pressed before it by the appellant.
if the officer had no jurisdiction the land would be gone because of the vesting provision and no compensation would be forthcoming for want of jurisdiction a consequence the appellant never wants.
it follows that after the present second remand the re appraisal of the annual net income can not be done solely by the forest officer without securing the approval of the chief conservator.
as admittedly compensation had not been calculated by the date of vesting the compensation officer lost his statutory jurisdiction to do so.
of course when there is joint ownership section 24 stipulates that the compensation shall be determined for the estate as a whole and not separately for each of the shares therein.
it is astonishing that anyone should urge as the appellant did that the date of vesting is the last date by which the calculation of compensation should have been made and since that had not been done the compensation officer had become functus officio in awarding compensation.
nor can the compensation officer by pass the chief conservator on the misunderstood strength of the high court 's first order of remand.
during the agricultural year immediately preceding the abolition the petitioners had not actually derived any income from the forests and as such they were under no obligation to pay any income tax on such income.
3 assuming that in spite of the directions of the court the compensation offi cer is entitled to follow the procedure laid down in section 262bv the expression subject to the approval of the chief conservator of forests does not refer to the appraisement made by the d f o but refers to his appointment.
a compensation assessment roll containing the gross asset and net income of each estate together with the compensation payable in respect of such estate has to be prepared by him.
it is this court which by its order dated 10 4 1969 in civil revisions 201 202 and 203 of 1968 conferred new jurisdiction on the compensation officer to deal freshly with the case and therefore notwithstanding anything contained in the act the compensation has to be calculated according to the directions given by the court 2 the court was fully aware of the statutory provision in section 262.
the appellant challenges the slab system of compensation provided in the act which awards smaller multiples for estates yielding larger incomes on the score of violation of the fundamental rights under the constitution.
the compensation officer is charged with fixing the quantum in the prescribed manner.
both the state and the appellant filed appeals to the collector which were dismissed.
certainly the chief conservator can not be ignored by the compensation officer nor can the chief conservator ignore the assessment made by the forest officer and go through an independent exercise.
the statutory scheme of compensation for forest lands consists of machinery for assessment of the net income which is multiplied on a sliding scale and the method of challenge to the determination by the aggrieved owner of state.
the section is clear that the gross income from forests must be calculated on the basis of appraisal of the annual yield on the date of vesting firstly by a forest officer and secondly by the chief conservator of forests screening it and approving it.
the policy of the law of agrarian reform postulates the extinguishment of ancient privileges and cornering of land resources and the socioeconomic yardstick is different from what applies to ordinary purchases of real estate and this is manifest in the special provisions contained in article 31a and article 31b of the constitution.
4 assuming that section 262 b v would have full force what it contemplates is that the appraisement must be made by the d f o and it is subject to the approval by the chief conservator of forests.
no income therefore no income tax and therefore no deduction is the syllogism of shri purohit.
this estate vested in the state on april 1 1960 by force of the act and the crucial question agitated before us consequentially turns on the quantum of compensation awardable under chapter v of the act.
a second appeal was filed by the appellant before the board of revenue without success.