the said dispute was referred for adjudication of the labour court indore by the state of madhya pradesh on the following questions.
a dispute arose as to whether all the appellants were employed for the purpose of the said project or the appellants in civil appeal no 337 of 2002 were appointed in the year 1991 by the authority for its own job.
the appellants were appointed by the indore development authority.
the appellant nos 1 and 2 are degree holders in civil engineering and appellant nos.
in the instant case the industrial tribunal did not draw any adverse inference against the appellant.
it was therefore impermissible for the state to direct regularization of the services of the employees of the cooperative societies.
an industrial dispute was raised by the appellants herein as their services were not being regularized by the respondent.
vs state of jammu kshmir ors.
the terms of conditions of service contained in the 1973 act and the 1987 rules are not in derogation of the provisions contained in schedule appended to the 1961 act.
recently in m p electricity board vs hariram etc.
the project was indisputably to be executed by the indore development authority and for the implementation thereof the appointments had to be made by it.
vs union of india and others 1987 supp.
in hindustan shipyard ltd and others vs dr p sambasiva rao and others 1996 7 scc 499 1996 indlaw sc 3441 a division bench of this court observed.
it was within its jurisdiction to do so particularly having regard to the nature of the evidence adduced by the respondent.
a state before offering public service to a person must comply with the constitutional requirements of articles 14 and 16 of the constitution.
presumption as to adverse inference for non production of evidence is always optional and one of the factors which is required to be taken into consideration in the background of facts involved in the lis.
the respondent authority appointed the appellants and posted them to an overseas project known as indore habitat project which was implemented through the agency of overseas development authority hereinafter referred to as the oda on daily wages.
the statute rules and regulations formed by the state govern the terms and conditions of service of the employees of the respondent.
an illegal appointment can not be legalized by taking recourse to regularization.
as regard application of the doctrine of equal pay for equal work it was held to be not applicable as the appellants were not entitled to absorption or classification in terms of the 1961 act and the 1963 rules.
presumably the appellants were aware of the statutory limitations in this behalf.
indisputably the conditions precedent for appointment of the officers and servants of the authority as contained in the service rules had not been complied with.
the respondent authority is a state within the meaning of article.
it was held that the services of the appellants can not be directed to be regularized in services.
furthermore the labour court having derived its jurisdiction from the reference made by the state government it was bound to act within the four corners thereof.
the said seniority list was not prepared in terms of the classification of employees within the meaning of the 1961 act and the rules framed there under but was based on the date of joining probably for the purpose of maintenance of records.
they were not therefore entitled to take the recourse of the doctrine of equal pay for equal work as adumbrated in articles 14 and 39d of the constitution of india.
in a umarani vs registrar cooperative societies and ors.
the appointments of the appellants were therefore void ab initio being opposed to public policy as also violative of articles 14 and 16 of the constitution of india.
in m p vidyut karamchari sangh vs m p electricity board 2004 9 scc 755 2004 indlaw sc 198 a three judge bench of this court held that a regulation which is not inconsistent with the provisions of the 1961 act and the rules can be issued by a statutory authority.
in state of haryana and another vs tilak raj and others 2003 6 scc 123 2003 indlaw sc 512 it was held a scale of pay is attached to a definite post and in case of a daily wager he hold no posts.
the labour court on the basis of the materials produced before it arrived at the following findings 1.
all the employees have been working in the establishment of the respondents for last 5 6 years.
the recruitments of the appellants do not fall in any of the said categories.
1whether non regularisation of the sub engineers as per the listed enclosed is valid and proper.
in absence of any specific directions contained in the schedule appended to the standing orders the statute and the statutory rules applicable to the employees of the respondent shall prevail.
the high court in our opinion was right in arriving at the conclusion that the appellants were not entitled to be regularized in service.
the burden was on the appellants to establish that they had a right to invoke the said doctrine in terms of article 14 of the constitution of india.
these appeals arising out of a judgment and order dated 26 4 2000 passed in writ petition no 1188 of 1997 by the high court of madhya pradesh indore bench involving similar questions of law and fact were taken up for hearing together and are being disposed of by this common judgment.
the presumption thus is not obligatory because notwithstanding the intentional non production other circumstances may exist upon which such intentional non production may be found to be justifiable on some reasonable grounds.
despite the same the high court went into the question of applicability of the said act and held that the 1961 act and the 1963 rules had no application.
12 of the constitution of india.
they were not appointed in terms of the provisions of the statute.
the high court accepted the contention of the respondent authority that the appellants were not appointed against the sanctioned posts and their services were taken on account of the said oda project which was implemented through the agency of the respondent authority.
all actions of the state must conform to the constitutional requirements.
such an order can not be upheld also on the ground that the employees allegedly served the cooperative societies for a long time.
it is also not in dispute that the respondent authority has been constituted under madhya pradesh nagar tatha gram nibesh adhiniyam 1973 adhiniyam section 47 whereof mandates that all appointments to the posts of officers and servants included in the state cadre mentioned in section 76 b of the development authority services must be made by the state government and the appointments to the posts of officers and servants included in the local cadre in the said services by the concerned town and country development authority.
allegedly from their salary provident fund was being deducted.
for the purpose of invoking the said doctrine the nature of the work and responsibility attached to the post are some of the factors which were bound to be taken into consideration.
vis a vis the 1973 act and the rules framed thereunder.
the salary fixed by the commissioner was earlier given to all engineers and later on they were given the salary fixed by the collector.
they were also being granted the benefit of leave.
at this stage it may be useful to refer to a judgment of this court in the case of muncipal corporation faridabad vs siri niwas jt 2004 7 sc 248 2004 indlaw sc 719 wherein this court disagreed with the high court 's view of drawing an adverse inference in regard to the non production of certain relevant documents.
see orissa university of agriculture technology and another vs manoj k mohanty 2003 5 scc 188 2003 indlaw sc 348.
there is no difference in their work and the work of the employees of indore development authority.
the posts of sub engineers in which the appellants were appointed.
even the appointments to the local cadre must be made by the authority.
work has been taken by the respondent from all the appellants except four.
the 1973 act as noticed hereinbefore clearly mandates that all posts should be sanctioned by the state government and all appointments to the said cadre must be made by the state government alone.
the application calling for the production of the documents was for the years 1987 to 1992.
before the high court various documents were produced by the appellants herein to show the nature of their employment but the same had not been taken on records by the high court.