it has been held in state of andhra pradesh v thadi narayan air 1962.
see union of india v garware nylons ltd air 1996.
sc 3509 1996 indlaw sc 2404 and chemicals and fibres of india v union of india air 1997.
the appeal before the high court and also in this court has been preferred by the appellants challenging their conviction under section 304 b read with section 34 ipc.
the judgment and order dated 23 february 2005 of the high court and the judgment and order dated 04 january 1993 of the learned sessions judge convicting the appellants under section 304 b ipc are set aside and the appellants are acquitted of the said charge.
the learned sessions judge after consideration of the material on record acquitted the appellants of the charges under sections 498 a and 306 read with section 34 ipc but convicted them under section 304 b ipc and imposed a sentence of 7 years ri thereunder.
therefore we have refrained from expressing any opinion as to whether the appellants could be held guilty of having committed the offence under section 498 a or 306 ipc on the basis of evidence available on record as their acquittal under the aforesaid charges has attained finality and can not be reversed in the appeal filed by the appellants challenging their conviction under section 304 b ipc.
since an essential ingredient of section 304 b ipc viz demand for dowry is not established the conviction of the appellants can not be sustained.
the appeal preferred by the appellants was dismissed by the high court by the judgment and order dated 23 february 2005.
this appeal by special leave has been preferred against the judgment and order dated 23 february 2005 of bombay high court aurangabad bench by which the appeal preferred by the appellants was dismissed and their conviction under section 304 b read with section 34 ipc and sentence of 7 years ri imposed thereunder by the learned sessions judge aurangabad was affirmed.
it is well settled principle of interpretation of statute that if the act is passed with reference to a particular trade business or transaction and words are used which everybody conversant with that trade business or transaction knows or understands to have a particular meaning in it then the words are to be construed as having that particular meaning.
the explanation appended to sub section 1 of section 304 b ipc says that dowry shall have the same meaning as in section 2 of dowry prohibition act 1961.
the learned sessions judge framed charges under sections 498 a 304 b read with section 34 ipc and section 306 read with section 34 ipc against both the appellants.
sc 240 1961 indlaw sc 171 that section 4231bi of code of criminal procedure 1898 which corresponds to section 386bi of code of criminal procedure 1973 is clearly confined to cases of appeals preferred against orders of conviction and sentence the powers conferred by this clause can not be exercised for the purpose of reversing an order of acquittal passed in favour of a party in respect of an offence charged in dealing with an appeal preferred by him against the order of conviction in respect of another offence charged and found proved.
the evidence adduced by the prosecution does not therefore show that any demand for dowry as defined in section 2 of the dowry prohibition act was made by the appellants as what was allegedly asked for was some money for meeting domestic expenses and for purchasing manure.
the appellants pleaded not guilty and claimed to be tried.
after completion of investigation charge sheet was submitted against the appellants and in due course the case was committed to the court of sessions.
the appellant No 2 kadubai is the mother of the appellant No 1 and both the appellants were residing in the same house in village palshi.
section 2 of dowry prohibition act reads as under 2.
as already stated the appellants were also charged under sections 498 a and 306 read with section 34 ipc but were acquitted of the said charges by the learned sessions judge which order has attained finality for the reason that the state did not prefer appeal against the same.
two essential ingredient of section 304 b ipc apart from others are i death of women is caused by any burns or bodily injury or occurs otherwise than under normal circumstances and ii women is subjected to cruelty or harassment by her husband or any relative of her husband for or in connection with any demand for dowry.
the appellant no 1 is in custody.
dowry is a fairly well known social custom or practice in india.
p c which was recorded on the very next day of the death of bhimabai this witness did not state that the cause for ill treatment was a demand for money and a consequent beating.
the deceased bhimabai was daughter of pw 1 tukaram eknath tambe resident of village sanjkheda.
accepting the statements of father and mother on their face value that utmost which can be held is that the appellant no 1 had asked his wife bhimabai to bring money for meeting domestic expenses and for purchasing manure.
being a penal provision it has to be strictly construed.
on the basis of the said accidental death report pw 6 sandeepan kamble police sub inspector visited the house of the accused held inquest on the dead body of bhimabai and thereafter sent the same for post mortem examination.
pw 1 tukaram lodged the fir of the incident at 7 00 p m on 16 september 1991 at p s chikalthana on the basis of which case crime No 144 of 1991 was registered against the appellants under sections 498 a 306 and 304 b ipc.
and she was married to appellant No 1.
in view of the aforesaid definition of the word dowry any property or valuable security should be given or agreed to be given either directly or indirectly at or before or any time after the marriage and in connection with the marriage of the said parties.
p c which was recorded very next day of the incident i e on 16 september 1991 she did not state that cause of ill treatment was a demand for money and a consequent beating.
sc 558 1991 indlaw sc 861.
the appellant No 2 is on bail.
it has thus been submitted that no offence under section 306 ipc is made out against the appellants.