in virsa singh v state of punjab4.
reference in this regard may be made to the decision of this court in ruli ram v state of haryana 2002 7 scc 691 2002 indlaw sc 1927 augustine saldanha v state of karnataka 2003 10 scc 472 2003 indlaw sc 674 state of u p v virendra prasad 2004 9 scc 37 2004 indlaw sc 60 chacko v state of kerala 2004 12 scc 269 2004 indlaw sc 20 section n bhadolkar v state of maharasthra 2005 9 scc 71 2004 indlaw sc 268 and jagriti devi v state of h p jt 2009 8 sc 648.
reference in this regard may be made to the decision of this court in state of u p v krishna gopal 1988 4 scc 302 1988 indlaw sc 76 anwar v state of haryana 1997 9 scc 766 1997 indlaw sc 2447 ravi kumar v state of punjab 2005 9 scc 315 2005 indlaw sc 170 munivel v state of t n 2006 9 scc 394 2006 indlaw sc 118.
rajwant singh v state of kerala is an apt illustration of this point.
the mental element in culpable homicide i e mental attitude towards the consequences of conduct is one of intention and knowledge.
3 of section 300 is one of degree of probability of death resulting from the intended bodily injury.
the trial court passed an order on 04 08 1998 acquitting all the accused persons from the offences under sections 302 323 143 147 and 149 of ipc.
the present appeal arises out of the judgment and order dated 01 07 2002 passed by the high court of bombay at goa in criminal appeal No 6 of 2000 convicting the accused appellant section 302 of the indian penal code for short the the ipc and sentencing him to undergo life imprisonment for the offence by setting aside the order of acquittal passed by the trial court.
such knowledge on the part of the offender must be of the highest degree of probability the act having been committed by the offender without any excuse for incurring the risk of causing death or such injury as aforesaid.
only the intention of causing the bodily injury coupled with the offender 's knowledge of the likelihood of such injury causing the death of the particular victim is sufficient to bring the killing within the ambit of this clause.
4 of section 300 would be applicable where the knowledge of the offender as to the probability of death of a person or persons in general as distinguished from a particular person or persons being caused from his imminently dangerous act approximates to a practical certainty.
for cases to fall within clause 3 it is not necessary that the offender intended to cause death so long as the death ensues from the intentional bodily injury or injuries sufficient to cause death in the ordinary course of nature.
being aggrieved by the aforesaid judgment and order of acquittal the state filed an appeal in the high court against accused nos.
obviously the distinction lies between a bodily injury likely to cause death and a bodily injury sufficient in the ordinary course of nature to cause death.
in animireddy venkata ramana and others v public prosecutor high court of andhra pradesh 2008 5 scc 368 2008 indlaw sc 354 this court while considering a similar case observed as follows 10.
on 19 04 1988 between 8 30 p m and 8 45 p m satish narayan sawant the appellant accused No 1 along with two other accused persons and also with two delinquent children allegedly formed an unlawful assembly and that in furtherance of the said common object stabbed one rauji dulba sawant the deceased and also assaulted baby dulba sawant pw 1 ashok dulba sawant pw 2 kunda rauji sawant pw 8 and laxmi dulba sawant pw 18 who are the sister brother wife and mother respectively of the deceased.
4 of section 300 both require knowledge of the probability of the act causing death.
the trial court framed charges against all the accused persons for the offence under sections 302 323 143 147 and 149 of the ipc.
to put it more broadly it is the degree of probability of death which determines whether a culpable homicide is of the gravest medium or the lowest degree.
in cl 3 of section 300 instead of the words likely to cause death occurring in the corresponding cl.
thus according to the rule laid down in virsa singh case4 even if the intention of the accused was limited to the infliction of a bodily injury sufficient to cause death in the ordinary course of nature and did not extend to the intention of causing death the offence would be murder.
2 and 3 were held guilty of an offence punishable section 323 read with section 34 of the ipc.
b of section 299 and cl.
section 299 and section 300 ipc deals with the definition of culpable homicide and murder respectively.
b of section 299 the words sufficient in the ordinary course of nature have been used.
this court has observed as follows in the case of dinesh kumar v state of rajasthan 2008 8 scc 270 2008 indlaw sc 2034 11.
in the scheme of the penal code culpable homicides is genus and murder its specie.
no doubt section 5 a of the prevention of corruption act was enacted for preventing harassment to a government servant and with this object in view investigation except with the previous permission of a magistrate is not permitted to be made by an officer below the rank of deputy superintendent of police.
but the main object of investigation being to bring home the offence to the offender the essential part of the duties of an investigating officer in this connection is apart from arresting the offender to collect all material necessary for establishing the accusation against the offender.
the high court by impugned judgment convicted appellant.
both the expression intent and knowledge postulate the existence of a positive mental attitude which is of different degrees.
the bare reading of the section makes it crystal clear that the first and the second clause of the section refer to intention apart from the knowledge and the third clause refers to knowledge alone and not intention.
the words bodily injury sufficient in the ordinary course of nature to cause death mean that death will be the most probable result of the injury having regard to the ordinary course of nature.
duty of the state to protect the life of an injured as also an endeavour on the part of the responsible police officer to reach the place of occurrence in a situation of this nature is his implicit duty and responsibility.
accused No 1 section 302 ipc and accused nos.
on completion of the investigation the police submitted the charge sheet against the accused persons namely the present appellant accused No 1 accused nos 2 and 3 and the two juvenile offenders namely sarita and sharmila.
as soon as the deceased switched off the light the appellant came from the room and started abusing rauji.
it must be proved that there was an intention to inflict that particular bodily injury which in the ordinary course of nature was sufficient to cause death viz that the injury found to be present was the injury that was intended to be inflicted.
culpable homicide of this degree is punishable under the second part of section 304.
a scuffle started between the nephew and the uncle in which the accused persons also received injuries and therefore the right of private defence of the appellant was available and in that view of the matter the order of conviction and sentence is liable to be set aside.
c of section 299 and cl.
if that is caused in any of the aforesaid three circumstances the offence of culpable homicide is said to have been committed.
conviction can be made on the basis of such evidence.
he submitted that since there was violation of the provisions of section 162 of the crpc the accused appellant is liable to be acquitted.
in that view of the matter it can not be said that the fir was in any manner hit by the provisions of section 162 of crpc.
if the assailant had no such knowledge about the disease or special frailty of the victim nor an intention to cause death or bodily injury sufficient in the ordinary course of nature to cause death the offence will not be murder even if the injury which caused the death was intentionally given.
b of section 299 does not postulate any such knowledge on the part of the offender.
before dwelling further into the factual matrix of the case on the basis of which the high court convicted the appellant section 302 ipc it would be useful to briefly recapitulate the law on the point.
placing strong reliance on the aforesaid decision this court in the case of abdul waheed khan v state of a p 2002 7 scc 175 2002 indlaw sc 1777 observed as follows at page 184 13.
this is the greatest form of culpable homicide which is defined in section 300 as murder.
b of section 299 conveys the sense of probable as distinguished from a mere possibility.
under clause thirdly of section 300 ipc culpable homicide is murder if both the following conditions are satisfied i e a that the act which causes death is done with the intention of causing death or is done with the intention of causing a bodily injury and b that the injury intended to be inflicted is sufficient in the ordinary course of nature to cause death.
it has been repeatedly held by this court that culpable homicide is the genus and murder is species and that all murders are culpable homicide but not vice versa.
it is also the case of the prosecution that as a result of the aforesaid stab injuries given to the deceased he expired on the same day i e on 19 04 1988.
an information received in regard to commission of a cognizable offence is not required to be preceded by a first information report.
the above are only broad guidelines and not cast iron imperatives.
instances of cases falling u cl 2 of section 300 can be where the assailant causes death by a fist blow intentionally given knowing that the victim is suffering from an enlarged liver or enlarged spleen or diseased heart and such blow is likely to cause death of that particular person as a result of the rupture of the liver or spleen or the failure of the heart as the case may be.
the accused pleaded not guilty and claimed to be tried.
in the absence of any prohibition in the code express or implied i am of opinion that it is open to a police officer to make preliminary enquiries before registering an offence and making a full scale investigation into it.
the first is what may be called culpable homicide of the first degree.
there was a heated exchange of words between rauji and the appellant switched on the light which was again switched off by rauji the deceased.
in that view of the matter we do not agree with the counsel appearing for the appellant that delay in transmitting the fir to the magistrate stands proved in the present case.
i and if it is only a case of knowledge and not the intention to cause murder and bodily injury then the same would be a case of section 304 part ii.
records clearly establish that there was indeed a scuffle between the parties with regard to the availability of electricity in a particular room and during the course of scuffle the appellant also received an injury which was simple in nature and that there was heated exchange of words and scuffle between the parties before the actual incident of stabbing took place.
for the purpose of fixing punishment proportionate to the gravity of this generic offence the code practically recognises three degrees of culpable homicide.
the place of occurrence was in total darkness and even the persons belonging to the complainant side were not available therefore bringing them to the police station where there was sufficient light and recording the complaint at 3 00 a m can not in any manner cast any doubt on the veracity of the prosecution case.
the ratio of the aforesaid decision is squarely applicable to the facts of the present case.
it is noteworthy that the intention to cause death is not an essential requirement of cl.
this is the lowest type of culpable homicide and the punishment provided for it is also the lowest among the punishments provided for the three grades.
the second may be termed as culpable homicide of the second degree.
it is not necessary for the purpose of this case to dilate much on the distinction between these corresponding clauses.
since there were two juvenile offenders there cases were segregated and the trial against accused nos 1 2 and 3 was conducted during the course of which a number of eye witnesses were examined on behalf of the prosecution.
this part of the enquiry is purely objective and inferential and has nothing to do with the intention of the offender.
not finding the appellant and accused no 2 in the house dy.
in the instant case it is quite clear from the evidence on record that pw 1 received the information about the death of the deceased from psi of panaji police station without any detail as to how the incident had happened and who had caused the incident.
accordingly we convict the appellant under section 304 part ii of ipc and sentence him to undergo imprisonment for a period of 7 years.
he further submitted that there was not only shifting of time of the alleged occurrence but also shifting of the place of occurrence from the hall to the outside verandah and courtyard to suit the convenience of the prosecution case.
that being the factual position we are of the considered view that the present case can not be said to be a case section but it is a case falling under section 304 part ii ipc.
she submitted that the high court rightly interfered with the order of acquittal passed by the trial court after critically examining the evidence on record.
two juvenile girls named sarita and sharmila who are the sisters of the appellant were found in the house.