this court in tarsem singh v state of punjab2008.
again in satvir singh v state of punjab20018 scc 633 2001 indlaw sc 224.
in the case of ashok kumar v state of haryana 2010 12 scc 350 2010 indlaw sc 502this court explained these terms in some elucidation and the effect of the deeming fiction appearing in the section as follows 11 the appellant was charged with an offence under section 304 b of the code.
similar view was expressed by this court in yashoda v state of m p20043 scc 98 2004 indlaw sc 132 where this court stated that determination of the period would depend on the facts and circumstances of a given case.
this court in madhu sudan malhotra v kishore chand bhandari1988 supp.
this court in ran singh v state of haryana2008 4 scc 700 2008 indlaw sc 120 held that the payments which are customary payments for example given at the time of birth of a child or other ceremonies as are prevalent in the society or families to the marriage would not be covered under the expression dowry.
maintaining silence can not be equated to discharge of onus by the accused.
in the case of biswajit halder alias babu halder and others v state of w b 2008 1 scc 202 2007 indlaw sc 304the court stated the ingredients of this provision as follows 10 the basic ingredients to attract the provisions of section 304 b are as follows.
however there must be existence of proximate link between the acts of cruelty along with the demand of dowry and the death of the victim.
in the present case the prosecution by reliable and cogent evidence has established the guilt of the accused.
12 the definition of dowry under s 2 of the act reads as under 2 definition of dowry.
such a presumption can be drawn by the court keeping in view the evidence produced by the prosecution in support of the substantive charge under section 304 b of the code.
at the time of marriage it was promised that a dowry of rs 25000 besides other formalities would be paid by the side of the wife to the husband.
in other words there should be a reasonable if not direct nexus between her death and the dowryrelated cruelty or harassment inflicted on her.
the court can not ignore one of the cardinal principles of criminal jurisprudence that a suspect in the indian law is entitled to the protection of art 20 of the constitution of india as well as has a presumption of innocence in his favour.
it is the case of the prosecution that for non payment of dowry the accused persons harassed the deceased and subjected her to cruelty.
the expression demand for dowry will have to be construed ejusdem generis to the word immediately preceding this expression.
the expression in connection with the marriage even in common parlance and on its plain language has to be understood generally.
denial can not be treated to be the discharge of onus.
the expression in connection with the marriage can not be given a restricted or a narrower meaning.
amongst others lapse of time between the date of marriage and the date of death is also a relevant consideration for the court while examining whether the essential ingredients of the provision are satisfied or not in a given case.
the object being that everything which is offending at any time i e at before or after the marriage would be covered under this definition but the demand of dowry has to be in connection with the marriage and not so customary that it would not attract on the face of it the provisions of this section.
similarlyin connection with the marriage is an expression which has to be given a wider connotation.
we are of the considered view that the concept of reasonable time is the best criteria to be applied for appreciation and examination of such cases.
applying these principles to the facts of the present case it is clear that the ingredients of section 304b read with section 498a ipc are completely satisfied in the present case.
thus the cruelty harassment and demand of dowry should not be so ancient whereafter the couple and the family members have lived happily and that it would result in abuse of the said protection.
the sentence awarded by the trial court was confirmed.
it was expected of the accused to explain as to how and why his wife died as well as his conduct immediately prior and subsequent to the death of the deceased.
the cruelty and harassment by the husband or any relative could be directly relatable to or in connection with any demand for dowry.
s 4 of the act is the penal section and demanding a dowryas defined under s 2 of the act is punishable under this section.
the high court acquitted pathan khadar basha the fatherin law of the deceased as there was no direct evidence against him.
in other words the rule of law requires a person to be innocent till proved guilty.
dowry is something which existed in our country for a considerable time and the legislature in its wisdom considered it appropriate to enact the law relating to dowry prohibition so as to ensure that any party to the marriage is not harassed or treated with cruelty for satisfaction of demands in consideration and for subsistence of the marriage.
these are penal provisions but ultimately these are the social legislations intended to control offences relating to the society as a whole.
we have already referred to the provisions of section 304 b of the code and the most significant expression used in the section is soon before her death.
in our view the expression soon before her death can not be given a restricted or a narrower meaning.
16 scc 155 2008 indlaw sc 1962 held that the legislative object in providing such a radius of time by employing the words soon before her death is to emphasise the idea that her death should in all probabilities has been the aftermath of such cruelty or harassment.
such demand or harassment may not strictly and squarely fall within the scope of these provisions unless definite evidence was led to show to the contrary.
the explanation to this section requires that the expression dowry shall have the same meaning as in s 2 of the act.
and further a 1 to a 3 are sentenced to undergo imprisonment for life for the offence u s 304 b ipc both the sentences shall run concurrently.
from the above evidence it is clear that the dowry demands were being raised by the accused persons persistently from the family of the deceased and for that they even harassed the deceased by beating and abusing her.
but even the rule of strict construction requires that the provisions have to be read in conjunction with other relevant provisions and scheme of the act.
secondly that soon before her death she had been subjected to cruelty or harassment by the husband or any of the relatives of the husband for or in connection with any demand for dowry then such a death shall be called dowry death and the husband or the relative as the case may be will be deemed to have caused such a death.
however the expression would normally imply that there has to be reasonable time gap between t he cruelty inflicted and the death in question.
for want of any specific period the concept of reasonable period would be applicable.
once the prosecution proves its case with regard to the basic ingredients of section 304 b the court will presume by deemed fiction of law that the husband or the relatives complained of has caused her death.
accused pathan hussain basha was married to pathan haseena begum now deceased on 23rd june2002 at guntur.
the father of the bride could not pay the balance amount within time because he lacked the resources.
if this is so the legislature in its wisdom would have specified any period which would attract the provisions of this section.
all the expressions used under this section are of a very wide magnitude.
the concept of deeming fiction is hardly applicable to the criminal jurisprudence.
the expressions or any time after marriage and in connection with the marriage of the said parties were introduced by the amending act 63 of 1984 and act 43 of 1986 with effect from 2 101985 and 19 11 1986 respectively.
they faced the trial and the learned sessions judge vide its judgment dated 4th october2004 found them guilty of the said offences and punished them as follows hence a 1 to a 3 are sentenced to undergo r i for three years and further sentenced to pay a fine of rs 1000 each total fine amount rs 3000 offence punishable u s 498 a ipc i d of the fine amount of rs 1000 to undergo si for 9 months.