in any case the period between the arrest and the identification parade was not large enough to constitute inordinate delay.
these appeals are preferred by four accused against the common judgment of the high court of chhattisgarh at bilaspur confirming the judgment of the additional sessions judge bemetara district durg convicting the appellants u s 302 read with ss 34 and 120b of the indian penal code hereinafter referred to as ipc and sentencing each of them to undergo imprisonment for life with a fine of rs 1000 and in default to undergo additional rigorous imprisonment for three months.
the identification parades belong to the investigation stage.
these parades are of the essentially governed by section 162criminal procedure code.
state of bihar 1999 8 scc 555 1999 indlaw sc 693.
on a careful conspectus of the facts and the law we are of the view that the prosecution has failed to prove the guilt of mahesh beyond reasonable doubt.
it is for this reason that the identification parades in this case seem to have been held under the supervision of a magistrate.
the purpose of a prior test identification therefore seems to be to test and strengthen the trustworthiness of that evidence.
it is accordingly considered a safe rule of prudence to generally look for corroboration of the sworn testimony of witnesses in court as to the identity of the accused who are strangers to them in the form of earlier identification proceeding.
they are generally held during the course of investigation with the primary object of enabling the witnesses to identify persons concerned in the offence who were not previously known to them.
the accused devendra kumar was arrested on 22 12 2003 and his identification parade was conducted on 26 12 2003 within four days there is no evidence on record to show that the child witness had an opportunity to see and study the features of the accused between their arrest and test identification parade to enable a tutored identification.
keeping in view the purpose of identification parades the magistrates holding them are expected to take all possible precautions to eliminate any suspicion of unfairness and to reduce the chance of testimonial error.
the evidence of mere identification of the accused person at the trial for the first time is from its very nature inherently of a weak character.
they must therefore take intelligent interest in the proceedings bearing in mind two considerations i that the life and liberty of an accused may depend on their vigilance and caution and ii that justice should be done in the identification.
as a general rule the substantive evidence of a witness is a statement made in court.
9 scc 696 2012 indlaw sc 343.
it was submitted that the test identification parade were delayed and the identification of these accused by the witness in court was not reliable.
state of andhra pradesh air 1983.
generally speaking the magistrate must make a note of every objection raised by an accused at the time of identification and the steps taken by them to ensure fairness to the accused so that the court which is to judge the value of the identification evidence may take them into consideration in the appreciation of that evidence.
the evidence as to identification deserves therefore to be subjected to a close and careful scrutiny by the court.
after committal the trial court framed charges u s 302 read with ss 34 and 120b of the ipc the prosecution examined 32 witnesses.
having regard to the role attributed to him and the absence of incriminating factors we find that it is not safe to convict mahesh of the offence of murder with the aid of ss 34 and 120b.
the persons required to identify an accused should have had no opportunity of seeing him after the commission of the crime and before identification and secondly that no mistakes are made by them or the mistakes made are negligible.
the evidence in order to carry conviction should ordinarily clarify as to how and under what circumstances he came to pick out the particular accused person and the details of the part which the accused played in the crime in question with reasonable particularity.
state of haryana air 1999 sc 1083 1999 indlaw sc 391 and ramashish yadav vs.
mahesh and chandra prakash were arrested on 29 11 2003their identification parade was conducted on 13 12 2003 within a fortnight or so.
the power to identify it may be kept in view varies according to the power of observation and memory of the person identifying and each case depends on its own facts but there are two factors which seem to be of basic importance in the evaluation of identification.
we therefore hold that the accused mahesh accused no 3 in criminal appeal no 867 of 2013 is innocent and the conviction against him is set aside.
the identification to be of value should also be held without much delay.
this court has not laid down the requirement in general that all identification parades must be under the supervision of a magistrate as in budhsen 's case 1970 indlaw sc 136 supra the learned counsel for the appellants also relied upon the judgments of this court in subash and shiv kumar vs.
it is obvious that accused nos 2 and 4 did not enter the house to commit a robbery and had a single mission namely to kill bhavana.
the number of persons mixed up with the accused should be reasonably large and their bearing and general appearance not glaringly dissimilar.
state of u p 1987 3 scc 331 1987 indlaw sc 28887and mohd abdul hafeez vs.
devendra choubey accused no 4 has filed criminal appeal no 822 of 2012 the appellant mahesh accused no 3 has filed criminal appeal no 867 of 2013 the appellant beenu.
a test identification was conducted by the executive magistrate in the sub jail bemetara on 13 12 2003 a similar identification parade of raju.
the learned counsel for the appellants forcefully attacked the conviction of the other accused viz mahesh chandra prakash and devendra kumar who admittedly were not known to the child witness anil kumar.
in fact he even came to the court in the company of a police constable after being served summons at allahabad.
he participated in the identification parade which was held in sub jail bemetara and identified the accused persons in the court by touching them.
there is no evidence of his having played any part in the crime.
this serves to satisfy the investigating officers of the bona fides of the prosecution witnesses and also to furnish evidence to corroborate their testimony in court.
no defence witness was examined after the statements of the accused were recorded u s 313 of the criminal procedure code1973.
state of maharashtra 2012 9 scc 249 2012 indlaw sc 304jai bhagwan vs.
the learned counsel for the appellants relied upon the judgment of this court in budhsen and anr.
he was merely seen by the witness as standing outside the house when the witness came home.
those proceeding should not make it impossible for the identifiers who after all have as a rule only fleeting glimpses of the person they are supposed to identify.
chandra prakash accused no 2 has filed criminal appeal no 589 of 2014 the appellant smt.