Appeal No 205 of 1954.
Petition No 55 of 1954.
K T Desai P N Bhagwati Rameshwar Nath and Rajinder Narain for the appellants.
C K Daphtary Solicitor General of India Porus A Mehta and B H Dhebar with him for the respondent.
November 10.
Messrs Abdul Karim and Brothers owned along with certain other properties which are not the subject matter of the present appeal three mills with bungalows and chawls at Ambernath in Thana District and the Bobbin Factory at Tardeo in Bombay.
And thirdly there was an agreement to sell the mills and the factory to the appellants in certain events and subject to certain conditions.
On 13 2 1954 the appellants appeared before the respondent and contended that he had no auth ority to issue the notice in question under section 12 and that it was therefore illegal.
Apprehending that the lease might be cancelled and that they might be evicted the appellants filed on 16 2 1954 the application out of which the present appeal arises for a writ of certiorari for quashing the notice Exhibit C and for a writ of prohibition restraining the respondent from taking any further action pursuant thereto.
In support of the petition the appellants urged that section 12 under which the respondent purported to act authorised the cancellation of only leases granted by the evacuee and not by the Custodian himself and that no directions could be given under section 10 as it applied only to properties of the evacuee and that by reason of the sale the movables in question had become the property of the appel 124 980 lants.
By their judgment dated 13 4 1954 they held that on the plain language of section 12 it would apply whenever there was a lease and that lease was in respect of property belonging to the evacuee that there was no warrant for imposing a further limitation on that section that that lease should also have been granted by the evacuee and that accordingly the Custodian had power to issue the notice Exhibit C for cancelling the lease.
Against this judgment the appellants have preferred this appeal on a certificate granted by the High Court under article 1331 b and the only point that arises for determination therein is as to whether the Custodian has the power under section 12 to 981 cancel a lease granted by himself and not by the evacuee.
But he con tends that this power could be exercised only so as to override a bar imposed by any law but not the contract under which the lease is held and this result flows according to him from the language of the non obstante clause which is limited to anything contained in any other law for the time being in force and does not include or any contract between the parties.
It was next contended by Mr Desai that even if the Custodian had the power under section 12 to cancel the lease in favour of the appellants be bad no power under that section to cancel the agreement to sell the mills and the factory to them which was one of the matters contained in Exhibit A that the notice Exhibit C was to that extent without jurisdiction and that the respondent should accordingly be prohibited from cancelling that portion of Exhibit A in pursuance of Exhibit C.
In their petition under article 226 it was the validity of the notice.
