Appeal by special leave from the judgment and order dated the 9th August 1955 of the Bombay High Court in Criminal Application No 726 of 1955.
April 24.
He was in the Indian Air Force as an emergency Commissioned Officer between 1943 to 1948 and thereafter on extension for another four years until he attained the age of 55.
He was arrested on the 9th June 1955 and is in detention since then under the impugned order which runs as follows 384 No P D A 1555A Political and Services Department Secretariat Bombay 8th June 1955.
By Order and in the name of the Governor of Bombay.
In pursuance of section 7 of the Act IV of 1950 hereinafter referred to as the Act the grounds of detention also dated the 8th June 1955 was served on him along with the order of detention.
1The order of detention was mala fide.
385 4The claim of State that no particulars of the grounds could be furnished in public interest is unsustainable and in any case mala fide.
But under the guise thereof the police seized and carried away a mass of documents papers and printed material of the appellant as also a typewriter belonging to him.
2 When one Joaquim Carlos a Portuguese soldier 386 attached to Goan forces was arrested on a charge of entering Indian territory without the requisite authority the appellant rendered professional assistance to him and obtained an order of release on bail from the Chief Presidency Magistrate Bombay which was foiled by the police by removing him away to Sawantwadi before the requisite sureties could be obtained at Bombay.
But on appeal filed by the appellant before the Sessions Judge the conviction was set aside and retrial ordered.
3Between April 1955 to June 1955 there occurred certain incidents which were inspired and instigated by the members of the Goan Action Committee who were agitating against Portuguese hold over Goa.
2If you wish to make a representation against the order under which you are detained you should address it to the Government of Bombay and forward it through the Superintendent Arthur Road Prison Bombay.
3He is carrying on these activities with the object of causing further deterioration in the relations between the Portuguese Government and the Indian Government over the question of the Goan National Movement.
But having regard to the nature of the alleged activities of the appellant it is not unlikely that no more could be gathered or furnished.
Assuming however that the grounds furnished in this case are open to the challenge of vagueness the further question which arises is whether the validity of the order of detention can be sustained by reason of the claim in public interest of non disclosure of facts made by the Under Secretary to the Government of Bombay by means of his affidavit filed in the High Court.
But the right of the detenue to be furnished particulars is subject to the limitation under article 226 whereby disclosure of facts considered to be against public interest cannot be required.
But what has been urged before us is that the decision not to disclose the facts as well as the ambit of the non disclosure must be clearly communicated to the detenue at the time when the grounds are furnished.
