C No 677 of 1988.
Under Article 32 of the Constitution of India.
In this petition under Article 32 of the Constitution the petitioners have questioned the con stitutional validity of Section 5 of the 12 of 1919 hereinafter called the Act .
The grounds on which the vires of the provisions is attacked are that the section gives an unguided unchanelised and arbitrary power to the State Government to include any substance as poison for the purpose of restriction to be imposed on the posses sion for sale and sale of the same.
The petitioner s have also taken the plea that though the Act is a Central enactment it is possible of unjust and unjustified discriminatory appli cation as it is left to each State Government to determine what substance they would include as poison and regulated and the decision in one State to include the substance as poison is not automatically made applicable to the other States.
The object of the enactment is to regulate the posses sion for sale and the sale whether wholesale or retail of poisons and the importation of the same.
In other words it is intended to control over the traffic in poisons.
 According to them therefore the substance manufactured by them would not come within the amended Rules.
Though in the beginning the petitioners were contending that in substance manufactured by them did not come within Rule 2x2 and there were some correspondence in this regard when the competent authority held that the substance manufactured by the petitioners would come within the definition of thinner  as contained in Rule 2x2 of the Rules the petitioners did not question the finding on any material.
Before us also they had not placed any materi al to show that the finding was wrong or that the substance would not come within Rule 2x2.
In fact the learned counsel argued the petition on the basis that the petition ers are a manufacturer of thinner  within Rule 2x2 which has been declared as poison for purposes of the Act.
Later when Delhi Poisons Rules 1926 were made in exercise of the powers under the Act those list of substances were included in the list enumerated in Rule 2 thereof.
Rule 2 was amended as already stated including thinner  of the description mentioned therein as poison.
 It was a law in force in the territory of India before the commencement of the Constitution and as such continued in force.
The Act is intended to regulate the importation possession and sale of poisons.
223 That Section enables the State Government to make Rules generally to carry out the purposes and objects of the Act.
A substance may be a deadly poison or a valuable medicine according to how and how much is taken.
Any substance which is used for purposes mentioned therein can definitely be declared as poison.
If the Government thought in the circumstances that the posses sion or sale of the same is to be regulated it could not be said that they have no power to regulate.
Every such box almirah room or building and every receptacle shall be marked with the word poison  in red charac ters both English and vernacular and in the case of receptacles containing separate poison  with the name of such poison .
ii All poisons  mentioned in clause x of rule 2 shall be kept in a room or building according to quantity maintained which shall be secured by lock and key in a separate receptacle of glass metal and earthenware etc.
Every such room building and every such receptacle shall be marked with the word poison  in red character both English and vernacular with the name of the poison .
 We are not impressed with the argument that any require ment in this Rule is unreasonable or offends the petition ers  right to carry on any trade or business.
A law in such circumstance can regulate the trade.
