February 23.
The main argument has been confined to the question of applicability of section 321 and the first proviso to that section of the Travancore Income tax Act hereinafter called the Travancore Act.
The assessee s appeal to the Income tax Commissioner was unsuccessful but the Appellate Tribunal held that the banking business of the assessee being one and indivisible for the purpose of determining the amount assessable to income tax it was entitled to deduct the losses incurred outside Travancore State from the profits accruing and arising in that State.
Sections in brackets are the corresponding sections of the Indian Act.
2  258.
262 proviso falls in the second category and takes the present cases out of section 321 of the Travancore Act and imposes a liability to tax on the profits or gains arising in that State disallowing a deduction of the losses in British India and in States other than Travancore State against profits made in Travancore State Rhondda Urban Council vs Taff Vale Railway 1 and Harrison vs Ward 2.
2 1922 1 Ch 517.
263 there were six heads of income chargeable to income tax.
267 exception to the main enactment and exclude something which otherwise would have been within the section.
Vide also Corporation of The City of Toronto vs Attorney General for Canada 1.
2 of section 24 of the Indian Act section 24 2          provided that a where the loss sustained is a loss of profits and gains of a business or vocation to which the first proviso to sub section 1 is applicable and the profits and gains of that business profession or vocation are under the provisions of clause c of sub section 2 of section 14 exempt from tax such loss shall not be set 11946 AC 32 37.
41950 5 269 argument does not take note of the definition of total income total world income  and chargeability of total income under section 3 or the provisions of section 4 where in the case of a resident total income  includes income profits and gains accruing within or without I British India.
Appeals dismissed.
