three civil appeals stemming from three revision petitions to the high court of orissa under the orissa estates abolition act 1951 orissa act i of 1952 for short the act have reached this court thanks to special leave granted to the appellant who is common in all the cases.
the high court after deciding various issues remanded the cases to the compensation officer under the act after over ruling most of the contentions pressed before it by the appellant.
shri achutananda purohit appellant was the intermediary in respect of vast forests and other lands comprised in the estate of jujumura in the district of sambalpur.
this estate vested in the state on april 1 1960 by force of the act and the crucial question agitated before us consequentially turns on the quantum of compensation awardable under chapter v of the act.
he has argued in person and with passion.
with these prefatory observations we proceed to formulate the many points urged and give our findings and reasons one after the other.
we are directly concerned with the issue of compensation which is dealt with as earlier stated in chapter v of the act.
a compensation assessment roll containing the gross asset and net income of each estate together with the compensation payable in respect of such estate has to be prepared by him.
of course when there is joint ownership section 24 stipulates that the compensation shall be determined for the estate as a whole and not separately for each of the shares therein.
section 26 has great relevance as it lays down the method of arriving at the gross asset and section 27 has like significance as it focuses on the manner in which the net income from an estate shall be computed by deducting certain items from the gross asset of the estate.
there are a few other s s in chapter vi which deal with payment of compensation.
the act also provides for appeal second appeal and revision the last being to the high court and the earlier ones being to the collector and a board constituted under section 22.
these furnish in bare outline the provisions with which we are directly concerned.
against the background of law just projected we may set out shri purohit s points which if we may say so are substantially the same as have been argued by him in revision before the high court with partial success.
the provisions of section 373 read with section 262.
b v of the act make it clear that the date of vesting is the last date by which the calculation of compensation should have been made.
as admittedly compensation had not been calculated by the date of vesting the compensation officer lost his statutory jurisdiction to do so.
it is this court which by its order dated 10 4 1969 in civil revisions 201 202 and 203 of 1968 conferred new jurisdiction on the compensation officer to deal freshly with the case and therefore notwithstanding anything contained in the act the compensation has to be calculated according to the directions given by the court 2 the court was fully aware of the statutory provision in section 262.
b v of the act but in spite of it the direction was that the divisional forest officer should make the appraisement.
there was no direction that this report of the d f o should be further subject to the approval of the chief conservator of forests.
3 assuming that in spite of the directions of the court the compensation offi cer is entitled to follow the procedure laid down in section 262bv the expression subject to the approval of the chief conservator of forests does not refer to the appraisement made by the d f o but refers to his appointment.
4 assuming that section 262 b v would have full force what it contemplates is that the appraisement must be made by the d f o and it is subject to the approval by the chief conservator of forests.
the report of the chief conservator of forests is also invalid because of the fact that the appraisement is made only with reference to the area of the disputed forests without taking into consideration the density of growth therein.
where the actual income is to be included in the gross assets in the case of forests the assumed income and not the actual income is to be included.
during the agricultural year immediately preceding the abolition the petitioners had not actually derived any income from the forests and as such they were under no obligation to pay any income tax on such income.
the meat of the matter the primary question agitated in the appeal lopping off the fringe issues of lesser import consists in the statutory methodology and functionaries prescribed by the act for quantifying the compensation and the compliance therewith by the statutory machinery in the case of the appellant.
the appellant challenges the slab system of compensation provided in the act which awards smaller multiples for estates yielding larger incomes on the score of violation of the fundamental rights under the constitution.
the argument is that for certain reasons the appellant could not derive and actual income from the forests taken over by the state from him and therefore there was no income tax payable on any agricultural income from these forests.
here again the flaw in the submission consists in mis reading section 27 of the act which expressly states that the net income from an estate shall be computed by deducting from the gross assets of such estate any sum which was payable by the intermediary as income tax in respect of any income derived from such estate for the previous agricultural year.
if a notional income on the assumed basis can be used for fixing compensation a notional income tax can be calculated and deducted.
the statutory scheme of compensation for forest lands consists of machinery for assessment of the net income which is multiplied on a sliding scale and the method of challenge to the determination by the aggrieved owner of state.
v gross income from forests calculated on the basis of the appraisement made of annual yield of the forests on the date of vesting by a forest officer subject to the approval of the chief conservator of forests such forest officer being not below the rank of a divisional forest officer to be appointed in this behalf by the state government.
those officers ascertain the income from the forest concerned and the figure so fixed is subject to the approval of the c c f chief conservator of forests presumably the top expert in the department.
the section is clear that the gross income from forests must be calculated on the basis of appraisal of the annual yield on the date of vesting firstly by a forest officer and secondly by the chief conservator of forests screening it and approving it.
later revision petition were filed before the high court and g k misra j set aside the order disallowing the inclusion of the income from forests for ascertainment of compensation and directed a remand to the compensation officer.
the divisional forest officer who would make the appraisement will be examined as a witness for the compensation officer and would be subjected to cross examination.
but in such a case the materials must be brought to the notice of the petitioners who would be entitled to cross examine the witnesses connected therewith and may give rebutting evidence.
the compensation case is to be disposed of by the compensation officer within six months from today 104 1969 with intimation to this court.
equally clearly a slight error has crept into the judge s order because he does not make any reference specifically to the statutory requirement of approval of the chief conservator of forests of the appraisement made by the forest officer.
the compensation officer accepted the report of the chief conservator and made the statutory calculation on that date.
indeed there was a fundamental difference in the basis adopted by the forest officer and the chief conservator in the matter of assessing the income of the forests in question.
it is astonishing that anyone should urge as the appellant did that the date of vesting is the last date by which the calculation of compensation should have been made and since that had not been done the compensation officer had become functus officio in awarding compensation.
technicality can be frightened away by technicality.
nor is it right to contend as the appellant did that the compensation officer s jurisdiction was created by the order of remand by the high court.
nor can the compensation officer by pass the chief conservator on the misunderstood strength of the high court s first order of remand.
