leave granted.
challenge in this appeal is to the judgment of a division bench of the madhya pradesh high court dismissing the writ appeal filed by the appellant on the ground that it was not maintainable.
the appeal was filed u s 21 of the m p uchacha nyayalay khand nyaypeth ko appeal adhiniyam2005.
hereinafter referred to as the act it was held that the order was passed in exercise of power of superintendence u art 227 of the constitution of india1950 in short the constitution against which the letters patent appeal is not maintainable.
the high court construed as if this court has only waived the limitation for filing of letters patent appeal and there was no direction to consider the case on merits.
learned counsel for the appellant submitted that the order of this court is very clear and the conclusions of the high court that merely limitation was waived is contrary to the clear terms of the earlier order of this court.
additionally it is submitted that the prayer in the writ petition was to quash the order passed by the assistant commissioner commercial tax.
that being so the mere fact that the writ petition was styled u art 227 of the constitution is of no consequence.
it is the nature of the relief sought for and the controversy involved which determines the article which is applicable.
learned counsel for the respondent state on the other hand supported the impugned judgment of the high court.
the earlier order passed by this court dated 22 8 2006 reads as follows heard.
since the impugned order is passed by a learned single judge.
the normal remedy is to file a letters patent appeal.
since we had entertained the special leave petition against the learned single judge s order it would be appropriate to grant three weeks time to the petitioner to prefer the lpa which if otherwise free from defect shall be entertained for being considered on merits.
the interim order passed by this court shall continue for the aforesaid purpose.
the special leave petition is disposed of accordingly.
underlined for emphasis.
a bare reading of the order shows that the direction was to consider the lpa on merits and time was granted to prefer the lpa within three weeks.
the high court was directed to dispose of the lpa on merits if it was otherwise free from defect.
the high court was therefore not justified in holding that this court s earlier order only waived the limitation for filing a letters patent appeal.
on that score alone the high court s order is unsustainable.
in addition the high court seems to have gone by the nomenclature gone by the nomenclature i e the discription given in the writ petition to be one u art 227 of the constitution.
the high court did not consider the nature of the controversy and the prayer involved in the writ petition.
as noted above the prayer was to quash the order of assessment passed by the assistant commissioner commercial tax levying purchase as well as entry tax.
s 2 of the act reads as follows 21.
an appeal shall lie from a judgment or order passed by the one judge of the high court in exercise of original jurisdiction u art 226 of the constitution of india to a division bench comprising of two judges of the same high court.
provided that no such appeal shall lie against an interlocutory order or against an order passed in exercise of supervisory jurisdiction u art 227 of the constitution of india.
this court in hari vishnu kamath v syed ahmad ishaque and ors air 1955 sc 233 1954 indlaw sc 212 held that the high court while issuing writ of certiorari u art 226 of the constitution can only annul a decision of a tribunal whereas u art 227 of the constitution it can issue further directions as well.
in umaji keshao meshram v radhikabai air 1986 sc 1272 1986 indlaw sc 651.
it was noted as follows.
u art 226 an order direction or writ is to issue to a person authority or the state.
in a proceeding under that article the person authority or state against whom the direction order or writ is sought is a necessary party.
prior to the commencement of the constitution the chartered high courts as also the judicial committee had held that the power to issue prerogative writs possessed by the chartered high courts was an exercise of original jurisdiction see mahomedalli allabux v ismailji abdulali air 1926.
bom 332 1926 indlaw mum 144raghunath keshav khadilkar v poona municipalityair.
v banwarilal roy 1947 indlaw pc 15 1946 47 74 ind app 120130 131 in the last mentioned case which dealt with the nature of a writ of quo warranto.
the judicial committee held in their lordships opinion any original civil jurisdiction possessed by the high court and not in express terms conferred by the letters patent or later enactments falls within the description of ordinary original civil jurisdiction.
by art 226 the power of issuing prerogative writs possessed by the chartered high courts prior to the commencement of the constitution has been made wider and more extensive and conferred upon every high court.
the nature of the exercise of the power under article 226however remains the same as in the case of the power of issuing prerogative writs possessed by the chartered high courts.
1963 1 scr 1 1962 indlaw sc 34016cit v ishwarlal bhagwandas air 1965 sc 1818 1965 indlaw sc 158ramesh v seth gendalal motilal patni 1966 3 scr 198 1966 indlaw sc 395arbind kumar singh v nand kishore prasad1968 3 scr 322 1968 indlaw sc 223 and ahmedabad mfg calico ptg.
co ltd v.
ram tahel ramnand air 1972 sc 1598 1972 indlaw sc 378.
it was noted as follows.
it is because a single judge has no power under rules 14 and 17 to hear and dispose of a petition u art 226 or 227 that the non obstante clause has been introduced in rule 18 the use of the words be heard and finally disposed of by a single judge in rule 18 merely clarifies the position that in such cases the power of the single judge is not confined merely to issuing a rule nisi.
the right of appeal against the judgment of a single judge is given by the letters patent which have been continued in force by art 225 of the constitution.
if under the rules of the high court a matter is heard and disposed of by a single judge an appeal lies against his judgment unless it is barred either under the letters patent or some other enactment.
the word finally used in rule 18 of chapter xvii of the appellate side rules does not and can not possibly have the effect of barring a right of appeal conferred by the letters patent.
as we have seen above an intra court appeal against the judgment of a single judge in a petition u art 226 is not barred while cl 15 itself bars an intra court appeal against the judgment of a single judge in a petition u art 227.
in sushilabai laxminarayan mudliyar v nihalchand waghajibhai shaha 1993 supp 1 scc 11 1991 indlaw sc 718.
this court with reference to an unreported judgment in ratnagiri district central co operative bank ltd v.
for determining the question of maintainability of an appeal against such a judgment of the single judge the division bench has to find out whether in substance the judgment has been passed by the learned single judge in exercise of the jurisdiction u art 226 of the constitution.
in the event in passing his judgment on an application which had mentioned in its cause title both arts 226 and 227the single judge has in fact invoked only his supervisory powers under article 227the appeal under cl 15 would not lie.
the cl 15 of the letters patent expressly bars appeals against orders of single judges passed under revisional or supervisory powers.
even when the learned single judge s order has been passed under both the articles for deciding the maintainability against such an order what would be relevant is the principal or main relief granted by the judgment passed by learned single judge and not the ancillary directions given by him.
the expression ancillary means in the context incidental or consequential to the main part of the order.
thus in each case the division bench may consider the substance of the judgment under appeal to ascertain whether the single judge has mainly or principally exercised in the matter his jurisdiction.
u art 226 or u art 227 in.
when without mentioning the particular article the learned single judge decided on merits the application in order to decide the question of maintainability of an appeal against such a judgment the division bench might examine the relief granted by the learned single judge for maintainability of an appeal the determination would be the main and not the ancillary relief.
when a combined application u arts 226 and 227 of the constitution is summarily dismissed without reasons the appeal court may consider whether the facts alleged warranted filing of the application u art 226 or u art 227 of the constitution.
thereafter this court explained the ratio laid down in the case of umaji s case1986 indlaw sc 651 supra and expressed thus in umaji case it was clearly held that where the facts justify a party in filing an application either u art 226 or 227 of the constitution of india and the party chooses to file his application under both these articles in fairness of justice to party and in order not to deprive him of valuable right of appeal the court ought to treat the application as being made under article 226and if in deciding the matter in the final order the court gives ancillary directions which may pertain to article 227this ought not to be held to deprive a party of the right of appeal under cl 15 of the letters patent where the substantial part of the order sought to be appealed against is u art 226 rule 18 of the bombay high court appellate side rules read with cl 15 of the letters patent provides for appeal to the division bench of the high court from a judgment of the learned single judge passed on a writ petition u art 226 of the constitution.
in the present case the division bench was clearly wrong in holding that the appeal was not maintainable against the order of the learned single judge.
in mangalbhai ors v.
the findings of the rent controller and resident deputy collector were set aside on the question of habitual defaulter as well as on the ground of bona fide need.
thus in the totality of the facts and circumstances of the case the pleadings of the parties in the writ petition and the judgment of the learned single judge leaves no manner of doubt that it was an order passed u art 226 of the constitution and in that view of the matter the letters patent appeal was maintainable before the high court.
in lokmat newspapers p shankarprasad 1999 6 scc 275 1999 indlaw sc 587.
it is true as submitted by learned counsel for the appellant that the order of the learned single judge nowhere stated that the court was considering the writ petition u art 226 of the constitution of india.
in this connection it is profitable to have a look at the decision of this court in the case of umaji keshao meshram v radhikabai 1986 supp.
scc 401 1986 indlaw sc 651 in.
that case o chinnappa reddy and d p madon.
the case of hari vishnu kamath v syed ahmad ishaque air 1955 sc 233 1954 indlaw sc 212 before this court was of such a type.
it was open to the respondent to invoke the jurisdiction of the high court both u arts 226 and 227 of the constitution of india.
in surya dev rai v ram chander rai ors air 2003 sc 3044 2003 indlaw sc 598 after referring to decisions in custodian of evacuee property bangalore v khan saheb abdul shukoor etc 1961 3 scr 855 1961 indlaw sc 499 and nagendra nath bora.
thus there is no manner of doubt that the orders and proceedings of a judicial court subordinate to the high court are amenable to writ jurisdiction of the high court u art 226 of the constitution.
firstly the writ of certiorari is an exercise of its original jurisdiction by the high court exercise of supervisory jurisdiction is not an original jurisdiction and in this sense it is akin to appellate revisional or corrective jurisdiction.
in addition a bare reading of this court s earlier order shows that the impugned order is clearly erroneous.
the impugned order is set aside.
the writ appeal shall be heard by the division bench on merits.
the appeal is allowed.
