March 15.
During the pendency of the revision application the Additional Custodian for the State of Punjab cancelled the allotment of fourteen quasi permanent allottees of the village Karodian in the same district on the ground that these persons were entitled to allotment of suburban land a had been wrongly fitted in the village Karodian.
Acting suo motu the Additional Custodian made an order on October 31 1952 cancelling the order of allotment of land in the village Raikot made in favour of the appellants in the year 1949 and instead allotted to them land in Karodian in substitution of the lands at Raikot and of the lands allotted to their father.
But the consequence of the publication of the notification by the Central Government under section 121 of the with respect to any property or a class of property would be to divest the Custodian completely of his right in the property flowing from section 8 of the  and vest that property in the Central Government.
Sub section.
Sub section.
Section 19 of the Act provides that notwithstanding anything contained in any contract or any other law for the time being in force but subject to the rules that may be made under the Act the managing officer or managing corporation may cancel any allotment etc under which any evacuee property acquired under the Act is held or 334 occupied by a person whether such allotment or lease was granted before or after the commencement of the Act.
Therefore they must prevail over the provisions of B 10 of the .
It is true that there is nothing on record to show that a managing officer was appointed with respect to the Raikot properties acquired under the notification dated March 24 1955.
The point is who after the coming into force of the 1954 Act could cancel an allotment.
Section 10 runs as follows 335 Special procedure for payment of compensation in certain cases.
a of this section and therefore they would be entitled to the benefits conferred by this section provided they satisfied all the other requirements of this section express or implied.
It is not disputed that the appellants ceased to hold and had lost possession of the Raikot lands before the publication of this notification.
336 Mr Achhruram then referred to the Conditions on which allotments of land may be made under the notification referred to in sub section.
He said that the cancellation of the allotment in favour of the appellants was impermissible inasmuch as it was not based upon any of the grounds set out in the 6th condition.
That may or may not be so.
Moreover the Custodian by reason of the divesting of the property as from March 24 1955 had become functus officio with respect to it and could not rectify any error made by him in the past in the matter of cancellation of allotment.
The question whether it could be rectified by any of the authorities constituted by the or not was not canvassed before us and therefore there is no occasion for us to say anything about it.
That rule reads as follows Allotments which are the subject matter of dispute.
No property in a rural area in respect of which any case is pending in a Civil Court or before a Deputy Custodian Custodian or Custodian General shall be transferred to the allottee.
337 The aforesaid rule is in Chapter X headed Payment of compensation under section 10 of the Act and deals with a transfer of property to an allottee by way of final settlement of his claim to compensation and does not deal with the question of allotment on a quasi permanent basis.
Moreover this rule applies to a proceeding before an authority created by the and not to an authority created by the .
There is therefore no substance in this argument.
Finally Mr Achhruram referred to section 17 of the 1954 Act and to r 102 of the Rules framed thereunder and said that the powers of the managing officers appointed under the Act are confined only to properties which are entrusted to them for management and not with respect to any other property.
Sub section.
Sub section.
The argument is that unless there is such entrustment the managing officer or managing corporation has no function to perform with respect to evacuee property.
In the first place the section confers the particular powers On managing officers or managing corporations only and no one else.
Again this provision is a general provision and the particular provision regarding cancellation of allotment is section 191 of the Act which does not refer to entrustment at all and it is this provision which must prevail over the general provision.
He then contends that the provisions of section 191 of the Act being subject to rules made under the Act must be read along with r 102 which deals with cancellation of allotments of leases.
What we have said in regard to section 17 would apply 339 here also.
He then says that this rule restricts the powers of a managing officer or a managing corporation in the matter of cancellation of allotment in the sense that it permits cancellation only on certain specified grounds and therefore it cannot be said that section 191 of the Act is completely in conflict with section 10 of the in so far as the question of cancellation of allotment is concerned.
d of r 102 permits the managing officer or managing corporation to cancel allotment for any other sufficient reason to be recorded in writing.
That is all.
The appeal is accordingly dismissed.
We however make no order as to costs because had there been no delay on the part of the Custodian General in dealing with the revision application the present situation would not have arisen.
Appeal dismissed.
