The respondents in the plaint averred that they came to know of the said encroachment and removal of coal by the appellant after they received the letter dated August 18 1941 from the Inspector of Mines and before that they had absolutely no knowledge or information whatsoever regarding thereto.
On appeal the High Court accepted the finding.
It is common case that article 48 of the Limitation Act governs the period of limitation in respect of the present suit.
It reads  Period Time from Description of suit.
of which period limitation begins to run.
sion itis.
 The article says that a suit for recovery of specific movable property acquired by conversion or for compensation for wrongful taking or detaining of the suit property should be filed within three years from the date when the person having the right to the possession of the property first learns in whose possession it is.
It is the obligation of the plaintiff to satisfy the court that his action is not barred by lapse of time see Lalchand Marwari vs Mahanth Rampur Gir 1 and Rajah Sahib Perhlad Sein vs Maharajah Rajender Kishore Sing 2 .
Under section 101 of the Evidence Act the burden in the former sense is upon the party who comes to court to get a decision on the existence of certain facts which he asserts.
That burden is constant throughout the trial but the burden to prove in the sense of adducing evidence shifts from time to time having regard to the evidence adduced by one party or the other or the presumption of fact or law raised in favour of one or the other.
He denied that he had any knowledge of the said two facts.
 Adverting to the burden of proof the learned Judges observed There is nothing in the pleadings which would show precisely at what period tile plaintiff or the plaintiff s agent which is the same thing became aware of the sale and its wrongfulness that is to say became aware of the fact of conversion.
The defendant was unable to provide us with any materials to fix that date and therefore his plea of limitation fails altogether because he is unable to show a date outside the period of three years which would entitle him to succeed.
But to say that no duty is cast upon the plaintiff even to allege the date when they had knowledge of the defendant s possession of the converted property and that the entire burden is on the defendant is contrary to the tenor of the article in the Limitation Act and also to the rules of evidence.
If he proves this then to succeed in the plea of limitation the defendant has to prove that the fact that the property was in his possession became known to the plaintiff more than three years prior to the suit.
Learned counsel 1 AIR 1946 Cal.
848 860.
But the courts found from Commissioner s maps that in the encroached portion there were only underground workings and that the quarries were mostly outside the encroached area.
We cannot therefore hold that the findings of the courts are vitiated by an error of law by the burden of proof having been wrongly thrown on the appellant.
We accept the findings of the High Court that the respondents had knowledge of the appellant s encroachment of their coal mines only in the year 1941 which was within three years of the date of the filing of the suit.
The learned Subordinate Judge accepted the case of the plaintiffs and held that the coal that was left in the encroached area was entirely lost to them by being rendered unworkable.
Appeal dismissed.
