On that definition the time of the export is the time when the goods go out of the territorial limits of India.
Whichever view is taken there is nothing to indicate that the intention to comply with the requirements of el.
52 of the Exports Control Order carries with it an intention that the property should pass to the buyer at the time the goods cross the customs frontier.
What the court had to consider in these cases was not however when export commences within the meaning of the Exports Control Order but when the course of export commences for the purpose of article 2861b of the Constitution.
We think that the learned judges who heard the appeal in the Bombay High Court were right in their conclusion that the goods remained the sellers  property till the goods had been brought and loaded on board the ship and so the sales were exempted from tax under article 2861b of the Constitution.
In Civil Appeal No 46 of 1959 the appellants  contention is that on a correct interpretation of the provisions of section 10b of the Bombay Sales Tax Act no purchase tax was leviable from them.
b of section 8 has been furnished in respect of such goods and the purchasing dealer does not show to the satisfaction of the Collector that the goods have been despatched by him or by a person to whom he has sold the goods to an address outside the State of Bombay within a period of six months from the date of purchase by the dealer furnishing such certificate .
Admittedly such a certificate was furnished by 932 Ms Daulatram Rameshwarlal in respect of the castor oil which they sold to others and that in respect of these sales to them their sellers were allowed deductions.
It will be in our opinion unreasonable to think that though the Legislature insisted that the certificate should declare the goods purchased were intended 11 for being despatched by him or by a registered dealer to whom he sells the goods outside the State of Bombay  the Legislature would be content to accept actual despatch outside the State of Bombay by one who is not a registered dealer as sufficient.
Mr Sanyal contended that the certificate 933 has to declare only an intention and that if ultimately the actual despatch is made by some person who is not a registered dealer it cannot strictly be said that the declaration has not been carried out.
Appeals dismissed.
