January 29.
As far back as 1952 the Labour Appellate Tribunal had occasion to consider this matter relating to discharge by notice or in lieu thereof by payment of wages for a certain period without assigning any reason see Buckingham and Carnatic Co Ltd Etg.
vs Workers of the Company.
etc 1.
It was of opinion that even in a case of this kind the requirement of bona fides is essential and if the terminataton of service is a colourable exercise of the power or as a result of victimisation or unfair labour praction the industrial tribunal would have the jurisdiction to intervene and set aside such termination.
and Assam Oil Company vs Its Workmen 2.
The reason given by the appellant in the order terminating the services of Sankaran of July 8 1958 namely that the proposed inquiry if conducted would lead to further friction and deterioration in the rank and file of the employees in general and also that maintenance of discipline in the undertaking would be prejudiced if Sankaran were retained in service cannot be accepted at its face value so that the necessity for an inquiry intended to be held for misconduct actually charged might be done away with.
In any case even if the inquiry was not held by the appellant and action was taken under r 18 a it is now well settled in view of the decisions cited above that the employer could defend the action under r 18a by leading evidence before the tribunal to show that there was in fact misconduct and therefore the action taken under r 18a was bona fide and was not colourable exercise of the power under that rule.
But the tribunal has pointed out that the employer did not attempt to do so before it.
Learned counsel for the appellant however relies on the decision of this Court in Parshotam Lal Dhingra vs Union of India.
No such constitutional provisions have to be considered when one is dealing with industrial employees.
The appellant therefore cannot rest its case merely on r 18 a and say that having acted under that rule there is nothing more to be said and that the industrial court cannot inquire into the causes that led to the termination of service under r 18 a.
It could have easily done so by producing satisfactory evidence but it seems to have rested upon its right that no such justification was required and therefore having failed to justify its action must suffer the consequences.
That case in our opinion has no application to the facts of this case because that case dealt with an application under section 33 of the Industrial Disputes Act while the present proceedings are under section 10 of the Act and the considerations which apply under section 33 are different in many respects from those which apply to an adjudication under section 10.
Appeal dismissed.
