The Judgment of the Court was delivered by DAS GUPTA J.
In July.
The general practice of the Company both at the Head Office and the Branch Offices appears to have been to retire its employees at the age of 55 though in certain cases the Company in its discretion permitted an employee to continue beyond that age.
In September 1959 an agreement was entered into between the Company and its employees at Calcutta under which the age of retirement was extended to 58 years subject to the employees passing a medical examination on reaching the age of 55.
It is the endeavour of industrial adjudication to prevent this.
In support of their demand for fixing the age of retirement at 60 the workmen tried to show that in recent years at least the tendency in comparable concerns in Bombay region has been to fix the retirement age at 60.
In an earlier decision of this Court in Dunzlop Rubber Co Ltd vs Workmen2 it had been urged that the employer was an All India concern and that changing the terms and conditions of service in regard to the age of retirement in one place might unsettle the uniformity and might have serious repercussions in other branches.
Reliance was placed for this purpose on the Chart exhibit Cl.
We think therefore that the objection was rightly rejected by the Tribunal.
This Chart shows the age of retirement for 75 concerns.
But on a closer examination it is clear that this document is of little assistance for finding out the recent trend.
There is no indication at all as to how long ago the age of retirement in these concerns was fixed at 55 or at 58.
Exhibit U 6 also shows that in 25 of these concerns the clerical and subordinate staff were not organised into trade unions.
In spite of these infirmities this document exhibit Cl appears to have impressed the Tribunal.
So the Tribunal considered it to be its duty to enquire whether the conclusion recorded by this Court in some of its earlier decisions as to the relevant trend in the Bombay region was accurate.
Having embarked an this enquiry the Tribunal appears to have taken considerable pains to perform this duty and it has ultimately persuaded itself to hold that no such trend is established in fact.
If this Court had erred in making those pronouncements we would be the first to admit such mistakes and to correct the error.
After careful consideration of all the materials placed on this record we have however found nothing to justify any doubt about the correctness of what was said on the earlier occasion.
The very few departures from this practice which the Tribunal has mentioned are in our opinion wholly insufficient to indicate any slowing down of this trend.
What the Tribunal has failed to notice is that instances which may justify a revision of the judicial opinion expressed on an earlier occasion about a particular trend must be strong and unambiguous and they must speak for the period both before and more particularly after the previous finding had been recorded in the matter.
Accordingly the norm for retirement age is fixed at 60.
The Tribunal has referred to these observations but has brushed them aside in a way for which we find no justification.
On a consideration of all the facts and circumstances disclosed by the oral and documentary evidence on this record we have come to the conclusion that the age of retirement of the appellant workmen should be fixed at 60.
