The source of the pension was a liability undertaken by the Government for extinguishing the proprietary rights of the Jagirdar and when the immediate source of the income was not land or rent collections from land it is difficult to hold that the receipt of the assessee was agricultural income within the meaning of Section 43viii of the Income tax Act.
We respectfully adopt the reasoning and conclusion of this Court in the case of State of  704 Uttar Pradesh vs Kunwar Sri Trivikram Narain Singh1 and hold that the respondent under the arrangement had no interest in land or in the land revenue payable in respect thereof.
The source of the right in which a fraction of the net income of the trust is to be appropriated by the appellant as his remuneration is not in the right to receive rent or revenue of agricultural lands but rests in the covenant in the deed to receive remuneration for management of the trust.
The remuneration not being received as rent or revenue of agricultural lands under a title legal or beneficial in the property from which the income is received it is not income exempt under section 43viii.
 It follows from the decisions of the Privy Council and the judgments of this Court cited above that if it is held in this case that the source of the allowance or pension is the arrangement arrived at in 1837.
Mr Sastri sought to distinguish those cases on the ground that the allowance here varied from year to year.
The next point that arises in this case is whether the allowance is taxable income at all.
He says that if the assessee s predecessor had received  706 compensation for relinquishing his title to the lands in dispute that would have been a capital receipt and not taxable.
He says that we must consider the quality of the income and not its periodicity.
To call a payment a loan if it is really an annuity does not assist the taxpayer any more than to call an item a capital payment would prevent it from being regarded as an income payment if that is its true nature.
 He therefore asked us to disregard the word pension  in the letter dated July 7 1837 and determine the real character of the payment.
Another passage from the speech of Viscount Simon is also relevant.
Lord Simon observed Secondly a transaction which on its true construction is of a kind that would escape tax is not taxable on the ground that the same result could be brought about by a transaction in another form which would attract tax.
As the Master of the Rolls said in the present case In dealing with Income tax questions it frequently happens that there are two methods at least of achieving a particular financial result.
If the other method is adopted tax will not be payable .
That particular doctrine of substance as distinct from form was I hope finally exploded by the decision of the House of Lords in the case of Duke of Westminster vs Commissioner of Inland Revenue2.
It seems to us that where an owner of an estate exchanges a capital asset for a perpetual annuity it is ordinarily taxable income in his hands.
Mr Sastri relying on Perrin vs Dickson1 contends that an annuity is not always taxable as income.
