This is an appeal by special leave against an award dated September 20 1963 made by the Presiding Officer of the Central Government Industrial Tribunal Bombay in a reference made by the Government of India under section 102 of the .
As the lock gates control the depth of water in the Alexandra Docks fixed hours of rest could be maintained from day to day except in the monsoon months when the storm gates had some time to be closed.
Meanwhile studies were being made and it was found that the work hours at the different Docks were not equal they were heavier at the Alexandra Docks than at the other docks.
They contended that regard being had to the number of actual work hours the case of shore crew at the Prince s and Victoria Docks and the Butcher Island could not be compared with that of the crew at the Alexandra Docks or the Flotilla Crew.
On behalf of the Union the learned Solicitor General has argued the case almost entirely from the legal stand point and has attempted to establish that the break up of a 12 hours  shift into 8 hours  duty 2 hours  rest and 2 hours  overtime offends the .
The Act and the 636 Rules between them provide not only for fixation of minimum wages but also for the work load in relation to which the minimum wages are to be prescribed.
The hours of work and the payment of overtime are therefore governed by the provisions of the and the Minimum Wages Central Rules 1950 and the controversy in this case must be appreciated and resolved in accordance with them.
 14 Overtime.
1 Where an employee whose minimum rate of wages is fixed under this Act by the hour by the day or by such a longer wage period as may be prescribed works on any day in excess of the number of hours constituting a normal working day the employer shall pay him for every hour or for part of an hour so worked in excess at the overtime rate fixed under this Act or under any law of the appropriate Government for the time being in force whichever is higher.
 Rule 24.
2 The working day of an adult worker shall be so arranged that inclusive of the intervals for rest if any it shall not spread over more than twelve hours on any day.
or more specified intervals.
There is no definition of interval either in the Act or the Rules but the provisions of section 13 2 c read with section 13 3 give us an indication of what is meant by an interval of rest.
If it is the latter it is counted as actual work period if the former it is counted as a period of rest provided the period is specified beforehand and the workman is neither called upon to work nor expected to work.
The distinction between intervals of rest and hours of work is thus made clear.
It may or it may not.
There is no provision in the Act and the Rules corresponding to section 55 of the Factories 640 Act to which reference will be made hereafter.
Under sub rule 2 of Rule 24 the working day of an adult can be so arranged that inclusive of intervals of rest it does not exceed 12 hours on any day.
A working day of 12 hours is thus made up of hours of work and hours of rest and the number of hours of work which cannot exceed 9 is part of the normal working day which may also include one or more specified intervals of rest.
This determines what is a normal working day and what is meant by an interval of rest.
If work on any day is taken which goes beyond 9 hours the provisions of section 14 apply.
From section 13 read with Rule 24 we know that the number of hours constituting a normal working day is 9.
We shall now read into section 14 this number leaving out those provisions which have no bearing upon the matter.
Therefore an employer can take actual work on any day upto 9 hours in a 12 hour shift but he must pay a double rate for any hour or part of an hour of actual work in excess of 9 hours.
The check is found in the latter part of Rule 251 which says that the maximum number of hours of work in a week shall not exceed 48 and for any work in excess of 48 hours a week overtime shall be payable.
As there is a prescribed day of rest in a week we get a working week of six days with a maximum of 48 hours  work.
Average duration of actual work payable at ordinary rate of wages per day thus comes to 8 hours.
Thus if an employer takes actual work for 8 hours per day on 6 days in a week he complies with all the provisions and need not pay overtime.
He may go up to 9 hours on any day without paying any overtime provided he does not exceed 48 hours in the week.
He can specify the intervals of rest and spread the 8 hours or 9 hours as the case may be together with intervals of rest over 12 hours in a twelvehour shift.
These periods of rest must not be periods during which the workman is on duty and inaction is due to want of work for him but they must be pre determined periods of inaction during which the workman is neither called upon nor expected to display physical activity or sustained attention.
For the hours of rest he is not required to pay overtime but he must specify those hours.
Overtime under section 14 is only payable when the workman works in excess of the number of hours constituting a normal working day.
As in the present case the total number of hours of work in a week is 48 8 hours per day for 6 days overtime is payable for that hour or part of an hour beyond the 8 hours in which the workman is either made to work or the interval is not specified.
The Port Trust can say that it will not take more than two hours extra work on any day and specify the remaining two hours as the intervals for rest.
It is not compelled to fix only one interval or to make the interval of one hour only.
It can fix two or three or even four without in any way going against the provisions of section 13 or Rule 24.
Sections 54 55 and 56 are the relevant provisions.
Daily hours.
54Daily hours Subject to the provisions of section 51 no adult worker shall be required or allowed to work in a factory for more than nine hours in any day Provided   55.
Intervals for rest.
1 The periods of work of adult workers in a factory each day shall be so fixed that no period shall exceed five hours and that no worker shall work for more than five hours before he has had an interval for rest of at least half an hour.
2    56.
Spread over.
 Almost the same provisions are to be found in some other Acts of the State Legislatures controlling shops establishments etc.
It will be noticed that the arrangement of these sections is almost the same as the cognate provisions of the .
The reason perhaps is that in some employments time for work depends on some 643 extraneous factors and hours of rest cannot always be fixed to break up those hours.
It is proverbial that time and tide do not wait for any man.
Workers at a tidal dock must work when the tide is in and take their rest when the tide is out.
It is for this reason that a variable recess is in force at the Prince s and Victoria Docks and due.
notice of the interval is given by specifying a day in advance the hours of rest.
We do not think that the Trustees are guilty of infraction of the by keeping the recess variable so long as they specify in advance the recess on any particular day.
In this indirect way one hour of rest is included in a normal working day because the total number of work hours in a six day week cannot go beyond 48.
The Trustees cannot be compelled to break up the hours of work by interposing intervals for rest if owing to the nature of the work there is difficulty in giving the intervals for rest in that manner on any particular day.
According to their resolution the recess is fixed as near the middle of the work as possible depending on the tides.
They point out that in the former there is 3 hours  overtime and in the latter there is 4 hours of overtime in the 12 hour shifts but at the Prince s and Victoria Docks there is 2 hours  overtime only.
This is not possible.
They are therefore entitled to three hours  overtime if required to work beyond the 9 hours on any day.
There is no parallel in the work of the three different crew and we are satisfied that no conclusion can be based upon the practice existing at the Alexandra Docks or in 644 respect of the Flotilla Crew.
We hold therefore that the decision of the Central Government Industrial Tribunal is right in a circumstances of this case.
The appeal must therefore fail.
It will be but in the circumstances of the case we make no order about costs.
Appeal dismissed.
