1962 p 282.
2 LR 27 IA 69.
3 LR 37 IA 147.
Reverting then to the question as to whether a transfer effected by the manager of a temple in regard to properties belonging to the temple falls outside the purview of article 134 B if it is shown to have been made on the basis that the transferor treated the properties as his own it does appear that the two earlier Privy Council decisions in Gnanasambanda s2 and Damodar Das s3 cases lend some support to the contention.
2 LR 27 IA 69.
3 LR 37 IA 147.
In appreciating the effect of this decision it is necessary to bear in mind that the plea of limitation with which the Privy Council was concerned in that case was based on article 124 of the Limitation Act.
It is clear that in that case what had been sold was the hereditary office as well as the properties belonging to the endowment and so it was plain that limitation began as soon as the purchaser took possession of the office under article 124.
These two judgments have no doubt been incidentally referred to by the Privy Council in Mahant Ram Charan Das vs Naurangi Lal and Others3 and in Mahadeo Prasad Singh and Others vs Karia Bharti4 though the decision in the said two cases proceeded in the light of the legal position enunciated by the Privy Council in Vidya Varuthi s case4.
2 LR 37 IA 147.
It is open to doubt whether the said decision could lead to the inference that if a part of the property is transferred by the manager of a religious endowment on the basis that it belongs to him and not to the religious endowment the transfer is void ab initio with the result that the possession of the transferee is adverse to the religious endowment from the very beginning and the succeeding manager s right to challenge the said transfer would be lost if his predecessor who made the transfer lives for more than 12 years after effecting the transfer.
129 in violation of his duty of an interest in endowed lands which he has no authority as Shebait to make may possibly under some circumstances be good as against himself by way of estoppel but is not binding upon his successors.
However we do not think it necessary to decide this point in the present case because in our opinion the plain words of article 134 B do not permit such a plea to be raised.
Column 1 of article 134 B provides for suits brought inter alia by the manager of a Hindu religious or charitable endowment to recover possession of immovable property comprised in the endowment which has been transferred by a previous manager for a valuable consideration.
That is why we must reject the ingenious argument urged before us by Mr Tatachari that article 134 B does not apply to the present case.
That Article contains the analogous phrase transferred by the trustee or mortgagee for a valuable consideration and there was a uniform current of decision to the effect that these words were incapable of applying to an execution sale.
 What was said by the Privy Council about the impropriety of including an execution sale within the meaning of article 134B can with equal justification be said about introducing words of limitation in the said article which alone can exclude transfers made by the previous manager of the Hindu religious endowment on the basis that the property transferred belonged to 1 LR 77 IA 42 at pp.
49 50.
131 him.
He contends that the question as to whether on facts proved in the present case an inference can be drawn that the previous manager or trustee had been removed is a mixed question of fact and law and the High Court was in error in reversing the decisions of the courts below by holding that the title of the temple had not been lost by adverse possession before the suit was filed.
He assumed that Pachaikandaswamiar and his son were alive at the date of the suit.
In fact almost all the properties belonging to the temple had in course of time been a alienated and the alienors were no longer interested either in the temple or in staying in the village itself.
In fact Ranga Raju Raddiar whom the respondents examined admitted in reply to the questions put by the Court that since 25 years or so neither Pachaikandaswamiar nor Chinnaswami lyer had performed any pooja in the temple.
This notice was served on witness Raju lyer and Amrithalinga lyer Chinnasamy Iyer and Rangaraja Reddiar who were performing the worship and acting as de facto managers of the temple.
In our opinion all the facts which have been brought on the record in relation to this aspect of the matter clearly show not only that the alienor disposed of all the property and left the village  but also that for the last 25 years or so the management has been taken over by other persons who are acting as de facto managers of the temple.
This evidence appears to us to show that the alienors had been removed from management of the temple and other persons have taken up the position as de facto managers and this position has lasted for more than 25 years.
Appeal allowed.
