i to iii.
i to iii.
1 As soon as may be after the commencement of the Companies Amendment Act 1963 the Central Government shall by notification in the Official Gazette constitute a Board to be called the Board of Company Law Admin istration to exercise and discharge such powers and functions conferred on the Central Government by or under this Act or any other law as may be delegated to it by that Government.
1 of section 637 read with sub section.
It is not necessary to go into it.
In other words the enumeration of the inferences which may be drawn from the circumstances postulates the absence of a general discretion to go on a fishing expedition to find evidence.
But if the circumstances pointed out are such that no inference of the kind stated in section 237b can at all be drawn the action would be ultra vires the Act and void.
Now the Chairman in his affidavit referred to two memoranda dated May 30 1964 and July 4 1964 presented by certain ex directors and also stated that from September 1961 complaints were being received in regard to the conduct of the affairs of the Company and one such complaint was received from Special Police Establishment in November 1963.
However from the Memoranda received by the Board referred to in paragraph 5 and other examination it appeared inter alia that i there had been delay bungling and faulty planning of this project resulting in double expenditure for which the collaborators had put the responsibility upon the Managing Director Petitioner No 2 338 ii Since its floatation the company has been continuously showing losses and nearly 13rd of its share capital has been wiped off iii that the shares of the company which to start with were at a premium were being quoted on the Stock Exchange at half their fa ce value and iv some eminent persons who had initially accepted seats on the Board of directors of the company had subsequently severed their connections with it due to differences with Petitioner No 2 on account of the manner in which the affairs of the company were being conducted.
1 therefore.
Bachawat J.
The wide ambit of this rule making power is not cut down by the subsequent insertion of sub section.
Had the Chairman applied his mind to the relevant facts he could not have formed this opinion.
