P Ram Reddy and A V Rangam for the appellant.
The Judgment of the Court was delivered by Ramaswami J.
The respondent purchased by a registered instrument dated October 5 1956 the business carried on by one Purushottam Raju under the name All India Trading Company.
Ganapatia Pillai J who heard the petition dismissed it.
This appeal is brought by special leave from the judgment of the Division Bench of the Madras High Court dated September 13 1963 in Writ Appeal No 10 of 1962.
Rule 21 A reads as follows  When the ownership of the business of a dealer liable to pay the tax under the Act is entirely transferred any tax payable in respect of such business and remaining unpaid at the time of the transfer shall be recoverable from the transferor or the transferee as if they were the dealers liable to pay such tax provided that the recovery from the transferee of the arrears of taxes due prior to the date of the transfer shall be only to the extent of the value of the business he obtained by transfer.
goods.
The word turnover is defined in section 2i of the Act to mean the aggregate amount for which goods are either bought or sold by a dealer whether for cash or for deferred payment or other valuable consideration .
We are unable to accept this argument as correct.
Section 191 of the Act empowers the State Government to make rules to carry out the purposes of the Act but the section cannot be utilised to enlarge the scope of section 10 regarding recovery and payment of tax from some other person other than a dealer under the Act.
Section 192c deals with the assessment to tax of businesses which are discontinued or the ownership of which has changed.
It is true that the word assessment in the scheme of sales tax and income tax legislation is a term of varying import.
The word is used sometimes to mean the computation of income sometimes the determination of the amount of tax payable and sometimes the whole procedure laid down in the Income tax Act for imposing liability on the tax payer.
As the Judicial Committee however said in Badridas Daga vs CIT 1 the words assess  and assessment  refer primarily to the computation of the amount.
of income.
In Chatturam vs CIT Bihar1 the Federal Court pointed out relying upon the decision of the House of Lords in 1  21 1.
2  665 Whitney vs Commissioners of Inland Revenue that the liability to tax does not depend upon assessment.
The liability is definitely created by sections 3 and 4 of the Income tax Act which are the charging sections and the assessment order under section 23 only quantifies the liability which has already been definitely and finally created by the charging sections and the provision in regard to assessment relates only to the machinery of taxation.
We consider that in the context and background of other sections of the Act the word assessment  used in section 192c does not include the power of recovering tax assessed from a person other than the assessee.
It follows therefore that Rule 21 A is beyond the rule making power of the State Government either under section 191 or section 192c of the Act.
Payment and recovery of tax 1 The tax assessed under this Act shall be paid in such manner and in such instalments if any and within such time as may be specified in the notice of assessment not being less than fifteen days from the date of service of the notice.
If default is made in paying according to the notice of assessment the whole of the amount outstanding on the date of default shall become immediately due and shall be a charge on the properties of the person or persons liable to pay the tax under this Act.
In the present case the business which was transferred to the respondent was hence charged with the payment of sales tax and it was open to sales tax authorities to proceed against the assets of the business for realising the amount of sales tax due.
In our opinion there is no justification for this argument.
Section 10 of the Act as it stood before the Madras General Sales tax 3rd amendment Act 1956 Act No XV of 1956 read as follows The tax assessed under this Act shall be paid in such manner and in such instalments if any and within such time as may be specified in the notice of assessment not being less than fifteen days from the date of service of the notice.
 This section was amended by section 8 of the Madras General Sales tax 3rd amendment Act 1956 which reads as follows 1 666 Substitution of new section for section 10 in Madras Act IX of 1939.
For section 10 of the principal Act the following section shall be substituted namely 10.
Payment and recovery of tax 1 The tax assessed under this Act shall be paid in such manner and in such instalments if any and within such time as may be specified in the notice of assessment not being less than fifteen days from the date of service of the notice.
If default is made in paying according to the notice of assessment the whole of the amount outstanding on the date of default shall become immediately due and shall be a charge on the properties of the person or persons liable to pay the tax under this Act  .
 In the present case the Act is not expressed to come into operation on any particular date but as it was published in the Madras Gazette on October 8 1956 the Act came into operation on that date and not before.
We accordingly reject the argument of the appellants on this aspect of the case and hold that Rule 21 A is ultra vires of the rule making power of the State Government under the Act.
It was next argued on behalf of the appellants that upon a true construction of the registered instrument dated October 5 1956 the respondent undertook to pay not only Sch.
RKPS Appeal dismissed.
