Sub section.
Sub section.
Sub section.
The second Explanation to the section provided that the expression  court would include a court exercising appellate or revisional jurisdiction and the expression controller  meant the controller referred to in sub section.
Sub section.
Sub section.
Finally came the Thika Tenancy Amendment Act VI of 1953.
Sub section 2 of section 1 provided that the Act was to come into force immediately on the Calcutta Thika Tenancy Amendment Ordinance 1952 ceasing to operate provided that the provisions of the Calcutta Thika Tenancy Act 1949 as amended by this Act were subject to the provisions of section 9 to apply and be deemed to have always applied to all suits appeals and proceedings a before any court or b before the Controller or c before a person deciding an appeal under section 27 of the said Act on the date of the commencement of the Calcutta Thika Tenancy Amendment Ordinance 1952 ie 21st October 1952.
The word successor in interest  had not been defined in the Act or in the Ordinance but as words in the Act were under section 2 sub section.
Sections 3 4 and 5 introduced changes with which we are not concerned Section 8 laid down that sections 28 and 29 of the Act of 1949 shall be omitted.
Under section 9 any proceedings commenced under sub section.
2 3 and 4 of that section and the Explanation to that section were in force.
Sub section.
Only suits which were pending on 21st October 1952 were to be decided in terms of the Act as finally amended.
According to Craies on Statute Law Sixth Edition at p 391 If it is a necessary implication from the language employed that the legislature intended a particular section to have a retrospective operation the courts will give it such an operation.
The learned author points out at p 397 It is a well recognised rule that statutes should be interpreted if possible so as to respect vested rights and such a construction should never be adopted if the words are open to another construction  .
This was decided in terms of the Gaming Act 1845 section 18 of which enacted that  no suit shall be brought or maintained for recovering any such sum of money  and the question was whether that enactment was retrospective so as to defeat an action already commenced.
According to Halsbury s Laws of England third edition Vol 36 page 413 article 627 Unless it is clearly and unambiguously intended to do so a statute should not be construed so as to interfere with or prejudice established private rights under contracts or the title to property or so as to deprive a man of his property without his having an opportunity of being heard.
It expressly states that notwithstanding anything contained in any other law for the time being in force or in any contract a thika tenant shall be liable to ejectment on ground specified and not otherwise.
Consequently a landlord who had filed a suit before the 28th October 1949 but was unable to establish any of the grounds mentioned in section 3 could not claim to eject his tenant.
This is only consistent with the wish of a landlord after the Act has come into force.
Before the Act had come into force the landlord could not possibly know that his suit would be liable to be defeated unless he applied to the controller because there was no such authority functioning then.
The language of sections 4 and 5 leave no room for doubt that after the coming into force of the Act it was not open to the landlord to file a suit.
He could only make an application under section 5 after giving notice under section 4.
Section 29 on the other hand shows that it was to be applicable to all suits and proceedings which were pending at the date of the commencement of the Act of 1949.
In other words it was to apply to any suit or appeal or any proceeding in execution which was pending on 28th February 1949.
As Abdul Gaffur came under the definition of a thika tenant by the Amending Act of 1953 we have to proceed on the basis that he was such a tenant in 1949 with the result that he could claim the benefit of section 4 of the Act.
There being no provision for transfer of the proceedings of the suit to the controller the court had to apply the Act as it found applicable to the facts of the case.
It is open to the legislature to impose a bar or a qualification to the rights of the parties by the use of suitable words such as notwithstanding any law to the contrary or in any agreement between the parties.
In such a case a litigant desiring to have relief in a suit must show that the bar does not affect his case.
In this case the learned Subordinate Judge Seventh Court Alipore who was directed by the remand order of the Calcutta High Court to take fresh evidence if necessary was not called upon by any of the parties to hear or record fresh evidence.
He however directed his attention to the 1 19603 SCR 578.
He was not right in his view that the grounds specified in section 3 could not be called in aid.
Section 3 does not purport to lay down that the grounds mentioned therein had got to be stated in the notice of ejectment.
As section 4 of the Act was prospective only it could not apply to this case.
However the view expressed by the Calcutta High Court finally hearing the appeal that suits for eviction of thika tenants became infructuous before civil courts after the omission of section 29 is not correct.
The correct view is that sections 4 and 5 being prospective and as such inapplicable to pre Act suits the landlord had to establish the existence of one of the grounds specified in section 3 in order to succeed.
Bhargava J I agree with the judgment of my brother Mitter J with the exception that I would like to reserve my opinion on the question whether section 4 of the Calcutta Thika Tenancy Act 1949 as amended up to 1953 is prospective or not.
