The above.
But we were told that in view of the decisions of this Court in State of West Bengal vs Nripendra Nath Bagchi1 and State of Assam vs Ranga Mahammad2 the High Court must be held to have that right as those posts are included in the cadre of superior judicial service.
The rule laid down in that decision is of no assistance in determining the question as to whether the High Court has power to fill up some of the posts in the secretariat.
1  2  161 namely whether the power to transfer District Judges is included in the control  exercisable by the High Court over District Courts under article 235 or in the power of appointment of persons to be and the posting and promotion of district judges  which is to be exercised by the Governor under article 233 albeit in consultation with the High Court.
There is less chance of success for a person seeking advantage for himself if the Chief Justice and his colleagues with personal information deal with the matter than when a Minister deals with it on notes and information supplied by a secretary.
 Obviously relying on the observation of this Court that after a judicial officer is posted to the cadre it is for the High Court to effect his transfers the court below has come to the conclusion that as the posts of the law secretary deputy law secretary and superintendent and legal remembrancer are included in the cadre the High Court has the power to fill those posts by transfer of judicial officers.
be found.
The other is that a case is only an authority for what it actually decides.
The cadre with which we are concerned in this case consists of three parts ie 1 presiding officers of district courts 2 the Registrar of the High Court and 3 the judicial officers working in the secretariat.
Except for very good reasons we think the High Court should always be 164 willing to spare for an agreed period the services of any of the officers under its control for filling up such executive posts as may require the services of judicial officers.
But it was beyond the powers of the High Court to post Shri KB Panda as the law secretary Shri T Misra as superintendent and legal remembrancer and Shri PK Mohanti as the deputy law secretary.
RKPS Appeals allowed in part.
