vs Ellis  2 Middleton vs Texas Power  Light Co  3  4 43 330 Francisco was invalid by reason of its being in conflict with the equal protection clause.
The position therefore is that when the statute is not itself discrimi natory and the charge of violation of equal protection is only against the official who is entrusted with the duty of carrying it into operation the equal protection clause could be availed of in such cases but the officer would have a good defence if he could prove bona fides.
FN Balsara 2.
A careful perusal of this decision will make it quite clear that the Court upheld the validity of the statute impugned in that case not on the ground that the inequality was of minor importance but on the ground that the classification of establishments according to the number of workmen employed therein was based on an intelli gible distinction having a rational relation to the subject matter of the legislation in question.
That the Act has prescribed a procedure of trial which is materially different from that laid down in the Code of Criminal Procedure cannot be disputed.
 In order to be a proper classification so as not to offend against the Constitution it must be based on some intelligible differentia which should have a reason able relation to the object of the Act as recited in the preamble.
Even if this difference in the circum stances of the two alleged offenders can be made the basis of a classification there is no nexus between this differ ence and the object of the Act for in the absence of any special circumstances there is no apparent reason why the offence of theft in a dwelling house by a stranger should require a speedier trial any more than the offence of theft by a servant should do.
Persons thus sent up for trial by a Special Court cannot point their fingers to the other persons who may be charged before an ordinary Court with similar or even same species of offences in a different place and in different circum stances and complain of unequal treatment for those other persons are of a different category and are not their equals.
The notifications simply direct certain cases to be tried by the Special Court and are obviously issued under that part of section 51 which authorises the State government to direct cases to be tried by the Special Court.
It is urged by the learned AttorneyGeneral that this selection of cases must also be made in the light of the object of the Act as expressed in its preamble that is to say the State government can only select those cases which in their view require speedier trial.
CHANDRASEKHARA AIYAR J.
The short question that arises for consideration in these cases is whether the whole or any portion of the West Bengal Special Courts Act X of 1950 is invalid as being opposed to equality before the law and the equal protection of the laws guaran teed under article 14 of the Constitution of India.
Preliminary inquiry before committal to the sessions trial by jury or with the aid of assessors the right of a de novo trial on transfer of a case from one Court to another have been taken away from the accused who are to be tried by a Special Court even graver is section 13 which provides that a person may be convicted of an offence disclosed by the evidence as having been committed by him even though he was not charged with it and it happens to be a more serious offence.
Distinctions have to be made for different classes and groups of persons and a rational or reasonable classification is permitted as otherwise it would be almost impossible to carry on the work of Govern ment of any State or country.
 The law on the subject has been well stated in a passage from Willis on Constitutional Law 1936 Edition at page 579 and an extract from the pronouncement this Court in what is known as the Prohibition Case The State of.
Bombay and Another vs.
It merely requires that all persons subject to such legislation shall be treated alike under like cir cumstances and conditions both in the privileges conferred and in the liabilities imposed The inhibition of the amendment was designed to prevent any person or class of persons from being singled out as a special subject for discriminating and hostile legislation.
The presumption is always in favour of the constitu tionality of an enactment since it must be assumed that the legislature understands and correctly appreciates the needs of its own people that its laws are directed to problems made manifest by experience and its discriminations are based on adequate grounds.
The presumption may be rebutted in certain cases by showing that on the face of the statute there is no classi fication at all and no difference peculiar to any individual or class and not applicable to any other individual or class and yet the law hits only a particular individual or class.
The principle of equality does not mean that every law must have universal application for all 351 persons who are not by nature attainment or circumstances in the same position and the varying needs of different classes of persons often require separate treatment.
The Attorney General argued that if the principle of classification has to be applied as a necessary test there is a classification in the impugned Act as it says that it is intended to provide for the speedier trial of certain offences and in the opinion of the legislature certain offences may require more expeditious trial than other offences and this was a good enough classification.
Discrimination may not appear in the statute itself but may be evident in the administration of the law.
Thus it is not enough merely to classify but the classification must not be discriminatory  it must not amount to hostile action  there must be reasonable grounds for distinction  it must be rational  and there must be no substantial discrimination .
What I am concerned to see is not whether there is absolute equality in any academical sense of the term but whether the collective conscience of a sovereign democratic republic can regard the impugned law contrasted with the ordinary law of the land as the sort of substantially equal treatment which men of resolute minds and unbiassed views can regard as right and proper in a democracy of the kind we have proclaimed ourselves to be.
It matters not to me nor indeed to them and their families and their friends whether this be done in good faith whether it be done for the convenience of government whether the process can be scientifically classified and labelled or whether it is an experiment in speedier trials made for the good 367 of society at large.
