iminal Appeal No112 of 1965.
The Judgment of the Court was delivered by Sikri J.
On December 13 1963 a notice was issued to the five members of the Panchayat to assemble on December 25 1963 and hear the case.
On December 20 1963 Mahabir moved an application under article 227 of the Constitution challenging the order of the SDM dated November 28 1963 and on the same day the High Court admitted the application and stayed further proceedings before the Nyaya Panchayat.
It seems to us that it is not proved on the evidence here that any such application was made before the Nyaya Panchayat.
 Affidavits were filed in the High Court by Baldeo Prasad pairokar of Mahabir Burma Prasad the Sarpanch and Mahabir and statements of Phagu Prasad and Bunna Prasad were recorded on oath.
Bunna Prasad in his affidavit stated that as the Nyaya Panchayat was not satisfied for want of evidence by way of proper affidavit etc.
 the Nyaya Panchayats proceeded with the case.
Phagu Prasad.
in his statement stated As the paper of Mahabir s application and affidavit was not good we had asked him to get them written on a proper paper obtained from the Tehsil.
We had also told him to get the affidavit verified before some Tehsil authority.
passed by the High Court.
The High Court held  There was no reasonable ground for the Panchas to have doubted the averments made in the application and affidavit of Mahabir that the High Court had stayed further proceedings before the Panchayat nor is there any thing in the order sheet to show that the Panchas did not believe the contents of the application and affidavit of Mahabir.
However if they wanted to ascertain the matter they should have at best stayed the proceedings for a short while and should have asked the applicant to produce a certified copy of the stay order.
But the Panchas did nothing of the kind.
The action of the Nyaya Panchas in not doing so was obviously not bona fide and 120 amounts to wilful disobedience of the High Court s order.
The learned counsel for the appellants Mr Chari says that no contempt of court has been established because a Court is entitled not to act on an application which is not accompanied by an affidavit properly sworn to or a certified copy of the order He urges that the Nyaya Panchayats exercised judicial powers and even if the Panchas erred in not staying proceedings before finding them guilty of contempt of court it should be definitely proved that the order was passed deliberately to by pass the order of the High Court.
This Court quoted with approval the following passage from Oswald s Contempt of Court in Hoshiar Singh vs Gurbachan.
 We need not consider whether it makes any differnce in law if the order has been drawn up.
We will for the purpose of this case assume that it does not make any difference.
It is also clear that in such matters those who assert that a person had knowledge of the order must prove this fact beyond all reasonable doubt.
If a person bona fide comes to the conclusion on the material placed before him that the source of information is not authentic he cannot be held guilty of contempt of court for disobeying the order.
121 administer oaths.
It seems to us that the High Court did not appreciate that the so called affidavit which was filed before the Panchas was in fact not an affidavit at all.
At any rate he has apparently no jurisdiction to stay proceedings before the Nyaya Panchayats when no Proceeding is pending before him.
It is true that in certain cases proceedings can be adjourned to enable the parties to file better proof but a judicial officer is not bound to do so and if he bona fide does not in his discretion adjourn proceedings it cannot be said that he has committed contempt of court.
It must also be borne in mind that Panchas are not well versed in law and procedure and the records maintained by them should not be judged in the same manner as that of ordinary courts.
With respect the High Court should not have drawn an adverse inference from the fact that the reasons for not accepting the prayer for stay were not recorded.
In our opinion there is no such evidence in this case.
RKPS Appeal allowed.
