We do.
between.
It appears to us that an Industrial Tribunal has the discretion in appropriate cases of making a direction linking the dearness allowance element of a wage to the Price Index but at the same time the Tribunal is entitled to choose the alternative course of fixing the wage at the prevailing Price Index and leaving the labour to raise a fresh demand and if necessary a fresh industrial dispute for further rise in wages in case there is marked variation in the Price Index and the wage fixed in the award becomes out dated.
The idea of fixing such wage in the light of cost of living at a particular juncture of time and of neutralising the rising prices of essential commodities by linking up scales of minimum wages with the cost of living index cannot therefore be said to be alien to the concept of a minimum wage.
The only other point argued before us in respect of wages by learned counsel was that casual workers should also be paid minimum wages on the same basis as the permanent workers for whom the minimum wage was fixed by the Tribunal which is being varied by us by increasing it to a total wage packet of Rs 95.
It appears that the Tribunal did not accept this demand primarily on the ground that the distinction between casual workers and  the permanent workers was recognised by both the parties in the agreement of 1959.
In all these circumstances we think that the revised wages should take effect from 13th December 1962.
The demand made by the workmen was for bonus equivalent to six months  wages and the argument was that if the Tribunal had worked out the surplus available on the correct basis that surplus would have certainly justified grant of profit bonus at the rate of six months  wages.
refer it.
The award had to cover the year 1963 64 also and at least for that year the accounts could not possibly have been completed as that year was still running when the award was given by the Tribunal on the 11 th January 1964.
The claim was in fact based on the circumstances that according to the workmen the bonus in their case was being calculated as equivalent to three months  basic wages while the case of some clerical staff the calculation was made on the basis of their consolidated wages consisting of basic wages and dearness allowance.
Since in this appeal the principal dispute related to the fixation of minimum wage of the workmen and we are allowing the appeal of the workmen in that respect we direct that the workmen will be entitled to their costs of this appeal from the Company.
