A building in the town of Ahmedabad used as a cinematograph theatre belonged originally to Messrs Popatlal Punjabhai.
On September 1 1963 Filmistan filed suit No 1465 of 1963 in the Court of Small Causes at Ahmedabad inter alia for a declaration that as sub lessee or as lessee under law it was entitled to obtain and remain in possession of the theatre and to exhibit cinematograph films and to hold entertainment performances etc.
CI69 17 438 1955 and further confirmed by document dated December 1 1960 is not a lease 12.
A revision application against that order was dismissed in limine by the High Court of Gujarat.
The objection to the question raised by Filmistan was not that it related to a matter to be decided by the Court and on which the opinion of witnesses was irrelevant.
The Trial Judge observed that he had carefully gone through the consent decree and the registered agreement dated December 1 1960 and he found that the consent decree had not decided that the transaction between the parties of the year 1954 was in the nature of a lease that in the plaint in the earlier suit it was not even averred that the rights granted were in the nature of leasehold rights that suit No 149 of 1960 was for declaration of the rights of Filmistan to exhibit motion pictures in the theatre under the agreement dated November 27 1954 and for an injunction restraining the defendants from violating the said rights of Filmistan under the agreement and that the agreement dated December 1 1960 was not plain enough to exclude the oral evidence of the surrounding circumstances and conduct of the parties to explain its terms and language.
Accordingly he held that the question asked in cross examination of the witnesses for Filmistan intended to secure disclosure of the surrounding circumstances and conduct of the parties in order to show in what manner the language of the document was related to the existing facts could not be excluded.
Filmistan feeling dissatisfied with the order invoked the revisional jurisdiction of the High Court of Gujarat under section 115 of  the Code of Civil Procedure.
The revision petition was entertained and elaborate arguments were advanced at the Bar.
The Court proceeded to observe  The question then arises for consideration whether in fact the subordinate Court has decided the question of res judicata and that it is true that the jurisdiction of the Court of mall Causes to decide disputes between a tenant and his landlord and falling within the purview of section 28 of the Bombay Rent Control Act is derived from section 28 of the said Act but at the same time if an issue is in fact barred by res judicata then the Court has no 440 jurisdiction on principles of res judicata to go into that question or to decide that question over again to the extent to which the Court viz the trial court in the instant case proposed to go into that question and allow the whole question that was closed once for all by consent decree of December 1 1960 to be reopened it is proposing to exercise the jurisdiction which is not vested in it by law.
It is not open to any Court of law to try an issue over again or reopen the same if an earlier decision operates as res judicata.
But the only thing that can be said is that so far as the agreement of November 27 1954 is con cerned it must be held in view of the consent decree of December 1 1960 that that document of November 27 1954 created a lease .
The learned Judge will not proceed with the trial.
By section 115 of the Code of Civil Procedure the High Court is invested with power to call for the record of any case decided by any Court subordinate to such High Court and in which no appeal lies thereo if such subordinate court appears a to have exercised a jurisdiction not vested in it by law or b to have failed to exercise a jurisdiction so vested or c to have acted in the exercise of its jurisdiction illegally or with material irregularity and to make such order in the case as it thinks fit.
The Court gave no finding expressly or by implication on the issue of res judicata or any other issue.
The Trial Judge in overruling the objection did not decide any issues at the stage of recording evidence  he was not called upon to decide any issues at that stage.
The observations made by him obviously relate to the arguments advanced at the Bar and can in no sense be regarded even indirectly as a decision on any of the issues.
A consent decree accord ing to the decisions of this Court does not operate as res judicata because a consent decree is merely the record of a contract between the parties to a suit to which is superadded the seal of the Court.
A matter in contest in a suit may operate as res judicata only if there is an adjudication by the Court  the terms of section II of the Code leave no scope for a contrary view.
It may also be observed that by ordering that a question may properly to put to a witness who was being examined no case was decided by the Trial Court.
The expression case is not limited in its import to the entirety of the matter in dispute in an action.
442 This Court observed in Major section section Khanna vs Brig.
To interpret the expression case as an entire proceeding only and not a part of the proceeding imposes an unwarranted restriction on the exercise of powers of superintendence and may result in certain cases in denying relief to the aggrieved litigant where it is most needed and may result in the perpetration of gross injustice.
A case may be said to be decided if the Court adjudicates for the purposes of the suit some right or obligation of the parties in controversy every order in the suit cannot be regarded as a case decided within the meaning of section 115 of the Code of Civil Procedure.
We trust that the suit will be taken up early for hearing and disposed of expeditiously.
Filmistan will pay the costs of the appeal in this Court and in the High Court.
GC Appeal allowed.
