l Misc.
Petitions Nos.
The expression final order it has been held by a long course of authorities occurring in section 205 of the Government of India Act 1935 section 109 of the Code of Civil Procedure and article 1331 of the Constitution means a final decision on the rights of the parties in dispute in a suit or proceeding if the rights of the parties in dispute in the suit or proceeding remain to be tried after the order the order is not final.
Mukherjea J in interpreting the expression judgment decree or final order in section 205 of the Government of India Act 1935 in Mohammad Amin Brothers Ltd and others vs Dominion India and others  3  observed The expression final order has been used in contradistinction to what is known as interlocutory order  .
During the pendency of the suit them Bombay Prevention of Ex communication Act 42 of 1949 was enacted and one of the issues raised in the suit was whether the order of ex communication was invalid.
The trial court decided the issue against the appellant and the order was confirmed in appeal by the High Court of Bombay.
In Srinivasa Prasad Singh vs Kesho Prasad Singh1 an order deciding that circumstances had not been established such as would justify an order for stay of execution of a decree under appeal was not a final order and was on that account not appealable to the judicial Committee.
Certificate was there 1 13 CLJ 681.
This Court held Bachawat  Mitter JJ dissenting that the order passed was a final order within the meaning of article 1341 c since the controversy between the parties when the the complaint in respect of offences under sections 467 and 468 read with section 114 IP Code was disposed of by the order of dismissal and the proceeding regarding that question was finally decided It was observed that the finality of that order was not to be judged by co relating it with the controversy in the complaint viz when then the appellant had committed the offence charged against him therein.
There is nothing in that judgment which supports the contention that this Court has departed from the principle of the earlier decisions or has suggested a different test for determining the finality of orders.
The Court in that case was concerned merely with an order passed by the High Court which maintained the order of the Additional Sessions Judge that a complaint under section 205 read with section 114 IP Code could be filed against the appellant.
Different tests have been applied however to orders made in proceeding independent of the original or the main proceeding.
705 he meaning of article 1331a and b.
The order refusing to grant an interim injunction did not determine the rights and obligations of the parties in relation to the matter in dispute in the suit.
In our judgment Mohanlal Maganlal ThakKar s case1 makes no departure from the earlier judgments of the Judicial Committee the Federal Court and this Court.
GC Certificate revoked.
