29 of 1965.
A section R Chari and R V Pillai for the appellants.
The Judgment of the Court was delivered by Hidayatullah CJ.
The incident which took place on July 28 1962 was theft by dacoity of certain cotton pieces from two carts within the limits of Lingsugar Police Station at about 11 30 pm.
When the carts reached a Nala called Heri Halla about three miles from Lingsugur at about 11 30 pm 20 persons are said to have approached the carts and pelted stones.
The High Court and the Court below drew from this the conclusion that the appellants were themselves the dacoits and convicted them accordingly under section 395 of the Indian Penal Code and sentenced them to  5 years  rigorous imprisonment and fine of Rs 100 .
He contends that the circumstances under which the one presumption or the other may be drawn under section 114 of the have not been stated by law and therefore it is necessary always to start with the lesser presumption and draw the higher presumption only when there is some other evidence to show the complicity of the persons in the crime itself.
According to him there is no other evidence in the case which points to the complicity of the 14 appellants in the crime of dacoity and therefore as they cannot be suspected to be dacoits themselves the only presumption to be drawn is one of receivers of stolen property or as receivers of property which was stolen in a dacoity.
It all depends upon the circumstances under which the discovery of the fruits of crime are made with a particular accused.
It has been stated on more than one occasion that if the gap of time is too large the presumption that the accused was concerned with the crime itself gets weakened.
The presumption is stronger when the discovery of the fruits of crime is made immediately after the crime is.
committed.
The reason is obvious.
Disposal of the fruits of crime requires the finding of a person ready to receive them and the shortness of time the nature of the property which is disposed of that is to say its quantity and its character determine whether the person who had the goods in his possession received them from another or was himself the thief or the dacoit.
In some cases there may be other elements which may point to the way as to how the presumption may be drawn.
They need not be stated here for they differ from case to caseIn the present case the goods stolen were a large quantity of cloth taken for sale to the market.
These goods were not sold and were being taken back to the dealers by the cartmen A large number of persons said to be 20 in number pelted stones at the cartmen and looted the property.
Immediately afterwards a number of searches were made and the goods were found with various persons who were prosecuted as offenders and they have been presumed to be involved in the dacoity itself.
It may be 723 noticed that from each person a large number of goods of the same type such as 20 choli pieces or ten pieces of cloth were found.
In two cases only the time gap is about 19 days.
Even then we think that the time gap is too short for original offenders to have disposed of the property to these appellants Or to have left the goods in their custody till such time as the original offenders could have taken them away.
We are therefore satisfied that the proper inference was drawn in this case.
It must not be forgotton that the offence was committed at night by as many as 20 persons or more.
The houses of 20 persons were searched and large quantities of the stolen goods were found in their houses.
It is impossible to think that these 20 persons were merely receivers of stolen property from some other 20 persons who were the dacoits.
This presumption has been drawn and in our opinion rightly in this case The conviction was therefore correct in all the circumstances of the case.
But no injury beyond one appears to have been caused.
Therefore we think that a sentence of three years  rigorous imprisonment will meet the ends of justice in this case.
The sentence of fine will stand.
The appeal is allowed to this extent.
