Appeal No 1311 of 1967.
The Judgment of the Court was delivered by Hegde J.
It is a partnership firm.
The assessee also produced before him a statement showing various creditors from whom it had borrowed on Hundis during the accounting year in question.
As we are accepting the contention of the assessee that the impugned notice is invalid inasmuch as it did not comply with the requirements of section 1512 of the Act we have not thought it necessary to examine the other contentions advanced on behalf of the assessee.
When the appeal was taken up for hearing on the 18th January 1971 only the report submitted by the Income tax Officer to the Commissioner and the order of the Commissioner was produced.
446 4.
Rs 73604 6.
13 5 66 Commissioner of Income tax Bihar and Orissa Patna 9.
From DIs Inv.
No AP Misc5DI63 645623 dated 13 8 65 forwarded to this office under CIT Bihar and Orissa Patna s letter No Inv.
Seth Bhagwan Singh Sricharan.
Lakha Singh Lal Singh.
The amount of escapement involved amounts to Rs 100000 .
Sd section P Chaliha 30 4 66.
 In his report the Income tax Officer does not set out any reason for coming to the conclusion that this is a fit case to issue notice under section 148.
The material that he had before him for issuing notice under section 148 is not mentioned in the report.
In his report he vaguely refers to certain communications received by him from the CIT Bihar and Orissa.
He does not mention the facts contained in those communications.
All that he says is that from those communications it appears that these persons alleged creditors are name lenders and the transactions are bogus.
He has not even come to a prima facie conclusion 447 that the transactions to which he referred are not genuine transactions.
He appears to have had only a vague feeling that they may be bogus transactions.
In other words he must have some prima facie grounds before him for taking action under section 148.
Further his report mentions  Hence proper investigation regarding these loans is necessary In other words his conclusion is that there is a case for investigating as to the truth of the alleged transactions.
From the report submitted by the Income tax Officer to the Commissioner it is clear that he could not have had reasons to believe that by reason of the assessee s omission to disclose fully and truly all material  facts necessary for his assessment for the accounting year in question income chargeable to tax has escaped assessment for that year nor could it be said that he as a consequence of information in his possession had reasons to believe that the income chargeable to tax has escaped assessment for that year.
a or cl.
b of section 147.
Therefore he could not have issued a notice under section 148.
We are also of the opinion that the Commissioner has mechanically accorded permission.
The important safeguards provided in sections 147 and 151 were lightly treated by the Income tax Officer as well as by the Commissioner.
Both of them appear to have taken the duty imposed on them under those provisions as of little importance.
They have substituted the form for the substance.
The Respondent No 2 shall pay the costs of the appellant both in this Court and in the High Court.
GC Appeal allowed.
