The result of the authorities may thus be summed up It is not every offence committed by a public servant that requires sanction for prosecution under section 1971 of the Code of Criminal Procedure nor even every act done by him while he is actually engaged in the performance of his official duties but if the act complained of is directly concerned with his official duties so that if questioned it could be claimed to have been done by virtue of the office then sanction would be necessary and that would be so irrespective of whether it was in fact a proper discharge of his duties because that would really be a matter of defence on the merits which would have to be in vestigated at the trial and could not arise at the stage of the grant of sanction which mut precede the institution of the prosecution.
But he contends that misappropriation of funds could under no circumstances be said to be within the scope of the duties of a public servant that he could not when charged with it claim justification for it by virtue of his office that therefore no sanction under section 1971 was necessary and that the question was concluded by the decisions in Hori Ram Singh vs Emperor1 and Albert We8t Meads vs The King1 in both of which the charges were of criminal misappropriation.
Now an offence seldom consists of a single act.
Now it is evident that the entrustment andor dominion here were in an official capacity and it is equally evident that there could in this case be no disposal lawful or otherwise save by an act done or purporting to be done in an official capacity.
On the facts it was held in that case that the several acts which were complained of were official acts and that the prosecution was bad for want of sanction.
1309 urged on behalf of the respondent.
In Hori Ram Singh vs Emperor1 the medicines had not been entered in the stock book and were removed by the accused to his residence and the charge against him was that in so removing them he had committed MISappropriation.
Reference may also be made to the following observations of Sulaiman J in the same case The question whether a criminal breach of trust can be committed while purporting to act in execution of his duty is not capable of being answered hypothetically in the abstract without any reference to the actual facts of the case.
It is with reference to these facts that the Privy Council observed 1 2 1948 LR 75 IA 185.
But if they are unconnected with such duties then no sanction is necessary.
In this view we have to examine whether the acts with which the appellant is charged directly bear on the duties which he has got to discharge as a public servant.
The appellant received the sum of Rs 51 alleged to have been misappropriated as Subdivisions Officer and he admits receipt of the same.
The accused does claim to have paid the amount to Parma and the acquittance roll records the payment and there is in acknowledgment thereof a thumb impression as against his name.
The conviction should therefore be quashed.
Fine if paid will be refunded.
Appeal allowed.
