354 dends are declared no profits are shared or divided among the Individual members and no goods are sold or exchanged.
 Mr Pai further maintains that the ratio in R K Mittal s case supra is not applicable to the instant case because the definition of  industry in section 2j of the is far wider than that of commercial establishment in section 25 of the Act.
It is pointed out that it was wrongly assumed in Mittal s case supra that the Federation was systematically assisting not only its members but also other business men and industrialists even if they were not its members.
This point will not require any additional material for its decision.
That definition reads  Industry means any business trade undertaking manufacture or calling of employers and includes any calling service employment handicraft or industrial occupa tion or evocation of workmen.
Jagnmohan Reddy J speaking for the Court.
These activities were business activities and material services rendered to businessmen traders and industrialists who are members of the constituents of the Federation.
The case under the Income tax Act wherein the main object of the organization was charitable were also considered and found of little assistance.
It was observed that the object of an Organisation may be charitable but nevertheless its activity may be commercial so as to satisfy the definition of an industry as explained and illustrated by this Court particularly in Safdarjang Hospital s case1 We could therefore envisage an institution having its aims and objects charitable and yet its activities could bring it within the definition of industry.
It takes up with the concerned authorities the specific difficulties experienced by the trade in the day today business and endeavours to attain for the traders and industrialists those material advantages by unified action which they may not be able to achieve in their individual capacity.
It undertakes regular publication of periodicals bulletins Reviews etc.
In the matter.
It was condended that the activity of the Association was not a business or trade because by the Memorandum of Associ 1 357 ation all the property and income of the association were applicable solely to the promotion of the above objects and no part thereof could be paid as dividend or otherwise to any member.
It will bear repetition that the Federation also publishes periodicals bulletins etc.
But that does not alter the fact that its activity is a trading or business activity.
In the result we allow this appeal set aside the judgment of the High Court and dismiss the writ petition.
VPS Appeal allowed.
