Then came Prahladbuwa.
You are free to give and take as per the Shishya sampradaya as has been done previously.
It is clear that the beneficiaries of the deeds are the deity and the Sansthan and the gifts were made with the object of maintenance of the worship of the deity for the benefit of the Hindu public as a whole.
While in the former the beneficiaries are persons who are ascertained or capable of being ascertained in the latter they constitute a body which is incapable of ascertainment.
vs Sm.
Distinguishing the decision of the Privy Council in Bahu Bhagwan Din vs Gir Har Saroon on the ground that the properties in that case were granted not in favour of an idol or temple but in favour of one Daryao Gir who was maintaining a temple and to his heirs in perpetuity this Court further held in the above decision But in the present case the endowment was in favour of the idol itself and the point for decision is whether it 527 was private or public endowment.
And in such circumstances proof of user by the public without interference would be cogent evidence that the dedication was in favour of the public.
This Court also observed in Narayan Bhagwantrao Gosavi Balaji wale s case supra that it is also unusual for rules to make grant to a family idol.
We cannot agree that the High Court was not right in giving due importance to the admission of the constituted attorney Ramkrishna Deshpande that they cannot prevent people from going to the temple as the temple is meant for the Darshan by the public.
It has to be remembered that the founder Sakharam Maharaj was a celibate and the successive disciples who succeeded as Adhikaris of the Gadi were also celibates.
of Shri Sakharam Maharaj regularly as was being done.
Your bhauband and others have no right whatsoever over the same.
You are free to give and take as per the Shishya sampradaya as has been done previously.
You should make arrangement to accept service from them as being done accordingly and go on rendering service and performing Bhajan etc.
faithfully as mentioned herein as per the Vaishnava sampradaya as being done from before.
This property goes from Guru to his Shishya.
During the fair his Shishyas perform the Bhajans.
All their expenses of boarding and lodging are met by this Sansthan.
PBR Appeal dismissed.
