243 The appellants wrote a letter on 20 February 1975 to the President with copies to the Prime Minister Chief Justice of India the Chief Minister of Haryana and the Chief Jus tice of Punjab and Haryana High Court.
Chandrawati.
The letter was addressed bona fide in good faith and without 245 any ill will and no publicity was given to it.
The deponent respectfully submits that the communication does not bear out any foundation for an action for criminal contempt.
The Full Bench thereafter referred to paragraph 9 of the affidavit where the deponents said that if in view of this Hon ble Court the action of the deponent in addressing the letter in question constituted for any reason contempt of court no one would be more sorry than the deponent himself.
Therefore the deponent tender his apology to this Hon ble Court for the same and prays for its acceptance.
In our view the judgment is utterly unsound and unsus tainable.
The elementary basis of acceptance of apology is that there is to be a finding of committal of contempt.
The condition is that if there is contempt the deponents tender apology.
It is indeed curious 246 that the High Court in the notice referred to the letter of the appellant and said on a perusal of the contents thereof a prima facie case contempt is made out.
It is necessary to state here that if any Judge address es on political problems or controversies the Judge exposes himself to discussion by public.
To say that will not by itself be a contempt.
All we need say is that it will not be correct and proper for any Judge to accept the invitation and hospitality of any busi ness or commercial organisation or of any political party or of any club or organisation run on sectarian communal or parochial lines.
Invitations by the Bar Associ ation or social invitations naturally Stand on a different footing and no one will find an exception to any Judge attending a social function.
In view of the fact that the High Court proceeded on the basis that the allegations in the letter were unchallenged we are of opinion that the matters did not constitute any contempt.
The High.
Court should have dropped the proceed ings and not pursued the matter.
247 The judgment is set aside.
MR Appeals allowed.
