The judgment under appeal after certificate of fitness of the case under Article 1331c of the Constitu tion of India is very short as it purports to follow the ratio decidendi of Union of India vs.
1 where this Court had held upon a concession by the Attorney General that a list prepared under Section 115 of the  hereinafter referred to as the Act  was provisional.
vs Ram Chand  Ant   222.
830 we hold that the combined final gradation list dated April 6 1962 so far as category 6 is concerned is ultra vires and illegal and that part of the notification alone must be quashed by grant of a writ in the nature of certiorari.
We think that any claim to have a say against the final fist prepared on an analogy with the second opportunity which is afforded to a person to be punished after arriving at a decision on the facts of a departmental trial and proposal to inflict a particular punishment upon him is quite inap propriate.
All that is done is that certain principles are applied in the preparation of the list.
When a provisional seniority fist is prepared there is a possibility of some mistakes occurring about the facts of a case or in the application of those rules.
If he was to have that opportunity the list would not really be final but only provisional or preliminary.
It was an opportunity to be given before the final list was to be declared and published as a final list.
A right to representation was recognised as existing at time when the list was still to be considered as not finalised presumably because some mistakes had crept in due to want of heating on two points.
Evidently what was meant was that the publication gave the list finality.
In that particular case the fist had been prepared without due regard to the particular important points which had to be considered before finalisation.
We find no such grounds in the ease before us.
GR Prabhavalkar  Ors.
It has also to give a full and fair opportuni ty to the parties affected to make their representations and the Central Government has also to give a proper consideration to those representations.
So long as the Central Government has acted properly according to the provisions of the Act we are of the view that a Court cannot go into the merits or otherwise of equation of posts which is a matter within the province of the Central Government.
It was also held there at p 2106 It is no doubt true that the Central Government must have due regard to the princi ples enunciated by it in consultation with the States for the purpose of equation Of posts.
That falls within the purview of the statute concerned and the authorities charged with such duty.
If a particular decision is mala fide or arrived at on totally irrelevant and extraneous consider ations such a decision can be interfered with by Courts.
