The sale proceeds not being sufficient to satisfy the assessed tax the Additional Collector on the 7th June 1955 issued a notice under section 13 of the Bombay City Land Revenue Act 1876 requiring the assessee to appear before him in person on the 16th June 1955 and show cause why he the assessee should not be apprehended and confined to civil jail in satisfaction of the said certified demand.
The principal contentions urged by the learned Advocate appearing for the petitioner are as follows namely a that section 462 of the Indian Income tax Act under which the Income tax Officer issued the recovery certificate to the Additional Collector of Bombay is void under article 131 of the Constitution in that the same offends article 221 and 2 article 21 and article 14 of the Constitution b that section 13 of the Bombay City Land Revenue Act 1876 under which the warrant of arrest was issued by the Additional Collector is void under article 13 1 of the Constitution as the same is repugnant to article 14 of the Constitution.
It is now well established that while article 14 forbids class legislation it does not forbid reasonable classification for the purposes of legislation.
The classification may be founded on different bases namely geographical or according to objects or occupations or the like.
What is necessary is that there must be a nexus between the basis of classification and the object of the Act under consideration.
2  899 that article 14 condemns discrimination not only by a substantive law but also by a law of procedure.
Each State in its wisdom has devised a machinery which it has considered appropriate and suitable for the recovery of its own public demand.
As was said by the Supreme Court of America in Middleton vs Texas Power and Light Company1 There is a strong presumption that a legislature understands and correctly appreciates the needs of its own people that its laws are directed to problems made manifest by experience and that its discriminations are based upon adequate grounds.
Their needs as understood by their own Legislature are different from those of the people of other States.
The grouping of the income tax defaulters into separate categories or classes Statewise is certainly a territorial classification which is based on an intelligible differentia and the subjection for the purposes of the recovery of the certified demand of each of such classes of defaulters to the same coercive process devised by their own State on a consideration of local needs for the recovery of their own public demands cannot be regarded as bereft of a reasonable nexus or correlation between the basis of classification and the object sought to be achieved by the Indian Income tax Act any more than it can be so regarded with respect to the respective State laws.
The Indian Income tax Act classifies people into various groups for the purpose of imposing the tax and taxes them differently eg insurance companies which are taxed differently from an ordinary business concern and in some cases exempts them altogether eg agriculturists and persons with income below a certain level.
If this is right when a question of imposition is concerned it cannot be wrong when the matter is one of recovery.
In the first place it is a fallacy to regard arrest and detention.
The case of Bowman vs Lewis1 is in point.
The same or similar considerations apply to both cases.
Adoption of an existing machinery devised for a particular purpose cannot if there be no vice of unconstitutionality in the machinery render it unconstitutional if it is made to subserve a purpose closely akin or similar to the purpose for which it bad been devised.
As already stated in the State of Bombay there are two 903 statutes regulating the procedure for the recovery of arrears of land revenue according as the defaulter resides in the City of Bombay or in any other area within the State of Bombay.
A cursory perusal of the two sections will show at once that the procedure prescribed by section 13 of the Bombay City Land Revenue Act 1876 for the recovery of arrears of land revenue was harsher and more drastic than the procedure laid down in section 157 of the Bombay Land Revenue Code 1879 in that a defaulter residing in the City of Bombay could be kept in detention for a day for every rupee of the arrears which might considerably exceed the maximum period of six months which is the period 904 limited by the Code of Civil Procedure for the detention of a judgment debtor in civil jail.
In the view we have taken it is not necessary to express any opinion whether the discrimination brought about by the two sections was supportable on the ground of a reasonable classification based on territorial considerations so as not to offend the constitutional inhibition.
It lays down a new law which is similar to the law laid down by section 157 of the Bombay Land Revenue Code 1879.
We do not think there is any substance in this contention.
It is true that the warrant of attachment of the property was issued on the 24th March 1954 but the sale proclamation was issued and the sale was actually held after the date of amendment.
The defaulting assessee might have paid up the dues in which case there would have been no occasion for sale.
The result therefore.
In Assam there can be no imprisonment at all.
But the law as it now stands can be supported on the grounds mentioned by my Lord and I do not propose to differ.
