Petition No 55 of 1954.
K T Desai P N Bhagwati Rameshwar Nath and Rajinder Narain for the appellants.
In support of the petition the appellants urged that section 12 under which the respondent purported to act authorised the cancellation of only leases granted by the evacuee and not by the Custodian himself and that no directions could be given under section 10 as it applied only to properties of the evacuee and that by reason of the sale the movables in question had become the property of the appel 124 980 lants.
As regards movables however they agreed with Tendolkar J that for the reasons given by him the Custodian had no authority under section 10 to issue any directions with reference thereto.
The appeal was accordingly allowed in so far as it related to the lease but dismissed as regards movables.
Against this judgment the appellants have preferred this appeal on a certificate granted by the High Court under article 1331 b and the only point that arises for determination therein is as to whether the Custodian has the power under section 12 to 981 cancel a lease granted by himself and not by the evacuee.
Section 5 of the Administration of Evacuee Property Amendment Act 1954 XLII of 1954 enacts the following Explanation to section 12 of Act XXXI of 1950 In this sub section lease  includes a lease granted by the Custodian and agreement  includes an agreement entered into by the Custodian.
But he con tends that this power could be exercised only so as to override a bar imposed by any law but not the contract under which the lease is held and this result flows according to him from the language of the non obstante clause which is limited to anything contained in any other law for the time being in force and does not include or any contract between the parties.
On the merits also it is without any substance.
The section expressly authorises the custodian to vary the terms of the lease and that cannot be reconciled with the contention of the appellants that it confers no authority on him to go back upon his own contracts.
This provision is obviously intended to repel a possible contention that section 12 does not by implication repeal statutes conferring rights on lessees and cannot prevail as against them and has been inserted ex abundanti cautela.
It cannot be construed as cutting down the plain meaning of the operative portion of the section.
Vide the observations in Aswini Kumar Ghosh vs Arabinda Bose1 and the Dominion of India vs Shrinbai A Irani1 on the scope.
of a non obstante clause.
It was next contended by Mr Desai that even if the Custodian had the power under section 12 to cancel the lease in favour of the appellants be bad no power under that section to cancel the agreement to sell the mills and the factory to them which was one of the matters contained in Exhibit A that the notice Exhibit C was to that extent without jurisdiction and that the respondent should accordingly be prohibited from cancelling that portion of Exhibit A in pursuance of Exhibit C.
In their petition under article 226 it was the validity of the notice.
Tendolkar J stated in his judgment and quite correctly that these were the two points that rose for determination.
The question of the rights of the appellants in so far as they related to the purchase by them of the mills and the factory was not raised in the petition and no contentions were put forward in support thereof at any stage of the proceedings.
It is for the first time in the argu 1   21 24.
983 ment before us that those rights are sought to be agitated.
Under the circumstances we must decline to consider them.
In the result the appeal fails and is dismissed with costs.
