Aggrieved by the order passed by the High Court Ashok Kumar Mishra and Bhagwat Singh Thakur Petitioners No 1 and 5 respectively in the 494 petition before the High Court filed a petition for special leave to appeal to this Court and Purshottam Lal Sharma petitioner No 6 before the High Court filed another petition.
One of the grounds on which the appellants challenged the validity of the electoral roll the calendar of events and the declaration of results of election was that the entire election process had become vitiated on account of the defect in the notice issued under Rule 1 of the Rules notifying that claims and objections should be preferred within a period of 20 days from the date of the publication of that notice when sub rule 3 of Rule 4 of the Rules prescribed that such claims and objections could be preferred within 30 days from the date of publication of that notice.
The period prescribed for preferring claims and objections under Rule 43 was 30 days.
It is not the case of the petitioners that they did not know immediately after the publication of such notice that in the said notice a period of 20 days had been mentioned in its preamble as the period within which the claims and objections could be preferred and in paragraph 7 thereof it had been stated that any such claim or objection filed beyond the prescribed period was liable to be rejected.
If they felt that the said notice suffered from any illegality they could have brought it to the notice of the Collector immediately 496 thereafter.
It was open to them to move the State Government under Rule 6 of the Rules to make an order directing the Collector to follow .
the provisions governing the preparation of the electoral roll.
No such appeal was presented.
The final electoral roll was published on November 16 1978.
It was notified that the nominations could be filed on and after November 25 1978 and the poll if necessary would take place on December 31 1978.
By that time the nominations had all been received.
It was however argued before us relying upon a news item which had appeared in a daily called Nav Bharat  dated October 21 1978 in which there was a reference to a statement made by the Minister for Local Self Government of Madhya Pradesh regarding the irregularity in the division of Raipur town into different wards for purposes of election.
The other documents produced alongwith the writ petition referred to omissions of certain names from the electoral roll.
We have therefore to proceed on the basis that it was only on December S 1978 for the first time that the attention of the Collector was drawn to the said error and that the writ petition itself was presented on December 28 1978.
This rule applies also to a case in which the validity of an election to a local authority is challenged.
The question whether in a given case the delay involved is such that it dissentients a person to relief under Article 226 is a matter within the discretion of the High Court which as in all matters of discretion has to exercise it judiciously and reasonably having regard to the surrounding circumstances.
On the facts and in the circumstances of the case we are of the view that the writ petition was rightly dismissed by the High Court as there was no satisfactory explanation for the delay in preferring it.
For the foregoing reasons the appeals fail and arc dismissed.
