April 24.
They are to be found from the relevant communication to the detenue which is as follows In pursuance of section 7 of the Act IV of 1950 you are hereby informed that the grounds on which a detention order has been made against you by the Government of Bombay under sub clause 1 of clause a of subsection 1 of section 3 of the said Act are that With the financial help given by the Portuguese authorities you are carrying on espionage on behalf of the Portuguese Government with the help of underground workers.
These activities which are being carried on by you with the object of causing further deterioration in the relations between the Portuguese Government and the Indian Government over the question of Goan National Movement are prejudicial to the security of India and to the relations of India with Portugal.
3You are also informed that you have a right to claim a personal hearing before the Advisory Board and that you should communicate to Government of Bombay as soon as possible your intention of exercising or not exercising that right.
It must vary according to the circumstances of each case   .
If on reading the ground furnished it is capable of being intelligently understood and is sufficiently definite to furnish materials to enable the detained person to make a representation against the order of detention it cannot be called vague.
2He is collecting intelligence about the security arrangements on the border area and making such intelligence available to the Portuguese authorities.
But having regard to the nature of the alleged activities of the appellant it is not unlikely that no more could be gathered or furnished.
In this context it is relevant 1  184.
51 390 to notice that the appellant himself does not appear to have felt that the grounds furnished were so vague as to hamper him in his right to make a representation under article 225 and section 7 of the Act.
Such a right to call for particulars has been recognised in the case in the State of Bombay vs Atma Ram Sridhar Vaidya1 as flowing from his constitutional right to be afforded a reasonable opportunity to make a representation to the Board.
The fact that be bad made no such application for particulars is therefore a circumstance which may well be taken into consideration in deciding whether the grounds can be considered to be vague.
Assuming however that the grounds furnished in this case are open to the challenge of vagueness the further question which arises is whether the validity of the order of detention can be sustained by reason of the claim in public interest of non disclosure of facts made by the Under Secretary to the Government of Bombay by means of his affidavit filed in the High Court.
But the right of the detenue to be furnished particulars is subject to the limitation under article 226 whereby disclosure of facts considered to be against public interest cannot be required.
On this assumption it was contended that the claim for non disclosure was invalid.
The meaning is clear that at no time it was in public interest to disclose the details referred to in the particular paragraph of the affidavit and there is nothing to suggest that this question was not considered by the detaining authority at the time when the grounds were furnished.
We are unable to imply any such obligation under article 225 and 6.
An obligation to communicate the decision not to disclose facts considered prejudicial to public interest may well be implied in such a situation.
In the present case there is no merit in this contention.
All the contentions raised before us fail and this appeal is dismissed.
