Rs 6000.
They provide Notwithstanding anything contained in this chapter as and from the financial year 1976 77 there shall be charged levied and paid for each financial year a tax on the lands or buildings or both at the rate specified in the table below Nothing further is required to be done by the Municipality or the Municipal Corporation in order to impose the property tax and therefore the procedure preliminary to the imposition of other taxes which is prescribed by sections 129 and 133 of the two Acts can 15 have no application to the imposition of the property tax.
Similarly section 133 of the Madhya Pradesh Municipal Corporation Act prescribes the procedure for the imposition of any tax under section 132.
The property tax is imposed by respondent 1 under section 127A of the Municipalities Act and section 135 of the Municipal Corporation Act.
The obligation which the statute places upon it is to impose tax on lands where there are lands only and they can be taxed on buildings where buildings alone can be brought to tax and on both lands and buildings where lands are built upon and both can be brought to tax.
The short answer to this contention is that even though the entire share capital of the appellant companies has been subscribed by the Government of India it cannot be predicated that the companies themselves are owned by the Government of India.
On the question as to whether the Corporation carried on an industry under the authority of the Central Government within the meaning of section 2a of the  it was held by this Court that an incorporated company has a separate existence and the law recognises it as a juristic person separate and distinct from its members.
No documents seem to have been filed before it to bear out facts which are sought to be placed before us nor indeed have we evidence before us to show that the lands belong to the State Government.
We would however like to draw attention to the Explanation to section 147 of the Madhya Pradesh Municipalities Act which says that though the property tax has to be paid by the owner of the land or building as the case may be for the purposes of that section a tenant of land or building or both who holds the same under a lease for an agreed period with a convenant for its renewal thereafter shall be deemed to be the owner thereof.
It is true that on account of the declaration contained in section 2 of the Mines and Minerals Development and Regulation Act 1957 the legislative field covered by Entry 23 of List II will pass on to Parliament by virtue of Entry 54 List I.
one of which is to provide for the development and administration of Special Areas through Special Area Development Authorities Section 64 of the Act of 1973 which provides for the constitution of the special areas lays down by sub section 4 that Notwithstanding anything contained in the Madhya Pradesh Municipal Corporation Act 1956 the Madhya Pradesh Municipalities Act 1961 or the Madhya Pradesh Panchayats Act 1962 the Municipal Corporation Municipal Council Notified Area Committee or a Panchayat as the case may be shall in relation to the special area and as from the date the Special Area Development Authority undertakes the functions under clause v or clause vi of section 68 cease to exercise the powers and perform the function and duties which the Special Area Development Authority is competent to exercise and perform under the Act of 1973.
The power conferred by the State Legislature on Special Area Development Authorities to impose the property tax on lands and buildings is therefore not in conflict with the power conferred by the Coal Mines Nationalisation Act on the Union Government to regulate and develop the Coal mines so as to ensure rational and scientific utilisation of coal resources.
In that case the Bihar Government demanded dead rent royalty and surface rent from the appellant contrary to the terms of his lease on the strength of the amended section 102 of the Bihar Land Reforms Act 1950 and the amended Rule 20 of the Bihar Rules.
It was held by this Court that the Haryana Act was not in any way repugnant to the provisions of the Act of 1957 made by Parliament and that the ownership rights could be validly acquired by the State Government under the State Act.
