minal Appeals Nos.
We think Rasika and Subhana are telling the truth when they say that these two accused were also there but we think that because of that they think they must have joined in the attack and so have added that detail to their story.
We refer to the other eye witnesses here to show that there is no discrepancy on this point but we only rely on Rasikabai and Subhana for determining the fact Bhilia was directly charged with the murder and the injury on the throat is ascribed to him in the charge.
We uphold his conviction under section 302 of the Indian Penal Code.
Turning now to section 34 that was not charged in Pandurang s case but we need not consider whether such an omission is fatal because even if it had been charged there is no evidence from which a common intention embracing him can legitimately be deduced.
Several persons can simultaneously attack a man and each can have the same intention namely the intention to kill and each can individually inflict a separate fatal blow and yet none would have the common intention required by the section because there was no prior meeting of minds to form a pre arranged plan.
In a case like that each would be individually liable for whatever injury he caused but none could be vicariously convicted for the act of any of the others and if the prosecution cannot prove that his separate blow was a fatal one he cannot be convicted of the murder however clearly an intention to kill could be proved in his case Barendra Kumar Ghosh vs King Emperor2 and Mahbub Shah vs King Emperor1.
1096 Bhilia Tukia and Nilia are Lambadas Pandurang is a Hatkar and Tukaram a Maratha.
It is true prior concert and arrangement can and indeed often must be determined from subsequent conduct as for example by a systematic plan of campaign unfolding itself during the course of the action Which could only be referable to prior concert and pre arrangement or a running away together in a body or a meeting together subsequently.
But to quote the Privy Council again the inference of common intention should never be reached unless it is a necessary inference deducible from the circumstances of the case.
There was evidence that they all ran away together not simply that they ran away at the same moment of time when discovered but that they ran away together.
We do not intend to examine that here because we are of opinion that the sentence should be reduced to transportation in these two cases mainly because of the difference of opinion in the High Court not only on the question of guilt but also on that of sentence.
