CSS Rao for the Respondent.
The Judgment of the Court was delivered by 308 PATHAK J.
The Commissioner of Wealth Tax applied under sub section.
The definition embodied in the substantive part of cl.
q of s2 indicates that broadly Parliament has fixed upon the last day of the previous year as defined under the Income Tax Act as the valuation date.
The figure of net wealth of the assessee at the end of the previous year takes into account the financial activities of the assessee during that previous year.
His financial activities during that period determine how his net wealth on a particular valuation date differs from his net wealth on the immediately preceding valuation date.
There is an obvious advantage in adopting as the valuation date the last day of a period which is also the relevant period under the Income Tax Act.
The reasons for defining the valuation date in terms of the last day of the income tax previous year stop there.
The system of accounting mercantile or cash or hybrid is of no relevance for the purpose of determining the assets of the assessee.
There is clear indication that the assets to be considered are not circumscribed by any consideration of the particular system of accounting adopted by the assessee.
The assets are not confined to cash.
Where the asset is an asset other than cash its value is determined pursuant to sub section.
I of s7 as the estimated price which in the opinion of the Wealth Tax Officer the asset would fetch if sold in the open market on the valuation date.
In other words it would be the estimated open market value of the rights in the property which constitute the asset.
It is apparent that what accrues as a right also falls to be included within the assets of an assessee under the Wealth Tax Act.
In this view of the matter we approve of the opinion expressed by the Andhra Pradesh High Court in Vedrevu Venkappa Rao supra 311 and in Commissioner of Wealth Tax AP I vs Pachigolla Narasimha Rao1 and the Calcutta High Court in Dipti Kumar Basu vs Commissioner of Wealth Tax West Bengal2 and hold that the view taken by the Orissa High Court in Commissioner of Wealth tax vs Vysyaraju Badreenarayana Moorthy Raju Orissa supra and by the Karnataka High Court in A T Mirji vs Commissioner of Wealth Tax Karnataka3 cannot be accepted.
In the result the question is answered in the affirmative in favour of the Revenue and against the assessee.
There is no order as to costs.
