In exercise of its powers under section 637 of the  the Central Government specified 50 as the number of All India Tourist Vehicle Permits  which may be granted by the Karnataka State Transport Authority.
A public service vehicle is defined in section 225 as any motor vehicle used or adapted to be used for the carriage of passengers for hire or reward and includes a motor cab contract carriage and stage carriage.
While it is true that section 471 H does not expressly refer to other things being equal it appears to be implicit in the provision that other things are equal.
That is how section 471 H was interpreted in Sher Singh s case.
It signifies that other things being equal 1016 one will have preference over the others.
47 the application of the Undertaking for an inter State route shall be examined as application of any other private operator.
Qualitative and quantitative comparison on broad features of passenger transport facility such as fleet facilities to travelling public and other relevant consideration may be undertaken and after balancing these factors other things being equal the application of the Undertaking shall be given preference over other applicants.
We do not think the High Court was right in distinguishing the case in that fashion.
Since the State Transport Appellate Tribunal and the High Court have failed to consider the merits of the claims of the Karnataka State Road Transport Corporation and the private operators who did not get a certificate of approval from the Central Government because of the rule of preference contained in proviso to section 637 the proper course for us is to set aside the orders of the State Transport Appellate Tribunal and the High Court and to direct the State Transport Appellate Tribunal to re hear the appeals and dispose them of in accordance with law after considering the claims of the eligible applicants in the manner indicated in Sher Singh s case and now.
Clauses i to iii of the proviso providing for preference to be given to applications for permits from the Indian Tourism Development Corporation the State Tourism Development Corporation and the State Tourist Department were not questioned but the preference provided for by clause iv and to be given to such operators of tourist cars or such travel agents as may be approved in this behalf by the Ministry dealing in tourism was questioned as an infringement of article 14 of the Constitution.
We find it difficult to sustain this clause and uphold its validity.
It was said that the clause contained sufficient guidelines for the exercise of discretion in granting approval by the Central Government.
Though the permits to be granted are for tourist vehicles the preference is confined to operators of tourist cars and travel agents.
It is difficult to agree with the interpretation of the Karnataka High Court having regard to the definitions of Transport Vehicle and motor car contained in section 229 A and section 216 respectively.
637 of the .
and should be financially sound or that they should be owning and operating five vehicles as tourist taxies of either indigenous make or acquired from elsewhere regardless of the period in the car hire business or that they should be ex Defence Service personnel who satisfy certain prescribed conditions.
It is seen that the scheme excludes omnibus operators and requires applicants to have 1019 either two years  experience in the car hire business with contacts in the tourist business or to own five tourist taxies.
There are no guidelines as to how the discretion to grant approval is to be exercised once the minimum conditions are fulfilled.
PSS Appeals allowed.
