Criminal Appeal No 317 of 1986 arises out of the judgment and order of the High Court of Patna and the Writ Petition No 316 is in respect of the same detenu.
The petitioner appellant was in detention when the petitionerappellant was served with the order of detention.
There were criminal cases against the petitioner.
In the said case investigation was in progress and the defence of the petitioner in the murder case was that he was falsely implicated and was not at all concerned with the murder.
In the affidavit of the District Magistrate the detaining authority it has been stated that the activities of the petitioner s brother and the petitioner have disturbed the normal tempo of life in Katras and Jogta Police Stations in Dhanbad area.
It further appears from the affidavit f f the District Magistrate filed before the High Court of Patna that the petitioner was absconding from the very day of the issuance of the detention order.
There is a statement in the order as follows D Subject is already in jail.
He is likely to be enlarged on bail.
Grounds were all indicated.
His representation was duly considered and rejected.
The grounds stated that there was indiscriminate firing on 24th December 1985 on Katras Coal Dump and the petitioner started indiscriminate firing to kill Birendra Pratap Singh a rival of his calendestine business of coal to establish the criminal superiority in full view of the shopkeepers customers and passers by of the area.
25986 and Raj Kumar Singh vs The State of Bihar  Ors.
26986.
In this case there were grounds for the passing of the detention order but after that the detenu has surrendered for whatever reasons therefore the order of detention though justified when it was passed but at the time of the service of the order there was no proper consideration of the fact that the detenu was in custody of that there was any real danger of his release.
If a man is in custody and there is no imminent possibility of his being released the power of preventive detention should not be exercised.
The writ petition and the appeal are allowed to the extent indicated above.
If however the detenu is released on bail in the aforesaid criminal cases the matter of service of the detention order under the Act on the aforesaid materials may be reconsidered by the appropriate authority in accordance with the law.
