From the.
On the same day ie on ist January 1957 Om Parkash Gupta wrote to the assessee his father thanking him for the gift of Rs25000 made in his favour and the gift of Rs50000 in favour of his son Pravin.
In the case of banking companies or other firms and companies who have overdraft facilities even if the sums are not in credit of the donor and are not with such companies or firms gifts might be possible by adjustment of the book entries.
Reference may also be made for this proposition to the decision of the Delhi High Court in New India Colour Co vs Commissioner of IncomeTax New Delhi The effect of the two aforesaid decisions of the learned fudges of the Delhi High Court indicates that in case there was not sufficient cash balance from out of which the amount gifted could be physically given to the donee more entries in the books of account in the form would not constitute delivery of possession over the gifted property to the donee and gift in such case will not be valid.
It was held by the Bombay High Court that there was no valid gift.
The Madras High Court in the case of Mrs Ida L Cham bers and Three Others vs Kelland Huxford Chambers was dealing with a case where C proprietor of a business who had invested a large amount of capital in it caused entries to be made in his account books crediting his wife and certain other members of his family with sums which were debited to his capital account.
Separate accounts in their names were opened in the books and in their accounts the credits were entered.
The entries were followed up by letters to the effect inter alia that the sums were en tirely in the nature of personal gifts from C and would bear interest payable half yearly.
C was not in a position to make gifts in cash of the amounts credited in favour of his wife and relatives.
Interest on the amounts was also credited in the accounts regularly for some time until a bank from which C had obtained an overdraft objected to such crediting of interest.
It was further held that there was no trust either and that there was nothing in the acts or conduct of C to show that he intended to create a trust or to constitute himself a trus tee.
Where moneys were actually paid by way of interest on the alleged gifts those became completed gifts.
Father had complete control and dominion over that amount.
Rangoon High Court in Abba Dada and Company vs Commis sioner of Income Tax Burma held that the mere book entries were not sufficient in that case to constitute valid gift.
The Allahabad High Court in the case of Commissioner of Income Tax UPv Smt.
Shyamo Bibi had to deal with a case where the credit balance of 2 12 lakhs was with the firm.
Balance of the firm was only Rs 15.
It was held that the gift was not valid.
In Commissioner of Wealth Tax vs Gulab Rai Govind Pra sad there was an alleged gift of Rs2 lakhs to minor son by book entries.
No acceptance was produced.
There the assessee was the karta of a Hindu undivided family.
On 20th November 1956 the assessee purported to transfer Rs50000 from his account to the account of his son.
But in that case the question in the present form in which it arises before us in the instant case did not arise.
