Sub section.
Sub section.
Sub section.
That the two provisions of sub section.
The scheme of the sections in Chapter IV indicates generally that Parliament has appointed the Cen tral Government as the effective and direct instrumentality for bringing about the transfer and integration in the different sectors of that process.
2 of section 11 can be exercised more than once.
I am not impressed by the circumstances that the original Bill moved in Parliament for amending sub section.
The intent of the legislative provision must be discovered primarily from the legislation itself.
The observation made by Pathak J in the course of his judgment that there is no danger of an order made by the Central Government under the second limb of sub section 2 in respect of transferred employeesbeing struck down on the ground that it violates the equality provisions of Part III of the Constitution because similar action has not been taken in respect of newly recruited employees is signifi cant.
The petitioners in the above case ie Ram Lal Wadhwa  Anr.
Their complaint was that the Rules created without any valid justification two cadres the State cadre and the provincialised cadre the former including not only the Government School teachers but also those recruited after October 1 1957 and posted in the provincialised schools that by reason of having two cadres and providing for both a uniform 15 per cent for selection grade posts coupled with making the provincialised cadre a diminishing one the result had been that teachers deemed to have been appointed to the State cadre with effect from October 1 1957 and even those recruited thereafter had been promoted to the selec tion grade while those in the provincialised cadre though senior in service and performed identical duties and had identical scales of pay remained in the ordinary grade.
According to the petitioners in that case these Rules and their implementation contravened Articles 14 and 16 of the Constitution.
As already seen ever since 1937 and even before the two categories of teachers have always remained distinct governed by different sets of rules recruited by different authorities and having otherwise than in the matter of pay scales and qualifications differ ent conditions of service.
This position remained as late as February 13 1961.
If through historical reasons the teachers had remained in two separate catego ries the classification of the provincialised teachers into a separate cadre could not be said to infringe article 14 and article 16.
There is no right in a government em ployee to compel it to make fresh appointments in the cadre to which he belongs.
It cannot also be disputed that govern ment had the power to make rules with retrospective effect and therefore could provide therein that appointments made between October 1 1957 and February 13 1961 shall be treated as appointments in the State cadre.
 It has to be observed in the case before us also that the transferred employees belong to a diminishing cadre.
v The State of Haryana  Ors.
 supra clearly applies to the case before us also.
Out of those 16 13 have already retired from service on attaining the age of 60 years.
The second of them is due toretire within 23 months and only one of them would continue in the service of the Corporation for about a period of two years more.
While dealing with this question the Court can take judicial notice of the differ ent ages of retirement prevailing in the several services in India.
In the Settlement which was arrived at between the management and the Class III and Class IV em ployees recruited after 1st September 1956 it was agreed that there should be no discrimination as regards the age of retirement between the employees belonging to Class III and Class IV categories amongst the transferred employees and the Class III and Class IV employees recruited after 1st September 1956.
Having regard to the lower emoluments and other benefits which the employees belonging to Class III and Class IV are entitled to get from the Corporation and the higher emoluments and other benefits to which officers belonging to Class I and Class II are entitled and also the nature of their work and the powers enjoyed by them we are of the view that fixation of different ages of retirement to the different classes of employees would not by itself be violative of Articles 14 and 16 of the Constitution.
Clerical staff and officers of the manage ment staff belong to separate classifications and no argu ment is necessary in support of it.
We do not find any merit in this contention too.
In October 1965 the Railway Board issued a notification by which it was provided that eighty percent of the vacancies in grade C  were to be filled up from apprentice train examiners recruitment.
or after April 1 1966 and the remaining twenty per cent by train examiners from grade D .
This Court held that when once the direct recruits and promoters were absorbed in one cadre they formed one class and they could not be distinguished again for the purpose of further promotion to the higher grade C  The Court further ob served that before the impugned notification was issued there was only one rule of promotion applicable to both direct recruits and promoters but by the impugned notifica tion discriminatory treatment was made in favour of the apprentice train examiners who had already been absorbed in grade D .
In the Staff Regulations 1956 and the Staff Regulations 1960 there was again a distinction made between the transferred employees and employees re cruited after 1st September 1956.
2        cc.
The terms and conditions of service of the employees and agents of the Corporation including those who became employees and agents of the Corporation on the appointed day under this Act       2A.
Even the High Court in the instant case accepts that it was just and proper to extend the benefit of the higher age of retirement to the trans ferred employees but it has held that when once a trans ferred employee is promoted he would lose the right to a special treatment as regards the age of superannuation.
The High Court has negatived it.
In Govindarajulu vs The Management of Union Bank of India  Ors Writ Petition No 5486 of 1980 the High Court of Madras rejected the said claim by its judgment dated 2111.
We may at this stage refer to a recent decision of this Court in Miss Lena Khan vs Union of India and Ors.
 JT decided on 303.
1987 in which the validity of the continua tion of some foreign Air Hostesses beyond the prescribed age of retirement came up for consideration.
Classification of employees into two categories for purposes of fixing the age of superannuation depending upon their dates of entry into service when the necessity for doing so arises on account of certain historical reasons is not unknown.
On the absorption of the services of the servants of the previous railway companies it became necessary for the Indian Railway Administration to frame rules with regard to their conditions of service including the determination of the age of retirement of those railway employees.
Clause b however provided that every ministerial railway serv ant who had entered the Government service on or before 31st March 1938 and who satisfied the conditions mentioned either in sub clause i or sub clause ii thereof was entitled to continue in service till he attained the age of 60 years.
As may be seen from that rule the classification of the employees was made on the basis of the date of entry into the service of the Government.
On appeal the judgment of the High Court was affirmed by this Court in Railway Board vs A Pitchumani supra.
It however agreeing with the High Court found fault with the classification of the employees falling under clause b into two categories namely those employ ees belonging to a company where there was a rule similar to clause b as regards the age of superannuation and those employees who came from companies where there was no rule similar to clause b as regards the age of superannuation.
In Manindra Chandra Sen vs Union of India  Ors.
In that decision this Court has no doubt observed that generally speaking there should not be any difference in the age of retirement of existing workmen and others to be employed in future unless there are special circumstances justifying such difference.
vs Union of India  Ors etc.
It may be so.
We are not concerned in this case with the question whether the age of retirement of employees who have joined the service of the Corporation after 1st September 1956 should be raised to 60 years.
We may at this stage refer to the following passage in Tamil Nadu Education Department Ministerial  General Subor dinate Service Association vs State of Tamil Nadu  Anr  In Service Jurisprudence integration is a complicated administrative problem where in doing broad justice to many some bruise to a few cannot be ruled out.
Some play in the joints even some wobbing must be left to Government without fussy forensic monitoring since the administration has been entrusted by the Constitution to the Executive not to the Court.
