The by section 630 enacts 630.
1 of section 630 of the Act.
On a literal construction of the term officer or employee  occurring in sub section.
It also held that the words any such property  in section 630lb relate to property specified in cl.
See Harkishan Lakhimal Gidwani vs Achyut Kashinath Wagh  Anr  Govind T Jagtiani vs Sirajuddin section Kazi  Anr  which have since been followed in a series of cases referred to by the learned Single Judge Ashok Agarwal J.
1 of section 630 which provide for the launching of a prosecution against an officer or employee of a company for wrongful possession of such property under cls.
a and b of sub section.
2 against such officer or employee.
At the conclusion of the hearing we had by a short order dismissed the special leave petition and held that the view expressed by the learned Single Judge following the earlier decisions of the High Court in Harkishan Lakhimal Gidwani and reiterated in Govind T Jagtiani was to be preferred to the view to the contrary expressed by the High Court of Calcutta in Amritlal Chum.
In 1975 the company purchased a spacious flat being flat No 151 in Jolly Maker Apartment III at 119 Cuffe Parade and the petitioner being the senior most executive was allotted the flat for his residence.
Prior to that ie On September 26 1984 he addressed a letter requesting the company to permit him to continue to live in the company s premises during the period of his accumulated leave after his retirement ie for a period of six months undertaking to vacate the flat as early as possible.
It appears that the company on humanitarian grounds acceded to this request and permitted the petitioner to stay on in the company s flat for six months after his retirement and in accordance with the company s rules he was required to pay compensation for the use of the premises.
The Estate officer by order dated December 2 1985 directed the eviction of the petitioner.
The petitioner carried an appeal to the City Civil  Sessions Court Bombay but the same was dismissed by the Principal Judge City Civil Court by his order dated January 16 1986.
A few days thereafter ie On March 7 1986 the petitioner instituted a suit being Civil Suit No 174 138286 in Small Causes Court Bombay seeking a declaration that he was a tenant of the disputed flat which is now pending.
In view of this the company was constrained to lodge a complaint against the petitioner under section 630 of the Act in the Court of the Additional Chief Metropolitan Magistrate 37th Court Esplanade Bombay alleging that he was wrongfully withholding the flat in question which had been given to him for his residence during the period of his employment and and thereby committed an offence punishable under section 630.
On June 30 1986 the company merged with the Shipping Corporation of India and all its assets and liabilities were taken over by the Corporation.
b of sub section.
1 for the contention that cl.
b does not stand by itself but is inter connected with cl.
In essence the submission is that sub section.
I of section 630 of the Act which defeats the very purpose and object with which it had been introduced.
wrongfully withholds possession of it after the termination of his employment.
Sub section.
First of these is the one contemplated by cl.
a namely where an officer or employee of a company wrongfully obtains possession of any property of the company during the course of his employment to which he is not entitled.
Normally it is only the present officers and employees who can secure possession of any property of a company.
This is the function of cl.
a and although it primarily refers to the existing officers and employees it may also take in past officers and employees.
In contrast cl.
b contemplates a case where an officer or employee of a company having any property of a company in his possession wrongfully withholds it or knowingly applies it to purposes other than those expressed or directed in the 176 articles and authorised by the Act.
It would be noticed that cl.
b also makes it an offence if any officer or employee of a company having any property of the company in his possession knowingly applies it to purposes other than those expressed or directed in the articles and authorised by the Act.
1 of section 630 of the Act.
The High Court of Calcutta in Amritlal Chum s case obviously fell into an error in seeking to curtail the ambit of section 630lb by giving a restrictive meaning to the terms officer or employee  which must take its colour from the context in which it appears.
The whole object of enacting sub section.
a into cl.
There is also no warrant for the construction placed by the High Court of Calcutta on the words any such property  occurring in cl.
b as applicable to such property of a company possession of which is wrongfully obtained by an officer or employee of the company ie refers to the whole of cl.
Section 630 of the Act plainly makes it an offence if an officer or employee of the company who was permitted to use any property of the company during his employment wrongfully retains or occupies the same after the termination of his employment.
By a curious process of reasoning the High Court of Calcutta in Amritlal Chum s case held that section 630 of the Act applies only to the existing officers and employees and not to those whose employment has been terminated.
In somewhat similar facts an officer of Messrs Jardine Hendersons Limited who had been placed in possession of a furnished flat in premises No 27 Ballygunj Park Calcutta as a condition of his service wrongfully retained possession thereof after ceasing to be an officer of the company.
NG Chaudhuri J speaking for himself and GC Chatterjee J held that the opening words of sub section.
He further held that the High Court of Bombay was in error in laying down in Govind T Jagtiani s case that for purposes of prosecution cl.
a of section 6301 was referable to existing officer or employee of a company while cl.
b was wide enough to include former or past officer or employee of the company inasmuch as on a plain reading of the section the two clauses do not permit different interpretations as suggested.
In particular the learned judge referred to section 538 which provides for prosecution for offences by officers of companies in liquidation and uses the expression a past or present officer of a company etc  as also section 545 which provides for prosecution of delinquent officers and members of a company during the course of winding up and uses the words any past or present officer etc  Upon that basis he observed that there was no reason to give a twisted and laboured interpretation to the provisions of section 630 of the Act which its plain reading does not permit.
b as taking in the property mentioned in cl.
a ie property wrongfully obtained.
The reasoning of the learned Judges does not bear scrutiny and renders cl.
b of section 630 l wholly redundant.
which is an offence under section 630lb of the Act as rightly pointed out by VS Kotwal J in Harkishan Lakhimal Gidwani vs Achyut Kashinath Wagh supra.
The petitioner there was the General Manager of a company known as the English Electrical Company of India Limited a company incorporated under the having its registered office at Calcutta.
He had been allotted the premises of a flat approximately 3500 square feet in area located at Mayfair Gardens Little Gibbs Road Bombay.
He had been inducted into the flat only by virtue of his capacity as the General Manager of the company s branch office at Bombay but the company allowed him to retain the same on humanitarian grounds for a short period after his retirement to enable him to find alternative accommodation.
This humanitarian and charitable consideration shown by the company was reciprocated by the petitioner by adopting H 178 an adamant attitude and he declined to vacate the same on one pretext or another.
The question was whether such wrongful retention of the flat amounted to an offence under section 63 of the Act.
a and b are separated by the word or  which must in the context in which it appears be read as and  and so construed must mean withholding of property wrongfully obtained by an existing officer or employee.
Kotwal J.
On a careful analysis of section 630 held that the provisions of the section apply not only to the present officers and employees of the company but also to past officers and employees and observed It is held that the features and deductions which flow logically and inescapably on an analysis of section 630 are that i Clause a of the section is self contained and independent of cl.
b with the capacity of creating penal liability 4 embracing the case of an existing employee or officer of the company.
ii Clause b is equally independent and distinct from cl.
a as regards penal consequences squarely covering the case of a past employee or officer.
iii The entitlement of an officer to the property of the company is contingent on the right and capacity of the officer by virtue of his employment which is transformed into the actual possession of the property and the duration of such right would be co terminus with the terms of employment.
While the existence of the capacity right and possession would be during employment the withholding may be even after the termination of the employment and though the possession as it precedes the act of retention or withholding may be rightful in the past affording an 179 Opportunity to withhold the withholding may be wrongful as in the present case.
 The learned Judge Ashok Agarwal J observes that that has been the consistent view of the High Court and has referred to the subsequent decisions of Khatri j J and Kurdukar J.
In our considered opinion the construction placed by the High Court on the provisions contained in s6301 is the only construction possible.
We accordingly uphold the view of the High Court of Bombay that the terms officer or employee  of a company applies not only to existing officers or employees but also to past officers or employees if such officer or employee either a wrongfully obtains possession of any property or b having obtained such property during the course of his employment withholds the same after the termination of his employment.
In the result the special leave petition must fail and is dismissed with costs.
The petitioner is given one month s time to vacate the premises failing which the respondents will be at liberty to take such proceedings as the law provides.
We direct the Additional Chief Metropolitan Magistrate 37th Court Esplanade Bombay to proceed with the trial of Crl.
Case No 76S1986 and dispose it of as expeditiously as possible and in any event not later than four months from today.
PSS Petition dismissed.
