This Court allowing the appeal held that in order to get the advantage of section 15A of the Bombay Rent Act the occupant must be in occupation of the premises as a licensee as defined in section 54A on the 1st of February 1973.
It was futher held that a person continuing in occupation of such premises after revocation of the licence was still liable to pay compensation or damages for its use and occupation.
The High Court disallowed the special civil application under Article 227 of the Constitution on 17th of November 1980 and that is the judgment impugned in this appeal.
This decision was remanded back to the High Court and it was directed that the appellant should be heard afresh in accordance with law because in a previous decision Vaidya J by the judgment dated 9th of December 1975 as mentioned hereinbefore had allowed the appellant s appeal.
Reviewing these decisions Denning LJ had observed at page 384 of the report 1 that to ascertain whether a document created a licence or lease the substance of the document must be preferred to the form 2 the real test was the intention of the parties whether they intended to create a lease or a licence 3 if the document created an interest in the property it is a lease but if it only permitted another to make use of the property of which the legal possession continued with the owner it was a licence and 4 if under the document a party got exclusive possession of the property prima facie he was considered to be a tenant but circumstances might be established which negative the intention to create a lease.
Mr RF Nariman very strenuously relied on the decision of this Court in Mrs MN Clubwala and another vs Fida Hussain Saheb and 1067 others  at page 653.
This decision was approved in appeal by this Court in Sohan Lal Naraindas vs Laxmidas Raghunath Gadit where this Court reiterated that the test of exclusive possession was important point.
To put precisely if an interest in immovable property entitling the transferee to enjoyment was created it was a lease if permission to use land without exclusive possession was alone granted a licence was the legal result.
In the document in question the expression licence was introduced and clause 2 said that it was only for the business purposes.
But in this case we had not been tempted.
The intention here is manifest.
In any event this is a possible view that could be taken.
Where two views are possible and the trial court has taken one view which is a possible and plausible view merely because another view is attractive the High Court should not interfere and would be in error in interfering with the finding of the trial court or interfering under Article 227 of the Constitution over such decision.
In the aforesaid view of the matter we are clearly of the opinion that in view of the intention of the parties in the document and the facts and circumstances of this case it was a licence and not a lease.
NPV Appeal dismissed.
