YS Chitale.
Madan Lokur Prashant Bhushan Beni Parshad Rajinder Dhawan and Jitendra Sharma for the Respondents.
The disputed property was let out on June 25 1976.
The accommodation was for the first time assessed for house tax by the Nagar Palika Ghaziabad with effect from October 1 1976.
The suit was filed for eviction after termination of tenancy before the trial court and objection was raised that as the shop and the basement were separately let out the tenancy could not be terminated by a single notice that would be invalid.
The High Court set aside this conclusion of the trial court.
vs Dig Vijendrapal Gupta etc.
It was contended that in this decision the Court was concerned with the provisions of Section 2 of the Act itself.
1086 has been crossed now the period of exemption has come to an end and therefore the appellant is entitled to the benefits thereof.
2 Explanation I of this Act that if there is an assessment made then the date of completion of the building the date from which 10 years are to be computed will be the date on which the first assessment was made.
Pending suits for eviction relating to buildings brought under regulation for the first time In any suit for eviction of a tenant from any building to which the old Act did not apply pending on the date of commencement of this Act where the tenant within one month from such date of commencement or from the date of his knowledge of the pendency of the suit whichever be later deposits in the court before which the suit is pending the entire amount of rent and damages for use and occupation such damages for use and occupation being calculated at the same rate as rent together with interest thereon at the rate of nine cent per annum and the landlord s full cost of the suit no decree for eviction shall be passed except on any of the grounds 164 mentioned in the proviso to sub section 1 or in clauses b A to g of sub section 2 of Section 20 and the parties shall be entitled to make necessary amendment in their pleadings and to adduce additional evidence where necessary Provided that a tenant the rent payable by whom does not exceed twenty five rupees per month need not deposit any interest as aforesaid It is pertinent to note that this Section applies to those suits which were pending on the date of the commencement of this Act.
Admittedly this Act came into force on 15th July 1972 and therefore if the suit was pending on that date it is only then that the provisions of Section 39 will come to the assistance of the tenant appellant.
Admittedly this suit was not pending on the date on which this Act came into force.
There is yet another reason why section 39 will have no application to the present case.
Section 40 of the Act reads as under 40.
It is clear that provisions of Section 40 will come to the rescue of the appellant tenant only if the suit from which revision or appeal arose was pending on the date of commencement of this Act ie 1571972 and therefore it could not be contended that the present revision petition or the appeal either to the High Court or the appellate authority arose out of suit which was pending on the date on which this Act came into force.
Admittedly the suit itself was filed much after the coming into force of this Act.
In this view of the matter therefore in our opinion even this contention of learned counsel for the appellant could not be accepted.
It is well settled that the rights of the parties will be determined on the basis of the rights available to them on the date of the suit but in Vineet Kumar s case supra this Court took the view that if during the pendency of the proceedings 10 years have elapsed the tenant is entitled to the protection under the Act and in coming to this conclusion the Court also considered the language of Section 39 of the Act and it observed The appellant in the present case only seeks the protection of the new Rent Act which became applicable to the premises in question during the pendency cf the litigation.
We see no reason why the benefit of the new Rent Act be not given to the appellant.
Section 20 of the new Rent Act provides a bar to a suit for eviction of a tenant except on the specified grounds as provided in the section.
Subsection 4 of section 20 stipulated that in any suit for eviction on the grounds mentioned in Cl.
a to sub section.
2 viz the arrears of rent if at the first hearing of the suit the tenant in default pays all arrears of rent to the landlord or deposits in court the entire amount of rent and damages for the use and occupation of the building due from him such damages for use and occupation being calculated at the same rate as rent together with interest thereon at the rate of nine per cent per annum and the landlord s cost of the suit in respect thereof after deducting therefrom any amount already deposited by the tenant under sub section 1 of section 30 the court may in lieu of passing a decree for eviction on that ground pass an order relieving the tenant against his liability for eviction on that ground.
Section 39 and 40 of the new Rent Act also indicate that the benefit of new Act will be given 166 to the tenant if the conditions contemplated in those sections are satisfied.
Section 39 also indicates that the parties are entitled to make necessary amendment in their pleadings and to adduce additional evidence where necessary  But unfortunately attention of the Court was not drawn to the Om Prakash Gupta s case supra which specifically considered this Act and the language of Section 39 in particular and is a decision of a Bench of three Judges which is binding on us.
The restriction on the right of a landlord to evict a tenant has been provided for in this Act under Section 20 and the language of Section 20 is also significant.
 This is put in Chapter IV with the heading Regulation and Eviction and the section starts with title which is printed in bold Bar of suit for eviction of tenant except on specified grounds and again in the wording of the section itself it provides No suit shall be instituted for eviction.
Keeping in view the language of this Section if we examine the provisions contained in sub section 2 of Section 2 it will be clear that for a newly constructed building the provisions of this Act will not apply for 10 years and therefore so far as the restriction under Section 20 is concerned they will not apply and therefore it is clear that within 10 years as provided for in clause 2 of Section 2 restriction of the 167 institution of suit as provided for in Section 20 clause 1 quoted above will not be applicable and it is thus clear that during the pendency of the litigation even of 10 years expired the restriction will not be attracted as the suit has been instituted within 10 years and therefore restriction as provided for in Section 20 can not be attracted.
The appellant tenant could not be given the advantage of the provisions contained  in this Act.
It is true that we maintained the decree for eviction passed by the High Court but in view of the fact that as the appellant has been carrying out the business in the premises for a long time for it would be proper to permit the appellant time to make their arrangements for shifting.
We therefore direct that the decree for eviction shall not be executed upto 3 1st March 1988 on the appellant filing a usual undertaking within four weeks.
In default the respondent shall be entitled to execute the decree forthwith.
In the circumstances of the case parties are directed to bear their own costs.
SL Appeal dismissed.
