The High Court observed That the findings in respect of charges la and le 29 should be set aside as being opposed to the rules of natur al justice but the findings in respect of charges lc a nd ld and charge 2 need not be disturbed.
But the Court in a case in which an order of dismissal of a public servant is impugned is n ot concerned to decide whether the sentence imposed provid ed it is justified by the rules is appropriate having rega rd to the gravity of misdemeanour established.
If the High Court is satisfied that if some but not all of t he findings of the Tribunal were unreasonable the order of the Governor on whose powers by the rules no restrictions in determining the appropriate punishment are placed w as final and the High Court had no jursidiction to direct t he Governor to review the penalty for as we have alrea dy observed the order of dismissal passed by a competent a u thority on a public servant if the conditions of the co n stitutional protection have been complied with is n ot justifiable.
 This proposition in Dhirajlal s case was explained a nd the statement of law in Bidyabhushan s case was affirmed in State of Maharashtra vs BK Takkamore  Ors  It was case of supersession of the Corporation.
On the other hand an order bas ed on several grounds some of which are found to be non exis t ent or irrelevant can be sustained if the court is sati s fied that the authority would have passed the order on t he basis of the other relevant and existing grounds and t he exclusion of the irrelevant or non existent grounds cou ld not have affected the ultimate opinion or decision.
The person unsuccessfully moved the High Court with a wr it petition challenging the order of the Commissioner a nd finally appealed to the Supreme Court.
 The learned Judge also said at 227 Now it is settled by the decision of this Court in State of Orissa vs Bidyabhushan Mohapatra that if the ord er of a punishing authority can be supported on any finding as to substantial misdemeanour for which the punishment can be imposed it is not for the Court to consider whether the 33 charge proved alone would have weighed with the authority in imposing the punishment.
The Tribunal cannot interfere with the findings of t he Inquiry Officer or competent authority where they are n ot arbitrary or utterly perverse.
If there has been an enquiry consiste nt with the rules and in accordance with principles of natur al justice what punishment would meet the ends of justice is a matter exclusively within the jurisdiction of the compete nt authority.
The Tribun al also cannot interfere with the penalty if the conclusion of the Inquiry Officer or the competent authority is based on evidence even if some of it is found to be irrelevant or extraneous to the matter.
If it is his case that he is not t he government servant who has been in fact convicted he c an also agitate this question in appeal revision or review.
He was found guilty of t he charge framed against him.
He 36 was a party to the fraudulent act for self aggrandisemen t.
