The Judgment of the Court was delivered by OJHA J.
for DGOF Their grievance in the writ petition was that ev en though quite a large number of Supervisors Grade A  h ad been promoted to the post of Chargeman grade II on compl e tion of two years  satisfactory work they had been discrim i nated against and had not been so promoted immediately on the expiry of two years  in pursuance of the aforesa id circular even though their work was satisfactory.
The reli ef prayed for in the said writ petition was for the issue of a writ of mandamus directing the Union of India through t he Director General of Ordnance Factories to promote the appe l lants to the post of Chargeman II.
It appears th at the criterion of promotion is seniority cum merit.
They howeve r did not find any substance in the submission made on beha lf of the appellants and accordingly dismissed the speci al appeal on 8th February 1977.
With regard to the plea based on Artic le 16 of the Constitution.
If the appellants are promote d they will naturally have to be promoted with effect from t he date on which they ought to have been promoted.
There will be no order as to costs.
The prayer made in Civil Miscellaneo us Petition No 3325 of 1987 is for the issue of an inter im order restraining the respondents from making any furth er promotions during the pendency and final heating of t he miscellaneous petition and for initiating contempt procee d ings.
It was also brought to our notice that similar ly placed 125 employees got the benefit of the circular dat ed 6th November 1962 in pursuance of an order passed by t he Madhya Pradesh High Court on 4th April 1983 in writ pet i tions filed by them.
It was urged that in case the sa me relief is not granted to the petitioners they are likely to become juniors to some of the appellants in Civil Appeal N o 441 of 1981 and the petitioners in the writ petitions deci d ed by the Madhya Pradesh High Court on 4th April 1983.
Howeve r merely on completion of two years  service a Supervisor  A  could not claim automatic promotion.
It was pointed out that this had be en found necessary not only because it would be in conformi ty with the practice obtaining in other Ministries but al so because on merits this period is necessary to judge t he performance in the lower post and the potentialities f or promotion to a higher post.
or in equivalent grades in the matter of promotion.
62 and 4416ANG dt.
29665.
or equivalent grades.
vs State of Mysore  Ors 82 and Sant Ram Sharma vs State of Rajasthan  Anr.
vs Sh.
 It is thus apparent that an executive instruction cou ld make a provision only with regard to a matter which was n ot covered by the Rules and that such executive instructi on could not override any provision of the Rule.
Since Rule 8 in t he instant case prescribed a procedure for making promotion t he said procedure could not be abrogated by the executi ve instruction dated 6th November 1962.
This circular had indeed the effect of accelerating t he chance of promotion.
This right was co n ferred by Rule 7 which inter alia provides that subject to the exception contained in Rule 11 vacancies in the pos ts enumerated therein will normally be filled by promotion of employees in the grade immediately below in accordance wi th the provisions of Rule 8.
The requirements of rule 8 in brief have already been indicated above.
The effect of this change obviously was th at now only fifty per cent vacancis in the post of Depu ty Collector being available in place of all the vacancies it was to take almost double the time for many other allocat ed Tehsildars to get promoted as Deputy Collectors.
In oth er words it resulted in delayed chance of promotion.
It wa s inter alia urged on behalf of the petitioners that t he situation brought about by the rules of July 30 1959 co n stituted variation to their prejudice in the conditions of service applicable to them immediately prior to the reorga n isation of the State and the Rules were consequently i n valid.
While repelling this submission the Constituti on Bench held All that happened as a result of making promotions to t he posts of Deputy Collectors divisionwise and limiting su ch promotions to 50 per cent of the total number of vacanci es in the posts of Deputy Collector was to reduce the chanc es of promotion available to the petitioners.
It is now we ll settled by the decision of this Court in State of Mysore vs GB Purohit that though a right to be considered for prom o tion is a condition of service mere chances of promoti on are not.
A rule which merely affects chances of promoti on cannot be regarded as varying a condition of service.
In Purohit s case the districtwise seniority of sanitary in 105 spectors was changed to Statewise seniority and as a resu lt of this change the respondents went down in seniority a nd became very junior.
This it was urged affected the ir chances of promotion which were protected under the provi so to Section 115 sub section 7.
This contention was neg a tived and Wanchoo J as he then was speaking on beha lf of this Court observed It is said on behalf of the r e spondents that as their chances of promotion have be en affected their conditions of service have been changed to their disadvantage.
We see no force in this argument becau se chances of promotion are not conditions or service.
 It i s therefore clear that neither the Rules of July 30 195 9 nor the procedure for making promotions to the posts of Deputy Collector divisionwise varies the conditions of service of the petitioners to their disadvantage.
 The same view was reiterated in Mohammad Shujat Ali a nd Ors.
  In the bri ef written submission filed on behalf of the petitioners in Writ Petition Nos.
This circumstance by itself is sufficient to indicate that when Civil Appeal No 441 of 1981 was heard by this Court either the subsequent ord er dated 28th December 1965 as well as the circular dated 20 th January 1966 and the legal consequences flowing therefr om were not brought to the notice of the learned Judges by t he learned counsel for the respondents or the same was n ot properly emphasised the judgment dated 2nd February 19 81 being completely silent on the point and the appeal w as allowed only on the ground that some Supervisors having be en promoted as Chargeman II on expiry of 2 years of the ir service in view of the circular dated 6th November 1962 t he non promotion of the appellants was discriminatory being in violation of Article 16.
At this place it will be usef ul to refer to an affidavit dated 19th November 1983 of D P Gupta who is one of the appellants in Civil Appeal No 4 41 of 1981 filed in CMP Nos.
Annexure I to the said affidavit gives a break up of the total diplo ma holders recruited in the Department due to acute need of Ordnance Department following the chinese aggression.
It indicates that approximately 125 diploma holders were r e cruited in 1962 550 in 1963 250 in 1964 150 in 1965 a nd 100 in 1966 the total number of such recruits being appro x imately 1175.
The said Annexure further indicates that o ut of the 1175 recruits about 625 were promoted to the post of Chargeman II in 1965 66 under the 2 year policy contained in circular dated 6th November 1962 and that approximately 5 50 diploma holders were denied promotion which resulted in discrimination.
It appears that the remaining 50 diploma holde rs recruited in 1963 and those who had been recruited in t he begning of 1964 or thereafter could not be promoted inasmu ch as by the time their cases could be considered for promoti on the subsequent order dated 28th December 1965 had come in to force and had also come into force the circular dated 20 th January 1966 which had superseded the circular dated 6 th November 1962 and had provided that in future promotions of all such individuals will be effected in accordance with t he normal rules and not merely on the completion of two yea rs satisfactory continuous service.
It cannot be disputed that the Director General of Ordnance Factories who had issued the circular dated 6 th November 1962 had the power to issue the subsequent circ u lar dated 20th January 1966 also.
In view of.
the leg al position pointed out above the aforesaid circular could n ot be treated to be one affecting adversely any condition of service of the Supervisors A .
It is further obvious th at in this view of the matter Supervisors A  who had be en promoted before the coming into force of the order dat ed 28th December 1965 and the circular dated 20th Januar y 1966 stood in a class separate from those whose promotio ns were to be made thereafter.
They apparently did not fall in t he same category.
In this connection reference may also be made to the cou n ter affidavit of Sobha Ramanand Deputy Director Ordnan ce Factory Cells G Block Ministry of Defence filed in Wr it Petition Civil Nos.
3812 19 of 1983 with regard to a matter relevant for promotion.
In paragraph 2i it has be en stated that during 1962 63 due to sudden expansion of Or d nance Factories Organisation in the wake of Chinese aggre s sion a large number of posts of Chargeman 11 and other pos ts were created and as a result thereof persons already in service as Supervisors A  were promoted to the posts of Chargeman II on completion of 2 years  service.
It h as further been stated therein that after the newly creat ed posts were thus filled by promotion chances of promotion of those who were appointed subsequently diminished and f or want of sufficient number of 108 vacancies as Chargeman II they could not be promoted to th at post soon after the completion of 2 years  service.
There is a further averment in the said counter affidavit that pet i tioners were duly considered in their turn and their nam es were brought on the approved panel.
Nothing substantial has been brought to our notice on beha lf of the petitioners on the basis of which the aforesa id statements made in the counter affidavit may be doubted.
These writ petitions therefore deserve to be dismissed.
The grievance of the petitio n ers however is that this promotion tantamounts to impl e mentation of the order of this Court dated 2nd Februar y 1981 only on paper inasmuch as they have not been grant ed the difference of back wages and promotion to higher pos ts on the basis of their back date promotion as Chargeman I I.
5987 92 of 1986 were filed in this Court by the Union of India a nd were dismissed on 28th July 1986.
The findings of t he Madhya Pradesh High Court in its judgment dated 4th Apri l 1983 thus stand approved by this Court.
As regards back wages the Madhya Pradesh Hi gh Court held It is the settled service rule that there has to be no p ay for no work ie a person will not be entitled to any p ay and allowance during the period for which he did not perfo rm the duties of a higher post although after due considerati on he was given a proper place in the gradation list havi ng deemed to be promoted to the higher post with effect fr om the date his junior was promoted.
So the petitioners are n ot entitled to claim any financial benefit retrospectively.
At the most they would be entitled to refixation of the ir present salary on the basis of the notional seniority gran t ed to them in different grades so that their present sala ry is not less than those who are immediately below them.
 In so far as Supervisors A  who claimed promotion as Chargeman 11 the following direction was accordingly giv en by the Madhya Pradesh High Court in its judgment dated 4 th April 1983 aforesaid All these petitioners are also entitled to be treated as Chargeman Grade II on completion of two years satisfacto ry service as Supervisor Grade A Consequently notion al seniority of these persons have to be refixed in Supervis or Grade A Chargeman Grade II Grade I and Assistant Forem an in cases of those who are holding that post  .
T he petitioners are also entitled to get their present sala ry re fixed after giving them notional seniority so that t he same is not lower than those who are immediately bel ow them.
We are further of the opinion that it is not a fit case for initiating any proceedings for contempt again st the respondents.
In the result the writ petitions fail and are di s missed.
