It was only this limited aspect eviction on the ground of non bona fide denial of title that was under consideration of the Court under section 102vii of the Act read with the proviso to section 101 and the Court s observa tions on the question of title were one on a collateral issue.
But we think Sri Parasaran is right in saying that since the Rent Controller has no jurisdiction to entertain an application except by a landlord or a tenant the ques tion of title to the property is one on which his very jurisdiction depends.
Per contra he may reach the conclusion on the materials before him that the landlord has no title yet it seems if he finds that the applicant is otherwise a landlord and that the grounds on which the tenant s denial was based were not bona fide he will have to order eviction.
In that case the Revenue Divisional Officer in 563 certain earlier proceedings had held that a particular village was not an estate and this had been confirmed by the District Collector and the High Court.
Negativing the plea of the plaintiffs the Court pointed out 8 xxx xxx xxx If a particular matter is one which does not fall within the exclusive jurisdiction of the revenue court then a decision of a revenue court on such a matter which might be incidentally given by the revenue court cannot be bind ing on the parties in a civil court.
The trial Judge rejected the application holding that question of the applicability of the Act was res judicata since it had been finally decid ed by the High Court between the same parties in respect of the same land in the earlier proceeding for fixation of standard rent.
In order to operate as res judicata the finding must be one disposing of a matter directly and substantially in issue in the former suit and the issue should have been heard and finally decided by the court trying such suit.
It has long been held that a question of title in a Small Cause suit can be regarded as incidental only to the substantial issue in the suit and cannot operate 8as res judicata in a subsequent suit in which the question of title is directly raised  .
vs Smt.
This is not the main relief for which the application is filed.
The State Tamil Nadu resisted the suit on merits by contending that the suit land was communal land and that the assignment or grant by the zamindar 569 in favour of plaintiff was invalid.
It also took a technical plea that the decision of the Additional Settlement Officer that the suit land was poramboke and not ryoti  land was final and the Civil Court s jurisdiction to decide that question was barred under section 64 C of the Tamil Nadu Estates Abolition and Conversion into Ryotwari Act 1948 which ran as follows 64 C Finality of orders passed under this Act 1 Any order passed by the Government or other authority under this Act in respect of matters to be determined for the purposes of this Act shall subject only to any appeal or revision provided by or under this Act be final.
We are concerned with the jurisdiction of a civil court.
If the civil court in this case had come to the conclusion that there is a relationship of a landlord and a tenant and that the LIC was entitled to recover the rent from the tenants it will have to pass a decree in favour of the LIC on the basis of the fair rent fixed by the Rent Controller.
The appeal is therefore dismissed.
