1.
Incidence of taxation 1 Subject to other provisions of this Act every dealer whose gross turnover during the year immediately preceding the commencement of this Act exceeded the taxable quantum Defined in section 7 shall be liable to pay tax under this Act on all sales and purchases effected after the coming into force of this Act.
Amendment of section 9 of Haryana Act 20 of 1973 For clauses b and bb of sub section 1 of section 9 of the principal Act the following clause shall be substituted namely b purchases goods other than those specified in Schedule B from any source in the State and uses them in the State in the manufacture of any other goods and either disposes of the manufactured goods in any manner otherwise than by way of sale in the State or dispatches the manufactured goods to a place outside the State in any manner otherwise than by way of sale in the course of inter State trade or commerce or in the course of export outside the territory of India within the meaning of subsection 1 of section 5 of the Central Sales Tax Act 1956or.
He submitted that the transactions in the present case fail under category 3 above.
was misplaced and overlooks the vital circumstances that what section 91b taxes are the purchases of raw materials and not the manufactured goods that were eventually exported.
High Court and that the appeals as well as writ petitions before us deserve to be dismissed.
The argument on behalf of the Revenue which has found favour with the High Court is that section 91 exempts only sales made in the course of export within the meaning of section 51 of the CST Act but not those under section 53 of the said Act.
Thus the statute within the same provision has made a distinction between a sale in the course of export within the meaning of section 5 and such a sale within the  meaning of section 53.
3 When we turn to section 27 next we find two provisoes introduced in section 271iva by Act 44 of 1976 the same amending Act that introduced the extra words at the end of section 91aii.
However this amendment which has been made both in section 9 and in section 24 by Act 1 of 1988 has not been given any retrospective effect.
Considering that the legislation is replete with instances of retrospec tive effect in some cases even to as early as a date as 791955 the failure or omission to give any retrospective effect to the amendment to section 9 in this regard is an eloquent pointer to the intention of the legislature.
The point made by him was this.
The exact terms of despatch are not clear and there are no facts on record which will help us to understand the course of transactions in the several cases before us.
They are either local sales or inter State sales or export sales.
It would be a local sale or inter State sale.
Even in such a case if the transport of goods from the assessee s place of business to the port is in pursuance of the terms of the sale the movement of the goods would be occasioned by the sale made by the assessee and would be an inter State sale.
We are therefore of the opinion that this alternative contention urged by the learned counsel for the assessee has to be accepted and it has to be held that since the sales effected by the assessees fall within one of the three exempted categories set out in section 91b there can be no levy of purchase tax under section 91 of the Act.
The State levied a purchase tax on the raw materials us 91.
This contention was accepted by this Court.
What was declared unconstitutional by this Court was therefore only the levy of a tax where raw materials are purchased and used inside the State for the manufacture of finished goods which are then simply and without any sale despatched rather consigned outside the State.
This argument will now be consid ered.
It provided that only purchases of declared goods goods speci fied in 365 Schedule C and goods falling under section 9 would be part of the turnover .
In other words purchases which did not fall under section 9 ie which could not be taxed under section 9 could not be taxed then under section 6 either.
The appeals and petitions are therefore allowed.
We however make no order regarding costs.
