Appeal No 1367 of 1980.
The matter was taken to the Board of Revenue for Rajasthan by a revision application and the Board by its order dated 14th April 1975 directed that the ceiling area for Raghubir Singh may be determined according to the old law ie Act of 1955 and not according to the new law ie Rajasthan Imposition of Ceiling on Agricultural Holding Act 1973 hereinafter referred to as the Act of 1973.
In the ultimate analysis the Member of the Board found that there was a gross and patent illegality in the order of the Sub Divisional Officer and consequently set aside the order of the Sub Divisional Officer dated 5th May 1976 as well as the order of the Appellate Authority dated 6th September 1976 and remanded the case to the Sub Divisional Officer Hanumangarh for fresh determination of the calling area for Raghubir Singh.
The general superintendence and control over all revenue courts shall be vested in an all such Courts shall be subordinate to the Board and subject to such superintendence control and subordination a x x x omitted b all Additional Collectors Sub.
Divisional Officer Assistant Collectors and Tehsildars in a district shall be subordinate to the Collector thereof call Assistant Collectors Tehsildars and Naib Tehsildars in a sub division shall be subordinate to the Sub Divisional Officer thereof and d All Additional Tehsildars and Naib Tehsildars in a tehsil shall be subordinate to the Tehsildar thereof.
For this purpose he relied or the decision of the Division Bench of the Rajasthan High Court reported as Karan Singh vs Board of Revenue Rajasthan.
The contention on behalf of the appellant to that effect was negatived but on merits the High Court held that it was not appropriate for the Board to exercise the powers conferred by Section 9 of the land Revenue Act in view of the fact that the Board had appellate jurisdiction and it could not therefore make use of its powers of superintendence and control and the order of the Board could not be held proper with reference to Section 9 of the Land Revenue Act.
It is clear from the language of Section 221 of the Act of 1955 that the Board of Revenue has general powers of superintendence and control over all revenue courts.
It is both administrative as well as judicial powers.
It is open to the Board to exercise its powers of superintendence on all its subordinate courts in order to regulate the functioning of  the subordinate courts so as to keep them within their respective spheres of jurisdiction.
If the subordinate court disregards any specific provision of law and does something illegal it is open to the Board of Revenue to interfere and set the matter right.
Board of Revenue.
There also there was similar provision like Section 9 of the Land Revenue Act and it was held that Section 12 of the said Ordinance must be held to give powers to the Board to revise judicial orders also passed by courts in appropriate cases.
At the same time the power is there and it may be exercised sparingly in extraordinary case where interest of justice requires that the Board should exercise the power.
 These words have been consistently interpreted to mean that the High Court had power in appropriate cases to interfere with the judicial orders of the courts.
In the Government of India Act of 1935 there was provision under Section 224 for superintendence by the High Courts  but subsection2 made it clear that this superintendence would not be construed as giving to the High Court any jurisdiction to question any judgment of any inferior court which was not otherwise subject to appeal or revision.
Section 221 of the Act of 1955 is similar to Section 107 of the Government of India Act 1915 and there is no section like sub section 2 of Section 224 of the Government of India Act of 1935 in the Act of 1955.
The High Court also did not go into the merits of the controversy nor we have thought it advisable to into it and it would be for the Sub Divisional Officer Hanumangarh to decide it in the light of the observations of the Board.
U R Appeal dismissed.
