August 14.
Action taken by the Government under the third proviso to sub section.
In other words the third proviso according to learned counsel 559 for the appellant merely enables the Government to exercise the right conferred on it by the second proviso and therefore the Government if it intends to avail itself of the right under the second proviso must comply with the conditions laid down in the third proviso.
It is said that the words  such right  in the third proviso relate to the rights mentioned in the second proviso that is to say rights created on or after July 1 1945.
The implications of the second proviso learned counsel for the appellant points out are two fold namely a that all rights created before the notified date but after July 1 1945 for a period not exceeding one year would be valid and enforceable both by and against the Government by the operation of the body of sub section.
1 itself and b that rights created before the notified date but after July 1 1945 for a period exceeding one year would also be valid and enforceable by the Government against the person in whose favour such right had been created by reason of section 201.
2 must therefore be entitled to compensation under sub section.
We are unable to accept this line of argument as correct.
But this is to read the third proviso as a proviso not to the section but to the second proviso and there is no warrant in law for such a construction.
If the third proviso also applies to such leases as the petitioners contend then the lease can be terminated only if the Government is satisfied that it is in the public interest that it should be terminated and that further in such cases the lessee will also be entitled to compensation under section 202.
 It is pointed out that the attention of the Madras High Court was not drawn to the rule framed by the Governor of Madras in exercise of powers conferred on him by section 67 1 and 2 of the Abolition Act.
That rule runs as follows  Rule In the case of any right in any land created by a landholder on or after the 1st day of July 1945 for a period exceeding one year and falling under the second proviso to section 201 of the said Act the authority to decide whether the right should be terminated or allowed to continue shall be the Board of Revenue.
It does not purport to lay down the manner in which such termination is to be brought about.
Even if that rule has the effect contended for it cannot in our view change the meaning of section 20 which we gather on a true construction thereof.
The argument is wholly untenable.
