The Additional Custodian however dismissed the application on the ground that r 146 of the Evacuee Property Rules which came into force on July 22 1952 stood in the way of cancellation of the allotment in favour of the appellant.
and allotment of which had been cancelled earlier.
The ground on which the appellants  application was rejected by the Deputy Custodian General was that his jurisdiction to revise the order has been 332 taken away by virtue of the provisions of  44 of 1954 and the notification issued thereunder on March 24 1955.
In that case the Court has held that the powers of the Custodian General to deal with matters of this kind have been taken away by the  and that these powers now vest in another authority and that there is no provision for continuing the pro ceedings which had been commenced under the  but had not been concluded.
What is urged by Mr Khanna on behalf of the Custodian General is that this is the effect of the provisions of sections 122 and 19 of the Act.
Sub section 2 of section 12 of the Act 1 ILR 1957 Punj.
333 provides that on the publication of the notification under sub section 1 the right title or interest of any evacuee in the property specified in the notification shall immediately stand extinguished and that property shall vest absolutely in the Central Government free from all encumbrances.
Sub section.
Under section 161 of this Act the Central Government is empowered to take such measures as it considers necessary or expedient for the custody management and disposal of the compensation pool.
Sub section.
This provision thus confers the power to deal with evacuee property acquired under the Act only on a managing officer appointed or managing corporation constituted under the Act and makes no mention whatsoever of the Custodian appointed under the .
No doubt under section 10 of the the Custodian is empowered to manage evacuee property and in exercise of his power he will be competent to allot such property to any person or to cancel an allotment or lease made in favour of a person.
It is true that there is nothing on record to show that a managing officer was appointed with respect to the Raikot properties acquired under the notification dated March 24 1955.
jab in the Department of Rehabilitation No 4892 S or 4892 S dated the 8th July 1949 or bby the notification of the Government of Patiala and East Punjab States Union in the Department of Rehabilitation No 8R or 9R dated the 23rd July 1949 and published in the official Gazette of that State dated the 7th August 1949 and such property is acquired under the provisions of this Act and forms part of the compensation pool the displaced person shall so long as the property remains vested in the Central Government continue in possession of such property on the same conditions on which he held the property immediately before the date of the acquisition and the Central Government may for the purpose of payment of compensation to such displaced person transfer to him such property on such terms and conditions as may be prescribed.
a of this section and therefore they would be entitled to the benefits conferred by this section provided they satisfied all the other requirements of this section express or implied.
Even assuming that the order of the Custodian cancelling the allotment in their favour was erroneous there will be no difference in the result because what is essential is the facts of holding and possession of the land on the date of the notification.
He said that the cancellation of the allotment in favour of the appellants was impermissible inasmuch as it was not based upon any of the grounds set out in the 6th condition.
Moreover the Custodian by reason of the divesting of the property as from March 24 1955 had become functus officio with respect to it and could not rectify any error made by him in the past in the matter of cancellation of allotment.
Mr Achhruram contended that r 74 of the Displaced Persons Compensation and Rehabilitation Rules 1955 stood in the way of the Custodian allotting the Raikot property to the respondents during the pendency of the proceedings before the Custodian General.
No property in a rural area in respect of which any case is pending in a Civil Court or before a Deputy Custodian Custodian or Custodian General shall be transferred to the allottee.
Moreover this rule applies to a proceeding before an authority created by the and not to an authority created by the .
There is therefore no substance in this argument.
Finally Mr Achhruram referred to section 17 of the 1954 Act and to r 102 of the Rules framed thereunder and said that the powers of the managing officers appointed under the Act are confined only to properties which are entrusted to them for management and not with respect to any other property.
Sub section.
Sub section.
2 provides that subject to the provisions of the Act and the rules made thereunder a managing officer or a managing corporation may among other things take such measures as he or it considers it necessary or expedient for the purpose of securing administering preserving managing or disposing of any property in the compensation pool entrusted to him or it etc.
He cannot therefore be permitted to make out a new case at this stage of argument.
He then contends that the provisions of section 191 of the Act being subject to rules made under the Act must be read along with r 102 which deals with cancellation of allotments of leases.
Appeal dismissed.
