Learned counsel for the appellant contends that the said boundary should be fixed solely with reference to the boundaries given in the lease of 1894 whereas learned counsel for the respondents contends that no plan has been annexed to the said lease and therefore the boundary could more satisfactorily and definitely be fixed with reference to the plans annexed to the subsequent lease deeds executed in favour of the successors in interest of the appellant and the respondents.
No plan was annexed to this lease deed.
It appears that Samanta purchased the interest of Banerji in the leasehold of 1894 and thereafter at the request of Samanta on November 23 1900 Durga Prasad Singh gave a fresh lease of the same holding to Samanta and incorporated a map in that lease ie exhibit 3b.
The plan exhibit 3b annexed to this lease deed shows the boundary line between the two leaseholds.
The appellant denied the said allegation and stated that the respondents all along knew and had been aware that the portion of coal land in question belonged to and was the property of the appellant.
It reads  Period Time from Description of suit.
property first pensation for wrong learns in ful taking or detain whose posses ing the same.
That apart section 3 of the Limitation Act makes it obligatory on a court to dismiss a suit barred by limitation although limitation has not been set up as a defence indicating thereby that it is the duty of a plaintiff to establish at any rate prima facie that the suit is within time.
Under section 101 of the Evidence Act the burden in the former sense is upon the party who comes to court to get a decision on the existence of certain facts which he asserts.
But the question is whether they have adduced evidence which had the effect of shifting the onus of proof to the appellant.
He stated in his evidence that the appellant had encroached upon the South Kujamal Colliery in Seam Nos 10 11 and 12 and another special seam known as 4 feet seam and that in August 1941 be came to know about the encroachment for the first time when the Mines Department forwarded a plan of the joint workings of the two collieries of the parties.
502 worked by the appellant by open quarry system.
There the suit was for conversion of property and the learned Judges applied article 48 of the Limitation Act to the said suit.
After noticing the words in the last column of the article the learned Judges proceeded to observe thus  The starting date of limitation in the case of conversion is the date when the person who has the right to possession first learns of the act of conversion.
 Adverting to the burden of proof the learned Judges observed There is nothing in the pleadings which would show precisely at what period tile plaintiff or the plaintiff s agent which is the same thing became aware of the sale and its wrongfulness that is to say became aware of the fact of conversion.
 In Talyarkhan vs Gangadas 3 Rangnekar J formulated the legal position thus The onus is on the plaintiff to prove that he first learnt within three years of the suit that the property which he is seeking to recover was in the possession of the defendant.
If he proves this then to succeed in the plea of limitation the defendant has to prove that the fact that the property was in his possession became known to the plaintiff more than three years prior to the suit.
Nor can we hold in favour of the appellant on the basis of such a possibility.
