Appeals Nos 45 and 46 of 1959.
Appeal by special leave from the judgment and order dated March 25 1957 of the former Bombay High Court in Appeal No 16 of 1957.
September 27.
The Judgment of the Court was delivered by DAS GUPTA J.
Ms.
Against this decision the sellers appealed.
In certain circumstances eg if the seller takes the bill of  lading to his own order and parts with it to a third person the property in the goods it has been held does not pass to the buyer even on shipment.
That was laid down in Brandt s case 1 and though in a later case in Hardy vs Pound 2 the Court of Appeal in England held that the judgment in Brandt s case 1 does not cover every FOB contract and that in the special facts of the particular case before them it was for the sellers to obtain the licence and this view was approved by the House of Lords  it is in our opinion correct to state that the presumption in FOB contracts is that it is the duty of the buyers to obtain export licence though in the circumstances of a particular case this duty may fall on the sellers.
What the court had to consider in these cases was not however when export commences within the meaning of the Exports Control Order but when the course of export commences for the purpose of article 2861b of the Constitution.
Section 10b provides for the levy of a purchase tax on the turnover of purchase of goods specified in column I of Schedule B at the rates if any specified against such goods in column 4 of the said schedule where a certificate under cl.
b of section 8 has been furnished in respect of such goods and the purchasing dealer does not show to the satisfaction of the Collector that the goods have been despatched by him or by a person to whom he has sold the goods to an address outside the State of Bombay within a period of six months from the date of purchase by the dealer furnishing such certificate .
It is therefore contended that  a person  in section 8b should be interpreted to include a registered dealer or anybody else.
If such despatch outside the State of Bombay is by a person to whom the certifying dealer has sold the goods but who is not a registered dealer the certificate has not been complied with.
