Appeal by special leave from the judgment and order dated December 8 1960 of the Allahabad High Court in Criminal Appeal No 1782 of 60 and Referred No 125 of 1960 section K Kapur for the appellant G C Mathur and C P Lal for the respondent.
December 19.
The Judgment of the Court was delivered by RAGUHBAR DAYAL J.
Ram Singh appeals by special leave against the order of the Allahabad High Court dismissing his appeal and confirming 204 his conviction and sentence of death under section 302 IPC by the Session Judge Etawah.
Sheo Sahai died of the injuries received.
He also denied the other allegations for the prosecution.
He alleged that one Paley Singh informed him about the murder of Sheo Sahai and asked him to go to the Police Station Ekdil and to inform the Station Officer orally about the murder.
The Courts below rightly did not accept his version.
The learned counsel for the appellant has argued that the entire report dictated by the appellant was inadmissible in evidence as its contents amounted to a confession of the offence by the appellant made to a Police Officer and that the evidence relied upon by the High Court was insufficient to establish that the appellant had murdered Sheo Sahai.
He also urges that such portions of the report which did not amount to a direct admission of the appellant s striking Sheo Sahai with a sword and thereby causing his death were admissible in evidence.
We do not consider it necessary to decide whether any portion of the report dictated by the appellant at the Police Station is admissible or not in evidence as there is good independent evidence with respect to the four matters mentioned in the report and relied on by the High Court in considering the case against the appellant.
These admissions of the appellant are i that he purchased a cycle from the deceased ii that there was a quarrel in a play of cards iii that he purchased a sword and iv that he deposited the sword at the Police Station.
In fact none of the prosecution witnesses is alleged to bear enmity with the appellant.
Paley Singh PW 2 and Baij Nath PW 4 depose about the dispute during the game of cards played on June 12 1960.
A receipt about the sale was found on the person of the appellant when he was searched after his arrest.
It is therefore not necessary to rely on the admissions of the appellant in the report with respect to these facts deposed to by the various witnesses whose testimony has been rightly accepted.
 With respect to the learned Judges these observations are not very consistent.
The learned Judges have not stated those considerations if any in addition to the improbability of Ujagar Singh s presence in his field on account of the crops being not very high which made them doubt the appellant s confessing to Ujagar Singh.
They damage the leaves of the plants and have no partiality for tall plants alone.
The learned Sessions Judge has discussed the criticism urged before him against the acceptance of the statement of Ujagar Singh and considered 208 it for reasons given not to justify the rejection of Ujagar Singh s statement.
There is no enmity between Ujagar Singh and the appellant and therefore no good reasons existed for Ujagar Singh to state falsely.
Extra judicial confessions are not usually considered with favour but that does not mean that such a confession coming from a person who has no reason to state falsely and to whom it is made in circumstances which tend to support his statement should not be believed.
The murder was committed in the month of June.
Both on account of the temperature and on account of the culprit s desire to wash of blood marks on his person the appellant s bathing in the Canal at that hour of the night cannot be said to be improbable.
It is not stated by sub Inspector Kishan Singh nor it is alleged that the appellant had on his person or on his clothes blood stains when he presented himself at the Police Station.
Of course this consideration springs out of the supposition that the appellant did commit the murder.
The fact that he had the sword which was stained with human blood leads to such a supposition even if the mere possession of a sword so stained be not sufficient to establish conclusively that the person who possessed it so shortly after the murder of a person with whom he had enmity had committed the murder.
There is no reason to think that the appellant would not make such a statement when the appellant himself proceeds to the Police Station and hands over the blood stained sword.
It is no doubt unusual as urged for the appellant that a person who commits a murder in pursuance of an enmity arising out of minor disputes would be feeling so justified in his conduct as to openly admit it to the first person he met and to go to the Police Station and report about it.
It is always difficult to find reasons for a person s acting in a certain manner.
It may be that having blurted out the truth to Ujagar Singh when taken by surprise the appellant thought the best thing to be to proceed to the Police Station and report the matter there.
The learned Sessions Judge has considered the criticism against such a conduct and has held that there were good reasons for Ujagar Singh s not leaving his field whose crops he was watching against the neel gais.
We agree with the view of the learned Sessions Judge and do not consider Ujagar Singh s conduct of continuing to remain on his field during the night to be so improbable as to affect his veracity.
Ujagar Singh went to the village at about 5 am and them told the people of what he had been told by the appellant.
The evidence of the appellant s having enmity with Sheo Sahai the appellant s conduct in purchasing a sword and delivering it stained with human blood to the Police and the appellant s confession to Ujagar Singh fully establish that the appellant did commit the murder of Sheo Sahai.
