As far back as 1952 the Labour Appellate Tribunal had occasion to consider this matter relating to discharge by notice or in lieu thereof by payment of wages for a certain period without assigning any reason see Buckingham and Carnatic Co Ltd Etg.
It was of opinion that even in a case of this kind the requirement of bona fides is essential and if the terminataton of service is a colourable exercise of the power or as a result of victimisation or unfair labour praction the industrial tribunal would have the jurisdiction to intervene and set aside such termination.
Further it held that where the termination of service is capricious arbitrary or unnecessarily harsh on the part of the employer judged by normal standards of a reasonable man that may be cogent evidence of victimisation or unfair labour practice.
The reason given by the appellant in the order terminating the services of Sankaran of July 8 1958 namely that the proposed inquiry if conducted would lead to further friction and deterioration in the rank and file of the employees in general and also that maintenance of discipline in the undertaking would be prejudiced if Sankaran were retained in service cannot be accepted at its face value so that the necessity for an inquiry intended to be held for misconduct actually charged might be done away with.
In the circumstances if the tribunal did not accept the evidence of the two witnesses 828 who were produced it cannot be said to have gone wrong.
Learned counsel for the appellant however relies on the decision of this Court in Parshotam Lal Dhingra vs Union of India.
Stress was laid by the learned counsel on the observations at p 862 where it was observed as follows It is true that the misconduct negligence inefficiency or other disqualification may be the motive or inducing factor which influences the Government to take action under the terms of the contract of employment or the specific service rule nevertheless if a right exists under the contract or the rule to terminate the service the motive operating on the mind of the Government is as Chagla C J has said in Srinivas Ganesh vs Union of India 2 supra wholly irrelevant.
In this case the tribunal held that the exercise of power was colourable and it cannot be said that view is incorrect.
Learned counsel for the appellant also drew our attention to another decision of this Court in 830 The Patna Electric Supply Co Ltd Patna vs Bali Rai1.
That case in our opinion has no application to the facts of this case because that case dealt with an application under section 33 of the Industrial Disputes Act while the present proceedings are under section 10 of the Act and the considerations which apply under section 33 are different in many respects from those which apply to an adjudication under section 10.
