These articles were found in an almirah the key of which was produced by the appellant s father.
A number of other articles were also seized at that time but we are not concerned with them as they have no connection with the charges against the appellant.
Briefly the appellant s defence in all these cases is that there are two factions in the Bulandshahr post office and that these articles were planted by the opposite party.
According to him the planting must have occurred in the Kotwali when the Sub Inspector purported to make a list of the articles seized from the house in which the appellant lives.
He stated and that fact is not denied that the house which consists of two rooms only has been rented in his father s name that both of them live in those two rooms and that the almirah was in his father s possession inasmuch as the key was produced by him.
2 That it has not been established that the five registered letters were in the exclusive possession of the appellant.
It may also be that because of the illegality of the search the Court may be inclined to examine carefully the evidence regarding the seizure.
As regards the fifth point it is sufficient to say that this Court has held that an appeal from acquittal need not be treated differently from an appeal from conviction and if the High Court finds that the acquittal is not justified by the evidence on record it can set aside the acquittal without coming to the conclusion that there were compelling reasons for doing so.
 The first act referred to in this section is theft.
In connection with a postal article addressed to some person the fact that it is retained in his possession by an officer of the post office in an almirah and that too for an inordinately long period would be tantamount to hiding that 414 article.
The object of the provision is to prevent postal articles in course of transmission by post  from being tampered with and so the secreting destruction  etc of postal articles to which the provision is directed is to such secreting destruction etc as would frustrate or tend to frustrate their delivery to the addressees.
Then Mr Misra contended that it would not be correct to say that the five registered letters recovered from the almirah were in the course of transmission by post because that recovery was made 7 or 8 months after those letters had been despatched and that no complaint had ever been made regarding their nondelivery by the senders or the addressees of those letters.
Their 416 evidence has been believed by the High Court and therefore there is an end to the matter.
The next and in our opinion the most important question to be considered is whether the prosecution has established that the five registered letters in question were recovered from the possession of the appellant.
As already stated all that the prosecution has been able to prove is this case is that these letters were found in an almirah of the house in which the appellant lives jointly with his father and of which the key was furnished by the father.
2 that at least nine of those postal articles were addressed to the respondent himself vide exhibit Ka 9 serial No 66 3 that Dewan Singh who we are informed is a very old man would not foist the said incriminating articles on his son and thus ruin his career for ever and 4 that the respondent alone can be said to have had some motive for secreting and concealing the registered letters and other postal articles in question.
 Before the High Court could take into consideration the circumstance that as between himself and his father the appellant had a better opportunity to 417 get at postal articles it had to find affirmatively that the almirah was in the exclusive possession of the appellant.
We have not been able to discover anything in the judgment which directly bears on this question.
But to say that he must be deemed to be in exclusive possession of these articles and not merely in their joint possession along with his father because he had the opportunity to get at the articles and then infer that he must have utilized the opportunity and was therefore in their exclusive possession would be arguing in a circle.
Moreover since entrustment of the articles has not been established the taking away of the articles by the appellant from the post office if that is how he came by the articles would be theft but it has not been found that he committed any theft.
Therefore the contention that he had an opportunity to get at the articles loses all significance and can possibly have no bearing on the question as to the nature of possession attributable to the appellant.
In the circumstances we must hold that the prosecution has failed to prove that these letters were in the exclusive possession of the appellant.
