The quantum of this pension was calculated on the basis of 14th of the revenue of the Jagir.
The letter by which the amount of pension was determined at Rs 363228 is dated 7th of July 1837 and was from H Elliot Esqr the Secretary Sadar Board of Revenue NWP Allahabad to J Thompson Esqr Offg.
The pension was paid regularly from year to year by the Government to Babu Har Narain Singh and his heirs.
The assessee appealed to the Appellate Assistant Commissioner who held that the alleged cash grant of varying and unspecified amount received by the appellant in relation to land revenue of Seyedpur now Tehsil of District Ghazipur clearly fell within the definition of agricultural income under Section 21 of the Incometax Act The Income tax Officer appealed to the Income tax Appellate Tribunal.
 The High Court held that from the language of the letter of July 7 1837 it was manifest that the right which was conferred 703 was a right to a share of one fourth in the net land revenue collections after deducting costs of Tahsil establishment.
As a consideration for relinquishing the right to the land and the revenue thereof the respondent and his ancestors were given an allowance of Rs 30612 13 0.
We are unable to agree with his contention.
If this is the true interpretation of the arrangement arrived at the question arises whether the pension or allowance is agricultural income Agricultural income  is defined in section 2 of the Act as follows 1 agricultural income means a any rent or revenue derived from land which is used for agricultural purposes and is either assessed to land revenue in British India or subject to a local rate assessed and collected by officers of the Crown as such   In Maharajkumar Gopal Saran Narain Singh vs Commissioner of Income tax Bihar and Orissa2 the facts were that the assessee had conveyed the greater portion of his estate.
And rent is not land within the meaning of the definition This Court observed in Mrs Bacha F Guzdar Bombay Commissioner of Income tax Bombay4 as follow Agricultural income as defined in the Act is intended to refer to the revenue received by direct association with the land which is used for agricultural purposes and not by indirectly extending it to cases where that revenue or part thereof changes hands either by way of distribution of dividends or otherwise 1  2 3 16 ITR325 4 705 The same test was adopted by this Court in Maharajadhiraja Sir Kameshwar Singh vs Commissioner of Income tax Bihar and Orissa1 and the Court again looked to the source of the right in order to determine whether income was agricultural income or not.
The remuneration not being received as rent or revenue of agricultural lands under a title legal or beneficial in the property from which the income is received it is not income exempt under section 43viii.
Mr Sastri contends that it is capital receipt.
He refers to the following passage from the speech of Viscount Simon in Commissioner of Inland Revenue vs Wesleyan and General Assurance Society1 It may be well to repeat two propositions which are well established in the application of the law relating to Income tax.
If the other method is adopted tax will not be payable .
2 707 his estate for a capital sum payable in installments.
