ivil Appeal No 325 of 1965.
Appeal by special leave from the Award dated September 20 1963 of the Central Government Industrial Tribunal Bombay in Reference CG IT 25 of 1962.
section V Gupte Solicitor General M Rajagopalan and K R Choudhuri for the appellants.
C B Agarwala J B Dadachanji O C Mathur and Ravinder Narain for the respondents.
The Judgment of the Court was delivered by Hidayatullah J.
This is an appeal by special leave against an award dated September 20 1963 made by the Presiding Officer of the Central Government Industrial Tribunal Bombay in a reference made by the Government of India under section 102 of the .
The appellants are the workmen of the Bombay Port Trust who are and have been represented in this dispute by the Bombay Port Trust Employees  Union.
The respondents to this appeal are the trustees of the Port of Bombay.
The reference was made on a joint application of the parties.
and the matter in dispute was stated to be  Whether the existing system of work of the shore crew of the Prince s and Victoria Docks under which each shift consists of 8 hours  normal duty 2 hours  variable recess and 12 hours  overtime needs any modification The Tribunal by the award impugned here held that the Union was not able to establish that the existing system of work needed any modification.
The Port Trust had under its control several docks.
Reference in this judgment will be made to the Prince s and Victoria Docks the Alexandra Docks Butcher Island and the Flotilla Crew.
These represent different areas of work where different groups of workmen were employed.
Previously the shore crew at all these places worked in a single shift and were liable to be called out at 634 any hour of the day or night.
3 Nothing in this rule shall be deemed to affect the provisions of the  The controversy in the present case is a narrow one.
It is whether the fixing of a two hours  rest and two hours  overtime involves a breach of the two sections of the Act and the two rules quoted here  The workmen claim that under a scheme of 12hour shifts with 8 hours  work overtime should be at least 3 hours if not 4 and by fixing only two hours  overtime the Trustee are B guilty of the breach of the Act and the Rules.
Unfortunately the provisions of the and the Minimum Wages 639 Central Rules 1950 are not as clear as the corresponding provisions of the and they have led to long arguments before us.
We shall refer to the provisions of the later because for the present we must consider the provisions of the Act and the Rules without drawing any assistance from the .
Section 13 of the Act does not itself fix the hours of work or rest or overtime.
That is done by the Rules.
Section 13 only authorises Government to fix the number of hours which shall constitute a normal working day inclusive of on .
or more specified intervals.
The normal working day thus includes a hours of actual duty and b one or more specified intervals.
There may be one interval of rest or there may be more intervals but whatever their number they must be specified.
By interval under section 13 is obviously meant interval of rest and this is clear from Rule 242.
There is no definition of interval either in the Act or the Rules but the provisions of section 13 2 c read with section 13 3 give us an indication of what is meant by an interval of rest.
It means a break in the work during which a workman though present on duty is not called upon to display either physical activity or sustained attention.
If it is the latter it is counted as actual work period if the former it is counted as a period of rest provided the period is specified beforehand and the workman is neither called upon to work nor expected to work.
Having thus distinguished between period of work and interval of rest we may now turn to Rule 24 which prescribes the number of hours of work which is to constitute a normal working day.
Sub rule 1 a provides that the number of hours constituting a normal working day for an adult shall be 9.
As the heading of the Rule shows these are the hours of work.
Sub rule 2 then lays down that the working day of an adult shall be so arranged that inclusive of intervals for rest it shall not spread over more than twelve hours on any day.
The distinction between intervals of rest and hours of work is thus made clear.
From this it follows that on any single day the number of hours of work must not exceed 9 and together with the hours of rest the total period of work and rest should not go beyond 12 hours.
It is wrong to contend that the period of 9 hours must always include intervals of rest.
It may or it may not.
There is no provision in the Act and the Rules corresponding to section 55 of the Factories 640 Act to which reference will be made hereafter.
In a 12 hour shift the nine hours of work on any day can be spread over 12 hours and the extra hours will necessarily be hours of rest.
There is clear antinomy between hours of work and intervals of rest in sub rules 1 and 2 of Rule 24 and the phrase inclusive of one or more specified intervals  governs the normal working day and not the number of hours of work.
Under sub rule 2 of Rule 24 the working day of an adult can be so arranged that inclusive of intervals of rest it does not exceed 12 hours on any day.
A working day of 12 hours is thus made up of hours of work and hours of rest and the number of hours of work which cannot exceed 9 is part of the normal working day which may also include one or more specified intervals of rest.
That action speaks of overtime.
Overtime is payable for work in excess of the number of hours constituting a normal working day.
The section so read lays down  Where an employee   works on any day in excess of 9 hours the employer shall pay him for every hour or for part of an hour so worked in excess at the overtime rate    Under Rule 25 1 b this overtime rate is double the ordinary rate of wages.
Average duration of actual work payable at ordinary rate of wages per day thus comes to 8 hours.
These periods of rest must not be periods during which the workman is on duty and inaction is due to want of work for him but they must be pre determined periods of inaction during which the workman is neither called upon nor expected to display physical activity or sustained attention.
If he takes work during the extra 4 hours or fails to specify the hours of rest he must pay overtime.
Overtime under section 14 is only payable when the workman works in excess of the number of hours constituting a normal working day.
As in the present case the total number of hours of work in a week is 48 8 hours per day for 6 days overtime is payable for that hour or part of an hour beyond the 8 hours in which the workman is either made to work or the interval is not specified.
Daily hours.
54Daily hours Subject to the provisions of section 51 no adult worker shall be required or allowed to work in a factory for more than nine hours in any day Provided   55.
2    56.
The periods of work of an adult worker in a factory shall be so arranged that inclusive of his intervals for rest under section 55 they shall not spread over more than ten and a half hours in any day Provided that the Chief Inspector may for reasons to be specified in writing increase the spread over to twelve hours.
There is no provision in the which breaks up the hours of work by interposing a compulsory period of rest as is done by the latter part of section 55 of the .
The reason perhaps is that in some employments time for work depends on some 643 extraneous factors and hours of rest cannot always be fixed to break up those hours.
This is achieved by pres cribing that the hours of work in a six day week shall not exceed 48 although on any particular day the hours of work in a day may go up to 9.
In this indirect way one hour of rest is included in a normal working day because the total number of work hours in a six day week cannot go beyond 48.
The Trustees cannot be compelled to break up the hours of work by interposing intervals for rest if owing to the nature of the work there is difficulty in giving the intervals for rest in that manner on any particular day.
They point out that in the former there is 3 hours  overtime and in the latter there is 4 hours of overtime in the 12 hour shifts but at the Prince s and Victoria Docks there is 2 hours  overtime only.
The crew at the Prince s and Victoria Docks work in a different way and their case cannot be compared with that of the Flotilla Crew or the crew at the Alexandra Docks.
