Appeal No 381 of 1966.
The words in the opinion of govern the words there are circumstances suggesting and not the words may do so.
This paragraph is in answer to paragraph 21 of the writ petition.
It would be destroying the beneficial effective use of the powers given by the section to say that the Board must first show that a fraud can clearly be said to havebeen committed.
The investigation according to Mr Setalvad.
Without prejudice to its powers under section 235 the Central Government a b may do so ie appoint one or more competent persons as inspectors to investigate etc if in the opinion of the Central Government there are circumstances suggesting i that the business of the company is being conducted with intent to defraud its creditors members or any other persons or otherwise for a fraudulent or unlawful purpose or in a manner oppressive of any of its members or that the company was formed for any fraudulent or unlawful purpose ii that persons concerned in the formation of the company or the management of its affairs have in connection therewith been guilty of fraud misfeasance or other misconduct towards the company or towards any of its members or iii that the members of the company have not been given all the information with respect to its affairs which they might reasonably expect including information relating to the calculation of the commission payable to a managing or other director the managing agent the secretaries and treasurers or the manager of the company.
1 As soon as may be after the commencement of the Companies Amendment Act 1963 the Central Government shall by notification in the Official Gazette constitute a Board to be called the Board of Company Law Admin istration to exercise and discharge such powers and functions conferred on the Central Government by or under this Act or any other law as may be delegated to it by that Government.
a of sub section.
 This sub section enables the work of the Board to be distributed among members while sub section.
Had the matter rested there it would have been a question whether this Court should interfere with a subjective opinion when the affidavit showed that there were materials for consideration.
In the context of section 10E I am inclined to construe this rule making power liberally The Central Government has power to constitute the Company Law Board to delegate its functions to the Board and to control 1 2 342 the Board in the exercise of its delegated functions.
