Appeal No 696 of 1966.
Appeal by special leave from the judgment and order dated September 13 1963 of the Madras High Court in Writ Appeal No IO of 1962.
P Ram Reddy and A V Rangam for the appellant.
R Ganapathy Iyer for the respondent.
The Judgment of the Court was delivered by Ramaswami J.
The respondent appealed to the Commercial Tax Officer as well as to the Board of Revenue but the appeals were dismissed.
The respondent thereafter moved the Madras High Court under article 226 of the Constitution for the issue of a writ in the nature of certiorari to quash the orders of the Commercial Tax Officer and the Board of Revenue.
The Division Bench consisting of section Ramachandra Iyer CJ and Ramakrishnan J reversed the judgment of the Single Judge holding that Rule 21 A of the Sales Tax Rules was illegal and ultra vires and the respondent was not liable to pay the sales tax due from his predecessor in title Purushottam Raju.
This appeal is brought by special leave from the judgment of the Division Bench of the Madras High Court dated September 13 1963 in Writ Appeal No 10 of 1962.
The trans feree shall also be liable to pay tax under the Act on the sales of goods effected by him with effect from the date of such transfer and shall within thirty days of the transfer apply for registration or licence as the case may be unless he already holds a certificate of registration or licence as the case may be.
Section 2b of the Act defines a dealer as a person who carries on the business of buying selling .
goods.
The word turnover is defined in section 2i of the Act to mean the aggregate amount for which goods are either bought or sold by a dealer whether for cash or for deferred payment or other valuable consideration .
It is manifest that a person who purchases a business as a dealer  can be assessed to sales tax only in respect of his turnover and under the scheme of the charging provision of the Act the purchaser of the business has nothing to do with the sales effected by the seller of the business.
The turnover in respect of such sales remains therefore the turnover of the transferor and not of the transferee.
By the amending Act of 1959 Act 1 of 1959 an express provision was inserted by which the transferee of the business was made liable for the arrears of sales tax due from the transferor.
Section 192c deals with the assessment to tax of businesses which are discontinued or the ownership of which has changed.
The word is used sometimes to mean the computation of income sometimes the determination of the amount of tax payable and sometimes the whole procedure laid down in the Income tax Act for imposing liability on the tax payer.
of income.
In Chatturam vs CIT Bihar1 the Federal Court pointed out relying upon the decision of the House of Lords in 1  21 1.
The liability is definitely created by sections 3 and 4 of the Income tax Act which are the charging sections and the assessment order under section 23 only quantifies the liability which has already been definitely and finally created by the charging sections and the provision in regard to assessment relates only to the machinery of taxation.
We consider that in the context and background of other sections of the Act the word assessment  used in section 192c does not include the power of recovering tax assessed from a person other than the assessee.
It was then submitted by Mr Ram Reddy that Rule 21 A may be supported by the language of section 101 of the Act which states 10.
Payment and recovery of tax 1 The tax assessed under this Act shall be paid in such manner and in such instalments if any and within such time as may be specified in the notice of assessment not being less than fifteen days from the date of service of the notice.
If default is made in paying according to the notice of assessment the whole of the amount outstanding on the date of default shall become immediately due and shall be a charge on the properties of the person or persons liable to pay the tax under this Act.
Section 10 of the Act as it stood before the Madras General Sales tax 3rd amendment Act 1956 Act No XV of 1956 read as follows The tax assessed under this Act shall be paid in such manner and in such instalments if any and within such time as may be specified in the notice of assessment not being less than fifteen days from the date of service of the notice.
 This section was amended by section 8 of the Madras General Sales tax 3rd amendment Act 1956 which reads as follows 1 666 Substitution of new section for section 10 in Madras Act IX of 1939.
For section 10 of the principal Act the following section shall be substituted namely 10.
Payment and recovery of tax 1 The tax assessed under this Act shall be paid in such manner and in such instalments if any and within such time as may be specified in the notice of assessment not being less than fifteen days from the date of service of the notice.
If default is made in paying according to the notice of assessment the whole of the amount outstanding on the date of default shall become immediately due and shall be a charge on the properties of the person or persons liable to pay the tax under this Act  .
The 3rd Amendment Act 1956 received the assent of the President on October 1 1956 but it was published in the Madras Gazette on October 8 1956.
 In the present case the Act is not expressed to come into operation on any particular date but as it was published in the Madras Gazette on October 8 1956 the Act came into operation on that date and not before.
RKPS Appeal dismissed.
