Appeal No 787 of 1964.
Appeal from the judgment and decree dated January 5 1961 of the Calcutta High Court in Appeal from Appellate Decree No 1012 of 1955.
AK Sen and D N Mukherjee for the appellant.
Sukumar Ghose for respondent No 1.
The Judgment of WANCHOO C J and MITTER J was delivered by MITTER J BHAGAVA J delivered a separate Opinion.
Mitter J This is an appeal by a certificate granted by the High Court at Calcutta from a judgment and decree in Second Appeal passed by that court in January 1961.
The question before us is whether the respondent No 1 was entitled.
to the benefit of the Calcutta Thika Tenancy Act 1949 as amended finally by an Act of 1953.
In the notice to quit served on the 7th May 1948 the first two persons were described as tenants under the plaintiff and the third as a person who had purported to purchase the structures on the land and the tenancy right therein.
In the plaint itself the first two defendants were described as thika tenants.
No claim was made for rents or taxes although it was alleged that the same were in arrears.
Abdul Gaffur preferred a Second Appeal to the High Court and this was heard and disposed of by a single Judge of that court on July 21 1954 long after the Thika Tenancy Ordinance of 1952 and the Amending Act of 1953 had come into force.
The definition of a thika tenant was modified slightly but the change affected thereby need not be taken account of because the respondent Gaffur s position was not improved thereby.
Sub section.
No exception was made under section 29 to cases where possession of the holding had been recovered from the thika tenant.
The consequence was that even if the tenant had lost possession but any proceeding even arising from an execution proceeding was pending the provisions of the Act would be attracted.
The only qualification was that even if the suit had been filed before the Act but was riot disposed of by that date the landlord had to establish that be was entitled to possession because of the existence of any of the grounds mentioned in section 3.
He was however not to be bound he could not have done because of the passing of the Act after the filing of his suit.
Sub section.
Sub section.
Sub section.
1 of section 5 made the Act as amended by the Ordinance applicable to all cases pending before a court or a controller.
Sub section.
Under section 9 any proceedings commenced under sub section.
2 of section 5 of the Calcutta Thika Tenancy Amendment Ordinance were to be continued as if such sub sections.
Sub section.
2 of section 1 made the provisions of the Calcutta Thika Tenancy Act 1949 as amended by the Act of 1953 applicable to all suits appeals and proceedings pending on 21st October before any court or before the controller or before a person deciding an appeal under section 27 of the Act.
According to Craies on Statute Law Sixth Edition at p 391 If it is a necessary implication from the language employed that the legislature intended a particular section to have a retrospective operation the courts will give it such an operation.
This was decided in terms of the Gaming Act 1845 section 18 of which enacted that  no suit shall be brought or maintained for recovering any such sum of money  and the question was whether that enactment was retrospective so as to defeat an action already commenced.
According to Halsbury s Laws of England third edition Vol 36 page 413 article 627 Unless it is clearly and unambiguously intended to do so a statute should not be construed so as to interfere with or prejudice established private rights under contracts or the title to property or so as to deprive a man of his property without his having an opportunity of being heard.
The provisions of the Act of 1949 as finally amended by the Act of 1953 have to be examined to show how far they disturb the rights of landlord to recover possession of the property from a person who would be a thika tenant on 28th February 1949.
The legislature clearly meant section 4 to be prospective because according to its language the landlord who wishes to eject the thika tenant 1 2 39 Times Law Reporter 31 181 must give at least one month s notice in writing or three months  notice as the case may be.
Before the Act had come into force the landlord could not possibly know that his suit would be liable to be defeated unless he applied to the controller because there was no such authority functioning then.
Section 28 was meant to give relief to a thika tenant in a case where a decree or order for recovery of possession of any holding from a thika tenant had been made before the date of commencement of the Act.
The language of section 5 being closely similar to that used in section 4 that section should also be held to be prospective only.
As Abdul Gaffur came under the definition of a thika tenant by the Amending Act of 1953 we have to proceed on the basis that he was such a tenant in 1949 with the result that he could claim the benefit of section 4 of the Act.
Most of the Rent Control Acts all over India contain similar provisions and courts have always held such provisions applicable to pending proceedings.
Whereas before the enactment of the Calcutta Thika Tenancy Act 1949 it was not necessary for the landlord either to allege any of the grounds specified in section 3 or to prove the existence thereof at the hearing of the suit he had to establish the existence of such a ground when the suit was heard.
All that the section lays down is that ejectment could not be had unless the existence of one of the grounds was proved.
As section 4 of the Act was prospective only it could not apply to this case.
