district and sessions judge was posted as joint secretary in the law department in the same month.
Shri PC Dey.
The government s prayer for necessary certificates for leave to appeal to this Court was rejected.
It was not the case of the contesting respondents that Shri PC Dey Shri KK Bose and Shri BK Patro had not the necessary qualifications to hold the posts they were holding.
Hence in the case of Shri PC Dey it must be assumed that his services were placed by the High Court at the disposal of the government for being posted as member sales tax tribunal.
Those posts are similar to.
district and sessions judge.
In Ranga Mahammad s case2 the point that arose for decision was as to who was the authority to transfer a district judge.
He must depend on his department for information.
There is less chance of success for a person seeking advantage for himself if the Chief Justice and his colleagues with personal information deal with the matter than when a Minister deals with it on notes and information supplied by a secretary.
What is of the essence in a decision is its ratio and not every observation found therein nor what logically follows from the various observations made in it.
 It is not a profitable task to extract a sentence here and there from a judgment and to build upon it.
Neither Bagchi s case nor Ranga Mahammad s case is of any assistance to us in deciding the question whether the High Court has competence to fill some of the posts in the secretariat by transfer judicial officers under Its control.
It is for the executive to say whether a particular officer would meet its requirements or not.
While sparing the service of any judicial officer to the government it is open to the High Court to fix the period during which he may hold any executive post.
The government in its turn should appreciate the anxiety of the High Court that judicial officers should not be allowed to acquire vested interest in the secretariat.
As Shri KK Bose and Shri BK Patro had not been placed at the disposal of the government for any definite period it was open to the High Court to recall them and post them as presiding officers of district courts.
Those officers are now functioning in the posts to which they were transferred.
RKPS Appeals allowed in part.
