ases Nos 297 and 298 of 1951.
Appeals under article 132 1 of the Constitution from the judgment and order dated 28th August 1951 of the High Court of Judicature at Calcutta Harries CJ Chakravarthi Das Banerjee and SR Das Gupta JJ in Civil Revision Cases Nos 942 and 1113 of 1951.
The facts of the case and the argument of Counsel appear fully in the judgment.
MC Setalvad Attorney General for India B Sen with him for the appellant in Case No 297.
Jitendra Nath Ghose R P Bagchi with him for the respondent in Case No 297.
AA Peerbhoy and JB Dadachanji for Habib Mohammad Intervener.
B Sen for the appellant in Case No 298.
delivered separate judgments agreeing with the conclusion of the Chief Justice Das Gupta J however going further and holding that section 5 1 was unconstitutional in its entirety inasmuch as the clas sification sought to be made on the expediency of speedier trial is not a well defined classification.
By admitting only their relatives and friends 1  4  2  5   3 297 to apprenticeship the members of the board made it impossi ble with occasional exceptions for others to be appointed as State pilots.
It does not either in terms or by necessary implication discriminate as between persons or classes of persons nor does it purport to deny to any one equality before the law or the equal protection of the laws.
I cannot share the view of Das Gupta J that the expediency of speedier trial is too vague and indefinite to be the basis of a well de fined classification.
FAZL ALl J.
In the course of the arguments it was suggested that the Act is open to criticism on two different and distinct grounds these being  1 that it involves excessive delegation of legislative authority amounting to its abdication in so far as it gives unfettered discretion to the executive without laying down any standards or rules of guidance to make use of the procedure laid down by it and 2 that it infringes article 14 of the Constitution.
Some of these Articles are confined to citizens only and some can be availed of by non citizens also but on reading these provisions as a whole one can see the great importance attached to the principle of equality in the Constitution.
MAHAJAN J.
I find it difficult however to hold that the difference in the procedure that has been introduced by the West Bengal Special Courts Act is of a minor or unsubstan tial character which has not prejudiced the interests of the accused.
In a sessions case on the other hand the trial is actually before another Judge who was not connected with the earlier proceeding.
Amongst other important changes reference may be made to the provision of section 13 of the Act which empowers the Special Court to convict an accused of any offence if the commission of such offence is proved during trial although he was not charged with the same or could be charged with it in the manner contemplated by section 236 of the Criminal Procedure Code nor was it a minor offence within the meaning of section 238 of the Code.
Under section a50 of the Criminal Procedure Code when a case after being heard in part goes for disposal before another Magistrate the accused has the right to demand before the second Magistrate commences the proceedings that the witnesses already examined should be re examined and re heard.
It appears to be an accepted doctrine of American courts that the purpose of the equal protection clause is to secure every person within the States against arbitrary discrimination whether occasioned by the express terms of the statute or by their 1  331 improper application through duly constituted agents.
In the opinion of the learned Chief Justice if the State Govern ment had directed certain offences or classes of offences committed within the 1  332 territory of West Bengal to be tried by the Special Court the law or order could not have been impeached as discrimi natory.
If the provision of section 5 of the Act is invalid even to the limited extent mentioned above.
In order to pass the test two conditions must be fulfilled namely 1 that the classification must be founded on an intelligible differentia which distinguishes those that are grouped together from others 1  2  335 and 2 that that differentia must have a rational relation to the object sought to be achieved by the Act.
The difference brought about by a statute may be of such a trivial unsub stantial and illusory nature that that circumstance alone may be regarded as cogent ground for holding that the stat ute has not discriminated at all and that no inequality has in fact been created.
The different sec tions of the Act have been analysed and the important dif ferences have been clearly indicated by the learned Chief Justice of West Bengal and need not be repeated in detail.
The far reaching effect of the elimination of the committal proceedings cannot possibly be ignored merely by stating that the warrant procedure under the Code in a way also involves a committal by the trial Magistrate namely to himself for the warrant procedure minimises the chances of the prosecution being thrown out at the preliminary stage.
The classifi cation of  offences by itself is not calculated to touch any individual as such although it may after the classifi cation is made affect all individuals who may commit the particular offence.
Such being the meaning and implication of this part of section 5 1 the question arises whether the process of classification thus contemplated by the Act conforms to the requirements of reasonable classification which does not offend against the Constitution.
In ray judgment the High Court was right in quashing the conviction 347 of the respondents in the one case and in prohibiting fur ther proceedings in the other case and these appeals should be dismissed.
Section 5 sub clause 1 of the impugned Act is in these terms   A Special Court shall try such offences or classes of offences or cases or classes of cases as the State Govern ment may by general or special order in writing direct.
On the terms of section 5 it would be perfectly open to the State Government to send before the Special Court any case whatever its nature whether it has arisen out of a particular incident or re lates to a crime of normal occurrence whether the offence involved is grave or simple whether it needs more expedi tious trial or not.
Citing the case of Sunday Lake Iron Co vs Wakefield Rogers vs Alabama and Concordia Fire Ins.
We find men accused of heinous crimes called upon to answer for their lives and liber ties.
It matters not how lofty and laudable the motives are.
