The principle for fixation of minimum wages that should ordinarily be adopted was laid down by this Court in the case of French Motor Car Co Limited.
Having come to this view it is clear that to give full effect to the principle laid down by this Court the case of French Motor Car Co1 the Tribunal should have proceeded to fix the minimum wage in the Company on the basis of the average minimum wage prevailing in these concerns.
in the Company must be fixed at the average level of wages in the other comparable industries in the region.
According to him note should be taken of the fact that at least  in the paper industry in this.
It was also urged that in fixing the minimum wage the wages payable in the paper industry in other.
into account.
Learned counsel was however unable to show to us that this Court or any other Tribunal has ever laid down the principle that where the dearness allowance forms a part of the consolidated wage fixed there should be such linking so as to bring in continuous variation of the wage depending on the variation in the Price Index.
It appears to us that an Industrial Tribunal has the discretion in appropriate cases of making a direction linking the dearness allowance element of a wage to the Price Index but at the same time the Tribunal is entitled to choose the alternative course of fixing the wage at the prevailing Price Index and leaving the labour to raise a fresh demand and if necessary a fresh industrial dispute for further rise in wages in case there is marked variation in the Price Index and the wage fixed in the award becomes out dated.
The idea of fixing such wage in the light of cost of living at a particular juncture of time and of neutralising the rising prices of essential commodities by linking up scales of minimum wages with the cost of living index cannot therefore be said to be alien to the concept of a minimum wage.
It may be noticed that by the very nature of employment being casual it can be presumed that a casual worker is on a lower footing and cannot expect the same wagesas a permanent employee.
Learned counsel appearing for the Company drew our attention to the fact that the revised wages are payable with effect from 13th December 1962 and by this time a period of 5 to 6 years has elapsed so that the Company will have to pay arrears of wages for this long period.
The reference was made by the Government on the 4th October 1962.
that the bonus is worked out on the basis of the total wages paid.
