Appeal No 949 of 1966.
Appeal by special leave from the judgment and order dated September 11 1964 of the Madras High Court in Tax Case No 181 of 1962.
M C Chagla and B R Agarwala for the appellant.
CJ V Ramaswami and A N Grover JJ.
The case was twice re manded to the Tribunal.
The first Order of the Court remanding the case to the Tribunal was delivered by Shah Ag C J Ms Amarchand Sobhachand a firm registered under the Indian Income tax Act 1922 carried on business at Madras in drugs chemicals mercury camphor and silk yam and as money lenders.
There were two partners of the firm Mohanlal Sagmal and Seshmal Sobhachand and Ramniklal and Lakshmichand minors were admitted to the benefits of the partnership each with 732 share in the profits.
The appellants had for a long time business relations with a firm styled Bhojaji Sobhachand carrying on business at Bombay as importers of yam and also as agents and adathias.
Sobhachand one of the partners of Bhojaji Sobhachand with 16 share in the profit and loss is the father of Seshmal Ramniklal and Lakshmichand partners of the appellants.
Section 102 xi of the Indian Income tax Act 1922 as in force at the relevant time provided  2 Such profits or gains shall be computed after making the following allowances namely  xi When the assessee s accounts in respect of any part of his business profession or vocation are not kept on the cash basis such sum in respect of bad and doubtful debts due to the assessee in 807SupCI71 418 respect of that part of his business profession or vocation and in the case of an assessee carrying on a banking or money lending business such sum in respect of loans made in the ordinary course of such business as the Income tax Officer may estimate to be irrecoverable but not exceeding the amount actually written off as irrecoverable in the books of the assessee Provided      Clause xi was in two parts.
A bad and doubtful debt due to the taxpayer written off as irrecoverable in the books of account was properly allowable in computing the taxable profits from business profession or vocation where accounts were not kept on the cash basis if the debt was in respect of a loan made in the course of the taxpayer s business as a banker or money lender or when the taxpayer was carrying on any other business the debt was in respect of that other business.
The Tribunal s order is very brief  it gives no reasons in support of the conclusions.
The statement submitted by the Tribunal is also inadequate.
It contains only a summary of the business relations between.
But the Tribunal has not raised any inference from these circumstances and has merely observed that charging of interest cannot make it a money lending account.
We therefore direct that the Income tax Appellate Tribunal do submit a supplementary statement of the case on the question reframed on both the branches of section 102xi of the Indian Income tax Act 1922.
The order of the Court was delivered by Shah J.
The Judgment of the Court was delivered by Hegde J.
In the assessment of income tax of the appellant for the assessment year 1952 53 relevant to the account year Samvat 2008 the assessee claimed a deduction of Rs 268385 as bad debt due from the Bombay firm incurred by that firm in the course of business transactions.
The tribunal rejected that application but pursuant to an order of the High Court under section 662 the tribunal submitted a statement of the case on the following question Whether on the facts and in the circumstances of the case the Tribunal was right in law in holding that the debt of Rs 268385 was not one incurred in the course of money lending business of the assessee The High Court opined that the debt in question was not a bad and doubtful debt in the assessee s money lending business nor a debt representing loss sustained in the other business.
reframed the question as follows Whether on the facts and in the circumstances of the case the Appellate Tribunal erred in disallowing a sum of Rs 268385 written off by the assessee in their books of accounts as irrecoverable  By its order dated July 29 1969 this Court called upon the Tribunal to submit a supplementary statement of case on the reframed question.
Hence by its order dated April 7 1970 this Court directed the tribunal to submit a further statement.
On the other hand the narrations in the entries as they stand the failure to adjust interest in the account of the Bombay firm at the stage at which it became a debtor in Samvat year 2007 the manner in which the partner of the appellant firm tried to explain the position in March 1954 and the stand of the firm itself at all earlier stages support the case of the Department 12.
It is also true that the tribunal after catalogueing the arguments advanced at the bar has come to certain abrupt conclusions but all the tame it cannot be denied that the findings reached by the tribunal are findings of fact and those findings are supported by the evidence on record.
No costs.
