Applications by respondent No 1 for revocation of the certificate granted by the Madras High Court on 15th October 1968 under article 1331a  b of the Constitution of India.
AND Civil Appeals Nos 2183 and 2184 of 1968.
VP Raman DN Mishra and JB Dadachanji for the appellant.
MK Ramamurthi Shyamala Pappu and Vineet Kumar for respondent No 1.
Ramamurthi J by order dated April 12 1968 granted an interim injunction restraining encashment of the letters of credit pending disposal of the suit.
In appeals under the Letters Patent preferred by the second defendant.
The expression final order it has been held by a long course of authorities occurring in section 205 of the Government of India Act 1935 section 109 of the Code of Civil Procedure and article 1331 of the Constitution means a final decision on the rights of the parties in dispute in a suit or proceeding if the rights of the parties in dispute in the suit or proceeding remain to be tried after the order the order is not final.
Viscount Cave referred to Salaman vs Warner2 Bozson Altrincham Urban District Councila and Issacs vs Salbstein4 and observed The effect of those and other judgments is that an order is final if it finally disposes of the rights of the parties.
The orders now under appeal do not finally dispose of those rights but leave them to be determined by the Courts in the ordinary way.
The official assignee declined to proceed with the suit and the suit was dismissed by the trial court.
76 2 3 4 703 communication passed by the appellant religious head of a community was invalid.
During the pendency of the suit them Bombay Prevention of Ex communication Act 42 of 1949 was enacted and one of the issues raised in the suit was whether the order of ex communication was invalid.
Against the order deciding the issue an appeal was preferred to this Court with certificate granted by the High Court under article 132 and article 133 of the Constitution and it was held that the appeal was not maintainable since the decision on the issue did not finally dispose of the dispute between the parties.
This Court held Bachawat  Mitter JJ dissenting that the order passed was a final order within the meaning of article 1341 c since the controversy between the parties when the the complaint in respect of offences under sections 467 and 468 read with section 114 IP Code was disposed of by the order of dismissal and the proceeding regarding that question was finally decided It was observed that the finality of that order was not to be judged by co relating it with the controversy in the complaint viz when then the appellant had committed the offence charged against him therein.
The proceeding for filing a complaint under section 476 of the Code of Criminal Procedure was a self contained proceeding and was finally disposed of by the order directing the filing of a complain under section 205 read with section 114 IP Code.
