29 of 1965.
A section R Chari and R V Pillai for the appellants.
The cartmen halted after the market was over on the way for food.
Thereafter six carts left for Mudgal at about 10 pm.
It was a dark night and the assailants were not identified.
The police investigated the case and arrested the 20 persons who were accused in the case as being the culprits involved in this incident.
The accused were convicted on the sole evidence of having in their possession pieces of cloth which were later identified to belong to the traders.
In these searches cloth which was undoubtedly stolen at the time of the dacoity was found in their houses.
He contends that the circumstances under which the one presumption or the other may be drawn under section 114 of the have not been stated by law and therefore it is necessary always to start with the lesser presumption and draw the higher presumption only when there is some other evidence to show the complicity of the persons in the crime itself.
In our opinion the law advocated by Mr Chari is not correct.
There is then no question of presumption.
The evidence strengthens the other evidence already against him.
It has been stated on more than one occasion that if the gap of time is too large the presumption that the accused was concerned with the crime itself gets weakened.
The presumption is stronger when the discovery of the fruits of crime is made immediately after the crime is.
committed.
The reason is obvious.
Disposal of the fruits of crime requires the finding of a person ready to receive them and the shortness of time the nature of the property which is disposed of that is to say its quantity and its character determine whether the person who had the goods in his possession received them from another or was himself the thief or the dacoit.
They need not be stated here for they differ from case to caseIn the present case the goods stolen were a large quantity of cloth taken for sale to the market.
These goods were not sold and were being taken back to the dealers by the cartmen A large number of persons said to be 20 in number pelted stones at the cartmen and looted the property.
Immediately afterwards a number of searches were made and the goods were found with various persons who were prosecuted as offenders and they have been presumed to be involved in the dacoity itself.
It may be 723 noticed that from each person a large number of goods of the same type such as 20 choli pieces or ten pieces of cloth were found.
It is impossible to think that within the short time available these goods could have been easily disposed of to receivers of stolen property or could be placed in the custody of friends till such time as the original offenders could take them away The time gap in some cases is as short as two days and in some others it is not more than five days.
In two cases only the time gap is about 19 days.
Even then we think that the time gap is too short for original offenders to have disposed of the property to these appellants Or to have left the goods in their custody till such time as the original offenders could have taken them away.
We are therefore satisfied that the proper inference was drawn in this case.
It must not be forgotton that the offence was committed at night by as many as 20 persons or more.
It is impossible to think that these 20 persons were merely receivers of stolen property from some other 20 persons who were the dacoits.
It is legitimate therefore to raise the presumption in this case that the persons with whom the goods were found were the dacoits themselves.
This presumption has been drawn and in our opinion rightly in this case The conviction was therefore correct in all the circumstances of the case.
As regards the sentence the offence no doubt was serious.
But no injury beyond one appears to have been caused.
Therefore we think that a sentence of three years  rigorous imprisonment will meet the ends of justice in this case.
The sentence is reduced to three years  rigorous imprisonment.
The sentence of fine will stand.
GC Appeal partly allowed.
