h To set up museums or show rooms to exhibit the products of India and other countries and to participate in such activities.
It is done in the interest of trade and business of the country.
 352 It was then contended that the activities of the Federation carried on in the premises in question amounted to work in connection with or incidental or ancillary to trade or business in general within the latter part of the definition of commercial establishment.
It shall apply in the first instance.
Sub clause b is only ancillary to a.
No divi 1 1972 2 SCR 353.
 Mr Pai further maintains that the ratio in R K Mittal s case supra is not applicable to the instant case because the definition of  industry in section 2j of the is far wider than that of commercial establishment in section 25 of the Act.
As regards the preliminary objection it is true that before the High Court it was not argued that the activity of the Federation amounts to the carrying on of any business or trade in the premises in question.
This point will not require any additional material for its decision.
We therefore overrule the preliminary objection.
That definition reads  Industry means any business trade undertaking manufacture or calling of employers and includes any calling service employment handicraft or industrial occupa tion or evocation of workmen.
posed the question for decision thus  In our view the linch pin of the definition of industry  is to ascertain the systematic activity which the organization is discharging namely whether it partakes the nature of a business or trade or is an undertaking or manufacture or calling of employers.
An examination of the activities of the Federation showed that the Federation carried on systematic activities to assist its members and other businessmen and industrialists and even to non members as for instance in giving them the right to subscribe to their bulletin in taking up their cases and solving their difficulties and in obtaining concessions and facilities from them from the Government.
No doubt the effective membership as distinguished from Honorary membership of the Federation is open only to Chambers of Commerce or Commercial Associations of requisite strength and standing but the fact remains that it carries on systematic activities not only to assist its members but also other traders or businessmen members of the constituents of the Federation.
We therefore do not think that R K Mittal s case supra was incorrectly decided and needs reconsideration.
These services are material services.
VPS Appeal allowed.
