Civil Appeal No 1231 of 1968.
Appeal by special leave from the judgment and order dated the 20th December 1962 of the High Court of Judicature at Bombay in Civil Appeal No 151 of 1960.
B D Bal with A G Ratnaparkhi for the appellant.
Hence this appeal by special leave which was obtained on March 29 1968 after condonation of delay in the peculiar circumstances of the case arising out of revocation by the High Court of its earlier certificate in favour of the appellant on account of default of deposit of security.
After him the present Buwa Purshottam came to Gadi.
This evidence of Ramkrishna Deshpande stands corroborated by the Sanad which shows in the year 1860 61 the Manager of the Sansthan as Balkrishnabuwa Guru Govindbuwa.
x x x x x The Dindi of the said Sansthan from Amalner remains at Shivgaon on the 30th of Jeshta vadya or on the 1st of Ashad Shudha according to practice every year.
The last deed of gift is exhibit 38 and the donee is Shri Vasudev Buwa Guru Balkrishna Buwa described as the worshipper carrying on the Vahiwat of Shri Vithal Rekhmai Sansthan.
The reference to Sakharam Maharaj Sansthan wherever it appears is only for the purpose of identification and commemoration of the hallowed saint who had admittedly founded the same.
In accordance with this theory it has been held that when property is dedicated for the worship of a family idol it is a private and not a public endowment as the persons who are entitled to worship at the shrine of the deity can only be the members of the family and that is an ascertained group of individuals.
And in such circumstances proof of user by the public without interference would be cogent evidence that the dedication was in favour of the public.
The learned counsel for the appellant relied upon the decision in Bihar State Board Religious Trust Patna vs Mahant Sri Biseshwar Das and drew our attention to the following observations therein Thus the mere fact of the public having been freely admitted to that temple cannot mean that courts should readily infer therefrom dedication to the public.
From exhibit 35 the first Varaspatra of February 28 1869 one gets a full picture of the working of the Sansthan The service and Bhajan etc.
When the origin of an endowment is obscure and no direct oral evidence is available the Court will have to resolve the controversy about the character of the trust on documentary evidence if any the object and purpose for which the trust was created the consistent manner in which the property has been dealt with or managed by those in charge the manner in which the property has long been used by the public the contribution of the public to all intents and purposes as a matter of right without the least interference or restriction from the temple authorities to foster maintenance of the worship the accretion to the trust property by way of grants from the state of gifts from outsiders inconsistent with the private nature of the trust the nature of devolution of the property are all important elements in determination of the question whether a property is a private or a public religious endowment.
