The letter was signed by 15 members of the Bar belonging to the District Bar Association Bhiwani.
Besides the learned Judge was openly attacking the Govern ment in its political as well as administrative decision.
The Judge further said that the prevailing system of Government is not good in this country and we must adopt the communist form of Govern ment which can save the nation.
Chandrawati.
He also enquired all about Shri Sohan Lal a leader of the teacher s movement in the State.
On a perusal of the con tents thereof a prima facie case of criminal contempt is made out.
The High Court did not take any action against two persons on the letter written by five members of the Bar Association of Charkhi Dadri.
In order to prevent unwanted disclosure of its contents the communica tion in question was brought personally by two members of the Bar Association Bhiwani to Chandigarh in a closed cover addressed to the Chief Justice for being handed over to him for his personal attention.
have no relevance or relation to the functioning of the learned Judge of the High Court.
In any case if in view of this Hon ble Court the action of the deponent in addressing the letter in question constitut ed for any reason contempt of court one would be more sorry than the deponent himself.
The Full Bench thereafter referred to paragraph 9 of the affidavit where the deponents said that if in view of this Hon ble Court the action of the deponent in addressing the letter in question constituted for any reason contempt of court no one would be more sorry than the deponent himself.
In the absence of any finding by the High Court that the appellants committed any contempt of court there was never any occasion for acceptance of apology.
However if the speech of any Judge is criticised and if it becomes a disputed question of fact as to whether any Judge did speak or not as is alleged by the writer the matter would have to be ascertained by the court on facts whether the Judge concerned did speak on the matters ascribed to him before the court would take any action against the persons who would criticise the Judge s speech.
To say that will not by itself be a contempt.
247 The judgment is set aside.
