Narayana Nettar for Respondents 4 and 5 3 1338SCI76 828 The Judgment of the Court was delivered by BEG J.
Therefore it was held that the writ petition was premature as the final list of officers on an integrated seniority list was still to be prepared after hearing objections.
We have however gone through his petition and the affidavit filed in its support where in paragraph 16 he states as fol lows The Mysore State Civil Service Integra tion Rules 1960 provide for filing objections only against the preliminary provisional Inter State Seniority List and do not provide any provision for filing objections or appeal ing against the final Inter State Seniority List as per Annexure B .
In the case before us the petitioner admits that the Mysore State Civil Services Integration Rules provided for filing of objections against the preliminary provisional Inter State Seniori ty list.
Presumably he had that opportunity.
Otherwise he would no doubt have objected that the rules had not been complied 1 SLR 1969 p1 C As.
His grievance seemed to be that he was not heard after the final list was prepared.
We are unable to appreciate.
There the list was provisional.
vs Ram Chand  Ant   222.
830 we hold that the combined final gradation list dated April 6 1962 so far as category 6 is concerned is ultra vires and illegal and that part of the notification alone must be quashed by grant of a writ in the nature of certiorari.
No element of punishment at all is involved in preparing either a provisional or a final seniority list.
When a provisional seniority fist is prepared there is a possibility of some mistakes occurring about the facts of a case or in the application of those rules.
It would therefore be quite fair to give a person affected an oppo rtunity to be heard against the proposed fist before it is finalised so that any possible mistakes either on facts relating to his particular case or of law in applying the rules governing seniority to those facts may be rectified.
It was an opportunity to be given before the final list was to be declared and published as a final list.
A right to representation was recognised as existing at time when the list was still to be considered as not finalised presumably because some mistakes had crept in due to want of heating on two points.
We find no such grounds in the ease before us.
Learned Counsel for the Central Government had cited before us Union of India vs.
GR Prabhavalkar  Ors.
The Central Government under Sec 115 of the Act has to determine the princi ples governing equation of posts and prepare a common gradation list by integration of services.
The Central Government is bound to ensure a fair and equitable treatment to officers in the matter of integration of services and preparation of gradation lists.
In this case no mala fides are alleged.
The parties will bear their own costs.
VPS Appeal allowed.
