This rule was issued on a petition filed under article 32 of the Constitution by one Purshottam Govindji Halai a citizen of India calling upon the respondents to show cause why a writ in the nature of a writ of habeas corpus should not be issued by this Court directing the Superintendent House of Correction Byculla being the second respondent herein to produce before this Court one Govindji Deoji Halai the father of the petitioner who is also a citizen of India for the purpose of being released forthwith.
The facts which are not in dispute may be shortly stated as follows.
The said Govindji Deoji Halai hereinafter referred to as the assessee is the sole proprietor of a business carried on under the name and style of Indestro Sales and Service Co at No 50 52 Lohar Chawl Street in the City of Bombay.
Two private limited companies namely Indestro India Ltd and Indestro Eastern Ltd also carry on business and have their respective offices in the same premises.
The assessee did not appear in person on the appointed day but on the next day the 17th June 1955 an Advocate acting on behalf of the assessee wrote a letter to the Additional Collector purporting to show cause why the assessee should not be arrested and sent to the civil jail.
No application was made to the High Court for leave to appeal to this Court from the decision of that High Court but on the 2nd September 1955 the present petition was filed in this Court under article 32 of the Constitution for the relief hereinbefore mentioned.
Thus a Collector in the City of Bombay in recovering the certified amount of income tax must proceed under Ejection 13 of the Bombay City Land Revenue Act 1876 Bombay Act II of 1876 and arrest and detain him far the period therein mentioned which prior to the 8th October 1954 might have worked out to a period much longer than six months.
In other words it is section 462 which tells the Collectors of Madras to follow the procedure under section 48 of the Madras Revenue Recovery Act 1864 as if those provisions are set out in the Indian Income tax Act in extenso and it tells the Collectors of all other States to adopt the procedure prescribed by their own State laws as if the provisions prescribing that procedure were set out in that section.
As was said by the Supreme Court of America in Middleton vs Texas Power and Light Company1 There is a strong presumption that a legislature understands and correctly appreciates the needs of its own people that its laws are directed to problems made manifest by experience and that its discriminations are based upon adequate grounds.
Their needs as understood by their own Legislature are different from those of the people of other States.
If in the matter of recovery of arrears of land revenue defaulters of one State cannot complain of denial of equal protection of the laws on the ground of the difference in the modes of recovery prevailing in other States can it be said to be unreasonable for the Union to adopt for the recovery of its public demand from defaulters of each State the same mode of recovery 1   157.
114 900 of public demand prevailing in that State Here the defaulters are classified on a territorial or geographical basis and this basis of classification has precisely the same correlation to the object of the Indian Income tax Act as it has to the object of the different Public Demands Recovery Acts.
The objects of the two Acts in this behalf are in pari materia and the same considerations must apply to both.
The grouping of the income tax defaulters into separate categories or classes Statewise is certainly a territorial classification which is based on an intelligible differentia and the subjection for the purposes of the recovery of the certified demand of each of such classes of defaulters to the same coercive process devised by their own State on a consideration of local needs for the recovery of their own public demands cannot be regarded as bereft of a reasonable nexus or correlation between the basis of classification and the object sought to be achieved by the Indian Income tax Act any more than it can be so regarded with respect to the respective State laws.
The Indian Income tax Act classifies people into various groups for the purpose of imposing the tax and taxes them differently eg insurance companies which are taxed differently from an ordinary business concern and in some cases exempts them altogether eg agriculturists and persons with income below a certain level.
The case of Bowman vs Lewis1 is in point.
For the purposes of this case it will suffice to say that the discrimination complained of is not unconstitutional for the simple reason that the impugned law is based on a territorial classification having a reasonable nexus or correlation between that basis of classification and the object sought to be achieved by the Act.
Adoption of an existing machinery devised for a particular purpose cannot if there be no vice of unconstitutionality in the machinery render it unconstitutional if it is made to subserve a purpose closely akin or similar to the purpose for which it bad been devised.
The first objection formulated by learned counsel for the petitioner must therefore be rejected.
The law was not dead.
It is only after the sale proceeds were found to be insufficient to satisfy the assessed amount and the assessee failed to pay up the balance that the question of the arrest of the defaulter arose.
