Petition No 55 of 1954.
K T Desai P N Bhagwati Rameshwar Nath and Rajinder Narain for the appellants.
November 10.
And thirdly there was an agreement to sell the mills and the factory to the appellants in certain events and subject to certain conditions.
In the result the application was allowed.
The appeal was accordingly allowed in so far as it related to the lease but dismissed as regards movables.
And it provides that the Explanation shall be inserted and shall be deemed always to have been inserted in the section.
Mr Desai learned counsel for the appellants concedes that this amendment which is retrospective in operation would govern the rights of the parties in the present appeal and that under the section as it now stands the Custodian has the power and had always the power to cancel leases created not merely by the evacuees but also by himself.
But he con tends that this power could be exercised only so as to override a bar imposed by any law but not the contract under which the lease is held and this result flows according to him from the language of the non obstante clause which is limited to anything contained in any other law for the time being in force and does not include or any contract between the parties.
This was a contention which was open to the appellants on the terms of the section as it stood even before the amendment but it was not put forward at any stage prior to the bearing of this appeal and that by itself would be sufficient ground for declining to entertain it which it may be noted is now sought to be raised by a supplemental proceeding under Order 16 rule 4 of the Supreme Court Rules.
The section expressly authorises the custodian to vary the terms of the lease and that cannot be reconciled with the contention of the appellants that it confers no authority on him to go back upon his own contracts.
The operative portion of the section which confers power on 982 the Custodian to cancel a lease or vary the terms thereof is unqualified and absolute and that power cannot be abridged by reference to the provision that it could be exercised notwithstanding anything contained in any other law for the time being in force.
This provision is obviously intended to repel a possible contention that section 12 does not by implication repeal statutes conferring rights on lessees and cannot prevail as against them and has been inserted ex abundanti cautela.
Vide the observations in Aswini Kumar Ghosh vs Arabinda Bose1 and the Dominion of India vs Shrinbai A Irani1 on the scope.
It was next contended by Mr Desai that even if the Custodian had the power under section 12 to cancel the lease in favour of the appellants be bad no power under that section to cancel the agreement to sell the mills and the factory to them which was one of the matters contained in Exhibit A that the notice Exhibit C was to that extent without jurisdiction and that the respondent should accordingly be prohibited from cancelling that portion of Exhibit A in pursuance of Exhibit C.
But the notice in terms refers firstly to the lease which it is proposed to cancel and secondly to the movables in respect of which certain directions were given.
In their petition under article 226 it was the validity of the notice.
Tendolkar J stated in his judgment and quite correctly that these were the two points that rose for determination.
The question of the rights of the appellants in so far as they related to the purchase by them of the mills and the factory was not raised in the petition and no contentions were put forward in support thereof at any stage of the proceedings.
It is for the first time in the argu 1   21 24.
