He contended that the suit properties did not belong to the joint family that they were Khandappa s self requisitions and that on the date of Khandappa s 764 death in 1960 there was no joint family in existence.
Upon that finding the plaintiff.
As against that decree defendant 1 filed first appeal No 524 of 1966 in the Bombay High Court while the plaintiff filed cross objections.
Since the view of the High.
LR351.
Explanation I For the purposes of this section the interest of a Hindu Mitakshara coparcener shall be deemed to be the share in the property that would have been allotted to him if a partition of the property had taken place immediately before his death irrespective of whether he was entitled to claim partition or not.
Nothing contained in the proviso to this section shall be construed as enabling a person who has separated himself from the coparcenary before the death of the deceased or any of his heirs to claim on intestacy a share in the interest referred to therein.
 The Hindu Succession Act came into force on June 17 1956 Khandappa having died after the commencement of that Act to wit in 1960 and since he had at the time of his death an interest in Mitakshara coparcenary property the pre conditions of section 6 are satisfied and that section is squarely attracted.
The interpretation of that Explanation is the subject matter of acute controversy between the parties.
The fiction created by Explanation 1 has to be given its due and full effect as the fiction created by section 18A9 b of the Indian Income tax Act 1922 was given by this Court in Commissioner of Income tax Delhi vs section Teja Singh1.
The section did not provide further that in the circumstances therein stated a notice under section 22 shall be deemed to have been issued and the notice shall be deemed not to have been complied with.
1 SCR 394 2 768 incidents which if the putative state of affairs had in fact existed must inevitably have flowed from or accompanied it and if the statute says that you must imagine a certain state of affairs it cannot be interpreted to mean that having done so you must cause or permit your imagination to boggle when it comes to the inevitable corollaries of that state of affairs.
In order to ascertain the share of heirs in the property of a deceased coparcener it is necessary in the very nature of things and as the very first step to ascertain the share of the deceased in the coparcenary property.
In other words the assumption having been made once for the purpose of ascertaining the share of the deceased in the coparcenary property one cannot go back on that assumption and ascertain the share of the heirs without reference to it.
To make the assumption at the initial stage for the limited purpose of ascertaining the share of the deceased and then to ignore it for calculating the quantum of the share of the heirs is truly to permit one s imagination to boggle.
The allotment of this share is not a processual step devised merely for the purpose of working out some other conclusion.
The Hindu Law of Inheritance Amendment Act 1929 conferred heirship rights on the son s daughter daughter s daughter and sister in all areas where the Mitakshara law prevailed.
Section 3 of the Hindu Women s Rights to Property Act.
1937 speaking broadly conferred upon the Hindu widow the right to a share in the joint family property as also a right to demand partition like any male member of the family.
The Hindu Succession provides by section 141 that any property possessed by a female Hindu whether acquired before or after the commencement of the Act shall be held by her as a full owner thereof and not as a limited owner.
SR Appeal dismissed.
3 AIR 1967 Orissa 194.
