Cherlopalle is about 25 miles from Krishna Kalva.
The accused used to visit his wife and often used to stay in the house of the deceased s mother.
There was no fracture.
The Learned Sessions Judge held that the prosecution had failed to establish any motive and that the evidence of the prosecution witnesses was discrepant conflicting and improbable  He thought that the prosecution had made an attempt to improve its case which was originally based on circumstantial evidence to made it appear as if PW 3 had also seen the stabbing.
He therefore acquitted the accused.
The High Court observed that the learned Sessions Judge had magnified the importance to be attached to minor discrepancies.
In this appeal the learned Counsel for the appellant argued that the accused had no motive to kill his wife and that his version was more probable than the version of the prosecution.
He urged that the knife was not seized by the Police under any seizure Memo nor was the knife sent to any finger print expert.
The High Court was well justified in commenting that the discrepancies on the basis of which the Trial Court rejected the evidence of P Ws 1 2 and 3 were of a minor character and that they have been unduly magnified by the learned Sessions Judge.
Merely because the Medical Officer stated that the victim could have received the injury if she was standing it did not follow that the injury could have been received in the circumstances mentioned by the accused.
We may also refer here to the comment of the learned Counsel for the appellant that realizing that the motive would assume considerable importance if the case was one based on circumstantial evidence the prosecution tried to make P W 3 depose as if she had witnessed occurrence.
PW 3 an old woman of 69 years stated in her evidence that she saw the accused who was sitting by the side of the deceased on the cot make a gesture as if he was stabbing the deceased and that the deceased cried out Amma  In cross examination she stated that she did not remember if she had told the Police that the accused made a gesture as if he was stabbing the deceased.
However the formulae  of substantial and compelling reasons good and sufficiently cogent reasons and strong reasons and the search for them were abandoned as a result of the pronouncement of this Court in Sanwat Singh  Ors.
After Sanwat Singh vs State of Rajasthan this Court has consistently recognised the right of the Appellate Court to review the entire evidence and to come to its own conclusion bearing in mind the considerations mentioned by the Privy Council in Sheo Swarup s case.
v The State of AP2 Bhim Singh Rup Singh vs State of Maharashtra3 it has been said that to the principles laid down in Sanwat Singh s case may be added the further principle that if two reasonable conclusions can be reached on the basis of the evidence on record the Appellate Court should not disturb the finding of the Trial Court.
If two reasonably probable and evenly balanced views of the evidence are possible one must necessarily concede the existence of a reasonable doubt.
As observed by Lord Denning in Miller vs Minister of pensions5 Proof beyond a reasonable doubt does not mean proof beyond a shadow of a doubt.
3 Al.
R 4 Salmon J in his charge to the jury in R V Fantle reported in 5 370 The law would fail to protect the community if it admitted fanciful possibilities to deflect the course of justice.
If the evidence is so strong against a man as to leave only a remote possibility in his favour which can be dismissed with the sentence of course it is possible but not in the least probable  the case is proved beyond reasonable doubt but nothing short of that will suffice.
In Khem Karan  Ors.
Where the Trial Court allows itself to be beset with fanciful doubts rejects creditworthy evidence for slender reasons and takes a view of the evidence which is but barely possible it is the obvious duty of the High Court to interfere in the interest of justice lest the administration of justice be brought to ridicule.
The appeal is dismissed.
P B R Appeal dismissed.
