Civil Appeal Nos.
section K Gambhir for RR.
On special leave being granted the above petitions were registered as appeals.
The petitioners were not entitled to any relief under Article 226 of the Constitution on account of the inordinate delay involved in the presentation of the writ petition.
Since one of the grounds on which the High Court dismissed the petition was that the petitioners were not prompt in moving the High Court we shall first examine whether the High Court was right in doing so since if we agree with the High Court on the above question it would become unnecessary to go into the other questions raised before us.
The period prescribed for preferring claims and objections under Rule 43 was 30 days.
It is not the case of the petitioners that they did not know immediately after the publication of such notice that in the said notice a period of 20 days had been mentioned in its preamble as the period within which the claims and objections could be preferred and in paragraph 7 thereof it had been stated that any such claim or objection filed beyond the prescribed period was liable to be rejected.
It was open to them to move the State Government under Rule 6 of the Rules to make an order directing the Collector to follow .
It was also open to them to file a writ petition immediately after the publication of the said notice questioning its legality.
After November 25 1978 a large number of nominations were received by the Returning officer.
The final list of candidates for the election with their symbols was published on December 20 1978.
When the petition came up for order on December 29 l 978 it had to be adjourned to December 30 1978 at the request of the counsel for the petitioners.
No satisfactory explanation was given in the course of the petition by the petitioners as to why they delayed the filing of the petition till December 28 1978 even though they knew that there was an error in the notice issued under Rule 41 of the Rules in the month of October 1978 more than two months before the date on which i was filed.
It was however argued before us relying upon a news item which had appeared in a daily called Nav Bharat  dated October 21 1978 in which there was a reference to a statement made by the Minister for Local Self Government of Madhya Pradesh regarding the irregularity in the division of Raipur town into different wards for purposes of election.
It was also stated therein that in the course of the discussion with the press reporters on that day the Minister had stated that he had directed the Commissioner Raipur Division Raipur that the date for inclusion of names in the electoral roll could be extended if the election date was not affected.
They do not show that any 497 of the petitioners had raised any objection with regard to the date within which the claims and objections could be preferred to the electoral roll mentioned in the notice.
No satisfactory reason for the delay was set out in the petition.
The question whether in a given case the delay involved is such that it dissentients a person to relief under Article 226 is a matter within the discretion of the High Court which as in all matters of discretion has to exercise it judiciously and reasonably having regard to the surrounding circumstances.
We therefore find it unnecessary to deal with the other points urged before us.
