ON Criminal Appeal No 126 of 1955.
Appeal by special leave from the judgment and order dated the 9th August 1955 of the Bombay High Court in Criminal Application No 726 of 1955.
M R Parpia J B Dadachanji and section N Andley for the appellant.
M C Setalvad Attorney General for India B Sen and R H Dhebar for the respondent.
The Judgment of the Court was delivered by JAGANNADHADAS J.
This is an appeal by special leave against the judgment of the High Court of Bombay dismissing an application made to it under article 226 of the Constitution.
O R D E R.
It was passed for the ulterior purpose of preventing his freedom of speech and freedom of professional activity in the sphere of Goan affairs by reason of his known views in this behalf.
385 4The claim of State that no particulars of the grounds could be furnished in public interest is unsustainable and in any case mala fide.
The last two have been urged before us not only as independent points but as reinforcing the first two.
It is therefore enough to state in its broad outlines the background which is alleged as follows 1a There was a sudden search by the police on the 24th August 1954 at the appellant s place for alleged possession of illicit liquorwhich in fact was not found.
bOn the same day a search was carried out by the police also at his residence at Mahim but nothing was found.
To appreciate the points thus raised it is necessary to have an idea of the grounds of detention as furnished.
2If you wish to make a representation against the order under which you are detained you should address it to the Government of Bombay and forward it through the Superintendent Arthur Road Prison Bombay.
Such a right to call for particulars has been recognised in the case in the State of Bombay vs Atma Ram Sridhar Vaidya1 as flowing from his constitutional right to be afforded a reasonable opportunity to make a representation to the Board.
In the circumstances and having regard to thefact that what is alleged is espionage activity ata time when relations between the two Governments on the affairs of Goa were somewhat delicate we are inclined to think with the High Court that the grounds cannot be considered to be vague.
Now it has been held in Atma Ram Sridhar Vaidya s case1 by the majority of the Court that the constitutional right of a detenue under article 225 comprises two distinct components.
1The right to be furnished grounds of detention as soon as may be and 2The right to be afforded the earliest opportunity of making a representation against his detention 1  184 391 which implies the right to be furnished adequate particulars of the grounds of detention to enable a proper representation being made.
The meaning is clear that at no time it was in public interest to disclose the details referred to in the particular paragraph of the affidavit and there is nothing to suggest that this question was not considered by the detaining authority at the time when the grounds were furnished.
No argument has been addressed to us how this con 392 elusion is incorrect.
But what has been urged before us is that the decision not to disclose the facts as well as the ambit of the non disclosure must be clearly communicated to the detenue at the time when the grounds are furnished.
A faint suggestion has been made in the course of the arguments before us that the decision not to disclose particulars is mala fide and that such mala fides has to be imputed in a case where no particulars are at all furnished.
