Tata Consultant Engineers at its inception was a partnership firm but subsequently the partnership was dissolved and in 1974 the undertaking became one of the divisions of Tata Sons Limited.
II DriverAsstt.
60 1700.
70 1690 80 2010.
The revised wage scales the Tribunal directed should take effect retrospectively from 1st January 1976.
No second flat increase was envisaged at all.
The Tribunal has relied on this statement as evidence showing that the appellant knew that a flat increase of Rs 150 and Rs 100 was intended to each of the employees in the category of Draughtsmen and the other categories.
The statement then goes on to indicate that if a flat increase of Rs 75 per month were given to individual workmen of all categories the total increase would be Rs 578220 .
These statements cannot be regarded as evidence 178 that the appellant was cognizant of the intention of the Tribunal to provide a flat increase to the pay of each workman.
The statement afforded an indication merely of what the additional financial load would be if a flat increase was given to the individual workman on the alternative basis set forth therein.
None of the alternatives was actually adopted by the Tribunal because when the award was made the Tribunal proceeded instead to restructure the wage scales by the addition of Rs 150 in the case of the category of Draughtsmen and Rs 100 in the case of other categories to the initial pay in the wage scales pertaining to those categories.
The only contention of the workmen is that the Tribunal should have fixed the dearness allowance in communion with the cost of living index.
In the result Civil Appeal No 2299 of 1979 is allowed in part insofar that the order dated 22nd December 1978 of the Industrial Tribunal Maharashtra Bombay is quashed to the extent that it modifies the original award dated 20th December 1978 and the corrigendum made consequent thereto is also quashed.
Civil Appeal No 2300 of 1979 is dismissed.
In the said award Your Honour has observed at the end of Para 22 In view of the increase that is being allowed in the basic pay I do not propose to revise the existing scheme of Dearness Allowance .
Thereafter the Tribunal made an order on the same day in the following terms There can be no doubt that a flat increase of Rs 150 to each of the employees in the category of Draftsmen and 181 of Rs 100 to each employee in the other categories has been granted under my award.
Nor can it be doubted that fitment into the revised pay scales is certainly a part of the revision of pay scales.
Thereafter various other matters were considered and finally the Tribunal revised the wage scales in the manner already mentioned by my brother Pathak J.
Fitment If as on 1st January 1976 an employee is drawing a salary less than the beginning of the respective grade he should be first stepped up to the beginning of the grade.
Now if without any flat or ad hoc increase of salary the workmen were to be fitted into the revised scales of pay it would obviously result in serious anomalous situations.
In the case of several senior employees the revised scale would yield but a very small and almost a token increase in the size of the pay packet whereas the junior employees would get a large benefit.
While workmen raising industrial disputes for revision of wage scales are certainly minded about their future prospects in the matter of wages they surely would be more concerned with the immediate benefits according to them That was why the Industrial Tribunal thought that an all round flat increase of Rs 150 in the case of Draftsmen and Rs 100 in the case of other workmen was called for.
Since there was to be a flat increase of Rs 150 and Rs 100 in the case of draftsmen and other workmen respectively the revised wage scale had necessarily to commence with figures Rs 150 and Rs 100 above the existing wage scales.
Immediately after the award was pronounced while the iron was still hot as it were the employees apparently realised that the employer might take advantage of the circumstance that it was not clearly mentioned in the award that all the employees were to get additional pay of Rs 150 and Rs 100 respectively and might contend that the Tribunal had only revised the wage scales by increasing the salary on entry into the service and res 184 tructuring the scale of pay and never granted any ad hoc increase of salary to all employees.
The application before the Tribunal was filed under Rule 31 of the Bombay Industrial Disputes Rules 1957 which is as follows A Board Court Labour Court Tribunal or Arbitrator may at any time suo moto or on an application made by any of the parties concerned may correct any clerical mistake or error arising from an accidental slip or omission in any proceedings report award or as the case may be decision.
