It says that the Corporation shall impose a tax payable by the owners of buildings or lands situated within the city with reference to the gross annual letting value of the building or land called the property tax.
Rs 6000.
Petitions Nos.
However we are unable to accept any of these.
It is well settled that if an earlier legislation is incorporated into a later legislation the provisions of earlier law which are incorporated into the later law become a part and parcel of the later law.
14 Section 69d of the Act of 1973 must accordingly be read to mean that respondent 1 shall have all the powers of taxation which a Municipal Corporation or a Municipal Council has for the time being that is to say at the time when respondent 1 seeks to exercise those powers.
They provide Notwithstanding anything contained in this chapter as and from the financial year 1976 77 there shall be charged levied and paid for each financial year a tax on the lands or buildings or both at the rate specified in the table below Nothing further is required to be done by the Municipality or the Municipal Corporation in order to impose the property tax and therefore the procedure preliminary to the imposition of other taxes which is prescribed by sections 129 and 133 of the two Acts can 15 have no application to the imposition of the property tax.
The property tax is imposed by respondent 1 under section 127A of the Municipalities Act and section 135 of the Municipal Corporation Act.
It is therefore not necessary to follow the procedure prescribed by sections 129 and 133 of the respective Acts.
This position is made clear out of abundant caution by clause 4 of section 133 of the Municipal Corporation Act which provides that nothing contained in section 133 shall apply to the tax mentioned in clause a of sub section 1 of section 132 which shall be charged and levied in accordance with section 135.
What we have said is the plain meaning of the taxing provision.
puts the matter beyond all doubt.
Under section 51 of the Coal Mines Nationalisation Act 26 of 1973 which applies in the instant case the right title and interest of a nationalised coal mine vest by direction of the Central Government in the Government company.
By sub section 2 of section 141 the property tax levied on the owner can also be recovered from the occupier of the land or the building.
Entry 54 of List I relates to Regulation of mines and mineral development to the extent to which such regulation and development under the control of the Union is declared by Parliament by law to be expedient in the public interest.
But in order to 20 judge whether on that account the State legislature loses its competence to pass the Act of 1973 it is necessary to have regard to the object and purpose of that Act and to the relevant provisions thereof under which Special Area Development Authorities are given the power to tax lands and buildings within their jurisdiction.
Section 68 defines the functions of the Special Area Development Authority one of which as prescribed by clause v is to provide the municipal services as specified in sections 123 and 124 of the Madhya Pradesh Municipalities Act 1961.
In that case under the terms of a mining lease the lessee worked the mines and bound himself to pay a dead rent if he used the leased land for the extraction of iron ore and to pay surface rent in respect of the surface area occupied or used by him.
Those demands were challenged by the lessee on the ground inter alia that the provision imposing the land cess quoad royalty under the mining leases must be held to have been repealed by the Central Act viz the Mines and Minerals Regulation and Development Act 1958 and the .
The power conferred by the State Legislature on Special Area Development Authorities to impose the property tax on lands and buildings is therefore not in conflict with the power conferred by the Coal Mines Nationalisation Act on the Union Government to regulate and develop the Coal mines so as to ensure rational and scientific utilisation of coal resources.
The second sub rule added to Rule 20 was held to be without jurisdiction for the same reason.
These are the main points argued by the learned Attorney General on behalf of the appellant Companies.
