The Judgment and order of the Division Bench of the High Court presided over by learned Acting Chief Justice is set aside and one by learned Single Judge Dr A section Anand is restored and consequently the Writ Petition No 436 of 1980 filed by Respondents in the High Court of Jammu and Kashmir stands dismissed.
 The construction of the Cinema Theatre appears to have been completed by the middle of June 1969.
It was further held by The Acting Chief Justice that the effect of the licence was that it renders privilege the building of the cinematographs used therein and the privilege must necessarily follow the title in such building and the cinematograph.
Aggrieved by the decision of the High Court Ved Gupta has filed these appeals after obtaining special leave from this Court.
Civil Appeal No 2611 of 1981 is directed against the judgment of the learned Acting Chief Justice which has been treated as the final judgment in the Letters Patent Appeal and Civil Appeal No 2611 A of 1981 has been preferred against the order passed by the Division Bench CMP No 454 of 1981.
Admittedly the licence in respect of the Apsara Theatre was granted by the District Magistrate in the sole name of Ved Gupta and in all the relevant columns of the document of licence Ved Gupta has been shown as the licensee and there is no mention at all of the firm or its partners.
An application filed by Shri Krishan Kumar for a declaration that the licence was the property of the firm and for inclusion of his name and that of Todar Mal in the said licence as joint licensees was rejected by the District Magistrate by his order dated December 29 1977.
The Appeal preferred by Todar Mal against the order of the District Magistrate was dismissed by the concerned Minister of the State Government on April 26 1978.
That writ petition was dismissed by the High Court on May 9 1978 SLP Civil No 3490 of 1978 filed by Todar Mal against the High Court s order dismissing his writ petition was rejected by this Court on November 13 1978.
That application was dismissed by the District Magistrate as per his order dated April 21 1979 that the G renewal could not be made in the name of any party other than the original licensee so long as there had not been any transfer of the licence by the original licensee in favour of another with the sanction of the licensing authority.
No steps were taken by Krishan Kumar to challenge the said order passed by the District Magistrate.
The renewal of the licence was subsequently given to Ved Gupta after rejecting the prayer of Krishan Kumar as representative of the firm for the grant of the renewal in the name of the firm.
Such being the case we are unable to appreciate why the learned Acting Chief Justice has devoted a considerable part of his judgment to a discussion of the aforesaid question as to whether the licence belonged to Ved Gupta alone or whether it was the property of the firm.
In proceedings to which the licensing authority was a party the High Court as well as this Court had upheld its order holding Ved Gupta to be the sole licensee rejecting the case put forward on behalf of the firm and the firm and its partners are bound by the said decision.
We are of the opinion that on a reading of the provisions contained in the Act and the Rules and the explicit terms of the licence itself it is impossible to sustain the view expressed in the judgment under appeal that the licence is a grant for the premises and constitutes an interest attached to the premises.
The object and purpose of this Section obviously is to empower the licensing authority to revoke the licence in the event of the commission of an offence under Section 6 or Section 6 E of the Act not merely by the licensee but also by any person who may be in actual charge of a cinematography or management of the cinematograph.
Hence it becomes obvious that the basic premise on which the learned Acting Chief Justice has founded his reasoning cannot be accepted as correct or sound.
That Rule reads 88v.
The licensee shall not without the permission of the licensing authority assign sublet or otherwise transfer the licence or the licensed place or the cinematograph nor shall the licensee without permission as aforesaid allow any other person during the period of currency of the licence to exhibit the films in the licensed place  Clause 11 of the licence issued to Ved Gupta in Form A prescribed under the Rules incorporates in identical language the provision aforementioned contained in Rule 88v as one of the conditions subject to which the licence was granted.
It is now relevant to recall that what has happened in this case is that in a suit filed by Krishan Kumar along with 11 other partners an order of temporary injunction was issued on September 23 1980 restraining Ved Gupta from interfering in any manner with the running of the Theatre by the plaintiffs.
The effect of the order was that Ved Gupta had no longer possession or control over the Theatre premises or the cinematograph apparatus installed therein despite the fact that the was the licensee responsible to the authorities under the statute for the due discharge of the obligations contained in the Rules and in the conditions appended to the licence.
On September 26 1980 the Superintendent of Police Jammu reported to the District District Magistrate that cinema exhibition in Apsara Theatre was being conducted by some persons other than the licensee and hence the licensee had been challenged by him under Section 6 of the Act.
A mere reading of the District Magistrate s order is sufficient to show that what was done thereudder was not to suspend or revoke even temporarily the licence granted in respect of the Theatre.
There was no suspension of the licence issued to Ved Gupta in respect of the Theatre.
If Ved Gupta the licensee bad been expelled from the partnership the proper course to be adopted by the firm and its partners was to move the authorities for the grant of a licence and to run the Theatre only after obtaining such licence.
The position would of course have been different if it was a case of even temporary suspension of the licence without notice to the licensee However as we have explained this is not a case of suspension of the licence and the complainant before the court is not the licensee.
They had no legal right whatever to conduct the cinema shows in the Theatre without a licence in contravention of the law.
The power to control the exhibition of cinematography by grant of licence and the power to administer and enforce the provisions of the Act and the Rules clearly include the power to take all steps necessary to ensure the due observance of the terms of the statute the rules and the conditions of the licence as otherwise the competent authority under the Act would have to be a helpless spectator when cinematograph films are publicly exhibited by persons other than the licensee.
The impugned order is one obviously passed by the District Magistrate in the exercise of his function of administering the provision of the Act and the Rules and the aforesaid implied power to take all incidental steps necessary for effective enforcement of the statute.
