352 T section Krishnamoorthi Iyer KR.
Cheque for Rs 300 was encashed by the appellant on 29th December 1960.
Cheque for Rs 220 was dishonoured three times and finally encashed on 11th January 1961.
It was further stated that the averments in the plaint that the defendant Corporation cashed the above two cheques and appropriated the amounts and credited these in the account towards premium payable for the proposal were false.
During the trial before the learned Subordinate Judge five different issues were raised.
It is not necessary to set out in detail those issues but the important and main issue was whether there was a concluded valid insurance contract between the deceased and the Life Insurance Corporation of India.
The respondents plaintiffs examined Shri RV Bhupala Prasad son of the deceased and the Corporation on its behalf examined Shri Jagannadhachari the Superintendent of the Corpo 355 ration branch at Guntur.
B 4 the review slip prepared by the Branch office Guntur and sent to the Divisional officer Masulipatam.
In his deposition he had stated that the Divisional Manager was the competent authority for accepting the proposal for Rs 50000.
He further stated that the amount would be transferred into the first premium register after the proposal was accepted and the risk covered.
He had further stated that the proposal form was sent from the office at Guntur to the Divisional office at Masulipatam and exhibit B 1 to B 4 and B 8 were sent in this connection.
He further stated that the letters DM  were also written by him indicating that the papers should go to the Divisional Manager on exhibit B 4.
When the acceptance was complete and when there was no requirement necessary and if the full first instalment was 356 in deposit it would be adjusted towards premium amount he stated.
He held that as per the prospectus of Life Insurance Corporation of India the risk under the Corporation policy commenced on the date of receipt of the first premium in full or the date of acceptance whichever was later and the second instalment of the premium falls due on a date calculated from such date of commencement of risk.
The Trial Court was of the opinion that the proposal must be accepted by the Divisional Manager and that alone could give rise to a valid contract of insurance which never happened in this case.
The Trial Court further expressed the view that the other averments in the claim that the deceased was assured and told by the local agent and the field officer of the Corporation that the payment of the first premium would amount to the acceptance of the proposal were not established and even if such a representation was made that did not alter the position as under the rules the payment of the premium could never amount to the acceptance of the proposal if the proposal was not otherwise accepted.
Being aggrieved by the said decision the plaintiffs respondents field appeal in the High Court.
The appellants before the High Court also filed civil miscellaneous petition praying that in the circumstances stated in the affidavit filed therewith the High Court might be pleased to direct the Life Insurance Corporation to produce certain documents viz proposals review slips and proposal dockets and the connected papers of the present case and statements furnished by the Divisional office to the Zonal office showing the new business in the year 1960 and proposal register work of Divisional office for the year 1960.
The High Court by its judgment dated 14th April 1970 held after considering the standing order exhibit B 13 and the various documents produced for the first time on record that there was acceptance of proposal and like 358 other contracts the contract of insurance was complete by offer and acceptance.
In coming to this conclusion the High Court relied on the alleged adjustment and the endorsement of the review slip recommending that the proposal may be accepted made on the relevant file by the Assistant Divisional Manager.
Relying on certain other documents which were called for for the first time by the High Court relating to certain other cases where only the Assistant Divisional Manager made similar endorsement the High Court came to the conclusion that there was a valid contract.
On the other hand there was a general statement that there was no concussed contract.
The High Court was of the view that having regard to the conduct of the parties there was a concluded contract.
The High Court was of the view that the Corporation had not filed any evidence of any order prohibiting other officers one step below in rank in this case the Assistant Divisional Manager to exercise the power of Divisional Manager.
The allegation that there was assurance on behalf of the field officer and local agent to the deceased that the payment of first premium would amount to the acceptance of the proposal cannot also be accepted firstly because factually it was not proved and secondly because 359 there was no evidence that such could have been the deposition in law.
When an insurance policy becomes effective is well settled by the authorities but before we note the said authorities it may be stated that it is clear that the expression underwrite signifies accept liability under .
The dictionary meaning also indicates that.
Acceptance must be signified by some act or acts agreed on by the parties or from which the law raises a presumption of acceptance.
The mere execution of the policy is not an acceptance an acceptance to be complete must be communicated to the offeror either directly or by some definite act such as placing the contract in the mail.
The test is not intention alone.
When the application so requires the acceptance must be evidenced by the signature of one of the company s executive officers.
 Though in certain human relationships silence to a proposal might convey acceptance but in the case of insurance proposal silence does not denote consent and no binding contract arises until 360 the person to whom an offer is made says or does something to signify his acceptance.
The general rule is that the contract of insurance will be concluded only when the party to whom an offer has been made accepts it unconditionally and communicates his acceptance to the person making the offer.
Having regard to the clear position in law about acceptance of insurance proposal and the evidence on record in this case we are therefore of the opinion that the High Court was in error in coming to the conclusion that there was a concluded contract of insurance between the deceased and the Life Insurance Corporation and on that basis reversing the judgment and the decision of the learned Subordinate Judge.
We order accordingly that the respondents will therefore pay back half of the actual amount received both of the principal together with interest within three months from this date.
