etition Nos.
Under Article 32 of the Constitution of India AND Writ Petition Nos 42184571 and 5266 5280 of 1983 Under article 32 of the Constitution of India AND Transfer Case Nos 44 339 of 1983 KK Venugopal SS Ray PP Rao VM Tarkuade and R K Garg V Jogayya Sharma MP Rao Sudarsh Menon T VS N Churi G Narasimhulu A Subba Rao MKD Namboodiry HS Guru Raj Rao section Markandeya ATM Sampath DK Garg Nikhil Chandra and A K Panda for the Petitioners.
LN Sinha Attorney General Anil B DivanB Parthasarthi and KR Chaudhary for the Respondents.
GN Rao for the State.
Miss A Subhashini for the Union.
In the elections held to the Legislative Assembly of Andhra Pradesh in January 1983 a new political party called Telugu Desam was swept to power.
The case of the petitioners as laid in the writ petitions is that there was no basis at all for reducing the age of retirement from 58 to 55 that the age of retirement was increased from 55 to 58 by the Government of Andhra Pradesh by a notification dated October 29 1979 and nothing had happened since then to justify reduction of the age of retirement again to 5 i that providing employment opportunities to the youths h Is no relevance on the question of fixing the age of retirement that the Government had exercised its power arbitrarily without having regard to factors which are relevant on the fixation of the age of retirement that the Government had acted unreasonably in not giving any previous notice to the employees which would have enabled them to arrange their affairs on the eve of retirement that the Government was estopped from reducing the age of retirement to 55 since the employees had acted on the representation made to them in 1979 by increasing the age of retirement from 55 to 58 that as a result of the increase in the age of retirement from 55 to 58 years in 1976 a vested right had accrued to the employees which could be taken away if at all only from future entrants to the Government service that retirement of experienced and mature persons from Government service will result in grave detriment to public services of the State and that the decision of the Government is bad for a total non application of mind to the relevant facts and circumstances bearing on the question of the age of retirement like increased longevity.
A counter affidavit was filed on behalf of the State of Andhra Pradesh by Shri R Parthasarathy Joint Secretary in the Finance Department of the State at the stage of admission of the writ petitions.
Another affidavit was filed on behalf of the Government of Andhra Pradesh after the rule nisi was issued in the writ petitions.
Clause 102 provides that every Government employee not being a workman but belonging to the Last Grade Service shall retire from service on the afternoon of the last day of the month in which he attains the age of 60 years.
By clause 15 All Rules and Regulations made under the proviso to Article 309 or continued under Article 3 l 3 of the Constitution or made under any other law for the time being in force governing the recruitment and conditions of service of the Government employees continue to be in force in so far as they are not inconsistent with the provisions of the Ordinance.
Clause 18 of the Ordinance provides by sub clause i that the proviso to rule 2 of the Fundamental Rules shall be and shall be deemed always to have been omitted.
The arguments advanced before us fall under distinct heads learned counsel having shared their burden equitably.
whereas in the case of compulsory retirement a notice of three months is 590 required to be given by the Government under the relevant rules in the case of superannuation of employees who had already attained the age of 55 on February 8 1983 when the first Order was issued the impugned law gives to the employees a notice of 20 days only since all such employees had to retire on February 28 1983.
We will presently set out the specific contentions advanced before us but before doing so.
Inevitably the public administrator has to counter balance conflicting claims while determining the age of superannua 591 tion.
On the one hand public services cannot be deprived of the benefit of the mature experience of senior employees on the other hand a sense of frustration and stagnation cannot be allowed to generate in the minds of the junior members of the services and the younger sections of the society.
Where an act is arbitrary it is implicit in it that it is unequal both according to political logic and constitutional law and is therefore violative of Article 14l But while resolving the validity of policy issues like the age of retirement it is not proper to put the conflicting claims in a sensitive judicial scale and decide the issue by finding out which way the balance tilts.
Shri Venugopal who led the argument on behalf of the petitioners contends that the provisions of the Ordinance whereby the age of retirement is reduced from 58 to 55 are arbitrary and irrational and hence violative of Articles 14 and 16 of the Constitution for the following reasons a The age of superannuation was increased from 55 to 58 years with effect from October 29 1979 after an elaborate and scientific inquiry by a One Man Pay Commission b The State Government issued the order reducing the age of retirement within one month of the assumption of office by it.
That result is indeed produced by the impugned action of the State Government In 1979 when the age of retirement was increased from 55 to 58 years promotional opportunities were denied to the employees because those who would have retired at the age of 55 got a fresh lease of life for another years.
The various Pay Commissions have expressed the view that persons who are required to retire at 593 an early age are compelled by necessity to seek other employments.
The Commission says in the same paragraph as a possible justification of its consideration of the question of the age of retirement that it was mentioned on the floor of the House that this issue is referred to the Commission Our attention has been drawn in this behalf to a statement made in the Andhra Pradesh Legislative Council on September 20 1976 by the then Finance Minister Shri G Rajaram to the effect that one of the terms of reference to the Commission was to review the existing retirement age of Government employees.
It is untenable to contend that a law is bad because it is passed immediately on the assumption of office by a new Government.
If reduction of the retirement age from 58 to 55 is to be regarded as arbitrary on the ground that it overlooks the advance made in longevity fixation of retirement age at 58 is also not likely to sustain the charge of arbitrariness.
The argument could still be made that improvement in the expectation of life requires that the age of retirement should be fixed at 60 or 62 or even at 65.
Both can fall within the constraints of the Constitution and neither the one nor the other can be considered to be arbitrary or unreasonable.
Prior to 1917 the superannuation rule applicable to both ministerial and non ministerial staff was that a Government servant who had attained the age of 55 might be required to retire but that in order to avod depriving the State of the valuable experience of efficient officers and adding unnecessarily to the non effective charges the rule should be applied with discretion and whenever it was applied reasons should be recorded.
The rule was accordingly changed so as to make retirement at 55 the normal practice and retention in service beyond that age the exception.
A distinction was however made between ministerial and non ministerial officers presumbly because it was thought that the duties of the former did not suffer from the effects of advancing age as did those of the others and it was decided in effect that subject to continued efficiency ministerial officers should be retained in service till they attained the age of 60.
The earlier decision to maintain the age of retirement at 55 was re affirmed but in view of the widespread shortage of trained personnel it was decided that extension of service beyond that age might be given liberally on the ground of public interest more specially in the case of scientific and technical personnel.
The continuing shortage of trained man power led to a further review of the problem in 1958 but apart from laying down the criteria for grant of extension and re employment and re emphasizing the need to retain technical and scientific personnel beyond the age of superannuation the only significant advance on the earlier decisions was that re employment or extension might be granted upto two years at a time.
There was an extraordinary unanimity of opinion amongst Heads of Departments distinguished retired public servants public men and economists who gave evidence before the Commission that the age of superannuation should be raised the only difference being as to whether it should be raised to 58 or 60 years.
In paragraph 15 of the Report the Commission considered the effect of increasing the age of retirement on the employment situation and concluded that the likely repercussion of increasing the age of retirement on educated unemployment would not be substantial.
After talking into account all the relevant considerations including the fact that most Government servants themselves do not wish to continue in service until they are worn out and have one foot in the grave the Commission summed up its findings by saying that there was much in favour of and very little against raising the age of superannuation.
The recommendation of the Second Central Pay Commission that the age of retirement should be raised from 55 to 58 years was not accepted by the Government initially because it felt that raising the age of retirement would reduce employment opportunities in the immediate future.
A reduction in the age of superannuation would not therefore ipso facto improve the overall employment position for the educated unemployed 5 Any increase in the age of superannuation beyond the age of 58 would reduce during the period of the increase employment opportunities for a very large number of technical engineering and professional students passing out from the universities technical institutions and industrial training institutes  and 6 The age of retirement should not be changed frequently since it has a vital bearing on the career prospects of and the retirement benefits available to Government employees and since it is an important factor in the attractiveness of Government service.
The Third Tamil Nadu Pay Commission 1978 has also dealt with the question of the age of retirement.
The age of retirement is 70 years in Brazil and Peru 65 years in Chile 63 years in Philippines and 64 years in Lebanon.
According to the Sixth Five Year Plan unemployment would not be eliminated within the Sixth Plan unless efforts were immediately made to make the current unemployed more employable through short term training and vocational programmes and unless special employment programmes are directed towards their absorption.
Soon after the assumption of office the Government of Andhra Pradesh presented a White Paper to the State Legislative Assembly in March 1983 on the question of reduction in the age of superannuation from 58 years to 55 years in respect of Government employees employees of Panchayat Raj Institutions Local Bodies and aided Educational Institutions for whom the pensionary liability is borne by Government.
After stating that the Krishnaswamy Commission was appointed on November 3 1977 for the sole purpose of 603 examining the question of  retirement benefits and that the question of retirement age was not included in its terms of reference the White Paper says that although the Government had accepted the recommendations of the Commission almost in their entirety it did not accept its recommendation that the age of retirement should be increased from 55 to 58 years.
By a notification dated September 17 199 the recommendations of the Commission B in regard to the revision of pay scales were accepted by the Government but not so the recommendation regarding increasing the age of retirement from 55 to 58 years.
The specific case of the State Government on the question of reduction of the age of retirement from 58 to 55 years is stated thus As a result of revision of the age of superannuation upwards from 55 years to 58 years the normal channels of promotions that would have opened up had the retirements taken place in the normal course were choked.
Consequently the resultant vacancies at the direct recruitment level which would have arisen in the chain of appointments that would follow each retirement were also blocked for 3 years continuously thereby denying the promotion opportunities to inservice personnel and employment opportunities for the unemployed causing a great deal of frustration all round.
Besides experienced deserving inservice personnel whose legitimate aspirations for promotion were thwarted could also now look for this much awaited promotion.
Government were thus able to create promotional avenues to serving employees at various levels and create opportunities for appointment against about 18000 posts in Government Panchayat Raj and aided educational institutions alone not to speak of the opportunities that were created in the various Corporations etc owned or controlled by Government.
The function of that cell is to monitor the progress of settlement of pension eases In addition it is said the Government had issued instructions by a notification dated February 14 1983 for payment of anticipatory pension at 3110th of the last pay drawn in all cases wherein the sanction of pension was delayed.
If the policy adopted for the time being by the Government or the Legislature is shown to violate recognised norms of employment planning it would be possible to say that the policy is irrational since in that event it would not bear reasonable nexus with the object which it seeks to achieve.
The reports of the various Commissions from which we have extracted relevant portions show that the creation of new avenues of employment for the youth is an integral part of any policy governing the fixation of retirement age.
What is vital for the welfare of the citizens is of necessity vital for the survival of the State.
Care must also be taken to ensure that the statistics are not perverted to serve a malevolent purpose 605 Shri VM Tarkunde who appears for some of the petitioners A limited his argument to the contention that arbitrary fixation of retirement age amounts to removal from service and is therefore violative of Article 311 2 of the Constitution This argument has to be rejected because of our conclusion that the reduction of the age of retirement from 58 to 55 in the instant case is not hit by Article 14 or Article 16 since it is not arbitrary or unreasonable in the circumstances of the case.
The appellant therein who had attained the age of 55 years on December 11 1960 and was continued in service when the age of retirement was raised to 58 years was one of those who had to retire on December 31 1961 as a result of reduction of the age of retirement to 55.
It was held by this Court that the termination of service of an employee on account of his reaching the age of superannuation does not amount to his removal from service within the meaning of Article 311 2.
Learned counsel contends that this decision is of doubtful authority since the Court based its opinion on the majority judgment in Moti Ram Deka vs yGeneral Manager North Frontier Railway7 in which the Court was not called upon to consider and did not consider the validity of a rule of superannuation.
3  4  5 1958 SCR1052.
It was after noticing this distinction that the Court observed that the very case namely Moti Ram Deka s case on which the appellant relied contained the observation that the rule as to supperannuation or compulsory retirement resulting in the termination of service of a public servant did not amount to removal from service The Court in Bishun Narain Misra came independently to the conclusion that as the rule in question only dealt with the age of superannuation and the appellant had to retire because of the reduction in the age of superannuation it cannot be said that the termination of his service which thus came about was removal within the meaning of Article 311.
The theme of Shri Siddhartha Sbankar Ray s argument is non application of mind.
The instances of non application of mind cited by the learned counsel are these The inclusion o f the employees of the High Court within the sweep of the Ordinance in violation of the provisions of Chapters V and VI of the Constitution the inclusion of the employees of the Legislature Secretariat within the Ordinance the extension of the Ordinance even to the daily rate workers and finally the fact that nothing worthwhile is likely to be achieved by the passing of the Ordinance since at the highest it would create employment at this point of time only for about 19500 employees After that point of time passes the same state of affairs will continue since the age of retirement will be merely substituted by 58 in place of 55 years.
The 607 power to issue an ordinance is not an executive power but is the power of the executive to legislate.
This power is plenary within its field like the power of the State Legislature to pass laws and there are no limitations upon that power except those to which the legislative power of the State Legislature is subject Therefore though an ordinance call be invalidated for contravention of the constitutional limitations which exist upon the power of the State Legislature to pass laws it cannot be declared invalid for the reason of non application of mind any more than any other law can be.
Not the act of a Legislature.
Though Shri Ray presented his argument in the shape of a challenge to the Ordinance on the ground of non application Of mind the real thrust of his argument was that the hurry with which the Ordinance was passed shows the arbitrary character of the action taken by the State Government.
It was also urged by counsel that by reducing the age of retirement to 55 years the Government employees were deprived of their right to livelihood.
The burden to establish maa fides is a heavy burden to discharge.
609 cously absent in these writ petitions.
Besides the ordinance making A power being a legislative power the argument of mala Fides is misconceived.
Its reasons for passing a law are those that are stated in the Objects and Reasons and if no reasons are so stated as appear from the provisions enacted by it.
Finally there is no substance in the contention that the amendment to the Fundamental Rules whereby the proviso to rule 2 was deleted is beyond the powers of the rule making authority or the Legislature.
It is well settled that the service rules can be as much amended as they can be made under the proviso to Article 309 and that the power to amend these rules carries with it the power to amend them retrospectively.
