Ex parte for the Respondents.
 The High Court has struck down the aforesaid provision only on the ground that it suffers from the vice of excessive delegation of legislative power inasmuch as no criteria or guide lines have been 954 provided by reference to which the power conferred on the Administrator to refuse permission or grant permission should be exercised and that the section confers an arbitrary uncanalised power upon the Administrator with the result that the licensed dealer is at his mercy while seeking permission to carry on money lending or banking business on the security of any article ornament or both in the same premises in which he carried on business as such dealer.
The High Court s reasoning in this behalf is to be found in its judgment at page 87 of the paper book and it runs thus The Administrator as is evident from this provision is given unlimited authority or power to refuse permission or to grant permission.
28 by reference to which the power conferred upon him thereunder could be exercised by the Administrator but that is not decisive of the matter.
In fact sec.
Moreover against his order under that section a revision lies to Central Government which implies that he will have to make judicious use of his power or discretion and any improper exercise is liable to be corrected by a higher authority.
It does not impose any blanket or 956 absolute prohibition upon a dealer from carrying on money lending banking or any other business in the same premises in which he carries on business as a dealer but he is prevented only from carrying on business as money lender or banker on the security of any article ornament or both unless authorised by the administrator.
Having regard to this position which obtains in the case sec.
We may indicate that the same provision section 28 was challenged before the Patna High Court in Bihar State Bullion Merchants  Association vs Union of lndia1 and the Gujarat High Court in Ramanlal Purshottamamdas Chokshi vs Union of India  Others 2 and these High Courts have upheld its validity.
For instance under clause a the Administrator was required to have regard to the number of dealers existing in the region  in which the applicant was intending to carry on business as dealer but the word region  was no where defined in the Act similarly clause b required the Administrator to have regard to the anticipated demand  as estimated by him for the ornaments in that region but the expression anticipated demand  was really vague and incapable of assessment leading to a great deal of uncertainty similarly the expression 1AIR 1971 Patna 240.
214 Guj.
e and public interest  in cl.
276 this Court struck down sec.
