Civil Appeal Nos3677 3680 of 1986 Etc.
From the Judgment and Order dated 1031986 of the Karnataka High Court in WP Nos.
4053 to 4056 of 1985.
The Judgment of the Court was delivered by CHINNAPPA REDDY J.
Special leave granted in all the cases.
These appeals raise common questions of law and may therefore be disposed of by a common judgment.
By section 24 of Amending Act 47 of 1978 a proviso to section 637 was introduced.
The State Transport Authority by its proceedings dated April 30 1984 granted 11 out of the 14 permits to the Karnataka State Tourism Development Corporation one permit to the Indian Tourism Development Corporation and two permits to the Karnataka State Road Transport Corporation.
The Tribunal rejected their appeals regretfully.
Section 471 C enables the State Government to reserve a certain percentage of stage carriage permits to persons belonging to economically weaker sections of the community.
That is how section 471 H was interpreted in Sher Singh s case.
When an application for a stage carriage permit is being processed as required by sec.
In an application under Chapter IV Corporation has to enter the arena like any other applicant face the competition and come up to the level of other private operators intending to obtain stage carriage permits and then in respect of the route in question claim preference.
The reference to Chapter IV A there was for the purpose of contrasting the exclusion contemplated by section 68F1 with the preference to be given under section 47 1 H and so to interpret the word preference  occurring in section 471 H.
Since the State Transport Appellate Tribunal and the High Court have failed to consider the merits of the claims of the Karnataka State Road Transport Corporation and the private operators who did not get a certificate of approval from the Central Government because of the rule of preference contained in proviso to section 637 the proper course for us is to set aside the orders of the State Transport Appellate Tribunal and the High Court and to direct the State Transport Appellate Tribunal to re hear the appeals and dispose them of in accordance with law after considering the claims of the eligible applicants in the manner indicated in Sher Singh s case and now.
Though the permits to be granted are for tourist vehicles the preference is confined to operators of tourist cars and travel agents.
One may understand a preference granted to operators of tourist vehicles but it is difficult to understand why preference should be given to operators of tourist cars in the matter of granting permits for tourist vehicles which may well be omnibuses required to travel long distances.
Surely it cannot be said that experience of running a tourist taxi is a better qualification than running a tourist bus when the question of granting permits for tourist vehicles arises.
The High Court of Karnataka tided over the difficulty by interpreting the expression tourist cars as meaning tourist vehicles.
In the second place we have no indication as to the manner in which the approval of the Central Government is to be sought and granted and the considerations which are expected to weigh with the Central Government.
637 of the .
The terms and conditions to be fulfilled are that the party must have been in the car hire business for a period of 2 years with the help of cars of indigenous make or cars obtained from elsewhere and should have sufficient contacts with travel agencies hoteliersairlines etc.
We think that clause iv of the proviso to section 637 is unconstitutional and we so declare it.
PSS Appeals allowed.
