With WP CriminalNo 316 of 1986.
The normal tempo of life was completely disturbed.
The people started running helter and skelter for their lives.
Charge sheet No 2584 has already been submitted in this case.
When he was dancing some of the members opened fire on him as a result of which he fell down.
Jogta PS Case No 6885 dated 11285 us 34134 IPC.
910 It is the contention of the petitionerappellant that the order of preventive detention could only be justified against a person in detention if the detaining authority was satisfied that his release from detention was imminent and the order of detention was necessary for putting him back in jail.
The service of order of detention on the petitioner while he was in jail was futile and useless since such an order had no application under section 32 of the Act.
In the affidavit of the District Magistrate the detaining authority it has been stated that the activities of the petitioner s brother and the petitioner have disturbed the normal tempo of life in Katras and Jogta Police Stations in Dhanbad area.
It further appears from the affidavit f f the District Magistrate filed before the High Court of Patna that the petitioner was absconding from the very day of the issuance of the detention order.
 According to the District Magistrate when police pressure to apprehend him became heavy the detenu opted to surrender before the Sub Divisional Judicial Magistrate on 10th January 1986 in substantive case to frustrate the service of the detention order.
Grounds were all indicated.
His representation was duly considered and rejected.
The grounds stated that there was indiscriminate firing on 24th December 1985 on Katras Coal Dump and the petitioner started indiscriminate firing to kill Birendra Pratap Singh a rival of his calendestine business of coal to establish the criminal superiority in full view of the shopkeepers customers and passers by of the area.
In those circumstances it appears that the grounds for forming the satisfaction for the need for the detention were there and there was rational nexus between the object of the order as contemplated by the Act and the materials on record.
26986.
Judged on the basis of 911 the said principles there is no ground for interference with the order of detention as passed.
Nor does it appear that before the service there was consideration of this aspect properly.
MLA Petition and Appeal allowed.
