Respondent in person.
Not present  The Judgment of the Court was delivered by SABYASACHI MUKHARJI J.
Rs50000 Pravin Kumar Gupta .
It appears further that copies of this letter were sent to one Om Prakash Gupta and Ved Prakash Gupta.
A similar letter was written by Ved Prakesh thanking the assessee his father for the gift of Rs25000 made to him and Rs50000 gifted to his son.
The Tribunal held that they were not carrying on banking business.
In the case of banking companies or other firms and companies who have overdraft facilities even if the sums are not in credit of the donor and are not with such companies or firms gifts might be possible by adjustment of the book entries.
Commis sioner of Income Tax Poona vs Dharsey Keshavji 143 ITR 509 and Commissioner of Income Tax Poona vs Devichand Uttamchand In the background of facts of those cases the Bombay High Court held that the gifts were valid.
The Madras High Court in the case of Mrs Ida L Cham bers and Three Others vs Kelland Huxford Chambers was dealing with a case where C proprietor of a business who had invested a large amount of capital in it caused entries to be made in his account books crediting his wife and certain other members of his family with sums which were debited to his capital account.
C s wife withdrew various sums of money from time to time from the interest account and whenever C desired to retransfer amounts to his capital account he obtained let ters of consent from her.
It was held by the High Court that gifts were invalid.
Rangoon High Court in Abba Dada and Company vs Commis sioner of Income Tax Burma held that the mere book entries were not sufficient in that case to constitute valid gift.
Memo of gift recorded on stamp paper.
In Commissioner of Wealth Tax vs Gulab Rai Govind Pra sad there was an alleged gift of Rs2 lakhs to minor son by book entries.
Cash Balance was only Rs7626.
The transfer was effected by debit ing the assessee s personal account in the books of the Hindu undivided family with Rs50000 and crediting the same in the personal account of his son.
In the impugned judgment the Allahabad High Court had followed the said decision.
If the possession enjoyment or benefit of the donor in the property was consistent with the facts and circumstances of the case other than those of the factum of gift it could not be said that the donee had not retained the possession and enjoyment of the property to the entire exclusion of the donor or to the entire exclusion of the donor in any benefit to him by contract or otherwise.
On 27th March 1957 M made a gift of Rs 1 lakh to his son L and of Rs50000 to his wife K by making debit entries in his account in the firm and corresponding credits to the accounts of L and K With effect from 28th March 1957 L was taken as a partner in the firm by giving L one forth share out of the half share of M M died on 9th January 1962.
This Court held affirming the decision of the High Court that section 10 did not apply to the gifts of Rs 1 lakh and Rs50000 made by the deceased to his son and to his wife respectively.
But in that case the question in the present form in which it arises before us in the instant case did not arise.
