vil Appeal No 10761077 of 1987.
From the Judgment and Order dated 1781985 of the Allahabad High Court in CM Writ No 6849 of 1984.
K Parasaran B Datta PP Rao KL Hathi Anil Nauriya SR Aggarwal Y Ramachandran UJ Rana RP Srivastava Hem 188 ant Sharma P Parmeshwaran Ms Sushma Suri and CV Subba Rao for the Appellants.
MK Ramamurthy CS Vaidyanathan section Ravindra Bhatt Mohan SR Setia and Probir Choudhary for the Respondents.
1977 by the Life Insurance Corporation of India hereinafter referred to as the Corporation  which pro vides that an employee belonging to Class I or Class II appointed to the service of the Corporation on or after 1st September 1956 shall retire on completion of 58 years of age but the competent authority may if it is of the opinion that it is in the interest of the Corporation to do so direct such employee to retire on completion of 50 years of age and at any time thereafter on giving him three months  notice or salary in lieu thereof.
1955 there were more than 200 insur ers carrying on life insurance business in India.
As it came to the notice of the Government that the Indian life insur ers with a few exceptions were virtually controlled by few individuals who were utilising the funds of those companies to the detriment of the industry and the policyholders the Government decided to nationalise the life insurance busi ness.
On the passing of the said Ordinance the management of the controlled business of all the insurers in India thus vested in the Central Government and pending the appointment of the custodians for the controlled business of any insurer the person in charge of the management of such business immedi ately before the passing of the Ordinance was required to be in charge of the management of the business for and on behalf of the Central Government.
The Ordinance was replaced by the which was published on 21st of March 1956.
The nature of the work of the Corporation was such that it required the services of the employees with sufficient experience and expertise in running the life insurance business.
Regulation 21 reads as follows 21.
Leave and retirement In the matter of leave and retire ment Field Officers shall be governed by the same regula tions as are applicable to Class I officers of the Corpora tion.
The relevant part of regulation 19 amended on 2111977 reades thus 191.
In other words the contention of the 1st Respondent before the High Court was that since he had the fight to continue in service if he had remained in Class III only till he attained the age of 60 years as a Class III employee by virtue of the settlement and the amendment of the regula tion 19 in the year 1965 the age of retirement in his case could not be reduced to 58 years only because he had been promoted to a Class I post.
The Central Government and the Corporation felt that 60 years of age could be a proper age of retirement in the circumstances in respect of the transferred employees and that was the reason why by regulation 19 and the standardisation order issued earlier in the case of certain classes of transferred em ployees under section 112 of the Act the retirement age was fixed at 60 years and this was done with a view to retaining the services of the experienced employees of the erstwhile insurers.
The object of enacting section 11 of the Act is dealt with in.
Thus the statutory transfer of service from former employers and standardization of scales of remuneration and other conditions of employment had to be and were taken care of by section 11 of the Life Insur ance Corporation Act 1956 for short the LIC Act.
 Pathak J as he then was in his judgment in the same case observed at pages 1134 to 1136 thus The first question is whether the new clause 9 of the Standardisation Order succeeds in defeating the claim of the workmen.
Sub section.
1 guarantees to the trans ferred employee the same tenure at the same remuneration and upon the same terms and conditions on the transfer to the Corporation as he enjoyed on the appointed day under the insurer and he is entitled to them until they are duly altered by the Corporation or his employment in the Corpora tion is terminated.
Sub section.
Sub section.
Having regard to the different conditions of service that were prevailing in the various establishments whose business was taken over by the Corporation it can hardly be disputed that the fixation of age of superannuation is one of the essential parts of the process of transfer and inte gration to which sub section 2 of section 11 of the Act is applicable.
The observation made by Pathak J in the course of his judgment that there is no danger of an order made by the Central Government under the second limb of sub section 2 in respect of transferred employeesbeing struck down on the ground that it violates the equality provisions of Part III of the Constitution because similar action has not been taken in respect of newly recruited employees is signifi cant.
A discrimination made by a State between the employees who are directly recruited to the service of the State and the employees whose services are taken over by the State on the taking over of the institutions where they were working has been held to be not unconstitutional by this Court in Ram Lal Wadhwa  Anr.
In the 210 course of its decision this Court while rejecting the con tention of the petitioners observed thus at pages 635 636 The principles on which discrimination and breach of articles 14 and 16 can be said to result have been by now so well settled that we do not think it necessary to repeat them here once again.
That was one way of solving the intricate difficulty of inter se seniority.
Thereafter only the employees who are directly recruited by the Corporation who are about 54000 in number would continue to remain in its service.
The notification further provided that apprentice train examiners who had already been absorbed in grade D  before April 1966 should en bloc be accommodated in grade C  in the eighty per cent of the vacancies without undergoing any selection and with regard to twenty per cent of the vacancies reserved for the other class promotion was to be on selection basis and not on the basis of seniority cum suitability.
Sub section 2A of section 48 has given statutory recognition to the Staff Regulations of 1960 and in particular to Regulation 192 as amended in 1977 which is impugned in these proceedings.
The relevant portion of the judgment of the High Court reads thus A reasonable classification which prevents a Court from dissecting it is one which includes all persons who are similarly situated with respect to the purpose of law or 216 objective which the rule or section seeks to achieve.
So long employees are in Class III they can be said to constitute two different classes of transferred and direct appointees but once they are promoted they become similarly situated and the dis tinction stands obliterated.
It appears to be the inten tion of Parliament that even as late as in 1981 that the two categories of employees namely the transferred employees and employees recruited after 1st September 1956 in the Corporation should be kept separate.
The High Court of Delhi has rejected two petitions in which the very question raised in this case arose for consideration namely NL Aneja vs Union of India and Others Civil Writ No 1911 of 1986 and HS Kochar vs LIC of lndia  Ors CW No 1660 of 1986 at the stage of admission itself giving reasons though short for its orders.
The scheme of section 122 of the and the scheme of section 111 of the Act which is trader consideration before us were the same.
This Court had to deal with a case involving a similar situation in Railway Board vs A Pitchumani  Several railway companies which were running their own railways in different parts of India were amalaga mated with the Indian Railway Administration in 1947.
On the absorption of the services of the servants of the previous railway companies it became necessary for the Indian Railway Administration to frame rules with regard to their conditions of service including the determination of the age of retirement of those railway employees.
Clause b however provided that every ministerial railway serv ant who had entered the Government service on or before 31st March 1938 and who satisfied the conditions mentioned either in sub clause i or sub clause ii thereof was entitled to continue in service till he attained the age of 60 years.
vs Union of India  Ors etc.
Under Article 32 this Court is the constitutional sentinel not the national ombudsman.
