Under Article 32 of the Constitution of India.
Ram Jethmalani and Miss Rani Jethmalani for the Petitioner.
G Ramaswamy Additional Solicitor General RP Srivastava 634 and Miss A Subhashini for the Respondent.
The Judgment of the Court was delivered by RANGANATH MISRA J.
The petitioner of this application under Article 32 of the Constitution is an engineer who was employed in the Central Public Works Department under the Ministry of Works and Housing in Government of India and was compulsorily retired by order dated 381976 with effect from 5111976 made under Rule 56j of the Fundamental Rules.
He has assailed that order for retirement and has claimed payment of remuneration which he would have been entitled to draw upto the normal date of superannuation.
The short facts are these.
The petitioner was born on 1021922 and secured his first appointment as a Section Officer under the named employer on 22101947.
He was pro moted as officiating Assistant Engineer in class II service with effect from  255.
 The impugned notice ran thus No 3245266 EC.
VAISH ENGINEER IN CHIEF To Shri AL Ahuja Assistant Engineer Civil Under Suspension A1185 Lajpat Nagar New Delhi 110024.
As already indicated above he had crossed the age of 50 years but had not attained the age of 55 years by the date of the impugned order.
Therefore sub clause 1 was not contravened when the order was made.
In short an officiating Govern ment servant does not really belong to Class I or Class II service until he acquires a right thereon.
The observations made in Tahiliani s case indisputably support the petitioner.
Learned counsel for the petitioner does not dispute the position that a person who is in Class I or Class II service or post is in such service or post as covered by sub clause i.
There is no warrant for the conclusion that officiating Government servants in Class I or Class II service or post are outside the purview of sub clause i.
The possibility of a reversion to the substantive post is not germane to the exercise of power contained in FR 56.
The purpose of Fundamental Rules 56j is to confer power on the appropriate authority to compulsorily retire Government servant in the public interest and the classification of Government servants into two categories covered by sub clauses i and ii has a purpose behind it.
If the condi tion indicated in sub clause i is satisfied namely the Government servant is in Class I or Class II service or post and he had entered into service before attaining the age of 35 years and has attained the age of fifty the further condition that he must substantively belong to the two classes of service or post cannot be introduced into the scheme.
When this was put to learned Additional Solicitor General he agreed that the Union of India will have no objection to treat the petitioner alike and would be prepared to give the same relief to the petitioner.
6251  8189 OF 1981 Each of the petitioners in these two writ applications under Article 32 of the Constitution was employed in the Central Public Works Department in the Ministry of Works and Housing of Government of India and has been compulsorily retired under Fundamental Rule 56j.
