The learned Judge noted that the only point that arose for consideration was whether the appellant proved that he was a sub tenant as such or not.
He recorded further that he thought that BC meant by consent .
The learned Judge recorded further that it was practice in the Court of Small Causes Bombay of using the expression 1063 BC.
We could not agree more.
The respondent in that case by an amendment had taken the plea of protection under the Maharashtra Amendment Act 17 of 1973 on the ground that he was in occupation of the premises on 1st February 1973 under a subsisting agreement for licence.
The respondent had filed a revision petition under section 115 of CPC in the High Court.
This Court allowing the appeal held that in order to get the advantage of section 15A of the Bombay Rent Act the occupant must be in occupation of the premises as a licensee as defined in section 54A on the 1st of February 1973.
It was futher held that a person continuing in occupation of such premises after revocation of the licence was still liable to pay compensation or damages for its use and occupation.
It was observed that the finding of the High Court that the respondent was in occupation of the premises under a subsisting licence was wholly wrong and suffered from serious infirmities of law and fact and deserved to be set aside.
He referred us to the decision of this Court in the case of Associated 1066 Hotels of India Ltd vs RN Kapoor  where at page 383 this Court noted that there was a marked distinction between a lease and a licence.
Section 105 of the defined a lease of immovable property as a transfer of a right to enjoy such property made for a certain time in consideration of a price paid or promised.
Under section 108 of the said Act the lessee is entitled to be put in possession of the property.
This Court referred to the well known decision in the case of Errington vs Errington  where Lord Denning reviewing the case law on the subject summarized the position as follows The result of all these cases is that although a person who is let into exclusive possession is prima facie to be considered to be tenant nevertheless he will not be held to be so if the circumstances negative any intention to create a tenancy The Court of Appeal in England again in Cobb vs Lane considered the legal position and laid down that the intention of the parties was the real test for ascertaining the character of a document.
To put precisely if an interest in immovable property entitling the transferee to enjoyment was created it was a lease if permission to use land without exclusive possession was alone granted a licence was the legal result.
The licence fee was fixed.
In determining whether an agreement creates between the parties the relationship of landlord and tenant or merely that of licensor and licensee the decisive consideration is the intention of the parties.
This is a salutary test.
vs Ms Bright Bros Pvt.
