Civil Appeal No 8440 of 1983.
Similarly section 13C of the Act provides for the constitution of a Wage Board for the purpose of making recommendations regarding the fixation or revision of the rates of wages in respect of non journalist news 780 paper employees.
Section 13AA which was inserted by Act 6 of 1979 provides for the constitution of a Tribunal for fixing or revising rates of wages in respect of working journalists where the Central Government is of opinion that the Board constituted under section 9 for the purpose of fixing or revising rates of wages in respect of working journalists under the Act has not been able to function effectively.
That Tribunal has to consist of a Judge of the High Court or of the Supreme Court.
Similarly section 13DD of the Act empowers the Central Government to constitute a Tribunal where it is of opinion that the Board constituted under section 13C of the Act has not been able to function effectively.
Initially the State of Maharashtra the Commissioner of Labour and the Deputy Labour Commissioner Nagpur had been impleaded as respondents.
The only question which remains to be 782 considered is whether they contain public news or comments on public news.
Entry 39 of List III of the Seventh Schedule to the Constitution reads thus Newspapers books and printing presses.
 Newspapers and books are no doubt shown as separate items but the distinction between them sometimes becomes very thin or totally vanishes.
It reads thus The newspaper and periodical Press of Great Britain consists of over 4000 publications ranging from newspapers famous throughout the world to the journals of obscure societies.
The term newspaper  is usually applied except so far as concerns the important class of trade newspapers to publications devoted mainly to recording current events and periodicals  to magazines reviews and journals which in so far as they are concerned with current events at all are concerned to comment rather than to report but newspapers merge into advertising sheets periodicals into books and pamphlets and both into one another   The expression news is not defined in the Act.
Several definitions of the expression news collected from the different dictionaries and digests have been cited before us.
The Ist respondent All India Reporter Limited and other publishers of law reports in the interests of their own business vie with each other to publish the judgments of the Supreme Court or of the High Courts as early as possible in their law reports which are published periodically either weekly fortnightly or monthly.
We find it also difficult to agree with the submission made on behalf of the Ist respondent that since the law reports are going to be preserved by the lawyers as reference books after getting them rebound subsequently they should be treated as books.
Taxes on the sale or purchase of goods other than newspapers subject to Entry 92 A of List I The language of Entry 92 of List I of the Seventh Schedule to the Constitution which conferred on Parliament alone the power to tax sale or purchase of newspapers was in the following terms 92.
Tax on the sale or purchase of newspapers and on advertisements published therein.
 After referring to the definition of the expression newspaper  in the Press and Registration of Books Act 1867 the Indian Post Offices Act 1898 the Parliamentary Proceedings Protection of Publication Act 1956 the Delivery of Books and Newspapers Act 1956 the  etc.
the High Court of Orissa held that the Cuttack Law Times was not a newspaper because according to it the necessary pre requisite of a periodical in order to make it a newspaper was that it should contain mainly publicnews or comments on public news and that books containing authoritative reports for future reference could by no means be said to contain news so as to become newspaper.
Accordingly the High Court of Orissa held that the sale of Cuttack Law Times which according to it was not a newspaper could be taxed by the State Legislature under Entry 54 of List II of the Seventh Schedule to the Constitution of India.
785 The High Court of Madras declined to follow the above decision of the Orissa High Court in its decision in TV Ramnath and Another vs Union of India and Others 1975 Labour and Industrial Cases 488 in which the Madras Law Journal a law report published from Madras was held to be a newspaper and the establishment in which the said law report was being published was a newspaper establishment which attracted the provisions of that Act.
We agree with the following observations made in the said decision by Ismail J as he then was Similarly the publications of the petitioner in the second writ petition can be said to contain public news  or comments on public news  since it contains reports of the judgments of the Courts as well as comments on such judgments.
Therefore I am clearly of the opinion that the expression public news  is of sufficiently wide amplitude to cover the publications of both the petitioners in question.
Justice AN Grover who later became a Judge of the Supreme Court of India and the Chairman of the Press Council as a Judge of the Punjab  Haryana High Court held in LD Jain vs General Manager Government of India Press and Others ILR 1967 Punjab and Haryana 193 that the Gazette of India which was the official publication of all kinds of news and information was a newspaper within the meaning of section 2b of the Working Journalists Conditions of Service and Miscellaneous Provisions Act 1955 and that it was not essential for a newspaper to conform strictly to the usual pattern of a daily or weekly or monthly newspaper or a magazine containing news which members of the public ordinarily read in order to get reports of recent events comments on them etc.
The Ist respondent cannot derive any assistance from the deci 786 sion of the High Court of Bombay in Commissoner of Sales Tax vs Ms Express Printing Press AIR 1983 Bombay 191 in which the Bombay High Court held that the two publications by name Jocker  and Jabara  which contained predictions or forecasts of lucky numbers were not newspapers since those publications had nothing to do with any recent event which had taken place.
In the Annual Report of the Registrar of Newspapers for India 1957 there is an interesting discussion of certain specific cases in which the question whether the publications involved were newspapers or not.
In the course of the said report it is obversed thus In this connection the Press Registrar scrutinised reports published in certain foreign countries regarding their own Press and it was noticed that in the catalogues prepared by them specialised newspapers such as the one under consideration were not excluded from the list of newspapers.
A catalogue of Yugoslav newspapers and magazines for instance includes publications relating to the following subjects Political information economics law and states administration education philology natural sciences medicine agriculture technology geography ethnography history archives archaeology literature music applied art film chess photography tourism stamp collecting physical culture and sport humour and religion.
In a catalogue of Russian papers for 1958 all the above categories of newspapers and periodicals have been included in addition to many others which deal exclusively with party affairs.
 It is significant that the expression newspaper  as defined in the Act includes not merely public news  but also comments on public news .
Law reports also contain newly enacts Acts Rules and Regulations book reviews and advertisements relating to law books handwriting and finger print experts etc.
 speeches made at conferences in which the legal fraternity is interested etc.
Though the 787 publication of these items by itself may not occupy a substantial part of a law report to make it a newspaper the publication of the recent judgments itself is sufficient to make a law report a newspaper which may after some time cease to be a newspaper and become a book of reference.
SL Appeal allowed.
