ivil Appeal Nos.
The Asstt.
Relying on the two decisions referred to hereinbe fore learned Attorney General emphasised that percentages of sales would not in any manner affect determination of the assessable value of the excisable goods.
According to the learned Attorney General the fact that 90 of the goods were supplied in tankers and not in containers had no relevance at all and the 10 represent ed the entire quantity of excisable goods delivered in packed condition.
Section 2f of the Act provides the definition of the term manufacture.
Section 3 of the Act provides that there shall be levied and collected in such manner as maybe pre scribed duties of excise on all excisable goods other than salt which are produced or manufactured in India Excisable goods under section 2d of the Act means goods specified in the Schedule to the as being subject to duty of excise and includes salt.
The explanation to the said sub section defines the expression packing as the wrapper container bobbin pirn spool reel or warp beam or any other thing in which or on which the excisable goods are wrapped contained or wound.
The use of the expression cost could not obviously be by way of reference to packing for which the cost is incurred by the buyer.
It would create an absurd situation if durable packing supplied by the assessee and returnable to the assessee is not to be included in the assessable value but a durable packing supplied by the buyer to the assessee and returnable to the buyer is made a part of the assessable value.
The scheme of the old section 4 is indisputedly to determine the assessable value of the goods on the basis of the price charged by the assessee less certain abatements.
Therefore it was held that the value of the excisable article has to be computed with reference to the price charged by the manufacturer the computation being made in accordance with the terms of section 4.
It was held by Pathak J as the learned Chief Justice then was that such cost of corrugated fibreboard containers could not be in cluded in the determination of value in section 44di of the Act for the purposes of excise duty.
Chief Justice Bhag wati on the other hand held that corrugated fibreboard containers in which the cigarettes were contained fell within the definition of packing  in the Explanation to section 44di and if these formed part of the packing in which the goods were packed when delivered at the time of removal then under section 44di read with the Expla nation the cost of such corrugated fibreboard containers would be liable to be included in the value of cigarettes.
It is apparent from the wide language according to the learned Chief Justice of Explanation to section 44di that every kind of container in which it can be said that the excisable goods are contained would be packing  within the meaning of the Explanation.
In 10 of the sales the vehicle of removal was drums.
In construing section 44di all that has to be seen is whether the goods are delivered in packed condition.
