408 GA Shah MN Shroff KMM Khan and TU Mehta for the Respondents.
Under section 3A of the Act the word minerals  is defined as including all minerals except mineral oils.
Section 14 of the Act provides that sections 5 to 13 inclusive shall not apply to quarry leases mining leases or other mineral concessions in respect of minor minerals.
2 Until rules are made under sub section 1 my rules made by a State Government regulating the grant of quarry leases mining leases or other mineral concessions in re spect of minor minerals which are in force immediately before the commencement of this Act shall continue in force.
Re cently a Constitution Bench of this Court has held in The India Cement Ltd etc.
We do not therefore find any substance in the above conten tion.
The minerals belong to the Government and if anybody wants to have the right as a lessee to exploit the mines in question to the exclusion of all others and to remove the minerals with a view to making profit he has to pay a royalty imposed in accordance with law.
In the instant case the levy is made under a law made by the Central Gov ernment.
We do not also find much substance in the contention that the levy in question is unreasonably heavy and has been imposed in an arbitrary manner.
We have taken this view after going through the observations made by this Court in Trivedi s case supra at page 544 where this Court has observed that where a statute confers discretion ary powers upon the executive or an administrative authori ty the validity or constitutionality of such power cannot be judged on the assumption that the executive or such authority will act in an arbitrary manner in the exercise of the discretion conferred upon it.
If the executive or the administrative authority acts in an arbitrary manner its action would be bad in law and liable to be struck down by the courts but the possibility of abuse of power or arbi trary exercise of power cannot invalidate the statute con ferring the power or the power which has been conferred by it.
In Civil Writ Petition No 618 of 1987 filed by Jai Sholanath Quarry Works and another Mr Keswani learned counsel for the petitioners contended that the impugned rule 21 which was substituted in the place of the former rule 21 was invalid as it was discriminatory in character.
He con tended that the concession shown in favour of Parwana hold ers was discriminatory and violative of Article 14.
His contention was that section 15 of the Act which authorised the State Government to make rules in respect of minor minerals does not specifically authorise the State Government to make such discrimination.
It is equally clear that while levying a tax the authority con cerned is entitled to grant concessions and exemptions wherever necessary having regard to the purpose of the Act the levy of royalty is incidental to the regulation and development of minerals.
Whoever is given an exclusive right to exploit a mine will have to pay some amount by way of return to the Govern ment of India as authorised by entry 50 of List II of the 7th Schedule to the Constitution.
The compe tent officer may grant such Parwana in the following priorities a Individual families to Khanias belonging to the Scheduled Castes or the Scheduled Tribes who do physical work I of excavating minor mineral in the area applied for 415 b Individual families of Khanias  who do physical work in excavating minor minerals in the area applied for.
 Rule 33 C provides that the lease shall be granted for one year ending 31st December on a payment of a fee of Rs50 for an area upto 1000 square meters and Rs 100 for an area above 1000 square meters and upto 2000 square meters.
Under rule 18 of the Rules the period of lease in the case of the minor minerals can be for a much longer period it can be upto 10 years in respect of minor minerals except in the case of ordinary sand Kankar Mur ram Gravel and in the case of Kankar Murram and gravel a lease can be granted upto three years and the area or land covered by a mining lease is governed by rule 15 which says that no quarry lease shall be granted for an area exceeding 10 hectares in case of specified minor mineral and 20 hec tares in the case of other minerals.
The fact that section 15 of the Act does no authorise the State Government to show such concession while promulgating the Rules which are in the nature of subordi nate legislation is also of no consequence.
We do not therefore find any substance in any of the contentions urged before us.
Y Lal Petitions dis missed.
