The first lease Ext.
The present appeal by Special Leave granted on 37.
We therefore answer the first question posed by us in the affirmative.
Under the said Act he pointed out a petition for fixation of fair rent under section 4 could be filed by either a landlord or a tenant Raval  Co vs Rarnachandran  This is 554 what the LIC purported to do when it filed HRC Nos 3310 and 33 1164.
The Division Bench observed   .
He submitted that if the tenants had filed a suit for declaration that the order passed in the earlier proceedings as a nullity that would have been bound to fail.
In that petition the tenant disputed the title of the Corporation in respect of the buildings.
A tenant shall not be evicted whether in execution of a decree or otherwise except in 560 accordance with the provisions of this section or sections 14 to 16 Provided that nothing contained in the said sec tions shall apply to a tenant whose landlord is the Govern ment Provided further that where the tenant denies the title of the landlord or claims right of permanent tenancy the Controller shall decide whether the denial or claim is bona fide and if he records a finding to that effect the landlord shall be entitled to sue for eviction of the tenant in a Civil Court and the Court may pass a decree for evic tion on any of the grounds mentioned in the said sections notwithstanding that the Court finds that such denial does not involve forfeiture of the lease or that the claim is unfounded.
counsel contended that section 10 makes it clear beyond doubt that the Rent Controller is precluded from deciding any issue regarding title to the property and that if any such question arises he should leave it to be decided by ordi nary civil courts in appropriate proceedings.
Under Rule 122 he is required to decide applications by recording a brief note of the evidence of parties and 561 witnesses and decide matters after giving the parties an opportunity to state their case more or less in the manner in which a Court of Small Causes decides cases before it.
In order to decide whether the denial of the landlord s title by the tenant is bona fide the Rent Controller may have to go into the tenant s contentions on the issue but he is not to decide the question finally.
Such a dispute is a matter well within the jurisdiction of a civil court.
Thereafter it cannot be within the exclusive jurisdiction of the Reve nue court and the decision of such a dispute by a revenue court cannot be binding in a civil court.
However if the property is an inam village whether the inam village is an inam estate is within his exclusive jurisdiction and in regard to it the jurisdic tion of the Civil Courts is clearly barred.
In the latter case it is necessary to see if the statute creates a special right 0r a liability and provides for the determination of the right or liability and further lays down that all questions about the said right and liability shall be determined by the tribunals so constituted and whether remedies normally associated with actions in Civil Courts are prescribed by the said statute or not.
The application was rejected holding that the provisions of the Act did not apply to open land let for construction.
The order was confirmed by the first appel late court and on furher appeal by the High Court.
Section 973 of the Amendment Act declares that the new provi sion applies to pending suits proceeding appeals and applica tions.
