Raja Ram Aggarwal Arvind Minocha HK Singh SK Bagga SC Patel and SK Gambhir for the Appellants.
Kapil Sibal Additional Solicitor General SP Goel A Subba Rao CVS Rao Mahabir Singh Bishambher Lal and KC Dua for the Respondents.
Counsel state that the facts in all these appeals are identical and that the only facts neces sary or atleast on record before us on the basis of which the issue us is to be decided are these Each of the appellants petitioners hereinafter referred to compendi ously as assessees  is a registered dealer in the State of Haryana.
He purchased certain raw materials in the State without paying tax thereon in view of the provision con tained in section 24 of the Act.
He then manufactured certain goods in the State with the aid of said raw materials.
He then sold the manufactured goods to dealers who in turn exported those goods out of India.
On these facts it is claimed the assessee is not liable to pay the purchase tax on the raw materials imposed under section 91 of the Act.
The 1990 Act also inserted an Explanation 6 to the clause wef 313.
This led to the amendment of section 91 by Act 3 of 1983.
The exclusion of milk was decided to be dropped and so all that this amendment did was to roll both clauses b and bb into one clause reading thus 4.
f Amendment Act 8 of 1986 substituted in the proviso to section 9 1  the words scientific goods guar gum uten sils and handicrafts in place of scientific goods and guar gum wef 26286.
These provisions read thus.
It also omitted the proviso to the said clause.
It said According to section 51 of the  a sale or purchase of goods can qualify as a sale in the course of export of the goods out of the territory of India only if the sale or purchase has occasioned such export or is by a transfer of documents of title to the goods after gods have crossed the customs frontiers of India.
As a result of section 53 such penultimate sales become export sales falling beyond the purview and competence of State legislatures.
section 91 is a charging section.
Alterna tively he submits section 91b has been declared unconstitu tional by this Court in the Goodyear case  and therefore the assessees can seek no implied exemption from its language.
If section 9 is left out he says the lan guage of section 6 as amended which brings to charge all pur chases and sales in the State would be attracted and so the impugned taxation of the purchases would be in order.
The argument on behalf of the Revenue which has found favour with the High Court is that section 91 exempts only sales made in the course of export within the meaning of section 51 of the CST Act but not those under section 53 of the said Act.
As pointed out by Sri Agarwal even in Mohd Sirajuddin s case supra although the exemption claimed for the sales as export sales was denied the conclusion of the High Court that the sales to STC were inter State sales chargeable under section 51 of the CST Act was upheld.
This contention was accepted by this Court.
What was declared unconstitutional by this Court was therefore only the levy of a tax where raw materials are purchased and used inside the State for the manufacture of finished goods which are then simply and without any sale despatched rather consigned outside the State.
Though section 6 as amended purports to make dealers liable to pay tax on their sales as well as purchases the actual charge of tax under section 15 is only imposed on the sales and purchases that form part of his taxable turnover.
This definition includes within the definition of turnover  the purchase value of goods liable to tax under section 9 but the goods presently in question are not laible to tax under section 9 not only as contended for the assessees and held by us above but also on the hypothesis as to the invalidity of section 91b on which the present argument on behalf of the Revenue pro ceeds.
The definition of turnover  clearly postulates that goods are either to be taxed at the point of purchase or sale and the same transaction cannot be taxed as a sale in the hands of the dealer who sells to the assessees and as a purchase in the hands of the assessees.
