BD Sharma for the Respondents.
The Sub Divisional Officer Hanumangarh by his order dated 10th August 1972 determined the ceiling area but an appeal by Raghubir Singh the Revenue Appellate Authority set aside the order of the sub Divisional Officer on March 6 1973 and remanded the case.
In pursuance of the direction of the Board the Sub Divisional Officer Hanumangarh by his order dated 5th May 1976 held that Surendrapal Singh appellant herein aged 12 years was a minor son of Raghubir Singh and used to 725 study in Punjab and further held that the land in possession of Raghubir Singh was ancestral.
The application for adducing additional evidence was disallowed.
However the member of the Board came to the conclusion that Surendrapal Singh appellant here in was born to Raghubir Singh on 14th March 1963 and was only 13 years of age when the ceiling proceedings were finalized by the Sub Divisional Officer on 5th May 1976.
Before the Division Bench of the High Court in the writ petitions it was urged on behalf of Raghubir Singh that no appeal having been filed by the State from the order the Sub Divisional Officer dated 5th May 1976 the said order became final and the Board of Revenue had no jurisdiction to set aside that part of the Sub Divisional Officer s order which had gone against the State and in his favour.
Surendrapal Singh the erstwhile minor son of Raghubir Singh has come up to this Court by way of special leave which was granted and hence the present appeal.
Divisional Officer Assistant Collectors and Tehsildars in a district shall be subordinate to the Collector thereof call Assistant Collectors Tehsildars and Naib Tehsildars in a sub division shall be subordinate to the Sub Divisional Officer thereof and d All Additional Tehsildars and Naib Tehsildars in a tehsil shall be subordinate to the Tehsildar thereof.
 In that case also the High Court took the view that it is not correct to say that Section 9 is limited to the executive control and superintendence of the Board over subordinate revenue courts and it does not apply to judicial proceedings.
The contention on behalf of the appellant to that effect was negatived but on merits the High Court held that it was not appropriate for the Board to exercise the powers conferred by Section 9 of the land Revenue Act in view of the fact that the Board had appellate jurisdiction and it could not therefore make use of its powers of superintendence and control and the order of the Board could not be held proper with reference to Section 9 of the Land Revenue Act.
This case has no application for interpretation of the present Section 221 of the Act of 1955.
Section 221 of the Act of 1955 is not subject to the other provisions of the Act.
It is open to the Board to exercise its powers of superintendence on all its subordinate courts in order to regulate the functioning of  the subordinate courts so as to keep them within their respective spheres of jurisdiction.
 These words have been consistently interpreted to mean that the High Court had power in appropriate cases to interfere with the judicial orders of the courts.
In the Government of India Act of 1935 there was provision under Section 224 for superintendence by the High Courts  but subsection2 made it clear that this superintendence would not be construed as giving to the High Court any jurisdiction to question any judgment of any inferior court which was not otherwise subject to appeal or revision.
Section 221 of the Act of 1955 is similar to Section 107 of the Government of India Act 1915 and there is no section like sub section 2 of Section 224 of the Government of India Act of 1935 in the Act of 1955.
It is clear from the judgment under appeal that the Board had by its order dated 14th April 1975 directed that the ceiling area may be determined according to old law ie Act of 1955 and it spite of it the Sub Divisional Officer committed the grave illegality on not merely ignoring the law but also ignoring the directions of the Board of Revenue itself.
U R Appeal dismissed.
