August 14.
It is alleged that on January 10 1942 an agreement was entered into between the Rajah of Venkatagiri and one Sri Balumuri Nageswara Rao whereby the Rajah agreed to give annual leases in respect of certain slate quarries within his estate for five years in succession commencing from February 1942 if the Rajah was satisfied with the work carried on by the lessee during the preceding year.
The order required the Government to hold the enquiry and pass the appropriate orders within three months from the date of that order.
The long title and the preamble to the Abolition Act indicate it is urged that the object of the Act is to provide for the acquisition of the rights of landholders and that the policy of the Act is not to interfere with the rights of other persons in the estate.
The Abolition Act was enacted by the Madras Legislature in exercise of the legislative power con ferred on it by the Government of India Act 1935.
It may be conceded 71 558 that normally this is the correct approach to the problem but the argument loses much of its force.
Those provisions proceed on the assumption that certain laws passed under the Government of India Act 1935 did offend section 299 of that Act and expressly save those Acts.
2 of section 20 of the Abolition Act.
Under that sub section a person can claim compensation only when his right is terminated by the Government under the foregoing proviso.
In other words the third proviso according to learned counsel 559 for the appellant merely enables the Government to exercise the right conferred on it by the second proviso and therefore the Government if it intends to avail itself of the right under the second proviso must comply with the conditions laid down in the third proviso.
The scheme of section 20 of the Abolition Act is said to be to provide firstly that rights created by way of lease or otherwise by the landholder prior to the notified date should be deemed to be valid and all rights and obligations arising thereunder on or after the notified date should be enforceable by or against the Government.
In other words the true meaning of the second proviso is said to be that rights created after July 1 1945 are only voidable at the instance of the Government and that being the position the Government must do some overt act to terminate the transaction.
The provision of section 20 of the Abolition Act has been considered and construed by a Bench of the Madras High Court.
There is no warrant for saying that the avoidance must be under the terms of the third proviso.
That  rule provides that a mining lease granted by a private person shall be subject to certain conditions therein specified.
Appeals dismissed.
