these appeals are directed against a judgment and order dated 17 october 2003 passed by the special court constituted under the special courts trial of offences relating to transactions in securities.
act 1992 for short the act in misc.
application nos.
41 of 1999 4 of 2001 265 266 and 275 of 2003.
the appellants herein who are related to one harshad section mehta since deceased purchased nine residential flats in a building called madhuli apartments in worli area of mumbai.
the family of the appellants consists of four brothers their wives children and their widowed mother.
the eldest among them harshad section mehta has since expired.
the said nine flats it is said were merged and redesigned for joint living of the entire family.
the appellants herein and the said.
late harshad mehta were persons notified in terms of the act which was enacted to provide for the establishment of a special court for the trial of offences relating to transactions in securities and for matters connected therewith.
in terms of the provisions of the act along with late harshad mehta the custodian had notified 29 entities in terms of section 3 of the act comprising three of his younger brothers wife of late harshad mehta wives of two of his younger brothers and other corporate entities a partnership firm and three hufs.
however out of the said 29 entitles only late harshad mehta and two of his younger brothers were cited as accused in various criminal cases filed against them.
the properties of late harshad mehta and the appellants herein being notified persons stood attached in terms of the provisions of the act.
proceedings before the special court.
it is not in dispute that the learned special court on or about 3 august 1993 issued directions in various proceedings before it appointing auditors to prepare and audit the books of accounts of all notified persons for the period 1 april 1990 and 8 june 1992 i e the date of the notification.
a chartered accountants firm was appointed by the learned special judge by an order dated 17 september 2003 to represent all notified entities in the family of late harshad mehta for the purpose of ascertaining their tax liabilities.
we may at this juncture notice the nature of the applications filed by the parties herein before the learned special court i on 26 april 1999 the custodian filed an application being misc.
application No 41 of 1999 seeking permission of the special court for sale of residential premises commonly known as madhuli of eight notified entities.
application being 4 of 2001 was filed by the custodian praying for the sale of commercial premises.
the appellants herein filed several misc.
alternatively it was prayed that since their asset base was greater than genuine liabilities the said residential premises should be released from attachment.
4 of 2001 and 41 of 1999.
the misc.
applications filed by the appellants herein for release of the residential flats as well as the commercial premises from attachment were dismissed.
it was directed in case all adult members of the family of late shri harshad metha who are presently occupying the abovereferred flats file an undertaking in this court within a period of four weeks from today undertaking to vacate the flat occupied by them and hand over peaceful possession thereof to the custodian within a period of four weeks from the date on which the custodian sends them communication asking them to vacate the flats on sale of the flats being sanctioned by the court.
the custodian shall permit the members of family of late shri harshad mehta to occupy the flats during the time that the process of the sale of the flats goes on.
in case no such undertakings are filed by the adult members as directed above within the aforesaid period the custodian shall stand appointed as receiver of the flats which are described in exh.
contentions of the parties appellants 9.
mr mahesh jethmalani learned senior counsel appearing on behalf of the appellants in assailing the said judgment of the learned special court inter alia raised the following contentions i some of the entities having their asset base much more than actual liability the impugned judgments are unsustainable.
there was no occasion for the custodian to club all the notified entities in one block so as to be termed as harshad mehta group andor to club their assets and liabilities jointly.
although in relation to a body corporate incorporated and registered under the indian companies act the doctrine of lifting the corporate veil would be applicable but the same can not be applied in case of individuals.
ii having regard to the fact that only three entitles out of eight were involved in the offences the liability of harshad mehta could not have been clubbed for the purpose of directing attachment and consequent sale of the properties which exclusively belong to them.
the liabilities of harshad mehta who was a sui generis could have been recovered from the properties held and possessed by him or from the companies floated by him but not from the individual entities at least two of whom being medical practitioners have their income from other sources.
the books of accounts and other documents on the basis whereof the auditor s report had been made having not been allowed to be inspected by the appellants herein on the plea that they had the knowledge thereabout the same could not have been taken into consideration for the purpose of passing of the impugned order or otherwise.
v the appellants having preferred appeals against the income tax orders of assessment passed by the authority and the same having been set aside no liability to pay income tax by the appellants as of now being existing the residential properties could not have been sold.
vi drawing our attention to a representative chart showing the discrepancies in the accounts of mrs deepika a mehta as shown in a affidavit by the custodian b books of accounts maintained by the appellants and c auditor s report it was submitted that the auditor s report could not have been relied upon.
mr ashok h desai learned senior counsel appearing on behalf of the custodian on the other hand would inter alia submit.
iin view of the decision of this court in l s synthetics ltd v fairgrowth financial services ltd and another 2004 11 scc 456 2004 indlaw sc 715 all properties belonging to the notified persons being subject to automatic attachment could be applied for discharge of the joint liabilities of the harshad mehta group in terms of section 11 of the act.
iithe applications for de notification filed by the appellants herein having been withdrawn the contention raised by the appellants that they are not liable in terms of the provisions of the act are not open to question particularly in view of the fact that no application for de notification could be filed subsequently as they had become barred by limitation.
iiithe order of assessment under the income tax act having become final and binding as on the date when the orders of assessment were passed and thus mere filing of appeals were not sufficient for raising a contention that the taxes did not become due.
reliance in this behalf has been placed on b c dalal 2005 indlaw sc 1826 v custodian.
co ltd v the commissioner of income tax.
central calcutta 1972 3 scc 252 1971 indlaw sc 841.
ivthe appellants herein apart from the corporate entity which is a front company of late harshad mehta have received large loans advances and credits from the harshad mehta group and there had been intermingling of the assets to the tune of crores of rupees they can not escape their liabilities under the act.
even in the case of dr pratima mehta wherein some excesses has been shown if the interest is calculated for the last over 13 years of the amount received the liabilities would exceed the assets.
v the assets and liabilities of each of the entities having been audited by the chartered accountants it is evident from the reports that in all cases liabilities exceed the assets.
vithe decretal amount against the harshad mehta group also would exceed rs 4339 crores and thus the assets held by the appellants are wholly insufficient to meet the liabilities.
the assets of the harshad mehta group are valued at rs 972 crores apart from the income tax dues whereas the aggregate amount of income tax dues exceed rs 13800 crores.
hitesh mehta and dr pratima mehta who are medical practitioners by profession having affirmed affidavits admitting that the share broking and investment businesses which were part of family businesses were undertaken and conducted by late harshad mehta and they had no knowledge thereabout nor were they involved therewith.
they at this stage can not be permitted to turn round and contend that they have nothing to do with the liabilities of late harshad mehta.
ixthe sale of commercial property had never been seriously contested by the appellants and in fact the contention of the appellants herein before the special court was that if the commercial properties were sold there would be no need to sell the residential properties.
even before this court the sale of commercial properties had not been questioned.
a large number of commercial properties having already been sold and third party rights having been created this court should not interfere with the impugned judgment.
the act.
section 3 of the act provides for appointment and functions of the custodian.
sub s 2 of section 3 postulates that the custodian may on being satisfied on information received that any person has been involved in any offence relating to transactions in securities after the 1st day of april 1991 and on and before 6th june 1992 the statutory period notify the name of such person in the official gazette.
3 of section 3 contains a non obstante clause providing that on and from the date of notification under sub section 2 any property movable or immovable or both belonging to any person notified under that sub section shall stand attached simultaneously with the issue of the notification and such attached properties may be dealt with by the custodian in such manner as the special court may direct.
provided that no contract or agreement shall be cancelled except after giving to the parties to the contract or agreement a reasonable opportunity of being heard.
section 5 provides for establishment of the special court.
section 11 of the act reads as under discharge of liabilities.
the following liabilities shall be paid or discharged in full as far as may be in the order as under a all revenues taxes cesses and rates due from the persons notified by the custodian under sub s 2 of section 3 to the central government or any state government or any local authority b all amounts due from the person so notified by the custodian to any bank or financial institution or mutual fund and c any other liability as may be specified by the special court from time to time.
the act provides for stringent measures.
the provision contained in the act being stringent in nature the purport and intent thereof must be ascertained having regard to the purpose and object it seeks to achieve.
the right of a person notified to file an application or to raise a defence that he is not liable in terms of the provisions of the act or in any event the properties attached should not be sold in discharge of the liabilities can be taken at the initial stage by filing an application in terms of sub s 2 of section 4 of the act.
in terms of the provisions of the act the special court had been conferred a very wide power.
recedents as regard scope of the act.
indlaw sc 732 v custodian and others 1998 5 scc 1 wherein the following questions were framed what is meant by revenues taxes cesses and rates due.
do the taxes in cl.
does the special court have any discretion relating to the extent of payments to be made under section 112a from out of the attached funds property.
whether the special court has the power to absolve a notified person from payment of penalty or interest for a period subsequent to the date of his notification section in the alternative is a notified person liable to payment of penalty or interest arising from his inability to pay taxes after his notification.
in the context of section 112 therefore the taxes due refer to taxes as finally assessed.
such tax liability may be discharged either under the directions of the special court under section 112c or the taxing authority may recover the same from any subsequently acquired property of a notified person vide tejkumar balakrishna ruia v a k menon 1996 indlaw sc 2403 or in any other manner from the notified person in accordance with law.
the priority however which is given under section 112a to such tax liability only covers such liability for the period 1 4 1991 to 6 6 1992.
in respect of the question No 3 it was opined that the date of distribution arrives when the special court completes the examination of claims under section 9 a and if on that date any tax liability for the statutory period is legally assessed and the assessment is final and binding on a notified person that liability would be considered for payment section 111a.
this is because the tax liability of a notified person having priority under section 112a is only tax liability pertaining to the statutory period.
the special court can for this purpose examine whether there is any fraud collusion or miscarriage of justice in assessment proceedings.
the special court may in these cases scale down the tax liability to be paid out of the funds in the hands of the custodian.
in regard to question No 5 this court agreed with the finding of the special court that neither penalty nor interest can be considered as tax under section 112a of the act.
the ratio of the said decision as regard applicability of the limitation act was further considered by a division bench of this court in fairgrowth investments ltd v custodian 2004 11 scc 472 2004 indlaw sc 868 wherein it was held that section 5 of the limitation act will have no application in relation to an application falling under sub s 2 of section 4 of the act stating it is enough for the purpose of this appeal to hold that section 292 of the limitation act 1963 does not apply to proceedings under section 42 of the special court trial of offences relating to transactions in securities act 1992.
the appellants herein are notified persons in terms of the provisions of the act.
therefore all the properties belonging to them stand attached.
in tejkumar balakrishna ruia v a k menon and another 1997 9 scc 123 1996 indlaw sc 2403 this court held in our view the terms of sub s 3 of section 3 are clear.
while a purposive interpretation is permissible where two interpretations are possible the purposive interpretation must be such as preserves the constitutionality of the provision.
iwhether the appellants being not involved in offences in transactions in securities could have been proceeded against in terms of the provisions of the act.
iiwhether individual liabilities of the appellants ought to have been separately considered by the special court as not a part of harshad mehta group.
it is not in dispute that the said applications are pending for consideration before the special court.
it is no doubt true that the law of limitation bars a remedy but not a right.
see bombay dyeing manufacturing co ltd v the state of bombay and others air 1958 sc 338 savitra khandu beradi v nagar agricultural sale and purchase co operative society ltd ahmednagar and others.
air 1957 bom 178 1957 indlaw mum 110 and hari raj singh v sanchalak panchayat.
in l s synthetics ltd 2004 indlaw sc 715 supra this court observed a statute of limitation bars a remedy and not a right.
the intent and purport of parliament enacting the said act furthermore must be given its full effect.
we are therefore of the opinion that the provisions of the limitation act have no application so far as directions required to be issued by the special court relating to the disposal of attached property are concerned.
although we do not intend to enter into the correctness or otherwise of the said contention of the appellants at this stage however there can not be any doubt whatsoever that they being notified persons all their properties would be deemed to be automatically attached as a consequent thereto.
the contention of the appellants to the effect that their properties should have been attached only towards the liabilities incurred by the parties in respect of the transactions made during the statutory period can not be accepted as all the appellants being notified the attachment of the assets would be automatic.
l s synthetics ltd 2004 indlaw sc 715 supra.
lifting the corporate veil.
a transaction of benami indisputably can be a subject matter of a lies in terms of section 41 of the act as and when such a question is raised the same may have to be dealt with by the special court appropriately.
in para 14 of the sur rejoinder the appellants denied the asset and liability position as arrived at by the custodian.
several charts have been filed before us by the appellants to show i liabilities have been exaggerated by the custodian.
ii liabilities have been shown in relation to unperformed contracts.
the amount of priority demand of income tax liabilities comes to rs 18297576248.
thus the total value of the assets as per the affidavit filed on behalf of the custodian of harshad mehta group is rs 9727332166 94.
v thus taking into consideration the total of the decretal amount and the income tax liability it is clear that the total assets of harshad mehta group would be far below the liabilities.
in our opinion the learned judge special court should have analysed the respective contentions of the parties in greater details and in particular in regard to assets and liabilities of the separate entities and having regard to the contentions raised by them that they are not part of the harshad mehta group and their individual liabilities can be met from the assets held and possessed by them separately.
the said chart however shows that at least mrs deepika mehta held assets more than her liabilities.
if those individuals who had no connection with harshad mehta could not have been proceeded against for meeting the liabilities of harshad mehta jointly or severally a clear finding was required to be arrived at.
only because there had been large intermingling and flow of funds from harshad mehta and inter se within the group the same by itself may not justify the conclusion that all of their assets were required to be sold irrespective of their individual involvement.
furthermore the question as regard liability of the parties should have been determined at the stage of section 9 a of the act.
such claims may also be preferred.
tax liability.
it is not in dispute that the tax liabilities of the appellants individually were assessed on the basis of best judgment assessment.
we may further notice that the learned special court relied upon a decision in custodian v union of india and ors.
late harshad mehta rs 11829 crores.
v hitesh mehta rs 73 crores vi.
such subsequent events could also be taken into consideration for the purpose of review.
in board of control for cricket in india and another v netaji cricket club and others 2005 4 scc 741 2005 indlaw sc 1243.
in fact one of the contentions raised on behalf of the appellants had been that if commercial properties are sold there would be no need to sale the residential properties.
however the finalization shall be subject to the result of these appeals.
in any event ordinarily a bona fide purchaser for value in an action sale is treated differently than a decree holder purchasing such properties.
in the former event even if such a decree is set aside the interest of the bona fide purchaser in an auction sale is saved.
see zain ul abdin khan v muhammad asghar ali khan 15 ia 12 1887 indlaw pc 13.
the said decision has been affirmed by this court in gurjoginder singh v jaswant kaur.
smt and another 1994 2 scc 368 1994 indlaw sc 1613.
in janak raj v gurdial singh and anr.
1967 2 scr 77 1966 indlaw sc 120.
residential property.
conclusion.
in view of our foregoing discussions we are of the opinion that i the contention of the appellants that they being not involved in offences in transactions in securities could not have been proceeded in terms of the provisions of the act can not be accepted in view of the fact that they have been notified in terms thereof.
with the aforementioned observations and directions these appeals are allowed.
appeals allowed.
