yakshagana is a form of ballet dance.
indisputably dr kota shivarama karanth for shortdr.
he was a director of the appellant institute.
on or about 18 6 1994he executed a will in favour of the respondent.
karanth expired on 9 12 1997 yakshagana ballet dance as developed by dr karanth was performed in new delhi on or about 18 9 2001 respondent filed a suit for declaration injunction and damages alleging violation of the copyright in respect of the said dance vested in her in terms of the said will stating that dr karanth developed a new distinctive dance drama troop or theatrical system which was named by him as yaksha ranga which in his own words mean creative extension of traditional yakshagana and thus the appellants infringed the copyright thereof by performing the same at new delhi without obtaining her prior permission.
these prasangas are i bhishma vijaya ii nala damayanthi iii kanakangi or kanakangi kalyana iv abhimanyu or abhimanyu vada v chitrangadha or babruvahana kalaga vi panchavati and vii.
plaintiff respondent admittedly claimed copyright in respect of literary and artistic works in her favour in terms of clauses 11 and 12 of the said will dated 18 6 1994which read as under 11 since i left the house suhasa i have been living in a specially built house manasa of smt.
malini mallya who has built it with borrowed money at her cost.
malini mallya and she alone shall be entitled to receive royalties of all my books and she shall be entitled to print publish and republish and market the same.
and i have distributed all copper and bronze vessels and utensils among my children while leaving my former home suhasa keeping only bare essential and necessary things and articles.
whatever movable properties books fittings furniture utensils etc belonging to me into this house manasa and my car and cash money in hand after my death shall go to smt.
plaintiff respondent inter alia prayed for passing a judgment and decree against the defendants appellants granting the following reliefs 1 a declaration that the plaintiff is the exclusive copyright holder in respect of yaksharanga ballets namely bhishma vijaya kanakangi nala damayanthi panchavati gaya charitha chitrangadha abhimanyu vadha and for consequential permanent injunction restraining the defendants their agents employees etc from staging or performing any of the above said 7 ballets or prasangas or any parts thereof.
4 directing the defendants to pay future interest on rs 15000 at 15 p a till payment of the entire amount.
it was furthermore contended that dr karanth was appointed as the president of the executive committee of yakshagana kendra for a period of three years by the appellant and while holding the said post only he expired.
by reason of a judgment and decree dated 14 11 2003the district judge udupi decreed the said suit declaring the plaintiff respondent as a person having the exclusive copyright in respect of seven prasangas and that she had acquired the same by reason of a will as a residuary legatee and the defendants appellants or their employees or agents were restrained from performing the said seven ballets or prasangas or any parts thereof in any manner as evolved distinctively by dr karanth.
i the copyright in the literary work has been assigned by reason of the said will in favour of the respondent in terms of clause 12 of the will.
i keeping in view of the findings of the learned trial judge it ought to have been held that no cause of action arose against the appellants in this case as the institution had performed the said dance at new delhi in the memory of dr karanth without charging any fees.
the form of injunction granted in favour of the plaintiff respondent is not in terms of the provisions of the copyright act1957 as the appellant as an institution or otherwise is entitled to use the same in terms of clauses ai and l of sub section 1 of section 52 thereof.
mr g v chandrashekhar learned counsel appearing on behalf of the respondent on the other hand would support the impugned judgment.
ii a work of architecture and iii any other work of artistic craftsmanship.
explanation.
section 13 which occurs in chapter iii of the act provides that subject to the provisions thereof and the other provisions of the said act copyright shall subsists throughout india in the following classes of works that is to say a original literary dramatic musical and artistic works b cinematograph films and c sound recording.
section 17 of the act deals with first owner of copyrightin terms whereof subject to the provisions of the act the author of a work shall be the owner of the copyright therein.
22 term of copyright in published literary dramatic musical and artistic works.
provided that where the identity of the author is disclosed before the expiry of the said period copyright shall subsist until sixty years from the beginning of the calendar year following the year in which the author dies.
for the purposes of this section the identity of an author shall be deemed to have been disclosed if either the identity of the author is disclosed publicly by both the author and the publisher or is otherwise established to the satisfaction of the copyright board by that author.
before adverting to the submissions made by the learned counsel for the parties we may notice the issues framed in the suit which are i does plaintiff prove that late dr shivaramaji karanth had acquired copyright in respect of seven yakshagana prasangas and also in respect of yakshagana dramatic or theatrical form i e bhishma.
has the plaintiff became entitled to the said right under the registered will dated 18 06 1994.
therefore the main classification as literary work and dramatic work can not be construed to mean that dramatic work has nothing to do with literary work.
i therefore hold that the bequest of copyright in literary works and books in favour of the plaintiff by dr karanth will have to be treated as the bequest covering the dramatic works also since i have also drawn the conclusion that the dramatic works is also a form of literature.
the plaintiff therefore is entitled to copyright even in respect of the dramatic works namely the seven prasangas by virtue of bequest made in her favour in respect of copyrights and books.
we must however notice that the provisions the act make a distinction between the literary work and dramatic work.
keeping in view the statutory provisions there can not be any doubt whatsoever that copyright in respect of performance of dance would not come within the purview of the literary work but would come within the purview of the definition of dramatic work.
we however do not mean to suggest that any act of literary work will be outside the purview of the will dated 18 6 1994 our exercise in this behalf was only for the purpose of clarifying the provisions of the act with reference to the findings arrived at by the high court.
for the aforementioned reasons we agree with dr dhavan that paragraph 12 of the will namely residuary clause shall apply in the instant case apart from the areas which are otherwise covered by paragraph 11 of the will.
the learned trial judge recognized the equitable interest vested in the plaintiff respondent.
a declaratory decree therefore was passed.
we may notice at this stage that the form of injunction granted both by the learned trial judge as also by the high court in favour of the plaintiff respondent.
costumes choreography and direction by dr karanth the appellants can do so only in accordance with the provisions of the copyrights act1957 in view of copyright in seven prasangas vesting with the plaintiff.
in r g anand vs m s delux films ors 1978.
no infringement of the copyright comes into existence.
even so if the viewer after seeing the film gets a totality of impression that the film is by and large a copy of the original play violation of the copyright may be said to be proved.
yet again in eastern book company ors vs d b modak anr 2008.
on the face of the provisions of the copyright act1957we think that the principle laid down by the canadian court would be applicable in copyright of the judgments of the apex court.
the high court in our opinion should have clarified that the appellants can also take the statutory benefit of the provisions contained in clauses ai and l of sub section 1 of section 52 of the act.
section 52 of the act provides for certain acts which would not constitute an infringement of copyright.
when a fair dealing is made inter alia of a literary or dramatic work for the purpose of private use including research and criticism or review whether of that work or of any other work the right in terms of the provisions of the said act can not be claimed.
similarly appellant being an educational institution if the dance is performed within the meaning of provisions of clause i of sub section 1 of section 52 of the act strictly the order of injunction shall not apply thereto also.
yet again if such performance is conducted before a non paying audience by the appellant which is an institution if it comes within the purview of amateur club or society the same would not constitute any violation of the said order of injunction.
with the aforementioned modification in the order of injunction this appeal is dismissed.
