twelve accused persons were tried for offences under section 302307149324147148 and section 3 of terrorist and disruptive activites.
prevention act1987 hereinafter referred to as tada by the learned designated judge pune.
out of the said twelve accused6 accused were acquitted of all the charges while the five appellants herein namely bonkya alias bharat shivaji mane a 5mandu baliba dombe a 8ashok baloba dombe a 9ranjar bhausaheb dombe a 10 and kaka alias pandurang baloba dombe a 11 were convicted for offences under section 302307149 ipc and section 3 of tada and sentenced to suffer life imprisonment and to pay a fine of rs 5000 each for the offence under section 302149 ipc.
10 years ri and a fine of rs 5000 each for the offence under section 307149 ipc 2 years ri for the offence under section 324149 ipc and life imprisonment and fine of rs 5000 each for the offence under section 3 of tada in default of payment of fine on each of the counts the appellants were to undergo further ri for two years each.
the substantive sentences of imprisonment were however directed to run concurrently.
one accused died during the pendency of the trial.
through this appeal under section 19 of tada the appellants have called in question their conviction and sentence.
for the sake of convenience the accused shall be referred to hereinafter by the number assigned to them in the trial court judgment as accused i e a 5a 8a 10 etc.
according to the prosecution case on 11th august1990 at about 3 00 p m anna shety band patte mukesh ramesh and prakash band patte had gone to the vrindavan video parlour for watching a movie.
the accused a 6a 10 and a 11 alongwith one other person were also present at the video parlour.
there was an altercation between the accused and the complainant party when the leg of kaka dombe a 11 dashed against the leg of anna shety band patte.
pw both the prosecution witnesses as well as.
the accused party left the video parlour threatening each other.
the complainant party went towards jagdamba hotel owned by waman band patte pw at that time baban karpe bajrang band patte sanjay mane ramesh pawar were also present near the hotel.
at about 4 00 p m the appellants and other accused persons allegedly armed with swords satturs and sticks arrived there in two auto rickshaws and one jeep.
out of the accused a 5a 6a 8a 10 and a 11 were carrying swords while a 7 and a 9 had satturs and the remaining accused were armed with sticks.
appellants a 5a 10 and a 11 thereafter assaulted bajrang band patte pw 14 on his head in front of the hotel.
he ran away to conceal himself.
all the injured persons were admitted to the hospital.
while receiving the treatment popat succumbed to his injuries.
on receipt of information asstt.
police inspector joshi arrived at the hospital and baban karpe pw 9 narrated the occurrence to him which was reduced into writing.
on the basis of the said report an fir for offences under section 302307149147148 ipc was registered vide cr no 101 of 1990 at about 6 00 p m the inquest on the dead body of popat was conducted and the body was sent for post mortem examination.
bajrang pw 14 regained consciousness during the night intervening 11th and 12th august1990 and made a statement to the police in respect of the incident which took place in front of jagdamba hotel and on the basis of that statement cr no 10290 was registered.
an auto rickshaw bearing registration no mwq 5624 belonging to manik bhende gavali was found abandoned in a damaged condition with broken glasses.
it was also taken into possession vide a panchnama.
they were subsequently arrested on different dates.
on a disclosure statement made by a 11 before the police and the panches under section 27 of the evidence act and on his pointing out a sword was recovered from the field at korti where it lay buried.
a 10 also made a disclosure statement under section 27 of the evidence act to the effect that he had buried a sword behind yamai tukai temple and could get it recovered.
during the investigation an identification parade was got conducted through the executive magistrate pw 32 when baban karpe pw 9 and other prosecution witnesses identified the assailants.
samples of blood of the accused were collected for ascertaining their blood groups and sent for chemical analysis.
the blood samples of bajrang pw 14 and baban karpe pw 9 were similarly collected.
after completion of the investigation two charge sheets arising out of crime no 10190 and crime no 10290 were filed before the designated court.
p 35requested the court for holding trial in respect of both the chargesheets together which application was allowed by the designated court vide order dated 5 december 1992 and that is how both the cases were tried together by virtue of the provisions of section 220 1 cr.
at the trial the prosecution alleged that the accused party with an intent to commit terror in the wadar community had committed the murder of popat and injured pw 9 and pw 14by using lethal weapons and had thereby committed terror in the wadar community and thus committed an offence under section 3 of tada besides the other offences as already noticed.
according to a 2a 3a 5a 6 and a 7 they had been identified by pw 9during the identification parade at the instance of the police.
transverse incised wound on right parital region bone deep4 x 2 x 1 cms.
2 abraded contusion below right knee and front of right leg5 x 5 cm.
the defence plea of total denial and false implication has been rightly rejected by the designated court in view of the over whelming cogent and reliable prosecution evidence.
the trial court for the purposes of consideration of the evidence divided the prosecution case into three parts namely i the incident at vrindavan video parlour ii incident near jagdamba hotel and iii the incident at the math.
pw 19 was declared hostile by the prosecution and was cross examined by the addl.
public prosecutor.
public prosecutor with the permission of the court.
out of the remaining witnesses mentioned above pw 9 and pw 14 are the injured witnesses.
baban karpe pw 9himself an injured witness failed to identify a 10 at the time of the identification parade held by pw 32though he identified a 10 later on in the court during the trial.
in view of the improvement made by the prosecution witnesses at the trial from their earlier statements and the infirmities already noticed we are of the opinion that it can not be said with any amount of certainty that the participation of a 10 in the assault or even his presence in the unlawful assembly at the time of the assault near jagdamba hotel or the math has been substantiated.
the prosecution has not been able to establish the case against a 10 beyond a reasonable doubt and is our opinion he is entitled to the benefit of the doubt.
in so far as the remaining appellants are concerned the evidence of the eye witnesses and particularly of pw 3 and pws 9 to 14 unmistakably connects them with the assault on the complainant party near the jagdamba hotel and at the math resulting in the death of popat and injuries being caused to pw9 and pw14 despite searching cross examination nothing has been brought out in their cross examination from which any doubt may arise about the participation of a 1a 5a 8a 9 and a 11 in the assault or discredit the testimony of any of these witnesses.
the designated court as already noticed found all of them guilty and convicted them for the offences under section 3 tada302149307149 and 323149 ipc.
the designated court after considering the evidence of the first incident and the manner of assault on the deceased and pw 9 and pw 14came to the conclusion that the appellants alongwith some others had intended to create terror in a section of the people wadar community and with that intention had assaulted pw 14the deceased and pw9 by lethal weapons and were therefore guilty of committing an offence under section 3 tada.
there is no basis for such an assumption.
prosecution has led no evidence nor brought any circumstances on the record from which any inference may be drawn that the appellants intended to strike terror amongst the wadar community.
in hitendra vishnu thakur and others vs.
and others 1994 4 scc602.
1994 indlaw sc 1706 this court opined that the criminal activity in order to invoke tada must be committed with the requisite intention as contemplated by section 31 of the act by use of such weapons as have been enumerated therein and which cause or are likely to result in the commission of offences as mentioned in that section.
thus unless the act complained of falls strictly within the letter and spirit of section 31 of tada and is committed with the intention as envisaged by that section by means of the weapons etc as are enumerated therein with the motive as postulated thereby an accused can not be tried or convicted for an offence under section 31 of tada.
learned counsel submitted that the appellants should not be denied the opportunity to get the first hearing in the high court because in the event of their failure in the high court they still have a chance to approach this court under article 136 of the constitution of india.
the argument is fallacious and runs in the teeth of the express provisions of section 19 of tada.
section 19 1 and 2 of tada read as follows.
a bare perusal of the above section shows that an appeal against the judgment sentence or order of the designated court except an interlocutory order shall lie on facts and on law to the supreme court and that no appeal or revision shall lie to any other court.
under section 12 of tada the designated court has the jurisdiction not only to try the cases under tada but also to try offences under the indian penal code if the offence under tada is connected with such other offences.
there can not be piece meal hearing of an appeal on merits first by this court to determine if an offence under tada is made out or not and then by the high court.
