Against that order an appeal was taken to the Appellate Assistant Commissioner and then to the Appellate Tribunal.
the notice under section 34 could validly be served only for the assessment years 1950 51 and notices for the subsequent years were invalid.
The order of the Appellate Assistant Commissioner was therefore upheld On the application of the Commissioner of 703 Income tax the following question of law was referred to the High Court  Whether on the facts and in the circumstances of the case the sums of Rs 37847  Rs 43162  Rs 34899  Rs 13402 and Rs 32523 were assessable to income tax in the hands of the assessee Amarchand N Shroff by his legal heirs and representatives in the five respective years under reference .
According to the submission of counsel for the Commissioner of Income tax the words of sub section.
Sub section 1 can be divided into two parts 1 where the income of the deceased was assessed before his death and 2 where the income was not so assessed but it would have been liable to tax had he not died.
The second part or the words above quoted when read with sub sections 2 and 3 show that they are confined to cases therein mentioned.
15 706 Income tax Officer finds incorrect or incomplete then the Income tax Officer can make assessment on the total income of the deceased person and certain other consequences follow but in all the cases enumerated above the language used in sub sections 1 2 and 3 of s24B contemplates that the heirs and legal representatives of a deceased person are liable to pay income tax out of his estate 1 where assessment had already been made and 2 where he dies before the assessment but the income was received before his death or by his heirs and legal representatives after his death which occurs during the previous year.
If he dies before the publication of the notice under S221 or before the service under s222 or after the service but before he has furnished a return or filed an incorrect or incomplete return then the Income tax Officer should make an assessment of the total income of such deceased person and determine the tax payable thereupon.
Section 24B does not authorise levy of tax on receipts by the legal representatives of a deceased person in the years of assessment succeeding the year of account being the previous year in which such person died.
The question before us is whether the income which was received subsequent to the previous year in which Amarchand died is liable to be assessed to income tax under section 24B as his income in the hands of his heirs and legal representatives.
In the present case the accounts were kept on cash basis.
The section was enacted by the Legislature to bring to tax after his death income received during his lifetime and fill up the lacuna which was pointed out by the High Court in Ellis C Reid vs Commissioner of Income tax Bombay1.
Any income received in the year subsequent to the previous or the account year cannot be called income received by the person deceased.
The provisions of section 24B do not extend to tax liability of the estate of a deceased person beyond the previous or the account year in which that person dies.
In support of his contention counsel for the Commissioner of Income tax relied upon the scheme of the Act as given in Additional Income tax Officer vs E Alfred2.
There is nothing said in that case which supports the contention raised by the Commissioner of Income tax.
Those observations also are of no assistance to the Commissioner of Income tax Kania J as he then was there observed that the question whether a particular amount was income or not had nothing to do with the time of its receipt and the question of receipt was material.
That was a case where a consulting engineer discontinued his practice as such from February 15 1938 and he received a sum of money representing the outstanding professional fees earned by him prior to the discontinuance of his practice but realised by him during the Calendar year which was the previous year.
The assessee was keeping is accounts on cash basis and he contended that as he had discontinued his profession in the previous year the source had come to an nd and the amounts received by him were not liable to income tax.
It was held that the income was assessable.
It was held that this income was taxable.
Derbyshire CJ said at p 205 that the assessee who was the widow had received the salary due to her husband that the Income tax Officer was entitled to assess the total income of the deceased person as if the legal representatives were the assessees and the amount was liable to tax under section 24B 1 but in that case also the amount was received by the widow in the previous year and it was earned by the deceased during the previous year.
The correct position is that apart from s24B no assessment can be made in respect of the income of a person after his death.
See Ellis C Reid vs Commissioner of Income tax Bombay2.
In that case and that was a case before section 24B was enacted a person was served with a notice under section 222 of the Income tax Act but no return was made within the period specified and he died.
It was held that no assessment could be made under section 234 of the Act after his death.
Every person liable to pay tax must necessary die and in practically every case before the last instalment has been collected and the legislature has not chosen to make any provisions expressly dealing with assessment of or recovering payment from the estate of a deceased person.
As was observed by this Court in Bengal Immunity Co Ltd vs The State of Bihar2 legal fictions are only for a definite purpose and they are limited to the purpose for which they are created and should not be extended beyond that legitimate field.
710 of the deceased Amarchand and are not liable to be taxed in the hands of the heirs and legal representatives who cannot be deemed to be assessees for the purpose of assessment in regard to those years.
In our view the High Court rightly answered the question in the negative and against the Commissioner of Income tax.
The appeals therefore fail and are dismissed with costs.
