Appeal by special leave from the Award dated September 20 1963 of the Central Government Industrial Tribunal Bombay in Reference CG IT 25 of 1962.
C B Agarwala J B Dadachanji O C Mathur and Ravinder Narain for the respondents.
The Judgment of the Court was delivered by Hidayatullah J.
The appellants are the workmen of the Bombay Port Trust who are and have been represented in this dispute by the Bombay Port Trust Employees  Union.
The respondents to this appeal are the trustees of the Port of Bombay.
The reference was made on a joint application of the parties.
The Port Trust had under its control several docks.
Reference in this judgment will be made to the Prince s and Victoria Docks the Alexandra Docks Butcher Island and the Flotilla Crew.
From the facts appearing on the record it appears that the Trustees first introduced a two shift system of work in the Alexandra Docks on June 30 1953 and the same system was extended to the Prince s and Victoria Docks on December 15 1953.
Previously the shore crew at all these places worked in a single shift and were liable to be called out at 634 any hour of the day or night.
The hours of rest were kept variable as they depended on the tides.
In 1956 the workmen who were then represented by the Port Trust General Workers  Union made a demand for a fixed recess of two hours.
The Trustees apprehended that this was a device to get 4 hours  overtime and rejected the demand.
The General Workers Union was informed that if the demand was pressed a three shift system would be introduced.
The workmen then retraced their steps and accepted a 2 hours  variable recess but requested that it should be as near the middle of the shift as possible.
The Trustees agreed to accept the hours of rest at fixed hours in the Alexandra Docks but at the Prince s and Victoria Docks they kept it variable agreeing to fix it as near the middle of the duty hours as possible.
The hours of work and the payment of overtime are therefore governed by the provisions of the and the Minimum Wages Central Rules 1950 and the controversy in this case must be appreciated and resolved in accordance with them.
1 Where an employee whose minimum rate of wages is fixed under this Act by the hour by the day or by such a longer wage period as may be prescribed works on any day in excess of the number of hours constituting a normal working day the employer shall pay him for every hour or for part of an hour so worked in excess at the overtime rate fixed under this Act or under any law of the appropriate Government for the time being in force whichever is higher.
A working day of 12 hours is thus made up of hours of work and hours of rest and the number of hours of work which cannot exceed 9 is part of the normal working day which may also include one or more specified intervals of rest.
From section 13 read with Rule 24 we know that the number of hours constituting a normal working day is 9.
The section so read lays down  Where an employee   works on any day in excess of 9 hours the employer shall pay him for every hour or for part of an hour so worked in excess at the overtime rate    Under Rule 25 1 b this overtime rate is double the ordinary rate of wages.
He can specify the intervals of rest and spread the 8 hours or 9 hours as the case may be together with intervals of rest over 12 hours in a twelvehour shift.
For the hours of rest he is not required to pay overtime but he must specify those hours.
As in the present case the total number of hours of work in a week is 48 8 hours per day for 6 days overtime is payable for that hour or part of an hour beyond the 8 hours in which the workman is either made to work or the interval is not specified.
The Port Trust can say that it will not take more than two hours extra work on any day and specify the remaining two hours as the intervals for rest.
54Daily hours Subject to the provisions of section 51 no adult worker shall be required or allowed to work in a factory for more than nine hours in any day Provided   55.
The periods of work of an adult worker in a factory shall be so arranged that inclusive of his intervals for rest under section 55 they shall not spread over more than ten and a half hours in any day Provided that the Chief Inspector may for reasons to be specified in writing increase the spread over to twelve hours.
There is no provision in the which breaks up the hours of work by interposing a compulsory period of rest as is done by the latter part of section 55 of the .
The reason perhaps is that in some employments time for work depends on some 643 extraneous factors and hours of rest cannot always be fixed to break up those hours.
According to their resolution the recess is fixed as near the middle of the work as possible depending on the tides.
The crew at the Prince s and Victoria Docks work in a different way and their case cannot be compared with that of the Flotilla Crew or the crew at the Alexandra Docks.
