Appeals under article 132 1 of the Constitution from the judgment and order dated 28th August 1951 of the High Court of Judicature at Calcutta Harries CJ Chakravarthi Das Banerjee and SR Das Gupta JJ in Civil Revision Cases Nos 942 and 1113 of 1951.
AA Peerbhoy and JB Dadachanji for Habib Mohammad Intervener.
AR Sornanatha Iyer Advocate General of Mysore K Ramaseshayya Choudhry with him for the State of Mysore.
B Sen for the appellant in Case No 298.
2 Nodirection shall be made under sub section 1 for the trial of an offence for which an accused person was being tried at the commencement of this Act before any court but save as aforesaid such direction may be made in re spect of an offence whether such  offence was committed before or after the commencement of this Act.
 Sections 6 to 15 prescribe the special procedure which the court has to follow in the trial of the cases referred to it.
Harries CJ who delivered the leading judgment which Das and Banerjee JJ.
 Before considering whether section 51 infringes to any and what extent the constitutional prohibition under article 14 it is necessary to ascertain the true scope and intendment of the impugned provision.
292 purports to provide for the matters to be tried by a special court and does not in form seek to define the kind or class of offences or cases which the State Government is empowered under the Act to assign to such a court for trial.
As the very object of the Act was to provide for speedier trials by instituting a system of special courts with a simplified and shortened procedure it is reasonable to conclude that so far as the legislature was concerned its intention was that courts constituted under the Act and applying such procedure should deal only with cases requiring speedier trial and that accordingly the State Government should refer to such courts only cases of that description.
The object of the law we assume until the lower Court shall decide otherwise is single to keep up competition and the general language is to be restricted by the specific provi sions and to the particular end.
 The title and the preamble as well as the other specific provisions of the Act here in question show unmistakably that the whole object and purpose of the legislation was to devise machinery for speedier trial of certain offences which must mean trial of cases involving the commission of certain 1 1830 I B  Ad.
2  293 offences as there can of course be no trial of offences in the abstract and the general expressions used in providing for the power to set that machinery in operation must be restricted to that end in accordance with the intention of the legislature for a literal construction of the general language would impute to the legislature an intention to confer an arbitrary power of reference which would be incon sistent not only with the declared object of the statute but also with the constitutional prohibition against discrimina tion which the legislature must be taken to have been aware of when it deliberately re enacted the provisions of the old Ordinance.
294 pledge of the protection of equal laws Yick Wo vs Hopkins 1 that is Jaws that operate alike on all persons under like circumstances.
And as the prohibition under the article is directed against the State which is defined in article 12 as including not only the legislatures but also the Governments in the country article 14 secures all persons within the territories of India against arbitrary laws as well as arbitrary application of laws.
It must appear not only that a classification has been made but also that it is based upon some reasonable ground some difference which bears a just and proper relation to the attempted classification1.
A careful perusal of this decision will make it quite clear that the Court upheld the validity of the statute impugned in that case not on the ground that the inequality was of minor importance but on the ground that the classification of establishments according to the number of workmen employed therein was based on an intelli gible distinction having a rational relation to the subject matter of the legislation in question.
 In order to be a proper classification so as not to offend against the Constitution it must be based on some intelligible differentia which should have a reason able relation to the object of the Act as recited in the preamble.
Article 14 provides The State shall not deny to any person equality before the law or the equal protection of the laws within the territory of India Then follow articles 15 and 16 the former prohibiting discrimination on grounds of religion race caste sex place of birth or any of them and the latter providing for equality of opportunity in matters of public employment.
 It does not take from the states the power to classify either in the adoption of police laws or tax laws or eminent domain laws but permits to them the exercise of a wide scope of discretion and nullifies what they do only when it is without any reasonable basis.
Discrimination may not appear in the statute itself but may be evident in the administration of the law.
Co vs Illinois Prof Weaver says at page 404 of his compendious book on Constitutional Law under the heading of  DISCRIMINATION IN THE ADMiNiSTRATION OF THE LAWS  Discrimination may exist in the administration of the laws and it is the purpose of the equal protection clause to secure all the inhabitants of the state from intentional and arbitrary discrimination arising in their improper or preju diced execution as well as by the express terms of the law itself.
 Bose J We are concerned here with article 14 of the Constitution and in particular with the words equality before the law and equal protection of the law.
