Hemendra Shah J B Dadachanji and Rajinder Narain for the petitioner.
In respect of his own business of Indestro Sales and Service Co the assessee was assessed to income tax for the years 1943 44 to 1947 1948 and 1951 1952 by the Third Income tax Officer C 1 Ward Bombay at and for Rs 40178 4 0.
The assessee was actually arrested on the 1st July 1955.
A rule was issued by the High Court but eventually on the 24th August 1955 the High Court Chagla CJ and Desai J discharged the rule.
a Section 462 of the Indian Income tax Act which is impugned before us runs as follows 46.
All that the sub section directs the Collector to do is to proceed to recover the certified amount as if it were an arrear of land revenue that is to say he is to adopt the procedure prescribed by the appropriate law of his State for the recovery of land revenue and that in thus proceeding he is under the proviso to have all the powers a Civil Court has under the Code.
In such a situation it is a plausible argument to say that all the provisions of all the State laws are mutatis mutandis to be read into section 46 2 and that therefore if there be any vice of discrimination in the State laws that vice cannot but be regarded as having crept into section 462.
Each State in its wisdom has devised a machinery which it has considered appropriate and suitable for the recovery of its own public demand.
As was said by the Supreme Court of America in Middleton vs Texas Power and Light Company1 There is a strong presumption that a legislature understands and correctly appreciates the needs of its own people that its laws are directed to problems made manifest by experience and that its discriminations are based upon adequate grounds.
If in the matter of recovery of arrears of land revenue defaulters of one State cannot complain of denial of equal protection of the laws on the ground of the difference in the modes of recovery prevailing in other States can it be said to be unreasonable for the Union to adopt for the recovery of its public demand from defaulters of each State the same mode of recovery 1   157.
114 900 of public demand prevailing in that State Here the defaulters are classified on a territorial or geographical basis and this basis of classification has precisely the same correlation to the object of the Indian Income tax Act as it has to the object of the different Public Demands Recovery Acts.
If this is right when a question of imposition is concerned it cannot be wrong when the matter is one of recovery.
For the purposes of this case it will suffice to say that the discrimination complained of is not unconstitutional for the simple reason that the impugned law is based on a territorial classification having a reasonable nexus or correlation between that basis of classification and the object sought to be achieved by the Act.
Adoption of an existing machinery devised for a particular purpose cannot if there be no vice of unconstitutionality in the machinery render it unconstitutional if it is made to subserve a purpose closely akin or similar to the purpose for which it bad been devised.
A cursory perusal of the two sections will show at once that the procedure prescribed by section 13 of the Bombay City Land Revenue Act 1876 for the recovery of arrears of land revenue was harsher and more drastic than the procedure laid down in section 157 of the Bombay Land Revenue Code 1879 in that a defaulter residing in the City of Bombay could be kept in detention for a day for every rupee of the arrears which might considerably exceed the maximum period of six months which is the period 904 limited by the Code of Civil Procedure for the detention of a judgment debtor in civil jail.
In the view we have taken it is not necessary to express any opinion whether the discrimination brought about by the two sections was supportable on the ground of a reasonable classification based on territorial considerations so as not to offend the constitutional inhibition.
Assuming then but not deciding that section 13 of the Bombay City Land Revenue Act 1876 became inconsistent with the fundamental right guaranteed by article 14 and therefore became void to the extent of such inconsistency it was not as recently explained by this Court in Bhikaji Narayan Dhakras vs The State of Madhya Pradesh Nagpur and Another1 obliterated from the statute book for all times or for all purposes or for all people.
In Assam there can be no imprisonment at all.
