R B Datar for the Appellant.
Adding 14th and 124th the plaintiff claims a 724th share in the joint family properties.
As against that decree defendant 1 filed first appeal No 524 of 1966 in the Bombay High Court while the plaintiff filed cross objections.
Another Division Bench of the Bombay High Court in Rangubai Lalji vs Laxman Lalji2 had already reconsidered and dissented from earlier Division Bench judgment in Shiramabai Bhimgonda1 In these two cases the judgment of the Bench was delivered by the same learned Judge Patel J.
LR351.
Explanation 2.
 The Hindu Succession Act came into force on June 17 1956 Khandappa having died after the commencement of that Act to wit in 1960 and since he had at the time of his death an interest in Mitakshara coparcenary property the pre conditions of section 6 are satisfied and that section is squarely attracted.
As between them the two sons the three daughters and the widow will take equally each having one share in the deceased s property under section 10 read with Rules 1 and 2 of that section.
Explanation 1 which contains the formula for determining the share of the deceased creates a fiction by providing that the interest of a Hindu Mistakshara coparcener shall be deemed to be the share in the property that would have been allotted to him if a partition of the property had taken place immediately before his death.
see Mulla s Hindu Law Fourteenth Edition page 403 para 315.
Khandappa would have therefore got a 14th share in the coparcenary property on the hypothesis of a partition between himself and his sons Two things are thus clears  One that in a partition of the coparcenary property Khandappa would have obtained a 14th share and 767 two that the share of the plaintiff in the 14th share is 16th that is to say 124th.
1 SCR 394 2 768 incidents which if the putative state of affairs had in fact existed must inevitably have flowed from or accompanied it and if the statute says that you must imagine a certain state of affairs it cannot be interpreted to mean that having done so you must cause or permit your imagination to boggle when it comes to the inevitable corollaries of that state of affairs.
In other words the assumption having been made once for the purpose of ascertaining the share of the deceased in the coparcenary property one cannot go back on that assumption and ascertain the share of the heirs without reference to it.
The assumption which the statute requires to be made that a partition had in fact taken place must permeate the entire process of ascertainment of the ultimate share of the heirs through all its stages.
All the consequences which flow from a real partition have to be logically worked out which means that the share of the heirs must be ascertained on the basis that they bad separated from one another and had received a share in the partition which had taken place during the life time of the deceased.
1937 speaking broadly conferred upon the Hindu widow the right to a share in the joint family property as also a right to demand partition like any male member of the family.
Even assuming that two interpretations of Explanation I are reasonably possible we must prefer that interpretation which will further the intention of the legislature and remedy the injustice from which the Hindu women have suffered over the years.
1 AIR 1975 Bombay 257.
2 AIR 1974 Guj.
3 AIR 1967 Orissa 194.
