1073 1100 1117 19 1229 95 142 1554 1746 2140 2155 2271 2396 2459.
1198 1217 1302 12 1314 15 1566 1641 1140 70 2360 95 1643 17252272 232921522332233924913486 89 2498 2521 2522 533 742611 2638 and 2531 of 1983.
GN Rao for the State.
Miss A Subhashini for the Union.
It assumed office on January 9 1983.
By these notifications every Government servant whether ministerial or non ministerial but not belonging to the last Grade Service who had already attained the age of 55 years was to retire from service with effect from February 28 1983.
Another affidavit was filed on behalf of the Government of Andhra Pradesh after the rule nisi was issued in the writ petitions.
Finance and Planning.
Clause 101 of the Ordinance prescribes that every Government employee not being a workman and not belonging to Last Grade Service shall retire from service on the afternoon of the last day of the month in which he attains the are of 55 years.
Clause 103 provides that every workman belonging to the Last Grade Service or employed on a monthly rate of pay in any service notified as Inferior shall retire from service on the afternoon of the last day of the month in which he attains the age of 60 years.
Clause 16 of the Ordinance provides that no amendment to the Fundamental Rules shall be deemed to be invalid merely by reason of the fact that the proviso to rule 2 of the Fundamental Rules laid down that the said rules shall not be modified or replaced to the disadvantage of any person already in service.
Clause 16 of the Ordinance declares that every amendment made before or after the commencement of the Ordinance to the Fundamental Rules and the Hyderabad Civil Services Rules shall be and shall be always deemed to have applied to all Government employees whether appointed before or after the amendment.
Indeed the proposition that there ought to be an age of retirement in public services is widely accepted as reasonable and rational.
Inevitably the public administrator has to counter balance conflicting claims while determining the age of superannua 591 tion.
Where an act is arbitrary it is implicit in it that it is unequal both according to political logic and constitutional law and is therefore violative of Article 14l But while resolving the validity of policy issues like the age of retirement it is not proper to put the conflicting claims in a sensitive judicial scale and decide the issue by finding out which way the balance tilts.
592 lative competence or on the legislative power to pass laws which bear on fundamental rights.
Even otherwise not more than one per cent of the unemployed educated youths are likely to get employment as a result of the reduction in the age of retirement from 58 to 55.
e The careful planning by the employees of their important affairs of life like the construction of a house the marriage of a daughter or the repayment of loans has been suddenly set at naught by the reduction in the age of retirement f Two of the most relevant circumstances bearing upon the fixation of the age of retirement have been ignored by the State Government increase in longevity and the prevailing age of retirement in public sector undertakings and g No consideration was given to the plain and direct con sequence of the reduction in the age of retirement namely that the State exchequer would have to find and pay Rs 70 crores on one single day by way of retirement benefits for which no budgetary provision was made It would appear from these contentions as also from the contions advanced by the other learned counsel that the main plank of the petitioners  case is that the decision to reduce the age of retirement from 58 to 55 is unconstitutional because it is arbitrary irrational and unconnected with the object which it seeks to achieve.
In this connection the first ground of challenge to the reduction of the age of retirement is that the One man Pay Revision Commission appointed by the Government of Andhra Pradesh had recommended that the age of retirement should be increased from 55 to 58 that the said recommendation was accepted by the State Government and consequently the age of retirement was raised to 58 with effect from October 29 l 979.
Clause 101 of the Ordinance prescribes that every Government employee not being a workman and not belonging to Last Grade Service shall retire from service on the afternoon of the last day of the month in which he attains the are of 55 years.
Clause 102 provides that every Government employee not being a workman but belonging to the Last Grade Service shall retire from service on the afternoon of the last day of the of the Commission cover the review of the existing retirement benefits  the reference would naturally include the age of retirement.
 This was an erroneous and unwarranted reading of the terms of reference.
A review of retirement benefits would undoubtedly cover the examination of the rules or schemes relating to pension provident fund gratuity encasement of leave etc but it cannot include the power to examine the question as regards the fixation of the age of retirement.
In any case the power of a Commission to enquire into a question must depend 595 upon the terms of the Reference and not upon the statements made on the floor of the House.
Conversely decisions which are taken promptly cannot be assumed to be bad because they are taken promptly.
Every decision has to examined on its own merits in order to determine whether it is arbitrary or unreasonable.
Besides we have to consider the validity of a law regulating the age of retirement.
It is untenable to contend that a law is bad because it is passed immediately on the assumption of office by a new Government.
Both can fall within the constraints of the Constitution and neither the one nor the other can be considered to be arbitrary or unreasonable.
A distinction was however made between ministerial and non ministerial officers presumbly because it was thought that the duties of the former did not suffer from the effects of advancing age as did those of the others and it was decided in effect that subject to continued efficiency ministerial officers should be retained in service till they attained the age of 60.
 The Commission then adverted to the prevailing ages of retirement in foreign countries and reiterated that whether we go by our own vital statistics or by the age of retirement prevalent in other countries there was a clear case for raising the age of superannuation substantially above 55 years.
In paragraph 15 of the Report the Commission considered the effect of increasing the age of retirement on the employment situation and concluded that the likely repercussion of increasing the age of retirement on educated unemployment would not be substantial.
After talking into account all the relevant considerations including the fact that most Government servants themselves do not wish to continue in service until they are worn out and have one foot in the grave the Commission summed up its findings by saying that there was much in favour of and very little against raising the age of superannuation.
A reduction in the age of superannuation would not therefore ipso facto improve the overall employment position for the educated unemployed 5 Any increase in the age of superannuation beyond the age of 58 would reduce during the period of the increase employment opportunities for a very large number of technical engineering and professional students passing out from the universities technical institutions and industrial training institutes  and 6 The age of retirement should not be changed frequently since it has a vital bearing on the career prospects of and the retirement benefits available to Government employees and since it is an important factor in the attractiveness of Government service.
For these reasons the Commission recommended that the age of superannuation should continue to be 58 years for the Central Government employees with the modification that the retirement should take effect from the afternoon of the last day of the month in which the employee attains the age of superannuation.
In support of this view it quoted the International Labour Organisation The World Employment Programme The three pillars of a strategy for fuller employment are rural development labour intensive public works programmes and the reduction of capital intensity of industrialisation Observing that the dimensions of unemployment problem should not deter the Government from improving the service conditions of its employees.
It is observed therein that lasting solutions to unemployment problems had to be found within the framework of a rapid and employment oriented economic growth that suitable measures had to be evolved in the short term in a co ordinated way particularly for the benefit of the weaker sections and that since the dimension and gravity of educated unemployment vary from State to State a decentralised approach should be adopted on the district employment plan.
According to the Sixth Five Year Plan unemployment would not be eliminated within the Sixth Plan unless efforts were immediately made to make the current unemployed more employable through short term training and vocational programmes and unless special employment programmes are directed towards their absorption.
After stating that the Krishnaswamy Commission was appointed on November 3 1977 for the sole purpose of 603 examining the question of  retirement benefits and that the question of retirement age was not included in its terms of reference the White Paper says that although the Government had accepted the recommendations of the Commission almost in their entirety it did not accept its recommendation that the age of retirement should be increased from 55 to 58 years.
By a notification dated September 17 199 the recommendations of the Commission B in regard to the revision of pay scales were accepted by the Government but not so the recommendation regarding increasing the age of retirement from 55 to 58 years.
Consequently the resultant vacancies at the direct recruitment level which would have arisen in the chain of appointments that would follow each retirement were also blocked for 3 years continuously thereby denying the promotion opportunities to inservice personnel and employment opportunities for the unemployed causing a great deal of frustration all round.
It is estimated that on an average there would be approximately 6500 retirements each year from Government departments Panchayat Raj Institutions and also Aided Institutions where pensionary liability is borne by Government.
Government therefore decided to revise the age of superannuation from 58 years to 55 years so that the unemployed talented youth who were eagerly awaiting chances of appointment could get opportunities of employment.
Government were thus able to create promotional avenues to serving employees at various levels and create opportunities for appointment against about 18000 posts in Government Panchayat Raj and aided educational institutions alone not to speak of the opportunities that were created in the various Corporations etc owned or controlled by Government.
 604 The White Paper explains that in order to ensure that the employees who had retired by the end of February 1983 should get their pensionary benefits without delay the Government had constituted a special Pension cell in the Finance Department by a notification dated February 16 1983.
Either the one or the other of these two stages is regarded generally as acceptable depending upon the employment policy of the Government of the day.
It is not possible to lay down an inflexible rule that 58 years is a reasonable age for retirement and 55 is not.
If the policy adopted for the time being by the Government or the Legislature is shown to violate recognised norms of employment planning it would be possible to say that the policy is irrational since in that event it would not bear reasonable nexus with the object which it seeks to achieve.
But such is not the case here.
Care must also be taken to ensure that the statistics are not perverted to serve a malevolent purpose 605 Shri VM Tarkunde who appears for some of the petitioners A limited his argument to the contention that arbitrary fixation of retirement age amounts to removal from service and is therefore violative of Article 311 2 of the Constitution This argument has to be rejected because of our conclusion that the reduction of the age of retirement from 58 to 55 in the instant case is not hit by Article 14 or Article 16 since it is not arbitrary or unreasonable in the circumstances of the case.
It is well settled that Article 311 2 is attracted only when a civil servant is reduced in rank dismissed or removed from service by way of penalty that is to say when the effect of the order passed against him in this behalf is to visit him with evil consequences.
Besides the point made by Shri Tarkunde is concluded by a Constitution Bench decision of this Court in Bishun Narain Misra vs State of Uttar Pradesh 6 In that case the Government of Uttar Pradesh and raised the age of superannuation from 55 to 58 years by a Notification dated November 27 1957 but reduced it again to 55 years by a Notification dated May 25 1961.
It is true that in Moti Ram Deka the Court was concerned to G 1  2 1955 1 SCR26.
3  4  5 1958 SCR1052.
6 1965 I SCR 693.
7  606 determine the validity of Rules 148 3 and 149 3 of the Railway Establishment Code which provided for the termination of the service of a permanent servant by a mere notice But interestingly the judgment in Bishun Narain Mishra shows that it was the appellant therein who relied on the decision in Moti Ram Deka in support of his contention that the rule by which the age of retirement was reduced to 55 years amounted to removal within the meaning of Article 311 2 The Court held that the decision in Moti Ram Deka had no application to the case before them since that case did not deal with any rule relating to age of retirement.
See page 696 of the Report.
He made it clear that his argument should not be construed as a challenge to the power or jurisdiction of the Governor to issue the impugned Ordinance and that his sole attempt was to show that the Ordinance was passed in a hurry as a result of which considerations which are relevant to the fixation of retirement age were ignored.
The instances of non application of mind cited by the learned counsel are these The inclusion o f the employees of the High Court within the sweep of the Ordinance in violation of the provisions of Chapters V and VI of the Constitution the inclusion of the employees of the Legislature Secretariat within the Ordinance the extension of the Ordinance even to the daily rate workers and finally the fact that nothing worthwhile is likely to be achieved by the passing of the Ordinance since at the highest it would create employment at this point of time only for about 19500 employees After that point of time passes the same state of affairs will continue since the age of retirement will be merely substituted by 58 in place of 55 years.
This power is plenary within its field like the power of the State Legislature to pass laws and there are no limitations upon that power except those to which the legislative power of the State Legislature is subject Therefore though an ordinance call be invalidated for contravention of the constitutional limitations which exist upon the power of the State Legislature to pass laws it cannot be declared invalid for the reason of non application of mind any more than any other law can be.
An executive act is liable to be struck down on the ground of non application of mind.
Not the act of a Legislature.
2 119821 SCR 947 at 964 967.
3 19791 SCR 26 608 sions of the Ordinance are in any manner arbitrary or unreasonable and thereby violate Articles 14 and 16 of the Constitution.
2 11952 SCR 597 at 607.
Even assuming that the executive in a given case has an ulterior motive in moving a legislation that motive cannot render the passing of the law mala fide.
Finally there is no substance in the contention that the amendment to the Fundamental Rules whereby the proviso to rule 2 was deleted is beyond the powers of the rule making authority or the Legislature.
By that amendment a proviso was added to rule 2 which reads thus Provided that the rules shall not be modified or E replaced to the disadvantage of any person already in service By GO Ms No 48 dated February 17 1983 this proviso was deleted with retrospective effect from February 23 1979.
1   582 585.
2  965.
