Leave to appeal was refused.
Both give substantially the same version of what they saw of the assault.
On hearing this he wrote out 1088 a report exhibit No 4 and sent it to the Police Station at Udgir which is about six miles from the scene of the murder.
He says he did not know any names at that time and that is evident from the report.
But what the learned counsel for the appellants says is that he saw Narsabai on the evening of the murder and as she did not give him any names it is evident that no one knew who the assailants were and that therefore the accusation made against the accused was a subsequent concoction and that it was for that reason that they waited till the next morning before reporting the matter to the police.
He also admits that he saw Narsabai there but says he did not speak to her.
In the circumstances we think Mahadappa told the truth.
As a matter of fact Subhana does not ascribe any particular blow either to Tukaram or to Nilia though he does describe in detail what the other three did.
It is true they all ran away when the eye witnesses arrived and later absconded but there is nothing to indicate that they ran away together as a body or that they met afterwards.
It requires a pre arranged plan because before a man can be vicariously convicted for the 1095 criminal act of another the act must have been done in furtherance of the common intention of them all Mahbub Shah vs King Emperor1.
As their Lordships say in the latter case the partition which divides their bounds is often very thin nevertheless the distinction is real and substantial and if overlooked will result in miscarriage of justice.
In the present case there is no evidence of any prior meeting.
It is true prior concert and arrangement can and indeed often must be determined from subsequent conduct as for example by a systematic plan of campaign unfolding itself during the course of the action Which could only be referable to prior concert and pre arrangement or a running away together in a body or a meeting together subsequently.
But to quote the Privy Council again the inference of common intention should never be reached unless it is a necessary inference deducible from the circumstances of the case.
1097 similarity of the facts in one case cannot be used to determine a conclusion of fact in another.
