The letter dated 25th March 1988 states as follows The Collector of the district after perusal of the said office note passed order on 25388 which is produced in verbatim below Ist bidder chunki defaulter hai atah security prapt kar len tatha bhavishya ke liae Black list karen.
It was contended on behalf of the State Government that there was no requirement in the rule of giving any prior notice before black listing any person.
In so far as the contention that there is no requirement specifically of giving any notice is concerned the respondent is right.
But it is an implied principle of the rule of law that any order having civil consequence should be passed only after following the PG NO 869 principles of natural justice.
It has to be realised that black listing any person in respect of business ventures has civil consequence for the future business of the person concerned in any event.
Even if the rules do not express so it is an elementary principle of natural justice that parties affected by any order should have right of being heard and making representations against the order.
In that view of the matter the last portion of the order in so far as it directs black listing of the appellant in respect of future contracts cannot be sustained in law.
In the premises that portion of the order directing that the appellant be placed in the black list in respect of future contracts under the Collector is set aside.
So far as the cancellation of the bid of the appellant is concerned that is not affected.
This order will however not prevent the State Government or the appropriate authorities from taking any future steps for blacklisting the appellant if the Government is so entitled to do so in accordance with law ie giving the appellant due notice and an opportunity of making representation.
After hearing the appellant the State Government will be at liberty to pass any order in accordance with law indicating the reasons therefor.
We however make it quite clear that we are not expressing any opinion on the correctness or otherwise of the allegations made against the appellant.
The appeal is thus disposed of.
Appeal disposed of.
