he has argued in person and with passion.
if we may anticipate ourselves none of the nine submissions has appealed to us save to the extent the high court has upheld.
although he waxed sentimentally on this note he did not convince us on his contentions.
a compensation assessment roll containing the gross asset and net income of each estate together with the compensation payable in respect of such estate has to be prepared by him.
there are a few other s s in chapter vi which deal with payment of compensation.
against the background of law just projected we may set out shri purohit s points which if we may say so are substantially the same as have been argued by him in revision before the high court with partial success.
for convenience of reference we may extract the statement by the high court of the contentions urged before it and repeated before us by the appellant.
b v of the act make it clear that the date of vesting is the last date by which the calculation of compensation should have been made.
as admittedly compensation had not been calculated by the date of vesting the compensation officer lost his statutory jurisdiction to do so.
b v of the act but in spite of it the direction was that the divisional forest officer should make the appraisement.
but as the court directed that no further evidence on behalf of the state should be received ext.
a1 is inadmissible in evidence.
3 assuming that in spite of the directions of the court the compensation offi cer is entitled to follow the procedure laid down in section 262bv the expression subject to the approval of the chief conservator of forests does not refer to the appraisement made by the d f o but refers to his appointment.
4 assuming that section 262 b v would have full force what it contemplates is that the appraisement must be made by the d f o and it is subject to the approval by the chief conservator of forests.
but what has happened here is that the chief conservator himself made the appraisement without referring to the appraisement made by the d f o and as such the appraisement made by the chief conservator is invalid.
the report of the chief conservator of forests is also invalid because of the fact that the appraisement is made only with reference to the area of the disputed forests without taking into consideration the density of growth therein.
6 unlike in case of fisheries etc.
during the agricultural year immediately preceding the abolition the petitioners had not actually derived any income from the forests and as such they were under no obligation to pay any income tax on such income.
but before examining this essential issue we may dispose of the minor points pressed so that the deck may be cleared for dealing with what deserves to be dealt with.
a similar principle applies to the award of interest which may sometimes be notional when feudal interests are puffed out.
holmes once commented it is revolting to have no better reason for a rule of law than that.
here there is good reason to depart from the old rule of full compensation and it perhaps legitimates the reduced rate of recompense.
for the purposes of the law the rupee of long ago is the same as the rupee of today although for the purposes of the market place and cost of living the housewife s answer may be different.
law is sometimes blind.
here again the flaw in the submission consists in mis reading section 27 of the act which expressly states that the net income from an estate shall be computed by deducting from the gross assets of such estate any sum which was payable by the intermediary as income tax in respect of any income derived from such estate for the previous agricultural year.
he forgets that in the case of forests it is the assumed income and not the actual income that forms the basis of calculation of compensation.
indeed if the actual income were to be the foundation for computation of compensation on the premise that not actual income has accrued the compensation might be zero.
if a notional income on the assumed basis can be used for fixing compensation a notional income tax can be calculated and deducted.
section 262.
gross asset when used with reference to an estate means the aggregate of the rents including all cesses which were payable in respect of the estate for the previous agricultural year b by the raiyats or any other persons cultivating the land other than the land settled with the intermediary or intermediaries under sub s 1 of section 7 and includes.
the expression forest officer used here has been explained in section 26.
indeed preliminary to the appraisal operation the intermediary receives a notice in form d rule 13 and he is expected to furnish a return of the relevant particulars and supporting information to enable correct appraisement.
a second appeal followed before the board of revenue which was dismissed.
later revision petition were filed before the high court and g k misra j set aside the order disallowing the inclusion of the income from forests for ascertainment of compensation and directed a remand to the compensation officer.
it is open to the petitioners to give evidence that after the date of vesting many of the trees and forest produce have been removed.
besides the evidence already on record would be taken into consideration.
but in such a case the materials must be brought to the notice of the petitioners who would be entitled to cross examine the witnesses connected therewith and may give rebutting evidence.
equally clearly a slight error has crept into the judge s order because he does not make any reference specifically to the statutory requirement of approval of the chief conservator of forests of the appraisement made by the forest officer.
but he pointed out that the forest officer had omitted to include the income from kendu leaves and added that sum to the income from forests.
even so the total figure was less than what the divisional forest officer had recommended.
both the state and the appellant filed appeals to the collector which were dismissed.
a second appeal was filed by the appellant before the board of revenue without success.
from this narrative what follows is that the chief conservator had substituted his appraisement which was accepted by the statutory tribunal.
indeed there was a fundamental difference in the basis adopted by the forest officer and the chief conservator in the matter of assessing the income of the forests in question.
having heard the appellant at some length we see no flaw in the high court s order on this aspect of the matter.
before the date of vesting the state never can nor does fix the compensation through the compensation officer in any of the agrarian reform laws and these compensation operations are post statutory exercises.
if the officer had no jurisdiction the land would be gone because of the vesting provision and no compensation would be forthcoming for want of jurisdiction a consequence the appellant never wants.
and this holds good after the second remand order that the forest officer will do the appraisement of the annual income forward his report to the chief conservator of forests who will take the said report into consideration and if necessary make modifications therein or approve it with such changes as he deems fit.
certainly the chief conservator can not be ignored by the compensation officer nor can the chief conservator ignore the assessment made by the forest officer and go through an independent exercise.
