on or about 23rd of august1963.
andhra pradesh requested for the requisition of the property named as sail gulshan with a vast extent of land and palaces with roads and surrounded by a compound wail measuring 19 acres and 10 guntas situated in the heart of hyderabad city near sarojini devi hospital.
his claim for compensation for requisition was settled by sharing the rent in or about 1969 the appellant is one of the owners of the property in question deriving their title and right from the said sail nawaz jung.
hereinafter called the central act the gazette notification for the acquisition was issued on 12th march1970 the controversy in this case relates to the question whether abdul khader was a protected tenant under the andhra pradesh telangana area.
s 39 deals with right of protected tenants to exchange lands.
no civil court shall have jurisdiction to settle decide or deal with any question which is by or under this act required to be settled decided or dealt with by the tahsildar tribunal or collector or by the board of revenue or government.
no order of the tahsildar tribunal or collector or of the board of revenue or government made under this act shall be questioned in any civil or criminal court.
it is relevant at this stage to refer to certain provisions of the central act to consider the controversy involved in this appeal the central act was enacted giving power for requisitioning and acquisition of immovable property for union purposes.
s 5 deals with rights over requisitioned property.
hence i suspect the entry and order to cancel the copy of the tenancy issued in favour of sri modh.
sd tahsildar.
hyderabad west taluk.
1the learned single judge vaidya j held inter alia as follows whether the petitioner abdul khader is a protected tenant or whether he has any prima facie interest in the suit property are matters entirely within the sole jurisdiction of the arbitrator who has to be appointed under s 8 of the central act.
in the appeal of abdul khader the proceedings of revenue divisional officer while questioning entry of the name of abdul khader in the register is a genuine one or net and while it is stated that it was entered in the register in such suspicious way by giving serial no 1 a between serial nos 1 and 2 of register being exhibit a 106 and exhibit a 107it ultimately held that abdul khader was a protected tenant under section 37a of the andhra pradesh act.
on or about 19th of april1972.
it was in those circumstances held by him that the entry was a spurious one.
in civil revision petition no 1006 of 1972 which was filed by abdul khader as against others justice r ramachandra raju of the andhra pradesh high court on or about 19th august1974 held that abdul khader was not a protected tenant and directed deletion of entry made in the final record of tenancies as a spurious one.
not only that in the writ petition filed by the present petitioner in this court it was held that it is not necessary to go into the question whether the petitioner is a protected tenant or whether he has any prima facie interest in the property because they are the matters entirely within the sole jurisdiction of the arbitrator who has to be appointed under s 8 of the act.
now as the arbitrator has already been appointed he will go into the matter as to whether the petitioner was a protected tenant of the lands or not and if he was the protected tenant to what share in the compensation amount he would be entitled to.
aggrieved by the aforesaid award the appellant claiming as one of the owners of the property filed a statutory appeal to the high court.
in the meantime abdul khader filed an application on or about 21st of october1984 for adducing additional evidence to mark kaulnama dated 2nd of december1950 for the first time and oubuliatnama dated 2nd december1950 as exhibits in deciding the protected tenancy rights.
appointed advocate commissioner to record additional evidence.
on or about 22nd of april1985.
after giving our due consideration to the question we are of the view that the high court should determine this question.
it was observed that the high court was at liberty to consider the claims to be made by both the parties and pass any fresh order with regard to the disbursement of the remaining 60 of the compensation.
in the judgment under appeal which is directed against the award made by the arbitrator formulated the following four issues  1 what is the value of the land 2 who are entitled to the compensation amount 3 whether abdul khader is a protected tenant of sail gulshan of the area 19 02 guntas excluding the land of buildings wells etc and 4 what share is to be apportioned to successors of sail nawaz jung.
it has to be borne in mind that in the award the arbitrator after exhaustively discussing the evidence on record held that abdul khader was a protected tenant and as such further held that he was entitled to 60 of the compensation money payable for the acquisition of the land excluding the land of buildings wells etc.
a i r 1985 s c 1576 1985 indlaw sc 246 on the question of solarium and interest on the amount awarded.
kowlnama executed in favour of shaik hussain was not filed.
abdul khader on december 31950 was filed and was marked as exhibit c 1 the document recited permitted to utilise garden fruits flowers and mango.
fruits.
in this background the court addressed itself to the question whether abdul khader was a protected tenant or not entitled to 60 of the compensation.
no document was filed to show that abdul khader was declared by the revenue courts as a protected tenant.
if he was a tenant the high court observed he was a protected tenant under s 34 read with s 37 or under section 37 a of the andhra pradesh act.
a that abdul khader because he was a tenant between january1942 to january1948 for six years therefore was a protected tenant under sub cl ii of cl 1 of s 34 of the andhra pradesh act b that abdul khader held the land from october1943 to october1949therefore was a protected tenant of sail gulshan under sub cl iii of cl 1 of s 34 of act 21 of 1950 in these circumstances the high court held that adbul khader was entitled to 60 of the compensation paid.
aggrieved by the aforesaid decision the appellants being the successor of the owner of the land in question is in appeal before us.
he had sought to establish his rights which must be found within the four corners of the andhra pradesh act along with other documents because u s 404 of the andhra pradesh act the interest of a protected tenant in the land held by him as a protected tenant formed 60 the rights of the protected tenants have been defined in the andhra pradesh act and relevant provisions of that act namely sections 343737a and 40 in conjunction with the definition under s 2r have to be taken into consideration in the background of the facts and circumstances of the case.
on behalf of the appellant it was submitted that there was a complete bar for any civil court to go into the question whether abdul khader was a protected tenant and as such the arbitrator and the high court had no jurisdiction to decide this question.
according to the appellant inasmuch as whether abdul khader was a protected tenant had not to be settled by the collector or the tribunal the arbitrator and the high court were in error in going to that question.
by the scheme of the central act compensation was payable to persons who had interest in the land acquired.
determination by the revenue authorities and non determination is not conclusive or decisive.
in the background of the totality of circumstances as manifest in the different orders it appeared to the arbitrator and the court that the entry which was made in favour of abdul khader as the protected tenant was of doubtful validity.
furthermore under s 99 of the andhra pradesh act the bar was not against the arbitrator but against a civil court.
in determining the amount of compensation payable to abdul khader under the central act his interests in the property had to be determined.
in another context the high court of andhra pradesh enunciated the position that it was necessary to determine the interest of the persons claiming compensation.
he has a right to object to the acquisition andor the quantum of compensation.
let it be.
in the aforesaid view of the matter this appeal must fail and is accordingly dismissed with costs.
