meanwhile the mahatama gandhi university by their letter dated 31 5 1995 forwarded to the government a list of colleges and courses for affiliation during the academic year 1995 96 the appellant s college was shown as one of the colleges among the affiliated colleges for the said period.
sri t l vishwanatha.
iyer contended that the division bench erred in reversing the well considered judgment of the learned single judge and according to him after the coming into force of the aicte act1987the statutes conferring power on the state or university to the extent they were inconsistent with the central act were void.
it might be that under the relevant statutes of the university the university was required to obtain the views of the state government but that did not amount to requiring any approval of the state government and indeed if any such statute required the approval of the state government it would be void in view of what was stated by this court in state of tamil nadu.
sri t l viswanatha iyer also contended that though the state government stated in its counter affidavit filed in the high court that the policy of the government was not to grant approval to self financing engineering colleges to be established such a policy could not come in the way of the appellant in view of what this court has stated in similar circumstances in thirumuruga kirupan variyar thavathiru sundara swamigal medical education charitable trust v state of tamil nadu others1996 3 scc 15 1996 indlaw sc 858.
on the other hand learned additional solicitor general sri mukul rohtagi contended on behalf of the state of kerala that the policy of the state of kerala at the relevant time was not to grant approval for establish ment of more engineering colleges in the state.
also there were four engineering colleges at kannur trichur kottayam and thiruvananthapuram districts and three private aided engineering colleges at palakkad ernakulam kothamangalam and kollam districts.
even though the appellant trust was not seeking aid from the government and even assuming that it was financially self sufficient it would not be in the interests of the students employment to permit new engineering colleges to be established.
2 whether the orders of rejection passed by the state government were valid on merits and whether the university should have granted further orders to continue the affiliation solely on the basis of the aicte permission.
point 1.
for the purposes of performing its functions under the act the council may a undertake survey in various fields of technical education collect data on all related matters and make forecast of the needed growth and development in technical education b coordinate the development of technical education in the country at all levels c allocate and disburse out of the fund of the council such grants on such terms and conditions as it may think fit to i technical institutions and ii universities imparting technical education in coordination with the commission d promote innovations research and development in established and new technologies generation adoption and adaptation of new technologies to meet developmental requirements and for overall improve ment of educational processes e formulate schemes for promoting technical education for women handicapped and weaker sections of the society f promote an effective link between technical education system and other relevant systems including research and development organisations industry and the community g evolve suitable performance appraisal systems for technical institutions and universities imparting technical education incorpo rating norms and mechanisms for enforcing accountability h formulate schemes for the initial and in service training of teachers and identify institutions or centres and set up new centres for offering staff development programmes including continuing education of teachers i lay down norms and standards for courses curricula physical and instructional facilities staff pattern staff qualifications quality instructions assessment and examinations j fix norms and guidelines for charging tuition and other fees.
cl s to declare technical institutions as fit to receive grants cl t to advice for declaring institutions to be deemed as universities cl u to set up a national board of accreditation.
regulation 2 states that these regulations will be applicable to proposals relating to a grant of approval of the council for establishment of new technical institutions including universities or university depart ments and deemed universities and for technical institutions function ing on the date of commencement of these regulations at degree and diploma levels b grant of approval of the council for introduction of any course or programme in the technical institutions and technical departments or universities or deemed universities c grant of approval of the council for existing intake capacity of seats and for increase in the annual intake capacity of seats in courses and programmes.
regulation 4 deals with the requirement of grant of approval and for the commencement of these regulations a b no course or programme shall be introduced in any technical institutions university or deemed university or university departments or college or c no technical institutions universities or deemed universities or university departments or colleges shall continue to admit students for degree or diploma courses or programmes.
d no approved intake capacity of seats shall be increased or varied except with the approval of the council.
regulation 8 deals with scrutiny of applications.
sub cl 4 of regulation 8 reads as follows.
reg 84.
i the state government concerned ii the affiliating university state board of technical education iii bureaus mpcd iv bureau bos v bureau ra vi the regional office.
on the recommendation of the central task force the council shall decide the question of grant of approval as sought for in the application.
provided that the council may for reasons to be communicated to the applicant allow the approval with such restrictions or modifications as it may deem necessary.
as stated earlier the above provisions of the aicte act came up for consideration in state of tamil nadu v adhiyaman educational research institute1995 4 scc 104 1995 indlaw sc 1631.
in the above matter the state of tamil nadu granted permission on 17 4 84 to all private managements to start private engineering colleges without financial commitment to government but subject to conditions.
at that time in 1984the aicte act was not on the statute book.
i of the constitution of india relating to coordination and determination of standards in institutions for higher education or research and scientific and technical institutions.
after the constitutional amendment 42 amendment act1976 entry 25 of list iii in the concurrent list.
read education included technical education medical institution and universities subject to the provisions of entries 636465 and 66 of list i vocational and technical training of labour.
if there was any such existing law immediately before the commencement of the constitution within the meaning of art 372 of the constitution as the madras university act 1923 on the enactment of the present central act the provisions of the said law if repugnant to the provisions of the central act would stand impliedly repealed to the extent of repugnancy.
granting approval for starting new technical institution.
it is not the university act and the university but it is the central act and the council created under it which will have the jurisdiction.
all that was necessary was that under the regulations the aicte council had to consult them.
statutory powers of the state of kerala and the m g university.
learned additional solicitor general stated before us that there was no statute in the state of kerala corresponding to the tamil nadu act of 1976 nor any other law which specifically required the approval of the state government.
it was however contended that the tamil nadu case was concerned only with the standards of education and as to who could fix them.
it reads as follows grant of affiliation 1.
if indeed the university statute could be so inter preted such a provision requiring approval of the state government would be repugnant to the provisions of s 10k of the aicte act1987 and would again be void.
point 1 is decided accordingly.
point 2.
factual position and pleadings in this case.
on facts the position was that the aicte had granted approval on 30 4 95 expressly stating that this was on consideration of the observations made by the expert committee and the recommendations made by the central regional committee state level committee central task force as per the provisions of aicte regulations dated 31 10 94.
i to the order and the general conditions were enlisted in annexure ii the.
state government was directed by the aicte to announce admission in accordance with regulation notified on 20 5 94 and based on the judgment of the supreme court in unnikrishnan v state of andhra pradesh1993 1 scc.
645 1993 indlaw sc 1168 the mahatma gandhi university had included this appellant in the list of colleges and courses which were granted affiliation during 1995 96 and the university had written to the state government on 31 5 95 that as per statute 97the views of the government were to be sent before granting affili ation.
no reasons were assigned in the said letter.
it was stated he could not ascertain the infrastructural facilities provided by the appellant as per the norms prescribed by the all india council of technical education.
para 4 of the counter affidavit had further stated that the government was not in a position to take a decision to start new engineering college without properly assessing the necessity of more engineering gradu ates in the state and exploring the possibility of employment oppor tunity in the country to the extent possible.
it also observed that there was widespread student prospects against starting new colleges and it was necessary to be cautious in the matter of starting new engineering colleges.
state government s refusal to grant permission is illegal and void on merits.
as already stated in view of the judgment of this court in tamil nadu case it is obvious that there is no need to approach the state of kerala for its approval for starting the engineering colleges.
the aicte s approval dated 30 4 95 showed that the approval had been given by the state level com mittee of which they were obviously members.
it is therefore not under standable how the director had given a contrary opinion to the state government.
regulation 84 of aicte only required calling for the com ments recommendations of the state government and of the university.
in case there was difference between the state government university or the regional committee the central task force was to make a final recommen dation under regulation.
if the state government had any other valid objections its only remedy was to place its objections before the aicte council under the aicte act or before the committees e g state level committee etc.
in thirwnuruga kirupan and variyar thavathiru sundara swamigal medical education charitable trust v state of tamil nadu others1996 3 scc 15 1996 indlaw sc 858which was a case relating to medical education and which also related to the effect of a central law upon a law made by the state under entry 25 list iii it was held that the essentiality certificate can not be withheld by the state government on any policy consideration because the policy in the matter of establishment of a new medical college now vests with the central government alone.
decision of university in not granting further or fined affiliation wrong on merits.
admittedly the university s inspection report was in favour of the appellant.
obtaining the views of the state government as already stated did not amount to obtaining its approval.
appeal allowed.
