and she was married to appellant No 1.
according to the case of prosecution a sum of rs 5000 and some gold ornaments had been given at the time of marriage of bhimabai.
for about six months bhimabai was treated well but thereafter the accused started asking her to bring rs 1000 1200 from her parents to meet the household expenses and also for purchasing manure.
her father pw 1 tukaram along with some of his relatives went to the house of the accused and tried to persuade them not to ill treat bhimabai.
pw 1 then immediately went to the house of the accused along with some of his relatives.
pw 1 tukaram lodged the fir of the incident at 7 00 p m on 16 september 1991 at p s chikalthana on the basis of which case crime No 144 of 1991 was registered against the appellants under sections 498 a 306 and 304 b ipc.
it is therefore necessary to briefly examine the evidence of the prosecution witnesses.
1 tukaram father of the deceased has given details of the prosecution version of the incident in his statement in court.
he then went to village palshi along with other persons of his family where he reached after sun set.
he saw that bhimabai was lying dead and froth was coming out of her mouth which was smelling of thimet insecticide.
pw 2 babaji is real brother of father in law of pw 1 tukaram.
in his cross examination he has admitted that when he had gone to village palshi to talk with the appellants regarding the ill treatment being meted out to bhimabai there was no talk regarding monetary giving and taking.
he also admitted that he had not gone to attend that funeral of bhimabai.
pw 5 sumanbai is the mother of the deceased bhimabai.
in her cross examination pw 5 sumanbai has stated that after news about the condition of bhimabai was given by a man from village palshi she along with her husband and some other relations went there and noticed that bhimabai was lying dead in the house and froth was coming out of her mouth.
she has further stated that she did not make any enquiry as to how bhimabai had died.
in her statement under section 161 cr.
p c which was recorded very next day of the incident i e on 16 september 1991 she did not state that cause of ill treatment was a demand for money and a consequent beating.
she further stated that it will be correct to say that her daughter was receiving ill treatment as a result of domestic cause.
i can not assign any reason why police did not write about it in my statement.
in his cross examination he admitted that he did not make detailed enquiries as to what was the cause of death and where the incident had taken place.
he has further deposed that bhimabai had come to his house about six months earlier and had said all was not well between her and her husband but she had not given any specific details.
in his examination in chief pw 1 has said that whenever his daughter came to her parental home she used to complain that she was being subjected to harassment by the appellants on account of some domestic reasons and further that her husband appellant no 1 had told her that while coming back from her parental home she should bring rs 1000 1200 for expenses and for manure as he had no sufficient money.
pw 5 sumanbai has deposed that bhimabai was receiving ill treatment as a result of domestic cause and to a specific question put by the court as to what she meant by domestic cause she gave a reply that there was a demand for money for defraying expenses of manure etc.
it is important to note that in her statement under section 161 cr.
accepting the statements of father and mother on their face value that utmost which can be held is that the appellant no 1 had asked his wife bhimabai to bring money for meeting domestic expenses and for purchasing manure.
in view of the aforesaid definition of the word dowry any property or valuable security should be given or agreed to be given either directly or indirectly at or before or any time after the marriage and in connection with the marriage of the said parties.
being a penal provision it has to be strictly construed.
dowry is a fairly well known social custom or practice in india.
see union of india v garware nylons ltd air 1996.
sc 3509 1996 indlaw sc 2404 and chemicals and fibres of india v union of india air 1997.
sc 558 1991 indlaw sc 861.
a demand for money on account of some financial stringency or for meeting some urgent domestic expenses of for purchasing manure can not be termed as a demand for dowry as the said word is normally understood.
learned counsel for the appellants has also submitted that there is absolutely no evidence either direct or circumstantial to show that bhimabai committed suicide.
he has submitted that the insecticide thimet is extensively used by the farmers for preservation of crop and is kept stored in their houses and it could be a case where thimet accidentally got mixed with some food item and was consumed by bhaimabai.
it has thus been submitted that no offence under section 306 ipc is made out against the appellants.
as already stated the appellants were also charged under sections 498 a and 306 read with section 34 ipc but were acquitted of the said charges by the learned sessions judge which order has attained finality for the reason that the state did not prefer appeal against the same.
it has been held in state of andhra pradesh v thadi narayan air 1962.
in view of the discussion made above the appeal is allowed.
the appellant no 1 is in custody.
he shall be released forthwith unless wanted in some other case.
the appellant No 2 is on bail.
appeal allowed.
