for the sake of convenience we refer to the facts mentioned in civil appeal no of 2008 arising out of s l p c no 15729 of 2008 filed by j mitra co pvt ltd.
3 appellant herein filed its application for grant of patent.
after scrutiny the said application stood notified by the patent office on 20 11 2004.
1 at any time within four months from the date of advertisement of the acceptance of a complete specification under this act or within such further period not exceeding one month in the aggregate as the controller may allow on application made to him in the prescribed manner before the expiry of the four months aforesaid any person interested may give notice to the controller of opposition to the grant of the patent on any of the following grounds namely a that the applicant for the patent or the person under or through whom he claims wrongfully obtained the invention or any part thereof from him or from a person under or through whom he claims b that the invention so far as claimed in any claim of the complete specification has been published before the priority date of the claim i in any specification filed in pursuance of an application for a patent made in india on or after the 1st day of january1912 or ii in india or elsewhere in any other document provided that the ground specified in sub cl ii shall not be available where such publication does not constitute an anticipation of the invention by virtue of sub s 2 or sub s 3 of section 29 that the invention so far as claimed in any claim of the complete specification is claimed in a claim of a complete specification published on or after the priority date of the applicant s claim and filed in pursuance of an application for a patent in india being a claim of which the priority date is earlier than that of the applicant s claim a that the invention so far as claimed in any claim of the complete specification was publicly known or publicly used in india before the priority date of that claim.
but on no other ground.
2 where any such notice of opposition is duly given the controller shall notify the applicant and shall give to the applicant and the opponent an opportunity to be heard before deciding the case.
2 save as otherwise expressly provided in sub section 1an appeal shall lie to a high court from any decision order or direction of the controller under any of the following provisions that is to say section 15section 16section17section 18section.
20section 25section.
27section 28section.
51section 54section 57section.
60section 61section 63sub s 3 of section 69section 78section 84section 86s 883section 89section 93s 96 and s 97.
every appeal under this section shall be in writing and shall be made within three months from the date of the decision order or direction as the case may be of the controller or within such further time as the high court may in accordance with the rules made by it u s 158 allow.
emphasis supplied by us.
act2002 was promulgated on 25 6 2002 however it was not brought into force immediately.
2 a person shall not be qualified for appointment as a technical member for the purposes of this act unless he.
a has at least five years hold the post of controller under this act or has exercised the functions of the controller under this act for at least five years or.
b has for at least ten years functioned as a registered patent agent and possesses a degree in engineering or technology or a masters degree in science from any university established under law for the time being in force or equivalent or c has for at least ten years been an advocate of a proven specialized experience in practicing law relating to patents and designs.
16section 17section.
18section.
51section 54section 57section 60section 61section 63section.
66sub s 3 of section 69section.
78sub ss 1 to 5 of section 84section 85section 88section 91s 92 and s 94.
every appeal under this section shall be in prescribed form and shall be verified in such manner as may be prescribed and shall be accompanied by a copy of the decision order or direction appealed against any by such fees as may be prescribed.
the legislature enacted the patents amendment act2005 even here not all provisions were simultaneously brought into force.
act2005the then existing s 25 was substituted.
d that the invention so far as claimed in any claim of the complete specification was publicly known or publicly used in india before the priority date of that claim.
at any time after the grant of patent but before the expiry of a period of one year from the date of publication of grant of a patent any person interested may give notice of opposition to the controller in the prescribed manner on any of the following grounds namely a that the patentee or the person under or through whom he claims wrongfully obtained the invention or any part thereof from him or from a person under or through whom he claims b that the invention so far as claimed in any claim of the complete specification has been published before the priority date of the claim c that the invention so far as claimed in any claim of the complete specification is claimed in a claim of a complete specification published on or after the priority date of the claim of the patentee and filed in pursuance of an application for a patent in india being a claim of which the priority date is earlier than that of the claim of the patentee explanation  for the purposes of this clause an invention relating to a process for which a patent is granted shall be deemed to have been publicly known or publicly used in india before the priority date of the claim if a product made by that process had already been imported into india before that date except where such importation has been for the purpose of reasonable trial or experiment only.
e that the invention so far as claimed in any claim of the complete specification is obvious and clearly does not involve any inventive step having regard to the matter published as mentioned in cl b or having regard to what was used in india before the priority date of the claim h that the patentee has failed to disclose to the controller the information required by s 8 or has furnished the information which in any material particular was false to his knowledge i that in the case of a patent granted on convention application the application for patent was not made within twelve months from the date of the first application for protection for the invention made in a convention country or in india by the patentee or a person from whom he derives title j that the complete specification does not disclose or wrongly mentions the source and geographical origin of biological material used for the invention k that the invention so far as claimed in any claim of the complete specification was anticipated.
having regard to the knowledge oral or otherwise available within any local or indigenous community in india or elsewhere but on no other ground.
c every opposition board constituted under cl b shall conduct the examination in accordance with such procedure as may be prescribed.
2the controller shall not take into account any personal document or secret trial or secret use.
here also s 25 of the patents act1970 as amended by patents amendment act2005.
as stated vide patents amendment.
amendment act2002 and the patents amendment.
act2005 as the amended ss 116 and 117a were brought into force only vide notification dated 2 4 07 one more point needs to be noted.
according to the appellant with the change in s 25 brought about by patents amendment act2005a dichotomy was introduced in the patents act1970 according to the appellant that dichotomy was between pre grant opposition and post grant opposition.
according to the appellant this was a structural change in the principal act.
according to the appellant on 23 8 06 the controller rejected its pre grant opposition and on that day post grant opposition avenue was open to respondent no 3 vide s 252 according to the appellant under the amended s 25 on rejection of pre grant opposition it was open to respondent.
further according to the appellantpre grant opposition was filed by respondent no 3 under s 251 on 21 3 05 according to the appellant though the patents amendment act2005amended s 25 by enacting the amendment on 4 4 05 the said amendment was brought into force w e f 1 1 2005 and therefore it was open to respondent no 3 to challenge the grant of patent by invoking s 252 of the patents act1970 according to the appellant with the change in the structure of the act providing for only one statutory appeal and that too only against the order granting patent under s 254the appeal filed by respondent no 3 against pre grant opposition order was not maintainable on 19 10 06 by which time as stated above s 25 stood restructured providing for a dichotomy between pre grant opposition and post grant opposition.
and lastly it was argued on behalf respondent no 3 that the appellant had filed its application for grant of patent on 14 6 2000it was notified on 20 11 04however respondent no 3 had filed its pre grant opposition under s 251 on 21 3 05 when the patents amendment act2005 was not promulgated it was promulgated on 4 4 05 and therefore according to respondent no 3 its pre grant opposition filed on 21 3 05 was valid and proper as respondent no 3 could not have invoked s 252 proceedings on that day namely21 3 05 as the law stood enacted bringing in s 252 only on 4 4 05 in the peculiar circumstances of this case it was urged on behalf of respondent no 3 that no interference is called for by this court in this batch of civil appeals.
as stated above quite often the commencement of an act is postponed to some specific future date or to such date as the appropriate government may by notification in the official gazette appoint.
at times provision is made for appointment of different dates for coming into force of different parts of the same act.
an act can not be said to commence or to be in force unless it is brought into operation by legislative enactment or by the exercise of authority by a delegate empowered to bring it into operation.
by reason of patents amendment act2005the kind of opposition available under the said 1970 act is different from what existed earlier.
act2005is that even after a patent is grantedpost grant opposition can be filed under s 25 2 for a period of one year.
however it was left to the executive to bring the enacted law into force vide notification.
amendment act1999 against orders passed by the controller in pre grant opposition proceedings.
accordingly the two civil appeals filed by the appellant herein stand disposed of with no order as to costs.
appeal disposed of.
