leave granted.
after conducting its second and final meeting on 10th.
in its meeting dated 10 10 2007 the committee recommended that a detailed project report dpr be prepared by the rajkiya nirman nigam and that acquisition of lands for shifting of the prisons be done on a priority basis.
being aggrieved by the aforesaid notifications the appellants moved a writ petition before the high court u art 226 of the constitution of india.
before this court the appellants broadly raised the following arguments 1 whether or not the state government was justified in acquiring the said pieces of fertile agricultural land when there were alternative sites of unfertile banjar land available.
2 whether or not the state government was justified in dispensing with the inquiry which is mandated to be conducted under section 5a of the act especially when one year elapsed between the notifications u s 4 and the one u s 6 they further stated that the high court had erred insofar as it upheld the factum of urgency in the absence of a categorical finding an enquiry under section 5a would have been detrimental to public interest.
committee was formed matter was discussed at a leisurely pace at various levels and there is no material fact to justify the abridgement of the appellants right of raising an objection to acquisition and of a hearing under section 5a of the act.
in connection with land acquisition proceeding whenever the provision of s 17 and its various sub sections including s 174 is used in the name of taking urgent or emergent action and the right of hearing of the land holder under section 5a is dispensed with the court is called upon to consider a few fundamentals in the exercise of such powers.
any attempt by the state to acquire land by promoting a public purpose to benefit a particular group of people or to serve any particular interest at the cost of the interest of a large section of people especially of the common people defeats the very concept of public purpose.
even though the concept of public purpose was introduced by pre constitutional legislation its application must be consistent with the constitutional ethos and especially the chapter under fundamental rights and also the directive principles.
in construing the concept of public purpose the mandate of art 13 of the constitution that any pre constitutional law can not in any way take away or abridge rights conferred under part iii must be kept in mind.
if public purpose can be satisfied by not rendering common man homeless and by exploring other avenues of acquisition the courts before sanctioning an acquisition must in exercise of its power of judicial review focus its attention on the concept of social and economic justice.
in this context we reiterate the principle laid down by this court in authorised officer thanjavur and another vs s naganatha.
ayyar and others reported in 1979 3 scc 466 1979 indlaw sc 224wherein this court held it is true that judges are constitutional invigilators and statutory interpreters but they are also responsive and responsible to part iv of the constitution being one of the trinity of the nation s appointed instrumentalities in the transformation of the socio economic order.
in other words public purpose must be viewed through the prism of constitutional values as stated above.
8 scc 705 2007 indlaw sc 554wherein this court construed the status of a person s right to property after deletion of art 191f from part iii by referring to various international covenants namely the declaration of human and civil rights this court held that even though right to property has ceased to be a fundamental right but it would however be given an express recognition as a legal right and also as a human right.
in challenging the said acquisition it was argued that the person whose property is going to be taken away should be allowed a hearing on the principles of natural justice.
however the judges found that there was no such provision in the act.
in order to remedy this shortcoming in the act of 1894an amendment by way of incorporation of section 5a was introduced on 11th july1923 the statement of objects and reasons for the said amendment is as follows the land acquisition act i of 1894 does not provide that persons having an interest in land which it is proposed to acquire shall have the right of objecting to such acquisition nor is government bound to enquire into and consider any objections that may reach them.
as early as in 1964this court in nandeshwar prasad and ors vs u p government and ors.
air 1964 sc 1217 1963 indlaw sc 141 speaking through justice k n wanchoo as his lordship then was.
in a recent judgment of this court in essco fabs 2008 indlaw sc 2494 supra2009 2 scc 377this court after considering previous judgments as also the provisions of s 17 of the act held whereas sub s 1 of s 17 deals with cases of urgencysub s 2 of the said section covers cases of sudden change in the channel of any navigable river or other unforeseen emergency.
but even in such cases i e cases of urgency or unforeseen emergencyenquiry contemplated by section 5 a can not ipso facto be dispensed with which is clear from sub s 4 of s 17 of the act.
acceptance of such contention or upholding of this argument will make sub s 4 of s 17 totally otiose redundant and nugatory.
from the various facts disclosed in the said affidavit it appears that the matter was initiated by the government s letter dated 4th of june2008 for issuance of s 41 and s 17 notifications.
a meeting for selection of the suitable site for construction was held on 27th june2008and the proposal for such acquisition and construction was sent to the director land acquisition on 2nd of july2008 this was in turn forwarded to the state government by the director on 22nd of july2008 after due consideration of the forwarded proposal and documents the state government issued the s 4 notification along with s 17 notification on 21st of august2008 these notifications were published in local newspapers on 24th of september2008.
for the reasons aforesaid we hold that the state government was not justified in the facts of this case to invoke the emergency provision of s 174 of the act.
appeals allowed.
