The Desai award dealt with the method of adjustment in the scales of pay fixed by it from para 5329 onwards.
The second group 900 consisted of workmen who on January 1 1962 were employed in banks which were not governed by the provisions of the Sastry award as modified and were not thus drawing basic pay on the footing of scales of pay provided by that award.
In the first case the Desai award provided that the workmen would be fitted in the new scales of pay from January 1 1962 on stage to stage adjustment basis ie workmen who were drawing basic pay at a particular stage in the time scale of the Sastry award as modified would draw basic pay at the same stage in the new scale applicable to them under the Desai award.
5348 of the Desai award.
5348.
In the present appeals we are concerned with workmen who entered service before January 1 1959 and the fitment of these workmen was dealt with in para.
5356 of the Desai award and it is this paragraph which calls for interpretation in the present appeals.
We may at this stage mention that a similar question of fit ment was considered by the Sastry award in para.
This paragraph was considered by the Labour Appellate Tribunal in appeal from the Sastry award and certain modifications were made thereunder by paras 164 and 166 of the Labour Appellate Tribunal decision in appeal.
Paragraph 292 as modified by the Labour Appellate Tribunal decision came up for interpretation before this Court in State Bank of India vs Prakash Chand Mehra.
1 As the words of para 292 of the Sastry award as modified by the Labour Appellate Decision are almost the same as the words of para.
5356 of the Desai award we may set out the two paragraphs in parallel columns for comparison Sastry award as modified by the Labour Appellate decision For workmen who enterd service of the bank before 31st January 1950 1.
3In the matter of adjustment all efficiency bars whether in the previously existing or in the scales fixed by us should be ignored.
b To the basic pay into which he is fitted under cl.
901 ii Subject to rule i the adjusted basic pay in the scale provided in the Sastry award as modified shall not exceed what point to point adjustment would give him or the maximum in the scale provided by the Sastry award as modified.
ivSubject to rules i to iii a workman s basic pay in the scale provided by the Sastry award as modified shall be fixed in the following manner aA workman shall first be fitted into the scale of pay of Sastry award as modified by placing him at the stage in the Sastry award scale as modified equal to or next above his basic pay as on 1st January 1959 in the scale then in force in the bank concerned hereinafter called the Bank s scale.
bTo the basic pay into which he is fitted under clause a annual increment or increment in scale provided by the Sastry award as modified as from that stage onwards should be added at the rate of one increment for every completed three years of his service in the same cadre as on 1st January 1959.
It will be seen from the above comparison of the provisions in the two awards that the substantial provisions of the Desai award are exactly the same as the provisions of the Sastry award as modified except i for changes necessitated by the fact that the Desai award was being given in 1962 and ii the provision in the Sastry award corresponding to sub cl.
d of cl.
ii of the Desai award the adjusted basic pay in the new scale was not to exceed what point to point adjustment would give an employee on January 1 1962.
d of cl.
d of cl.
d of cl.
CA 1008 allowed.
