Jai Gopal Sethi Naunit Lal with him for the appellant.
February 28.
The appellant was a Sub Divisional Officer in the Public Works Department Pepsu and was at the material dates in charge of certain works at a place called Karhali.
It was part of his duties to disburse the wages to the workmen employed in the works and the procedure usually followed was that be drew the amount required from the treasury and paid the same to the emplo yees against their signatures or thumb impressions in the monthly acquittance roll.
He held on the evidence that there was a khalasi Parma by name in the service of the accused at Kehrauli and that though the thumbimpression in the acquittance roll was that of the appellant the prosecution had not established that the amount drawn by him did not reach the hands of Parma.
In support of  the appeal it is argued by Mr Jai Gopal Sethi that the conviction of the appellant is illegal as sanction had not been obtained under section 197 1 of the Code of Criminal Procedure for his prosecution that the evidence on record is insufficient to establish an offence either under section 465 or section 409 of the Indian Penal Code and that there having been an acquittal of the appellant by the trial Magistrate the materials on record did not justify a reversal of that verdict by the appellate Court.
The facts bearing on this question are that there was an application by the Department for sanction to prosecute the appellant for an offence under section 409 and that the Chief Secretary Home Department sent the communication Exhibft PX stating that he had been directed to convey sanction of the Government to his prosecution.
The point for decision is whether sanction under section 197 1 of the Code of Criminal Procedure is necessary for prosecuting the appellant under section 409.
3 1948 LR 75 IA 41.
1310 of which he was charged  ie acts of fraudulently misapplying money entrusted to his care as a public servant as acts done by him by virtue of the office that he held  .
But if they are unconnected with such duties then no sanction is necessary.
The conviction should therefore be quashed.
Appeal allowed.
