Under Article 32 of the Constitution of India for a Writ in the nature of Habeas Corpus.
This rule was issued on a petition filed under article 32 of the Constitution by one Purshottam Govindji Halai a citizen of India calling upon the respondents to show cause why a writ in the nature of a writ of habeas corpus should not be issued by this Court directing the Superintendent House of Correction Byculla being the second respondent herein to produce before this Court one Govindji Deoji Halai the father of the petitioner who is also a citizen of India for the purpose of being released forthwith.
The facts which are not in dispute may be shortly stated as follows.
Two private limited companies namely Indestro India Ltd and Indestro Eastern Ltd also carry on business and have their respective offices in the same premises.
The assessee is said to have some connection with the two companies the nature of which however is not quite clear on the record before us.
The assessee not having paid up the assessed amount of tax the Income tax Officer on the 10th April 1951 issued to the  Additional Collector of Bombay the first respondent herein a recovery certificate under section 462 of the Income tax Act.
On the 1st February 1954 the Additional Collector issued a notice of demand on the assessee for payment of the assessed amount of tax.
No payment 891 having been made the Additional Collector attached the goodwill and tenancy rights in the said premises by a warrant of attachment issued on the 24th March 1954.
The sale proclamation was issued on the 15th January 1955.
The sale proceeds not being sufficient to satisfy the assessed tax the Additional Collector on the 7th June 1955 issued a notice under section 13 of the Bombay City Land Revenue Act 1876 requiring the assessee to appear before him in person on the 16th June 1955 and show cause why he the assessee should not be apprehended and confined to civil jail in satisfaction of the said certified demand.
The assessee did not appear in person on the appointed day but on the next day the 17th June 1955 an Advocate acting on behalf of the assessee wrote a letter to the Additional Collector purporting to show cause why the assessee should not be arrested and sent to the civil jail.
The contentions put forward on behalf of the assessee not being considered satisfactory the Additional Collector on the 30th June 1955 issued a warrant for the arrest of the assessee under section 13 of the Bombay City Land Revenue Act 1876.
The assessee was actually arrested on the 1st July 1955.
On the 8th July 1955 an application was made by the present petitioner to the Bombay High Court under article 226 complaining of the arrest of his father the assessee and praying for a writ in the nature of a writ of habeas corpus for the production and release of the assessee.
No application was made to the High Court for leave to appeal to this Court from the decision of that High Court but on the 2nd September 1955 the present petition was filed in this Court under article 32 of the Constitution for the relief hereinbefore mentioned.
On the 7th September 1955 a rule was issued by this Court on that petition subject to the question of its maintainability in view of the dismissal by the 113 892 High Court of the petition under article 226 from which no leave to appeal to this Court had been sought or obtained.
The rule has now come up before us for hearing.
In the view we have taken about the merits of the petition it is not necessary for us to consider the question of its maintainability after the dismissal of the petition under article 226 or to make any pronouncement on this occasion on the scope and ambit of article 32 of the Constitution in that situation.
The principal contentions urged by the learned Advocate appearing for the petitioner are as follows namely a that section 462 of the Indian Income tax Act under which the Income tax Officer issued the recovery certificate to the Additional Collector of Bombay is void under article 131 of the Constitution in that the same offends article 221 and 2 article 21 and article 14 of the Constitution b that section 13 of the Bombay City Land Revenue Act 1876 under which the warrant of arrest was issued by the Additional Collector is void under article 13 1 of the Constitution as the same is repugnant to article 14 of the Constitution.
We proceed to deal with the objections seriatim.
a Section 462 of the Indian Income tax Act which is impugned before us runs as follows 46.
It is pointed out that the first part of section 462 provides that the Collector on receipt of a certificate from the Income tax Officer shall proceed to recover from the defaulting assessee the amount specified therein as if it were an arrear of land revenue.
Their needs as understood by their own Legislature are different from those of the people of other States.
