This appeal by special leave has been preferred by Tata Consultancy Engineers against an award dated 20th December 1978 of the Industrial Tribunal Maharashtra Bombay revising the wage scales of certain categories of employees and granting various other benefits.
It functions as a consulting organisation and a service industry and does not manufacture any product or carry on trade.
They served a Charter of Demands in July 1974 on the appellant and as their demands were not accepted and conciliation proceedings proved fruitless the State Government made a reference of the dispute under section 101 d Industrial Tribunal Maharashtra for adjudication.
170 The Union filed a statement before the Tribunal claiming an upward revision of the wage scales and dearness allowance and an increase from fifteen years to twenty years in the span for earning annual increments.
The dearness allowance it was claimed should be granted on a slab system.
The claim of the Union was resisted by the appellant who maintained that the existing wage scales were fair and reasonable on a region cum industry basis and that it would not be possible for the appellant to bear the additional financial burden if the demands of the Union were accepted.
Reference was made to the political uncertainty in Iran which had placed an appreciable part of the appellant s business in jeopardy and to various other factors peculiar to an engineering consultancy business beyond the appellant s control.
There was no separate dearness allowance until January 1977 when it was introduced for the first time.
Nothing those facts the Tribunal observed that compared with the increased paying capacity of the appellant an inference drawn from the prosperity enjoyed by the appellant over the years there was definite need for revising the wage scales.
In proceeding to revise the wage structure the Tribunal took into account the two principles involved in the process the financial capacity of the industry to bear the burden of an increased wage bill and the prevailing wage structure on an industry cum region basis.
Wage scale statements were filed by the parties before the Tribunal pertaining to several engineering consultancy organisations but in the absence of pertinent information concerning the strength of their labour force the extent of their business the financial position for some years the capital invested the precise nature of the business the position regarding reserves dividends declared and future prospects of the company the Tribunal found that it was unable to rely on them as comparable concerns.
Holding it impossible in the circumstances to apply the principle of industry cum region basis the Tribunal turned to a consideration of the financial capacity of the company to bear an additional burden.
But it rejected the demand of the Union for dearness allowance on the basis of a slab system because that would have imposed an unacceptable burden on the appellant s financial capacity and there was no reason why the existing scheme of dearness allowance should be disturbed when a substantial increase was being made in the level of the basic wage.
The Tribunal also noted that after the salaries of the employees had been fixed in the respective scales senior employees would have to be given some more increments in the new scales according to their completed years of service.
The Tribunal maintained the existing schemes of dearness allowance and house rent allowance and observed that in view of the revised basic wages there would be a resultant increase in the dearness allowance and house rent allowance.
The fitment has also to be done only after the flat increase is added to the present basic salary of each employee.
The fitment has also to be done only after the flat increase is added to the present basic salary of each employee.
ii Employees who have completed 4 years of service as on 1st January 1976 2 increments.
