1073 1100 1117 19 1229 95 142 1554 1746 2140 2155 2271 2396 2459.
1198 1217 1302 12 1314 15 1566 1641 1140 70 2360 95 1643 17252272 232921522332233924913486 89 2498 2521 2522 533 742611 2638 and 2531 of 1983.
LN Sinha Attorney General Anil B DivanB Parthasarthi and KR Chaudhary for the Respondents.
GN Rao for the State.
Miss A Subhashini for the Union.
In the elections held to the Legislative Assembly of Andhra Pradesh in January 1983 a new political party called Telugu Desam was swept to power.
It assumed office on January 9 1983.
Two notifications issued in exercise of the power conferred 586 by the Proviso to Article 309 read with Article 313 of the Constitution was appended to that order.
The relevant Fundamental Rules were amended by the first notification while the corresponding rules of the Hyderabad Civil Services Rules were amended by the second notification.
By these notifications every Government servant whether ministerial or non ministerial but not belonging to the last Grade Service who had already attained the age of 55 years was to retire from service with effect from February 28 1983.
Speaking to the Government employees in the Secretariat premises the next day the Chief Minister justified the reduction of the retirement age from 58 to 55 years on the ground that it had become necessary to provide greater employment opportunities to the youths.
Over 18000 Government employees and 10000 public sector employees were superannuated as a result of the order.
These writ petitions were filed by the Andhra Pradesh Government employees to challenge the aforesaid order and the notifications on the ground that they violate Articles 14 16 21 and 300A of the Constitution.
The case of the petitioners as laid in the writ petitions is that there was no basis at all for reducing the age of retirement from 58 to 55 that the age of retirement was increased from 55 to 58 by the Government of Andhra Pradesh by a notification dated October 29 1979 and nothing had happened since then to justify reduction of the age of retirement again to 5 i that providing employment opportunities to the youths h Is no relevance on the question of fixing the age of retirement that the Government had exercised its power arbitrarily without having regard to factors which are relevant on the fixation of the age of retirement that the Government had acted unreasonably in not giving any previous notice to the employees which would have enabled them to arrange their affairs on the eve of retirement that the Government was estopped from reducing the age of retirement to 55 since the employees had acted on the representation made to them in 1979 by increasing the age of retirement from 55 to 58 that as a result of the increase in the age of retirement from 55 to 58 years in 1976 a vested right had accrued to the employees which could be taken away if at all only from future entrants to the Government service that retirement of experienced and mature persons from Government service will result in grave detriment to public services of the State and that the decision of the Government is bad for a total non application of mind to the relevant facts and circumstances bearing on the question of the age of retirement like increased longevity.
The petitioners aver that the Government had not even considered the enormous delay which 587 would be caused in the payment of pensionary benefits to employees A who were retired from service without any pre thought.
A counter affidavit was filed on behalf of the State of Andhra Pradesh by Shri R Parthasarathy Joint Secretary in the Finance Department of the State at the stage of admission of the writ petitions.
It is stated in that affidavit that the recommendation of the one Man Pay Commission appointed by the Government of Andhra Pradesh.
after which the age of retirement was increased to 58 in 1979 has no relevance to the present decision of the State to reduce the age of retirement that the fact that the average expectation of life is about 70 years is not a ground for increasing the age of retirement of Government employees that the general trend was for reducing the age of retirement that the Government of Kerala and Karnataka had reduce the age of retirement of their employees to 55 though it was earlier increased from 55 to 58 that in some States in India the age of retirement is 55 and not 58 the present decision was taken by the Government in order to fulfill its commitment that it will take welfare measures in order to improve the lot of the common man and.
particularly in order to afford opportunities to qualified and talented unemployed youths whose number was increasing enormously due to expansion of educational facilities that the Government employees was stagnated in the lower positions due to the increase in the age of retirement from 55 to 58 and that the present measure was intended to have a salutary effect on the creation of incentives to the deserving employees The affidavit says further that the question as regards the age of retirement is a pure question of Governmental policy affording no cause of action to the petitioners to file the writ petitions.
The affidavit asserts that the Government had reviewed the situation arising out of the enhancement of the age of retirement from 55 to 58 in 1979 and that it was revealed that on account of the enhancement of the age of retirement the chances of promotion of the service personnel had deteriorated resulting in widespread frustration and unemployment.
The inconvenience alleged by the petitioners in the matter of payment of their pension and other retirement benefits was imaginary since the Government was making extensive arrangements to disburse such benefits expeditiously.
By the counter affidavit the Government of Andhra Pradesh denied that any of the provisions of the Constitution were violated by the impugned decision to reduce the age of retirement.
Another affidavit was filed on behalf of the Government of Andhra Pradesh after the rule nisi was issued in the writ petitions.
Finance and Planning.
It is stated in that affidavit that the question of the age of superannuation was not referred to the one Man Pay Commission of Shri A Krishnaswamy which was appointed by the Andhra Pradesh Government on November 3 1 977 that the recommendation made by the Pay Commission was casual and was not based on relevant criteria that as many as 1204008 educated youths were left without employment on September 30 1979 as a result of the unwarranted increase in the age of superannuation from 55 to 58 that the number of unemployed youths had grown to 1784699 by December 31 1982 and that the age of retirement was reduced because it is the duty of the State within the limits of its economic capacity and development to make effective provision to solve the unemployment problem.
Rule Nisi was issued on the writ petitions by this Court on February 25 1983.
We are not concerned in these writ petitions with clauses 3 to 9 of the Ordinance which mostly regulate conditions of service.
Clause 101 of the Ordinance prescribes that every Government employee not being a workman and not belonging to Last Grade Service shall retire from service on the afternoon of the last day of the month in which he attains the are of 55 years.
Clause 102 provides that every Government employee not being a workman but belonging to the Last Grade Service shall retire from service on the afternoon of the last day of the month in which he attains the age of 60 years.
Clause 103 provides that every workman belonging to the Last Grade Service or employed on a monthly rate of pay in any service notified as Inferior shall retire from service on the afternoon of the last day of the month in which he attains the age of 60 years.
Workmen belonging to Ministerial Service or any service other than the Last Grade Service notified as Inferior have to retire on the afternoon of the last day of the month in which they attain the age of 55 589 years.
By clause 15 All Rules and Regulations made under the proviso to Article 309 or continued under Article 3 l 3 of the Constitution or made under any other law for the time being in force governing the recruitment and conditions of service of the Government employees continue to be in force in so far as they are not inconsistent with the provisions of the Ordinance.
Clause 16 of the Ordinance provides that no amendment to the Fundamental Rules shall be deemed to be invalid merely by reason of the fact that the proviso to rule 2 of the Fundamental Rules laid down that the said rules shall not be modified or replaced to the disadvantage of any person already in service.
It provides further that all amendments made to the Fundamental Rules and particularly the amendments made by the notification dated February 8 1983 shall be and shall be deemed always to have been made validly and shall have effect notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in the proviso to rule 2 of the Fundamental Rules as if the Ordinance was in force on February 8 1983.
Clause 16 of the Ordinance declares that every amendment made before or after the commencement of the Ordinance to the Fundamental Rules and the Hyderabad Civil Services Rules shall be and shall be always deemed to have applied to all Government employees whether appointed before or after the amendment.
Clause 18 of the Ordinance provides by sub clause i that the proviso to rule 2 of the Fundamental Rules shall be and shall be deemed always to have been omitted.
Rule 56 of the Fundamental Rules is omitted by Clause l 8ii while Rule 231 of the Hyderabad Civil Services Rules is omitted by clause 19 of the Ordinance.
The age of retirement was previously governed by these two Rules.
The arguments advanced before us fall under distinct heads learned counsel having shared their burden equitably.
Shri Venugopal challenged the Ordinance on the ground that it is unreasonable.
Shri Tarkunde challenged it on the ground that the superannuation of the employees by reduction of the age of retirement amounts in the circumstances to removal  of the employees within the meaning of Article 311.
The challenge of Shri Siddhartha Shankar Ray is based on the ground of a total non application of mind.
Shri RK Garg who appears in a group of three Transferred Cases contends that the Ordinance is bad because it supersedes all industrial adjudications and overrules even settlements arrived at between the management and the employees.
whereas in the case of compulsory retirement a notice of three months is 590 required to be given by the Government under the relevant rules in the case of superannuation of employees who had already attained the age of 55 on February 8 1983 when the first Order was issued the impugned law gives to the employees a notice of 20 days only since all such employees had to retire on February 28 1983.
Shri P P Rao also challenges the retrospective deletion of the proviso to Rule 2 of the Fundamental Rules as being arbitrary.
Shri Gururaj Rao challenges the Ordinance on the ground that it runs into the teeth of the recommendation which the Andhra Pradesh One Man Pay Revision Commission had made in 1979 in pursuance of which the age of retirement was raised from 55 to 58.
It was suggested by the petitioners though somewhat in passing that the object of the State Government in reducing the age of retirement was to get rid of n senior members of Government service whose loyalty was thought to be not above suspicion.
We will presently set out the specific contentions advanced before us but before doing so.
it would be necessary to indicate the approach which in our opinion should be adopted while examining a question of the present nature namely the fixation of the age of retirement.
Barring a few services in a few parts of the world as for example the American Supreme Court the terms and conditions of every public service provide for an age of retirement.
Indeed the proposition that there ought to be an age of retirement in public services is widely accepted as reasonable and rational.
The fact that the stipulation as to the age of retirement is a common feature of all of our public services establishes its necessity no less than its reasonableness Public interest demands that there ought to be an age of retirement in public services The point of the peak level of efficiency is bound to differ from individual to individual but the age of retirement cannot obviously differ from individual to individual for that reason.
A common scheme of general application governing superannuation has therefore to be evolved in the light of experience regarding performance levels of employees the need to provide employment opportunities to the younger sections of society and the need to open up promotional opportunities to employees at the lower levels early in their career.
Inevitably the public administrator has to counter balance conflicting claims while determining the age of superannua 591 tion.
On the one hand public services cannot be deprived of the benefit of the mature experience of senior employees on the other hand a sense of frustration and stagnation cannot be allowed to generate in the minds of the junior members of the services and the younger sections of the society.
The balancing of these conflicting claims of the different segments of society involves minute questions of policy which must as far as possible be left to the judgment of the executive and the legislature.
These claims involve considerations of varying vigour and applicability.
Often the Court has no satisfactory and effective means to decide which alternative out of the many competing ones is the best in the circumstances of a given case.
Were it so this Court would have declined to entertain pricing disputes covering as wide a range as cars to mustard oil.
If the age of retirement is fixed at an unreasonably low level so as to make it arbitrary and irrational the Court s interference would be called for though not for fixing the age of retirement but for mandating a closer consideration of the matter.
As stated in The Supreme Court And The Judicial Function 2 Judicial self restraint is itself one of the factors to be added to the balancing process carrying more or less weight as the circumstances seem to require.
We must therefore approach the problem before us with a view to determining whether the age of retirement has been reduced from 58 to 55 unreasonably or arbitrarily.
On the other hand the Ordinance shall have to be held valid if the fundamental premise upon which it proceeds has been accepted as fair and reasonable in comparable situations if its provisions bear nexus with public interest and if it does not offend against the constitutional limitations either on legis l EP Rovappa.
592 lative competence or on the legislative power to pass laws which bear on fundamental rights.
Shri Venugopal who led the argument on behalf of the petitioners contends that the provisions of the Ordinance whereby the age of retirement is reduced from 58 to 55 are arbitrary and irrational and hence violative of Articles 14 and 16 of the Constitution for the following reasons a The age of superannuation was increased from 55 to 58 years with effect from October 29 1979 after an elaborate and scientific inquiry by a One Man Pay Commission b The State Government issued the order reducing the age of retirement within one month of the assumption of office by it.
In the very nature of things no scientific investigation could have been made no material gathered and no statistics compiled as regards the number of employees who will retire the number of persons who would get fresh employment and the hardship caused to the superannuated employees by the delay in the payment of retirement benefits to them.
Neither the social nor the economic consequences of so grave a decision could have been or were in fact considered by the Government c The reason given by the Government that promotional opportunities had deteriorated as a result of the increase in the retirement age from 55 to 58 is fanciful and non existent.
The various Pay Commissions have expressed the view that persons who are required to retire at 593 an early age are compelled by necessity to seek other employments.
In this connection the first ground of challenge to the reduction of the age of retirement is that the One man Pay Revision Commission appointed by the Government of Andhra Pradesh had recommended that the age of retirement should be increased from 55 to 58 that the said recommendation was accepted by the State Government and consequently the age of retirement was raised to 58 with effect from October 29 l 979.
The terms of reference of the Commission were enlarged by the Government by an order dated January 28 1978 SO as to require the Commission to review the existing retirement benefits available to all categories of employees referred to above and to examine the question of extension of retirement benefits to the work charged establishments.
Clause 101 of the Ordinance prescribes that every Government employee not being a workman and not belonging to Last Grade Service shall retire from service on the afternoon of the last day of the month in which he attains the are of 55 years.
Were this so every decision taken by a new Government soon after assumption of office shall have to be regarded as arbitrary.
It is untenable to contend that a law is bad because it is passed immediately on the assumption of office by a new Government.
The aid and assistance of a well trained bureaucracy which notoriously plays an important part not only in the implementation of policies but in their making was also available to the Government.
1   582 585.
