minal Appeals Nos.
91 to 93 of 1954.
J B Dadachanji and Rajinder Narain for the appellant.
December 3.
The Judgment of the Court was delivered by BOSE J.
Five persons including the three appellants were prosecuted for the murder of one Ram chander Shelke.
Each was convicted and each was 1085 sentenced to death under section 302 of the Indian Penal Code.
They differed.
The former considered that the convictions should be maintained but was of opinion that the sentence in each case should be commuted to imprisonment for life.
The latter favoured an acquittal in all five cases.
The matter was accordingly referred to a third Judge P J Reddy J He agreed with the first about the convictions and adjudged all five to be guilty under section 302.
On the question of sentence he considered that the death sentences on the three appellants Pandurang Tukia and Bhilia should be maintained and that those of the other two should be commuted to transportation for life.
It seems that the opinion of the third Judge was accepted as the decision of the Court and so the sentences suggested by him were maintained as well as the convictions.
All five convicts then applied to the High Court for leave to appeal.
The petition was heard by Ali Khan and Reddy JJ.
and they made the following order The circumstances of the crime in this case were such that a brutal murder had been committed and sentence of death was the only one legally possible for the Sessions Judge to have passed and it was confirmed by the High Court.
Leave to appeal was refused.
Pandurang Tukia and Bhilia who were sentenced to death applied here for special leave to appeal.
Their petition was granted.
On 7 12 1950 about 3 o clock in the afternoon Ramchander Shelke the deceased went to his field known as Bhavara with his wife s sister Rasika Bai PW1 and his servant Subhana Rao PW7.
Anyway Rasika Bai heard shouts from that direction so she ran to the river bank with Subhana and they both say that they saw all five accused attacking Ramchander with axes and sticks.
Rasika Bai shouted out to the assailants not to beat Ramchander but they threatened her and then ran away.
They say they saw all five accused striking him the three appellants Pandurang Tukia and Bhilia with axes the other two who have not appealed with sticks.
Opposite the column headed Name and address of the complainant or informant is entered Tukaram so Panda Sheolka.
