Civil Appeal No 3909 of 1986.
From the Judgment and order dated 2991986 of the Allahabad High Court in CR No 83 of 1986.
Shanker Ghosh and P K Jain for the Appellants.
Madan Lokur Prashant Bhushan Beni Parshad Rajinder Dhawan and Jitendra Sharma for the Respondents.
The disputed property was let out on June 25 1976.
The accommodation was for the first time assessed for house tax by the Nagar Palika Ghaziabad with effect from October 1 1976.
The suit was filed for eviction after termination of tenancy before the trial court and objection was raised that as the shop and the basement were separately let out the tenancy could not be terminated by a single notice that would be invalid.
The trial court therefore dismissed the suit.
The High Court set aside this conclusion of the trial court.
High Court after discussing various decisions came to the conclusion that in view of the language of Section 2 sub clause 2 Explanation 1 it could not be doubted that period of 10 years will commence from 160 the date of assessment ie October 1 1976 that it is in that view of the matter that the learned Judge of the High Court decreed the suit and hence the present appeal.
If it could be passed on anyone of the grounds mentioned in Section 20 clause 2 of this Act in support of this contention the learned counsel placed reliance on decisions in Om Prakash Gupta etc.
It is true that the decision reported in Firms Amar Nath Basheshar Dass s case supra is a decision on the Punjab Act where the question before this Court was about the language of the notification which was issued under the Act exempting the buildings from operation of the Act for a period of S years and it is true that the language of the notification was not identical with the language of Sec.
But apart from it the contention advanced by the learned counsel for the appellant was that because of the language of Section 39 and 40 even if the matter is pending in this Court and 10 years have elapsed appellant will be entitled to the benefit of the provisions of this Act because according to him the appeal will be a continuation of the suit and therefore the advantage will be available.
Admittedly this suit was not pending on the date on which this Act came into force.
In this view of the matter therefore in our opinion even this contention of learned counsel for the appellant could not be accepted.
It is well settled that the rights of the parties will be determined on the basis of the rights available to them on the date of the suit but in Vineet Kumar s case supra this Court took the view that if during the pendency of the proceedings 10 years have elapsed the tenant is entitled to the protection under the Act and in coming to this conclusion the Court also considered the language of Section 39 of the Act and it observed The appellant in the present case only seeks the protection of the new Rent Act which became applicable to the premises in question during the pendency cf the litigation.
Subsection 4 of section 20 stipulated that in any suit for eviction on the grounds mentioned in Cl.
2 viz the arrears of rent if at the first hearing of the suit the tenant in default pays all arrears of rent to the landlord or deposits in court the entire amount of rent and damages for the use and occupation of the building due from him such damages for use and occupation being calculated at the same rate as rent together with interest thereon at the rate of nine per cent per annum and the landlord s cost of the suit in respect thereof after deducting therefrom any amount already deposited by the tenant under sub section 1 of section 30 the court may in lieu of passing a decree for eviction on that ground pass an order relieving the tenant against his liability for eviction on that ground.
SL Appeal dismissed.
