ivil Appeals Nos.
4582 4585 of 1989.
125 From the Judgment and Order dated 2971988 of the Allahabad High Court in CMWP No 11933  164931987.
1573 11987  123731987.
RK Garg SP Singh NM Popli RB Misra Uma Nath Misra and RC Kaushik for the Appellants.
RB Mehrotra for the Respondent.
The Judgment of the Court was delivered by MISRA J.
Special leave granted.
The short question in these appeals is as to whether the High Court was right in upholding the decision of the Uttar Pradesh Public Service Commission to re hold the recruitment examination.
On the requisition of the State Government the State Public Service Commission had undertaken the recruitment to the post of Upper Zila Basic Shiksha Adhikari Women District Inspectress of Girls SchoolsAssociate Regional Inspectress of Girls Schools in Uttar Pradesh Educational Service Junior Scale Women s Branch The advertisement inviting applications from eligible candidates was published on May 5 1985 and a corrigendum was published on June 8 1985.
The recruitment examination was in two stages written and interviewpersonality test.
After the written examina tion was over on the basis of the results thereof success ful candidates upto a base limit have to be called to be interviewed.
On account of improper feeding into the comput er some of the candidates who had better performance in the written examination were not called and candidates securing lesser marks in the written examination were not only called for interview but were also finally selected.
We have heard counsel for the parties and are of the view that when no defect was pointed out in regard to the written examination and the sole objection was confined to exclusion of a group of successful candidates in the written examination from the interview there was no justification for cancelling the written part of the recruitment examina tion.
On the other hand the situation could have been appropriately met by setting aside the recruitment and asking for a 126 fresh interview of all eligible candidates on the basis of the written examination and select those who on the basis of the written and the freshly held interview became eligible for selection.
We allow the appeals set aside the judgment of the High Court and direct that the order of the Public Service Com mission cancelling the written examination shall stand vacated.
In lieu thereof we direct that the results of the written examination shall stand sustained and shall form the basis for the interview part of the recruitment and on the basis of the two examinations and in terms of the recruit ment rules fresh selections shall be made.
We have also not been able to appreciate the justification for cancellation of the written part of the recruitment examina tion and drive the candidates to litigation.
