A very interesting question comes up for consideration in this appeal.
It belonged to several co owners.
The firm and its partners arc hereinafter compendiously referred to as the tenants .
The second lease deed Ext.
In respect of item 2 the fair rent claimed was Rs326650 as against Rs200 pm payable under the lease deed.
They claimed that under both the lease deeds what had been leased out to them was only a vacant land and that the superstructure had been built by them.
They claimed there fore that they were entitled to relief under the Madras 550 City Tenants  Protection Act and that the Rent Controller Court had no jurisdiction to fix a fair rent.
So far as item 2 was concerned it appears that at the time of the hearing it was conceded before the Rent Controller that the respondents were tenants of the entire properties covered by the lease deed and that they had not constructed any of the premises thereupon.
The order of the Rent Controller was dated 93.
There were appeals to the Court of Small Causes.
The order of the Rent Controller in respect of item 2 was also upheld.
The tenants filed revision petitions against the order of the Court of Small Causes but these were dismissed on 20111968.
It came to the conclusion that exhibit P 1 did not in law create a valid lease between the co owners and the tenants.
The Rent Controller was therefore held to have had juris diction to fix the fair rent in respect of the premises.
It was therefore held that the plantiff s claim in the suit should succeed.
The suit was decreed accordingly.
The tenants filed an appeal being OSA No 62 of 1973.
It held that there was a valid tease between the quondam owners and the tenants under Exts.
Having regard to the express recitals in exhibit P 3 the Appellate Bench held that it was impossible to hold that the build ings which admittedly belonged to the defendants and had been constructed by them on the vacant land taken on lease under exhibit P 1 ever were or could be the subject matter of the sale under exhibit p 3.
In view of this finding it was held that the Rent Controller had no jurisdiction to entertain the application for fixation of fair rent in respect of the property which was only a vacant piece of land.
In conse quence it was held the LIC could not maintain the suit for recovery of rent based on the order made by the statutory tribunal under the Rent Control Act and claim the difference between the so called fair rent and the contract rent.
The appellant landlord had filed an eviction petition under the Rent Control Act without giving notice under section 111h of the which in those days was considered to be a condition precedent even to the filing of an eviction petition under the Rent Control Act and ob tained an order of eviction.
