All these appeals and writ petitions raise a common question regarding the interpretation of s 91 of the Haryana Sales Tax Act 1973 hereinafter re ferred to as the Act .
Counsel state that the facts in all these appeals are identical and that the only facts neces sary or atleast on record before us on the basis of which the issue us is to be decided are these Each of the appellants petitioners hereinafter referred to compendi ously as assessees  is a registered dealer in the State of Haryana.
He purchased certain raw materials in the State without paying tax thereon in view of the provision con tained in section 24 of the Act.
He then manufactured certain goods in the State with the aid of said raw materials.
He then sold the manufactured goods to dealers who in turn exported those goods out of India.
On these facts it is claimed the assessee is not liable to pay the purchase tax on the raw materials imposed under section 91 of the Act.
This claim has been rejected by the taxing authorities and the High Court and hence these appeals.
The writ petitions have been filed directly in this Court in view of a learned single Judge of the High Court having decided the issue against the assessees as early as 2511.
The Act is a much amended one and Some of its provi sions have been recently amended with retrospective effect from 27th May 1971 a point of time when actually a prede cessor Act the Punjab General Sales Tax Act 1948 had been in force.
141976 or in the course of export out of the territory of India.
So we have to proceed on the basis that the underlined words never were there in el.
1983 which reads 6 The purchase of barley or of goods used in the manufac ture of guar gum scientific goods utensils and metal handicrafts shall not form part of the turnover of a dealer for the period he is entitled to purchase the goods on the authority of his certificate of registration without payment of sales tax under section 24 provided these are used exclusively for the specified purposes.
Section 6 Section 6 the charging section read as under 6.
Incidence of taxation 1 Subject to other provisions of this Act every dealer whose gross turnover during the year immediately preceding the commencement of this Act exceeded the taxable quantum Defined in section 7 shall be liable to pay tax under this Act on all sales and purchases effected after the coming into force of this Act.
Provided that this section shall not apply to a dealer who deals exclusively in goods specified in Schedule B Goods on which no tax is leviable section 6 read with section 15.
XXX XXX XXX Explanation For the purposes of sub section 1 and 2 purchased shall mean the purchase of declared As defined in section 2c of the  goods speci fied in Schedule C and goods falling under section 9.
b section 6 was amended by Act I of 1990 to read as follows with retrospective effect from 275.
1971 section 6 Incidence of taxation 1 Every dealer whose gross turnover during the year immediately preceding the coming into force of the provisions of this section exceeded the taxable quantum shall be liable to pay tax on all sales and purchases effected after the coming into force of the provi sions of this section.
XXX XXX XXX The earlier Explanation however is omitted with the same retrospective effect.
The first amendment was to insert after the open ing words where a dealer the words liable to pay tax under this Act.
