No 41.
grey street.
of the said premises.
No 401.
on the 10th june 1891 he made and published his last will and testament whereby he dedicated to this family idol.
the second contention of the appellants also therefore fails.
his also i dedicate to the sheba of the said sri sri sridhar jew salagram sila thakur.
she obtained probate of the will on the 6th august 1912.
they are to be registered in the municipal records in the name of the deity the municipal bills have got to be taken also in his name and none of the testator 's representatives heirs successors executors administrators or assigns is to have any manner of interest in or right to the said premises or is to be competent to give away or effect sale mortgage etc.
appeal dismissed.
dutt and durga charan dutt for a sum of rs 19000.
dwarka nath died on the 16th march 1892 leaving him surviving his widow golap sundari and his two sons rajendra and jogendra.
this is an appeal on a certificate article 1331 of theconstitution from a judgment and decree passed by the appellate bench of the high court of calcutta.
No 402 a grey street as in his opinion sushilabala as executrix to her husband 's estate and her two sons had acquired title to the said premises by adverse possession and the title of the idol thereto had been extinguished.
with a view to provide for the expenses of his daily and periodical sheba and festivals etc.
the appeal was argued but so far as the petition for special leave to appeal was concerned the parties came to an agreement whereby the idol asked for leave to withdraw the petition on certain terms recorded between the parties.
41 a and 402 a grey street were its absolute properties and for possession thereof for a declaration that the consent decree dated the 24th november 1910 in suit No 969 of 1909 and the award dated the 12th october 1920 and the dealings made by the heirs of jogendra.
the portions allotted to jogendra were subsequently numbered 402 a grey street and the portion of the premises.
in regard however to the cross objection relating to premises.
of the deity.
we are in perfect accord with the observations made by rankin c j if a shebait by acting contrary to the terms of his appointment or in breach of his duty as such shebait could claim adverse possession of the dedicated property against the idol it would be putting a premium on dishonesty and breach of duty on his part and no property which is dedicated to an idol would ever be safe.
regards the second contention viz the adverse possession of nagendra it is to be noted that under the terms of cl 3 of the will of dwarka nath the representatives successors and heirs of his two sons rajendra and jogendra were successively to perform the seva in the manner therein mentioned and nagendra was one of the heirs and legal representatives of rajendra.
neither nagendra nor the appellants who derive their title from the auction sale held on the 9th december 1936 could therefore claim to have perfected their title to the premises.
the high court rejected the said application stating that there was no rule allowing cross objections in the supreme court.
3 of the will is an absolute dedication of the premises.
the further contention urged on behalf of the appellants in regard to the disallowance of the sum of rs 19000 by the appeal court could not be and was not seriously pressed before us and does not require any consideration.
but in the present case we have to see whether the possession of two joint shebaits becomes adverse to the idol when they openly claim to divide the property between them.
the idol filed on the 20th november 1950 cross objections against the decree for rs 19000 and interest thereon as also the dismissal of the suit in regard to the premises.
hari pada.
he died on the 31st january1900 and jogendra obtained on the 24th april 1900.
on the 4th september 1909 bhupendra jnanendra.
shree shree iswar sridhar jew his two immoveable properties to wit.
the first mortgage was created by him in favour of snehalata dutt on the 19th may 1926.
per annum from the 19th july 1945 till payment or till the said sum was deposited in court to the credit of the suit.
the said suit was heard by mr justice bose who declared the premises.
adverse possession in such circumstances is a notion almost void of content.
in respect of the said two properties will be paid for the purpose of the carrying on the daily and periodical sheba and the festivals etc of the said sri issur sridhar jew salagram sila thakur my said second wife srimati golap moni dasi and 1st sriman rajendara nath and 2nd sriman jogendra nath ghose born of the womb of my first wife on living in the said house.
the only thing which was urged by shri n c chatterjee in support of his contention was that the right to reside in the premises was given to the sevayats and that according to him detracted from the absolute character of the dedication.
the property may be given out and out to the idol or it may be subjected to a charge in favour of the idol.
41 and 401 grey street and appointed his brother jogendra the sole executor thereof.
on my demise none of my heirs and representatives shall ever be competent to take the income of the said land No 401 and spend the samefor household expenses.
