treasury.
as otherwise there is no meaning in the appellant saying therein that it is desirable that entire proceedings with regard to acquisition of land and determining compensation for standing crops for the total area of 39 58 acres are finalised on the 13th february.
the acquired land extended from rd 1200 to rd 00.
after the completion of the first phase the second phase was to start on 10th october 1963 and completed by 9th may 1964.
the extension of the airstrip would mean that the existing airstrip is being extended so that the initial work can be started and continued on the existing airstrip.
in the examination of the accused under section 342 the special judge in our view did put all the circumstances against the accused which formed the basis of the conviction.
sirsa which crops had been entrusted to him as a public servant and he instead of depositing the said sale price into the govt.
there is also credible evidence that possession of the acquired land was not handed over to the contractor till late in march 63 though it was handed over to and taken over by the appellant on 13 2 63.
he was charged with and tried for two offences under section 51 a of the act for habitually accepting or obtaining illegal gratification and under section 51d for receiving illegal gratification from pal singh.
in any case we do not think that there is any validity in the submission.
24 bears the signature of n l handa the tehsildar and of sukhchain lal jain p w 11 on behalf of the military estate officer and the appellant.
whereas it is alleged that major som nath while functioning as garrison engineer m e s air field at sirsa from 13 2 63 to 54 1963 by corrupt or illegal means or by otherwise abusing his position as such public servant obtained pecuniary advantage of rs 2500 for allowing the standing crops to be cut from the land acquired for the extension of air field.
if so a charge under section 51c would implicate those persons also in the commission of an offence which certainly would not have been in the contemplation of the authorities granting the sanction.
the letter exhibit p 13 was also put to him and he was asked about the existence of the crops.
now therefore the central govt both hereby accord sanction under section 197 code of criminal procedure act No 5 of 1898 and section 61a of the prevention of corruption act 1947 act ii of 1947 for the prosecution of maj.
secondly the evidence that was necessary to unfold the story of the prosecution has not been produced by the prosecution but the trial court and the high court ignored this lacunas in the prosecution case.
thirdly the judgments show that there was utter confusion in respect of the date on which possession of the acquired land was given to the appellant and the date on which it was given to the contractor for carrying on the work as also in respect of the fact whether there was any crop standing when the appellant took possession of the land and at what period of time the crop was cut and the work commenced.
appeal dismissed.
this again does not specifically refer to the land which is being acquired.
after fully and carefully examining the materials before it in regard to the said allegations and circumstances of the case consider that major som nath should be prosecuted in a court of law for the said offences.
as already noticed is the letter of telu ram jain to the assistant garrison engineer and p 10 is the letter of telu ram jain to the garrison engineer.
though it is desirable that the facts should be referred to in the sanction itself nonetheless if they do not appear on the face of it the prosecution must establish aliunde by evidence that those facts were placed before the sanctioning authorities.
it is therefore clear that in estimating the crop the small portion of the land where crops were stated to have been cut by the 13 2 63 even if true could not have been taken into account.
section 61 of the act bars the jurisdiction of the court to take cognizance of an offence for which previous sanction is required and has not been given.
sirsa and in that capacity entrusted with standing crops of sarson gram and lusan on 30 acres of land a part of 49 acres of land acquired by the govt.
in support of this contention three decisions have been cited before us namely bhagat ram v state of punjab 1954 indlaw sc 188 madan mohan singh v state of u p privy council 82.
there is therefore no basis for sanction for a charge under section 51c.
of india took steps to acquire some lands of agriculturists pursuant to which a notification dated november 27 1962 was issued under section 4 of the land acquisition act 1894 for acquiring 51 79 acres of land situated in the state of ahmedpur.
when the witnesses are contradicted by their previous statements in the manner aforesaid then that part of the statements which has been put to the witness will be considered along with the evidence to assess the worth of the witness in determining his veracity.
it is said that some of the documents i e exhibit 8 10 and 11 have not been put to the witnesses even though the court relied upon them.
he also inform in that letter that the excavation in all available portions of the taxi track and runway has been completed.
a person could not be charged merely with the breach of a particular provision of the order he must be charged with the commission of certain acts which constitute a breach and it is to that prosecution that is for having done acts which constitution breach of the order that the sanction is required.
nor in their lordships view is a sanction given without reference to the facts constituting the offence a compliance with the actual terms of cl.
as you know.
but when the prosecution relies upon the proof of exhibit p 24 as also to establish that there was standing crops on the land when the possession was delivered on 13 2 63 on certain witnesses who were present on the respective occasions.
the receipt ex.
mani ram patwari had stated that by the 20th march 1963 some ground had been cleared.
the whole of the previous statement however can not be treated as substantive evidence.
of india ministry of home affairs on llth april 1966 as per exhibit p 23.
in reply the appellant states in his letter exhibit p 12 dated the 10th april.
and which had been valued at rs 11073 13 by the revenue authorities dishonestly or fraudulently allowed moti ram of sirsa to misappropriate the said standing crop and thereby contravened section 51c of the prevention of corruption act punishable with section 52 of that act.
both these related to possession of the acquired land not being given to him.
that there was crop on the land is amply born out by a letter of the appellant dated 12th february 1963 addressed to mr g l nagpal sub divisional magistrate sirsa.
he sold the crop to moti ram and kewal chand for rs 2500 and facilitated the cutting and taking away of the crop by postponing the handing over of the possession to the contractor till the 5th april 1963 and misappropriated the money.
exhibit do review report which is headed technical administration contract shows that the date of review was 9th february 1963.
this is also consistent with the other evidence that some work was in progress which gain is in accord with the evidence of telu ram p w 8 that he got the possession of rd 4500 to rd 1200.
it can be seen from the above that the appellant is reluctant to reply in writing as to what he is asking the contractor to do under verbal orders while the contractor for safeguarding his position is insisting on having it in writing.
the additional deputy commissioner hissar will be visiting his location on 13th feb 1963.
we are therefore not impressed with this argument.
rs 3000 only which amount he accepted for his personal use and thereby also abused his official position and obtained pecuniary advantage for himself in a sum of rs.
the learned advocate for the respondent also tried to support the stand taken by the high court.
before we deal with the contentions urged on behalf of the appellant it is necessary to have a clear picture of certain broad features of the case.
