a and also to the fact that after the application for registration was rejected the appellant tried to get himself impleaded in the suit filed by the illom against the state which application was also rejected and so the claim that his possession was bona fide or that he was a bona fide trespasser has no validity.
in this view it held that compensation for trees which are to be dealt with under the general law can not be decreed in favour of a mere trespasser who had no rights therein.
but out of the said land 160 acres were taken out of my possession and given to the 2nd defendant even without giving me the opportunity to remove the movable improvements such as cultivation cattle machines utensils houses stocked crops ripe crops etc belonging to me.
appeal dismissed.
it observed that the evidence in the case indicated that the possession of the father of the appellant must have commenced close to the year 1100 m e and consequently the claim of the appellant that lie was in possession from 1030 m e can not be true.
section 9 of the act is in the following terms any person unauthorised occupying any land for which he is liable to pay a fine under section 6 and an assessment or prohibitory assessment under section 7 may be summarily evicted by the division peishkar and any crop or other product raised on the land shall be liable to forfeiture and any building or other structure erected or anything deposited thereon shall also if not removed by him after such written notice as the division peishkar may deem reasonable be liable to forfeiture.
126 of 1096.
a rubbers state and a large number of other valuable trees like jack trees mango trees coconut trees etc.
as it has now been contended before us.
p w 4 the manager was asked in cross examination whether he had been given any priorinformation or notice about eviction and this witness also said that there was no prior information or notice.
which belonged to him.
it was pointed out by the learned advocate that the high court was in error in equating other product raised on the land with emblements because the definition of crop in black 's law dictionary does include emblements as such the words other product can not also be treated as emblements and must therefore be given a different meaning which according to him would include trees.
the high court accepted the finding of the trial court on issue.
112 of 1100 m e and the appellant was therefore not entitled to claim any value for improvements as it was his duty to remove any building before he was evicted.
before dealing with this aspect we will first consider the question whether trees are included within the meaning of section 9 so as to entitle the appellant to a notice of forfeiture there under.
12 6 1094 the petitioner knew that the land was government land and had then applied for assignment of the land.
it was the appellant 's case that he had been in occupation of the said 160 acres of cherikkal land unregistered dry lands in hilly tracts about which and the adjoining lands there was a dispute as to whether the same belonged to a jenmi family known as koodalvalli illom hereinafter called the illom or to the government of the erstwhile travancore state.
that was a case of a trespass for breaking and entering the closes of the plaintiffs and tearing up digging up cutting down and carrying away the plaintiff 's trees plants roots and seeds growing on the closes.
according to his submission a person is nevertheless a bona fide trespasser if he enters upon the land with a bona fide intention of improving the land.
even in paragraph 4 of the plaint where he complains that no notice of forfeiture was given to him he mentions only the items referred to in paragraph 3.
thereafter the suit out of which this appeal arises was filed against the government on october 24 1942.
the learned advocate for the appellant has reiterated the submissions made before the trial court and the high court and contends that there is no order forfeiting the improvements as required under section 9 of the act and if section 9 does not apply and there is no right of forfeiture as contemplated under section 9 then the appellant is entitled to compensation under the general law.
in the circumstances the question that had to be considered was whether without an order of forfeiture being passed the respondent could forfeit the improvements.
upon such land including a portion in the possession of the appellant they proceeded to erect buildings without the necessary notification under section 6 of the land acquisition act which was not served until november 4 1920.
the products of a farm may include the increase of cattle on the premises.
january 1918 in the district court at quilon for a declaration of its title to those properties.
it pointed out that the plaintiff appellant had applied to get himself impleaded on 0 s No 126 of 1096 m e but his application was rejected and after that suit was dismissed the appellant again applied for registry but that was also rejected.
there is nothing stated by him that he had no opportunity to cut trees and take them away.
but the learned advocate for the appellant submits that it was not his case nor is it under the general law necessary for a person who trespassed on the land to trespass with a claim of bona fide title.
another reason for disallowing the compensation for trees given by the high court was that the position of a trespasser whether he be a mere trespasser or a trespasser under a bona fide claim of title cannot be better than that of a tenant and that if this is correct then the appeal has to be dismissed on the short ground that there is no principle of law or equity which requires the payment of compensation in respect of trees the ownership of which was all along or at any rate from the dale of the trespasser 's dispossession vested in the state.
112 of 11 00 m e an order was passed for dispossessing the appellant on july 24 1939 ext.
registration in his name on the basis that it was government land.
the words raised on the land qualify both the crop and other product so the words other product have to be read in the context of the word crop which precedes it.
the respondent state contended that the appellant encroached on the suit lands that proceedings were taken against him in l c case.
it appears that the government had resolved to acquire the land in question and other lands and by arrangement with certain of the sutidars it took possession of such land including a portion which was in the occupation of the appellant.
these averments in the above paragraph do not clearly allege that he was not evicted without notice nor has any allegation been made that he was forcibly evicted from the lands with the help of the police etc.
before the privy council it was contended on behalf of the appellant that in the various cases relied upon there was at least some genuine claim or belief in the party erecting the buildings that he had a title to do so even though he was eventually held to be a trespasser and it was urged that no such claim or belief existed in that case in which it was said the government without any pretence of a right tortuously invaded the appellant 's property and proceeded to deal with it as their own.
112 of 1100 1925 a d as the suit of the illom had been finally disposed of and the title of the illom to the lands was not established the appellant apprehending that he might be ejected in the above l c case filed a suit.
in this sense the term includes fructus industrials and having regard to the etymology of the word it has been held to mean only products after they have been severed from the soil.
the contention of the appellant that the trees which are the subject matter of the appeal should have been forfeited by an order passed under section 9 of the act and in the absence of such.
the appellant pursuant to this order was dispossessed from the lands and possession of these lands was given to the second defendant nair service society ltd in august 1939.
a while the application for registration was pending the dispute between the illom and the state of travancore had reached a stage when the illom had to institute a suit o section No.
the board however agreed with what was apparently the view of both courts in india that under the circumstances of this case as already set forth by the law of india which they appear to have correctly interpreted the government officials were in possession not as mere trespassers but under such a colour of title that the buildings erected by them on the land ought not to be included in the valuation as having become the property of the landowner.
