a second appeal was filed by the appellant before the board of revenue without success.
section 262.
it is astonishing that anyone should urge as the appellant did that the date of vesting is the last date by which the calculation of compensation should have been made and since that had not been done the compensation officer had become functus officio in awarding compensation.
the appellant challenges the slab system of compensation provided in the act which awards smaller multiples for estates yielding larger incomes on the score of violation of the fundamental rights under the constitution.
v gross income from forests calculated on the basis of the appraisement made of annual yield of the forests on the date of vesting by a forest officer subject to the approval of the chief conservator of forests such forest officer being not below the rank of a divisional forest officer to be appointed in this behalf by the state government.
these furnish in bare outline the provisions with which we are directly concerned.
no income therefore no income tax and therefore no deduction is the syllogism of shri purohit.
no it was created by the statute and canalised by the order of remand.
the force of these observations constrains us to direct that the proceedings before the compensation officer shall be completed within six months from today.
section 26 has great relevance as it lays down the method of arriving at the gross asset and section 27 has like significance as it focuses on the manner in which the net income from an estate shall be computed by deducting certain items from the gross asset of the estate.
we may make it clear that now that a forest officer has made an appraisement the chief conservator of forests will apply his mind to it and approve it as a whole or with such modifications as he thinks necessary and forward it to the compensation officer.
where the actual income is to be included in the gross assets in the case of forests the assumed income and not the actual income is to be included.
the contention is that on the date of vesting which was well over two decades ago the purchasing power of the rupee was much higher than its present value.
but before examining this essential issue we may dispose of the minor points pressed so that the deck may be cleared for dealing with what deserves to be dealt with.
from this narrative what follows is that the chief conservator had substituted his appraisement which was accepted by the statutory tribunal.
during the agricultural year immediately preceding the abolition the petitioners had not actually derived any income from the forests and as such they were under no obligation to pay any income tax on such income.
there are a few other s s in chapter vi which deal with payment of compensation.
besides the evidence already on record would be taken into consideration.
then followed three revision petitions to the high court which led to the order of remand now attacked before us in the present appeals.
moreover article 31a repels the applicability of articles 14 19 and 31 to the acquisition by the state of any estate or of any rights therein etc.
nor can the compensation officer by pass the chief conservator on the misunderstood strength of the high court 's first order of remand.
but as the court directed that no further evidence on behalf of the state should be received ext.
similarly an assumed income tax also has to be worked out and deducted.
both the state and the appellant filed appeals to the collector which were dismissed.
law is sometimes blind.
but what has happened here is that the chief conservator himself made the appraisement without referring to the appraisement made by the d f o and as such the appraisement made by the chief conservator is invalid.
the meat of the matter the primary question agitated in the appeal lopping off the fringe issues of lesser import consists in the statutory methodology and functionaries prescribed by the act for quantifying the compensation and the compliance therewith by the statutory machinery in the case of the appellant.
under rule 131 c of the orissa estates abolition rules 1952 the compensation officer may rely upon such other materials as may otherwise be ascertained by him.
gross asset when used with reference to an estate means the aggregate of the rents including all cesses which were payable in respect of the estate for the previous agricultural year b by the raiyats or any other persons cultivating the land other than the land settled with the intermediary or intermediaries under sub s 1 of section 7 and includes.
with these prefatory observations we proceed to formulate the many points urged and give our findings and reasons one after the other.
but in such a case the materials must be brought to the notice of the petitioners who would be entitled to cross examine the witnesses connected therewith and may give rebutting evidence.
it is open to the petitioners to give evidence that after the date of vesting many of the trees and forest produce have been removed.
if the officer had no jurisdiction the land would be gone because of the vesting provision and no compensation would be forthcoming for want of jurisdiction a consequence the appellant never wants.
the compensation officer accepted the report of the chief conservator and made the statutory calculation on that date.
so it was laid down in the time of henry iv.
the next point in the reverse order is equally unsubstantial and may be disposed of right away.
here there is good reason to depart from the old rule of full compensation and it perhaps legitimates the reduced rate of recompense.
although he waxed sentimentally on this note he did not convince us on his contentions.
a1 is inadmissible in evidence.
this was wrong and contrary to section 26 as was contended by the appellant and in a way accepted by the high court.
for convenience of reference we may extract the statement by the high court of the contentions urged before it and repeated before us by the appellant.
section 28 states how the amount of compensation is to be determined and the methodology of payment.
the expression forest officer used here has been explained in section 26.
the power to approve implies the power to disapprove or modify but not to report or arrive at an income de hors the forest officer 's report altogether.
