it was further pleaded that the respondent had refused to accept the registered letter and the same had been returned back by the postal authorities with an endorsement that the addressee refused to accept the same.
vimal dave learned counsel appearing for the respondent to obtain instructions as aforesaid.
he was relieved from his duties at surat on 30th march1974.
appeal allowed.
in this situation the superintending engineer by his letter dated 18th april1974 directed the respondent to show cause as to why action should not be taken against him for disobeying the order of transfer and also for unauthorised absence from duty in breach of service regulation.
the opportunity granted to the respondent has however been misused by raising mischievous and frivolous objections instead of filing written submissions.
no government servant or employee of public undertaking has legal tight for being posted at any particular place.
a copy of the letter filed by the petitioner himself as annexure k to the writ petition in the high court.
this appeal came up for hearing before us on 28th january1988 and on that day.
the above rule provides that if an employee of the gujarat electricity board continues to remain absent from duty or overstays the period of sanctioned leave and in spite of warning he fails to return to duty he renders himself liable to be discharged summarily from service without complying with the procedure prescribed for taking disciplinary action under the gujarat electricity board conduct discipline and appeal procedure.
the division bench of the high court held that no warning as contemplated by service regulation no 113 had been issued to the respondent nor he had been afforded any opportunity of showing cause before the impugned order of discharge was passed and consequently the order of discharge was null and void being contrary to service regulation no 113 itself.
the respondent as well as the appellant board both preferred letters patent appeals against the order of learned single judge.
in determining the question whether any warning was given to the respondent it is necessary to refer to the sequence of events and the correspondence which ensued between the appellants and the respondent.
instead he made a representation to the additional chief engineer on 8 4 1974 after the transfer order.
the hearing was adjourned to enable sh.
march 301974 to may 271974.
in this view we are of the opinion that the division bench was totally wrong in holding that no opportunity was afforded to the respondent to meet the case set up by the board that the letter dated 24 4 1974 was served on the respondent.
we refused to hear the counsel as we had already completed hearing.
but even thereafter the respondent did not join his duties.
sub transfer from surat to ukai.
the respondent has been paid a sum of rs 104170 towards salary under the interim orders of this court.
the aforesaid documents leave no room for any doubt that the respondent was reminded of his failure to join his duties at ukai and he was further reminded that his unauthorised absence had exposed him to disciplinary action.
the object and purpose of the warning as contemplated by the regulation is to remind the delinquent employee that his continued unauthorised absence from duties was liable to result in discharge of his service.
the learned single judge granted a declaration in respondent 's favour holding the order void and illegal but having regard to recalcitrant attitude of the appellant and his continued conduct of disobedience of the orders of his superior authorities he refused to grant consequential reliefs regarding reinstatement or payment of back wages.
the burden to rebut the presumption lies on the party challenging the factum of service.
if the order of transfer is not stayed modified or cancelled the concerned public servant must carry out the order of transfer.
therefore even if the letter dated 24 4 1974 was not served on the respondent the order of discharge as contemplated by regulation no 113 is sustainable in law.
the division bench held that letter dated 24 4 1974 which contained a warning had not been served on the respondent and since the board had failed to raise the question before the learned single judge it could not do so in the letters patent appeal.
the respondent acted in an irresponsible manner in not complying with the order of transfer which led to his discharge from service in accordance with the service regulation.
his representation was rejected and he was directed to join at ukai but he did not do so instead he filed a civil suit at baroda challenging validity of the order of transfer.
transfer from one place to other is generally a condition of service and the employee has no choice in the matter.
now since the order of discharge is held to be valid the amount paid to the respondent is liable to be recovered from him but having regard to the facts and circumstances of the case and the hardship which could be caused to the respondent we direct the appellant not to recover the amount already paid to the respondent.
ultimately the chief engineer of the board took action against the respondent and discharged him from service with effect from 31 3 1974 by his letter dated may 271974.
apart from denying the postal endorsement the respondent placed no material before the court in support of his pleading.
the substance of the superintending engineer 's letter dated 18th april1974 which was admittedly served on the respondent contained warning to the respondent which fully met the requirement of regulation no 113.
we accordingly allow the appeal set aside the order of the single judge as well as division bench and dismiss the respondent 's petition.
in the absence of any stay of the transfer order a public servant has no justification to avoid or evade the transfer order merely on the ground of having made a representation or on the ground of his difficulty in moving from one place to the other.
this appeal is directed against the judgment and order of the high court of gujarat dated 28 2 1986 allowing the respondent 's writ petition and quashing order of discharge from service and directing his reinstatement in service.
on march 291974 the superintending engineer of the board issued the order transferring the respondent from surat to ukai on 30 3 1974 the respondent was relieved from surat and directed to join his duty at ukai but the respondent did not join his duty at the new place of posting.
in march1974 he was transferred from surat to ukai.
on perusal of the material on record we are of the opinion that the view taken by the high court is not sustainable as there is sufficient material on record which shows that warning had been issued to the respondent before the order of discharge was issued.
