similarly out of the 50 of the seats to be filled up by the management in accordance of the said order half shall be payment seats and the other half free seats.
conservators forest.
therefore as on march ii1985the total posts available were.
we have heard learned counsel for the parties and we are of the view that except for the minority educational institutions in kerala which are governed by the terms of the agreements with the government of kerala the directions given by this court with regard to admissions for the academic session 1993 can continue and govern admissions for the next academic session commencing in 1994 as regards the institutions in the state of kerala which are governed by the terms of agreements with the government of kerala the admissions to such institutions would be made in accordance with those agreements.
they shall also bring any such violation to the notice of this court by way of any interlocutory application.
similarly as on january 11975the ratio was increased to 33 13 per cent namely66 23 per cent to the direct recruits and 33 13 per cent to the promotees.
petition disposed of.
it is clear from the counter affidavit filed by the state that the posts are both permanent and temporary.
state of a p 1993 4 scc 111 1993 indlaw sc 1168 concerned to adjudge the merit of these candidates having regard to the relevant factors.
the matters be listed for hearing on july 201994 notice be issued to the attorney general of india and the advocates general for the states on the questions as reframed.
the system obtaining in this state appears to be that the entire fees collected by these private engineering colleges has to be made over to the government while the government bears the entire expenditure for running the colleges.
their continuous length of ad hoc service from the date of their initial appointment can not be counted towards seniority.
it is further contended that though decision was taken to give 50 per cent quota to the promotees the statutory rules have not been made.
therefore they are entitled to the seniority from the respective years.
after completing the admissions the petitioners shall furnish full particulars of the students admitted the categories if any whereunder they were admitted and all other particulars relating to their admission.
conservators forests u p rendered on november 61990 it would appear that at present there are 215 direct recruits and 100 promotee asstt.
shri verma appearing for some of the later direct recruits contended that the direct recruits were appointed to the substantive vacancies as held in k c joshi case and their seniority was fixed in the judgment from the date on which they started discharging the duties of the post as asstt.
in case of irregularity any of the said authorities shall be entitled to call upon the petitioner to rectify the said irregularity.
it was directed that the order dated may 141993would not apply to educational institutions falling in categories 4 and 5 and the institutions referred to in paragraph 18 of the order dated august 181993 the order dated may 141993was made applicable to the institutions falling in categories 12 and 3 with the modification that following were added in continuation of the said order in continuation it is made further clear that whether any of the petitioner institutions is a mei or not is a matter for the government to verify and determine.
december 1198640 more posts were created.
the direct recruits were appointed in accordance with rule 5a read with appendix a of u p forest service rules1952 for short the rules.
in the above two writ petitions to admit students to their colleges on the basis of entrance test conducted by them and on the same basis on which admissions were made by them in the said colleges in the previous academic year.
as in the year 199072 more posts were created and the total posts are now 330 therefore they are entitled to 50 per cent of the quota in the tentative list.
we have to consider therefore whether the procedure adopted by the sate to determine the inter se seniority is in accordance with the rules and the law laid down in k c joshi case.
there will be an interim order in the following terms i fifty per cent of the total intake in the petitioners educational institutions shall be permitted to be filled up by candidates selected by the agencies of the state government on the basis of a competitive examination test.
this information should be furnished to the competent authority to the university to which the said colleges are affiliated and to the secretary education department government of karnataka tamil nadu.
if the temporary posts are likely to continue for long normally as per the law laid down by this court they be treated for the purpose of counting seniority as permanent posts unless they are likely to be abolished.
insofar as non resident indians and foreign students are concerned the permissible limit would be only 5 of the total intake for a given year as per the direction contained in paragraph 6 of the order dated may 141993 as modified by order dated august 1819932 the admission against these seats shall be made on the basis of merit.
it was also observed that this fact was not disputed by the learned advocate general for the state of karnataka.
in respect of the seats which are left for management to fill in its discretion merit shall be the guiding principle.
in the event of converting them as permanent under rule 24the quota prescribed in rule 6 would be applied to substantive posts.
the seniority of the promotee asstt.
similar exercise for each year in which the substantive vacancies had arisen should be done.
by order dated october 71993 passed by the constitution bench three questions were referred for consideration by a larger bench.
it is a policy matter.
in the light of that stand while dismissing the contempt petition this court directed the sate government to dispose of the matter on the basis of the representation that may be received from the petitioners therein against the draft seniority list within six months from that date.
in these matters relating to admission to professional courses in medicine engineering pharmacy nursing etc in educational institutions which are claimed to be minority educational institutions the petitioners have questioned the applicability of the scheme framed by this court in j p unni krishnan v state of a p 1993.
separate directions were however given in respect of institutions referred to in writ petitions nos 284 and 482 of 1993 with regard to writ petition no 284 of 1993 it was observed that in the said writ petition the petitioner has claimed that no capitation fee is charged from any student and the fee charged is not more than in some cases less than.
thereby the action of the state is in defiance of the direction issued by this court.
in the aforesaid order dated october 719933with reference to the minority educational institutions in the state of kerala such as those covered by writ petition no 598 of 1993 it has been observed the system obtaining in kerala appears to be altogether different which was unfortunately not brought to our notice on august 181993 there are only two private engineering colleges in the state said to be minority educational institutions.
for admission in the last academic session 1993 94an interim order in the following terms was made by a bench comprising honourable the chief justice and one of us justice b p jeevan reddy on may 141993 in writ petition nos 350 and 355 of 1993.
it was further made clear that this was a special provision made only for that year.
as and when the temporary posts are converted either into permanent posts or the vacancies arise due to superannuation of the senior officers they should be fixed in the respective vacancies and fitment made.
we make it clear that regarding the character of these institutions whether they are minority educational institutions we express no opinion.
indlaw sc 2264 unnikrishnan j p v.
the candidates so selected and admitted shall pay scales of fee as applicable to this class of students as determined by the state government from time to time.
the officers he they direct recruits or promotees would rank below the juniormost officer in the list of the previous year.
since the process of selection of candidates for admission for the next academic session is to commence soon it is necessary to pass an interim order governing admission to the professional courses in minority educational institutions for the next academic session.
it would be open to the state government to fix tentatively the inter se seniority in the temporary posts according to the ratio between the direct recruits and the promotees in the same manner of filling the substantive posts as indicated above.
their appointments were dehors the rules.
in the rejoinder the promotees have stated that as on december 311974 a total number of 140 posts of asstt.
similarly as regards writ petition no 482 of 1993it was observed that according to the petitioner in that case the medical college run by it at vellore in the state of tamil nadu is a well reputed institution admission to which is made on the basis of all india entrance test conducted by the petitioner and that the admissions are made on the basis of merit and the fee charged by it is not more than the fees chargeable in similar governmental institutions and that there has never been any complaint about the working of this institution and it was observed that this fact was not disputed by shri seetharaman learned counsel for the state of tamil nadu.
