it would be appropriate at this stage to extract this part of the decree passed by this court in view of the foregoing we again wish to re emphasize that the terms the decree shall not affect the rights of the state of west bengal in any manner whatsoever to the fisheries in question if they have vested in the state under the provisions of the west bengal estates acquisition act1953 act x of 1954.
the injunction order issued against bansilal farms appellant in appeal arising out of slp c no 13314 of 1992stands vacated.
ray the learned senior counsel appearing for bansilal farms in addition to the contentions raised by mr salve appearing for the state of west.
besides the direction of the learned judge to the effect the collector24 paraganas is directed to allow messers ghose and saha surveyors to make proper demarcation in the nalban fishery dividing the same in two lots.
no reasons have been given by the learned judge in issuing the said directing and on the other hand the order appears to be bald order calling upon and thereafter carry out the directions of the honourable supreme court in respect of the same.
it may be noted that nalban fishery had been requisitioned by the state of west bengal under the provisions of requisition act since 5 11 1969 and possession thereof had been taken on 8 11 1969 and the sarkar family had challenged the said order unsuccessfully which final by the dismissal of the special leave petition by this court on 17 11 1972 on 25 5 1979 the collector 24 parganas who had been appointed as receiver realised that he could not have taken possession of nalban fishery as receiver since the said fishery had already been in possession of the state of west bengal pursuant to requisition order dated 5 11 1969 obviously the earlier compliance report dated 20 11 1978 that the receiver has taken possession of the nalban fishery was a symbolic one inasmuch as the state of west.
the state of west bengal was neither a party to the proceedings nor was noticed by the high court before passing the order.
the nalban fishery was one of the items of property in the suit for partition is not disputed.
the next question that arises for consideration is what is the effect of the amendment to the west bengal land reforms act which was amended in the year 1986 but with retrospective effect.
suffice it to say that under the amended provisions of the west bengal land reforms act tank fishery being included in the land would vest in the state by combined reading of sections 3a and 14 and therefore the state can not be divested of the rights accruing by the amended provisions until the amended provisions are declared invalid by a competent court of law.
bengal was in fact in possession of the said fishery.
in view of our earlier conclusion that the rights and interest of the state of west bengal was not in any way be affected by the so called partition and allotment of the nalban fishery inter se amongst the members of the sarkar family the said order dated 63 10 1980 passed by the learned single judge of the calcutta high court will not stand on the way of the state in claiming and putting forth its interest and right over the nalban fishery.
we do not find any illegality in the act of the succeeding receiver in rectifying the earlier mistake and re delivering the possession of nalban fishery to the state of west bengal.
this order of the learned single judge was challenged in appeal before the division bench and the division bench having dismissed the same the present appeals have been preferred.
after such demarcation is made the commissioner of partition is directed to approve the same and carry out the direction of the honble supreme court in respect thereof.
it was further contended that this court while giving affect to the compromise arrived at between the sarkar family made it explicitely clear that the said compromise will not in any way affect the rights of the state over the fisheries even if those fisheries agreed to be divided between the parties and in that view of the matter and the state of west bengal having already requisitioned the nalban fishery and having taken possession of the same the receiver could not have taken possession of the said nalban fishery pursuant to the order of this court appointing the collector 24 parganas as receiver and.
the aforesaid corporation issued an advertisement for auctioning the nalban fishery for a boating complex.
it is no doubt true that a writ petition has been filed challenging the validity of the aforesaid act and notification issued there under in relation to vary nalban fishery which is still pending and therefore it would not be proper for us to examine the provisions of the emended west bengal land reforms act and to express any opinion thereon.
the calcutta high court both the learned single judge as well as the division bench committed serious error of law in directing the receiver to take possession of nalban fishery from the state of west bengal and deliver the vacant possession of the same to the members of the sarkar family.
the receiver appointed by a court is an officer of the court.
it is an undisputed fact that nalban fishery had been requisitioned much prior to the aforesaid decree of this court dated 18 4 1979 and therefore the rights of the state to the fishery either by virtue of the requisition order or by virtue of any provision of any other statute remained protected and as such said state of west.
the aforesaid order can not be held to operate as res judicata taking away the rights of the state of west.
this court dismissed the special leave petition.
jaideep gupta learned counsel appearing for the respondents on the other hand condented that the decree passed by the supreme court in the partition suit amongst the members of the sarkar family on the basis of a compromise arrived at between the parties would bind the state of west bengal as the decree has been passed in presence of the state who was impleaded as a party.
we would further observe that the state should determine the amount of compensation which the sarkar family is entitled to under the relevant provisions of the act under which nalban fishery vests with the state of west bengal and the compensation amount be paid on being determined in accordance with the law to the family members of sarkar family in whose favour nalban fishery had been allotted under the compromise decree by this court.
the successor receiver in the circumstances therefore was fully justified in bringing it to the notice of this court by giving a second report indicating therein that his predecessor had erroneously taken the possession of nalban fishery which is in contravention of the directions of this court dated 18 4 1979 and for which the receiver offered his unconditional apology.
he further contended that nalban fishery having been vested in the state of west bengal under the provisions of west bengal under the provisions of west bengal acquisition act1955the state can not get rid of the direction given by the supreme court to the receiver to handover possession of the various fisheries covered by the final decree to the parties to whom they have been allotted under the decree and the nalban fishery being one such fishery the possession thereof was required to be given to the person in whose favour the said fishery has been allotted and therefore the learned single judge as well as the division bench in appeal have rightly issued the directions.
the contention of mr gupta appearing for the respondents therefore cannot be sustained.
under the circumstances the said receiver rightly intimated this court about the mistake committed by him and re delivered possession of nalban fishery to the state of west bengal.
it is also not disputed that the state of west bengal though was not a party to the suit but in course of proceeding before this court by an order of the court the said state of west bengal was impleaded as a party.
that the tank fishery vested with the state of west bengal.
the subsequent incumbent to the post of district magistrate 24 parganas who became the receiver by virtue of his official position had no further jurisdiction to re deliver possession of the nalban fishery to the state of west bengal and the comments already made by the high court on the report of the subsequent receiver sufficiently indicate how he had acted with the bias mind and consequently the nalban fishery having not vested in the state of west bengal under the acquisition act the decree passed by the supreme court on 18 4 1979 remains operative.
bengal ca nt be bound down by the so called allotment of fisheries in favour of some members of the sarkar family under the compromise decree in question.
the collector 24 parganas took possession of the fisheries including nalban fishery as receiver and submitted a compliance report dated 22 11 1978 to the registrar of this court.
there will be no order as to costs.
the appeal arising out of the petition suit bearing suit no 2539 of 1955 which had been registered as appeal no 200 of 1960 was finally disposed of by the division bench and the said order was assailed in this court in slp c nos 5370 5371 of 1978 the said two appeals arising out of the said two special leave petitions were disposed of by order dated 18 4 1979 on the basis of a compromise arrived at between the parties on intervention of shri ashok sen who appearing for one of the parties but it was indicated in the order that the state 's right in relation to the fisheries will not be affected by the decree in question.
