permanent employee has been divided in two categories i who had been appointed against a clear vacancy in one or more posts as probationers and otherwise and ii whose name had been registered at muster roll and who has been given a ticket of permanent employee.
the labour court did not draw any adverse inference.
whereupon the chief executive officer on the body of the said application itself made the following endorsement he may be tried in daily wages and should be entrusted with the work of progress collection of oda work put with illegible.
in hindustan shipyard ltd and others vs dr p sambasiva rao and others 1996 7 scc 499 1996 indlaw sc 3441 a division bench of this court observed.
it is accepted that no appointment letter was issued in favour of the appellants.
sub s 2 of section 6 reads as under where immediately before the commencement of this act standing order are in force in respect of any undertaking such standing orders shall until standard standing orders are applied to such undertaking under sub s.
such a plea had expressly been rejected by this court in a umarani 2004 indlaw sc 606 supra.
classification of employees.
if a document was called for in absence of any pleadings the same was not relevant.
appeals dismissed.
equal pay for equal work.
an illegal appointment can not be legalized by taking recourse to regularization.
the matter relating to recruitment is governed by the 1973 act and the 1987 rules.
the appellant nos 1 and 2 are degree holders in civil engineering and appellant nos.
see also karnataka state coop.
a state before offering public service to a person must comply with the constitutional requirements of articles 14 and 16 of the constitution.
the life of the project came to an end on 30 6 1997.
statutory.
despite the same the high court went into the question of applicability of the said act and held that the 1961 act and the 1963 rules had no application.
conclusion.
the state has not created any post nor they could do so on their own.
the maintenance job upon completion thereof had been taken over by indore municipal corporation.
the questions which have been raised before us by dr dhawan had not been raised before the labour court.
probationers iv badlies v apprentices and vi temporary.
yet recently in pankaj gupta ors etc.
background facts.
even the appointments to the local cadre must be made by the authority.
by reason of the impugned judgment dated 26 4 2000 the said writ petition was allowed.
1whether non regularisation of the sub engineers as per the listed enclosed is valid and proper.
the respondent authority appointed the appellants and posted them to an overseas project known as indore habitat project which was implemented through the agency of overseas development authority hereinafter referred to as the oda on daily wages.
it is not the case of the appellants that they had been working as technical supervisors and clerks in respect of which service book may be maintained instead of issuance of a ticket.
see orissa university of agriculture technology and another vs manoj k mohanty 2003 5 scc 188 2003 indlaw sc 348.
we have used the term keeping in view the provisions of 1963 rules.
a dispute arose as to whether all the appellants were employed for the purpose of the said project or the appellants in civil appeal no 337 of 2002 were appointed in the year 1991 by the authority for its own job.
in absence of any specific directions contained in the schedule appended to the standing orders the statute and the statutory rules applicable to the employees of the respondent shall prevail.
allegedly from their salary provident fund was being deducted.
it is also not in dispute that the state government in exercise of its rule making power conferred upon it section 85 of the adhiniyam has made rules known as m p development authority services officers and servants recruitment rules 1987.
i above.
we have seen that their names had been appearing in the muster rolls maintained by the respondent.
no post was sanctioned by the state government.
there is also nothing on records to show that such a claim was put forward even in the demand raising the industrial dispute.
it was within its jurisdiction to do so particularly having regard to the nature of the evidence adduced by the respondent.
the learned counsel would submit that in the aforementioned premise the question of regularization of the services of the appellants does not arise.
considering these facts in our view drawing of an adverse inference for the non production of the muster rolls for the years 1991 92 is wholly erroneous on the part of the industrial court and the high court.
the said provisions were not complied with.
their work was satisfactory.
the appellants have not produced any such ticket.
12 of the constitution of india.
with a view to become eligible to be considered as a permanent employee or a temporary employee one must be appointed in terms thereof.
we can not but bear in mind the fact that the initial burden of establishing the factum of their continuous work for 240 days in a year rests with the applicants respondents.
ajay kumar 1997 4 scc 88 1997 indlaw sc 833 jawaharlal nehru krishi viswa vidyalaya jabalpur m p vs.
to claim a relief on the basis of equality it is for the claimants to substantiate a clear cut basis of equivalence and a resultant hostile discrimination before becoming eligible to claim rights on a par with the other group vis  vis an alleged discrimination.
they were also being granted the benefit of leave.
it appears that there existed a scheme for regularization and some directions were issued in terms thereof.
before the high court various documents were produced by the appellants herein to show the nature of their employment but the same had not been taken on records by the high court.
no notification has been brought to our notice that the standard standing orders had been made applicable to the appellants.
employees shall be classified as i permanent ii permanent seasonaliii.
jt 2004 6 sc 110 2004 indlaw sc 606 a three judge bench of this court of which we were members upon taking into consideration a large number of decisions held although we do not intend to express any opinion as to whether the cooperative society is a state within the meaning of article but it is beyond any cavil of doubt that the writ petition will be maintainable when the action of the cooperative society is violative of mandatory statutory provisions.
such an order can not be upheld also on the ground that the employees allegedly served the cooperative societies for a long time.
an adverse inference need not necessarily be drawn only because it would be lawful to do so.
it was urged that the expression clear vacancies has to be read in the context of period for which the concerned workman was required to work namely six months.
the parties filed their respective pleadings before the labour court and also adduced their respective evidences.
we have referred to the said fact only for the purpose of showing that it would not be correct to contend that the appellants had no access to the said documents.
a distinction is sought to be made by dr dhawan that out of them 27 had been appointed to a project and not in a project.
rs 63 per day for the degree holders and rs 52 50 per day for the diploma holders.
vs state of jammu kshmir ors.
the nature of their employment continues save and except a case where a statute interdicts which in turn would be subject to the constitutional limitations.
a ticket of permanent employee was thus required to be issued in terms of order 3 of the standard standing orders.
sd c e o 23 10 91.
such a relief would have been beyond the scope and purport of the reference made to the labour court by the state government.
the 1961 act was enacted to provide for rules defining with sufficient precision in certain matters the conditions of employment of employees in undertakings in the state of madhya pradesh.
no case was made out by the appellants herein in their statements of claim that they became permanent employees in terms thereof.
the posts of sub engineers in which the appellants were appointed.
vs union of india and others 1987 supp.
the submission of mr m n rao to the effect that the principle of equity should be invoked in their case is stated to be rejected.
we have noticed the provisions of the act and the rules.
mr v r reddy learned senior counsel appearing on behalf of the respondents on the other hand would contend that indisputably the appellants were engaged by the respondent authority but such appointments were made for the purpose of the project financed by oda.
