clause 1 requires that all executive action of the state government shall have to be taken in the name of the governor.
this principle has been evolved by equity to avoid injustice.
a claim based on merely legitimate expectation without anything more can not ipso facto give a right.
appeals disposed of.
we make it clear that we have not expressed any opinion on the factual aspects except indicating the principles underlying legitimate expectation.
there was no material to show existence of any overriding public interest to rule out application of the aforesaid doctrine there was no scope for retrospective withdrawal.
sc 128 1996 indlaw sc 1845 and union of india and another v international trading co and another 2003 5 scc 437 2003 indlaw sc 472.
the contents of the files which were produced before the high court and on which reliance was placed to hold against the appellants are not known to the appellants.
in a given case whether there are such facts and circumstances giving rise to legitimate expectation would primarily be a question of fact.
v shree durga oil mills and anr.
v hindustan development corporation and others air 1994.
article 166 of the constitution deals with the conduct of government business.
its uniqueness lies in the fact that it covers the entire span of time present past and future.
the respondents have established their units prior to the government orders granting the subsidy and they have no vested right to claim exemption.
the decision maker has the choice in the balancing of the pros and cons relevant to the change in policy.
it is a well meant caution.
it depends very much on the facts and the recognised general principles of administrative law applicable to such facts and the concept of legitimate expectation which is the latest recruit to a long list of concepts fashioned by the courts for the review of administrative action must be restricted to the general legal limitations applicable and binding the manner of the future exercise of administrative power in a particular case.
we find no substance in the plea that before a policy decision is taken to amend or alter the promise indicated in any particular notification the beneficiary was to be granted an opportunity of hearing.
letter to be valid reversing the conclusions arrived at by the tribunal.
the doctrine of promissory estoppel had no application to the facts of the case at that stage.
the leading case on the subject is central london property trust ltd v high trees house ltd 1947 1 k b 130.
the appellants questioned legality or the g o ms No 989 dated 1 9 1988 directing discontinuance of purchase tax exemption in case of mills which exceeded the ceiling of rs 300 lakes during the period of five years and government letter dated 28 12 1988 which made the aforesaid g o ms No 989 of 1 9 1988 operative retrospectively from 1 4 1988.
contrary to what the high court has stated it appears from record that counter affidavits were filed.
the grant of subsidy is a concession and the government has got good reasons for modifying the scheme in public interest.
the high court has not dealt with the issue.
in any event the retrospective withdrawal of the benefit on the basis of an executive decision is impermissible.
the point to note is that the thing is not unreasonable in the legal sense merely because the court thinks it to be unwise.
the commercial productions were started in case of appellants in c a No 86062002 i e ponni sugars erode ltd v govt.
estoppel is a rule of equity which has gained new dismensions in recent years.
in other words where a person 's legitimate expectation in not fulfilled by taking a particular decision then decision maker should justify the denial of such expectation by showing some overriding public interest.
promissory estoppel is defined in black 's law distionary as an estoppel which arises when there is a promise which promissor should reasonable expect to induce action or forbearance of a definite and substantial character on the part of promisee and which does include such action or forbearance and such promise is binding if injustice can be avoided only by enforcement of promise.
the state questioned correctness of the judgment before the high court which as noted above held the g o ms and the govt.
the same also needs to be examined.
see union of india and others.
the basic requirement of article 14 is fairness in action by the state and non arbitrariness in essence and substance is the heart beat of fair play.
if any concession has been given it can be withdrawn at any time and no time limit should be insisted upon before it was withdrawn.
the appellants only made representation to government subsequently claiming exemption at par with the cooperative and public sector mills.
that purpose is to avoid or prevent a detriment to the party asserting the estoppel by compelling the opposite party to adhere to the assumption upon which the former acted or abstained from acting.
the materials which were produced before the high court and on the basis of which it is decided that the decision of the government is in order were not even pleaded in the pleadings and during arguments.
that is and ought to be a difficult onus for an applicant to discharge.
as the correctness of factual basis justifying withdrawal is in issue fair play certainly warranted grant of opportunity to the appellants to present its side of the picture.
it is to be noted that no privilege was claimed from production of the file as the files were produced before the high court and in fact the high court referred to the materials on the files to affirm state 's action.
the principle set out above was reiterated by lord denning in high trees 's case supra.
the courts are not very good at formulating or evaluating policy.
where a particular mode is prescribed for doing an act and there is no impediment in adopting the procedure the deviation to act in different manner which does not disclose any discernible principle which is reasonable itself small be labelled as arbitrary.
sc 1021 1970 indlaw sc 341 radhakrishna v state of bihar air 1977.
such a plea is clearly unsustainable.
if the state acts within the bounds of reasonableness it would be legitimate to take into consideration the national priorities and adopt trade policies.
in other words there was clear violation of the principles of natural justice.
the governor shall make rules for the more convenient transaction of the business of the government of the state and for the allocating among ministers of the said business in so far as it is not business with respect to which the governor is by or under this constitution required to act in his discretion.
v state of mysore and ors.
legitimacy of an expectation can be inferred only if it is founded on the sanction of law.
the question of legitimate expectation arises according to the appellants after the benefits were granted by the concerned g o ms.
nor is the test court 's own standard of reasonableness as it might conceive it in a given situation.
similar view was expressed in m s pawan alloys and casting pvt ltd meerut etc.
the doctrine of legitimate expectation has an important place in the developing law of judicial review.
if there is a supervening public equity the government would be allowed to change its stand and has the power to withdraw from representation made by it which induced persons to take certain steps which may have gone adverse to the interest of such persons on account of such withdrawal.
this court 's observations in g b mahajan v jalgaon municipal council air 1991 sc 1153 1990 indlaw sc 438 are kept out of lush field of administrative policy except where policy is inconsistent with the express or implied provision of a statute which creates the power to which the policy relates or where a decision made in purported exercise of power is such that a repository of the power acting reasonably and in good faith could not have made it.
in fact the government of tamil nadu vide g o ms.
1999 1 scc 573 1997 indlaw sc 1219 it was further held that the government could change its industrial policy if the situation so warranted and merely because the resolution was announced for a particular period it did not mean that the government could not amend and change the policy under any circumstances.
the judgment forms subject matter of challenge in these appeals.
how significant is the statement that today is tomorrows yesterday.
otherwise a resourceful litigant having vested interest in contract licences etc can successfully indulge in getting welfare activities mandated by directing principles thwarted to further his own interest.
initially the writ petitions were filed before the high court but after constitution of the tamil nadu taxation special tribunal hereinafter referred to as the tribunal the writ petitions were transferred to the tribunal which held that on application of the principles of promissory estoppel and legitimate expectation the withdrawal of benefit was not sustainable in law.
it can be one of the grounds to consider but the court must lift the veil and see whether the decision is violative of these principles warranting interference.
the courts are bound to consider all aspects including the results sought to be achieved and the public good at large because while considering the applicability of the doctrine the courts have to do equity and the fundamental principles of equity must for ever be present in the mind of the court.
reasonableness of restriction is to be determined in an objective manner and from the standpoint of interest of the general public and not from the standpoint of the interests of persons upon whom the restrictions have been imposed or upon abstract consideration.
in shrijee sales corporation and anr v union of india 1997 3 scc 398 1996 indlaw sc 1561 it was observed that once public interest is accepted as the superior equity which can override individual equity the principle would be applicable even in cases where a period has been indicated for operation of the promise.
sc 3910 1997 indlaw sc 1364 and in sales tax officers and anr.
no inducement was made in the government orders to establish the units.
while clause 1 is in relation to the mode of expression clause 2 lays down the ways in which the order is to be authenticated.
the high court recorded the following findings on the factual aspects.
sometimes when the courts have intervened on policy grounds the court 's view of the range of policies open under the statute or of what is unreasonable policy has not got public acceptance.
as cautioned in attorney general for new south wale 's case the courts should restrain themselves and respect such claims duly to the legal limitations.
therein the court ruled that the principle stated in high trees 's case supra is that where one party has by his words or conduct made to the other a promise or assurance which was intended to affect the legal relations between them and to be acted on accordingly then once the other party has taken him at his word and acted on it the party who gave the promise or assurance can not afterwards be allowed to revert to the previous legal relationship as if no such promise or assurance had been made by him but he must accept their legal relations subject to the qualification which he himself has so introduced even though it is not supported in point of law by any consideration but only by his word.
