the high court while passing the impugned order and judgment did not take into consideration that the accused respondent has been convicted in another criminal case no 202 of 1997 by the court of metropolitan magistrate patiala house new delhi.
a person whose case is based on falsehood can be summarily thrown out at any stage of the litigation.
learned senior counsel appearing for the appellant further submitted that there was no good reason for letting the respondent off by granting to him the said benefit of pob act particularly keeping in view the large scale irregularity and unauthorized constructions carried by the builders in delhi despite strict direction of the municipal authorities and courts passing various orders from time to time against the unauthorized constructions.
if he withholds a vital document in order to gain advantage on the other side then he would be guilty of playing fraud on the court as well on the opposite party.
it was further submitted by learned senior counsel appearing for the appellant that the court shall not direct release of offender unless it is satisfied that the offender or his surety if any has a fixed place of abode or regular occupation in the place over which the court exercises jurisdiction or in which the offender is likely to live during the period for which he enters into the bond.
the trial court after the conclusion of the trial convicted the second respondent under sections 332 and 461 of the dmc act and sentenced him to six months simple imprisonment and imposed a fine of rs 5000 annexure p 1.
1the court shall take into consideration the report if any of the probation officer concerned in relation to the case.
the high court also failed to take into consideration that the respondent has been in jail for three days and had not put in substantial period in custody.
2 whether.
the said court by an order and judgment dated 23 3 2004 dismissed the appeal by holding that there was no infirmity in the order passed by the trial court annexure p 2.
it was also submitted that the requirement of calling of a report from the probationer officer under section 42 of the pob act has been waived off by the counsel for the state of delhi and that the counsel for the mcd also did not raise any objection before the high court.
words.
1979 crl.
before deciding to act under s 4 1it is mandatory on the part of the court to call for a report from the probation officer and if such a report is received it is mandatory on the part of the court to consider the report.
appeal allowed.
the offender can only be released on probation of good conduct under this section when the court forms an opinion having considered the circumstances of the case the nature of the offence and the character of the offender that in a particular case the offender should be released on probation of good conduct.
it is the specific case of the appellant herein that the high court has not afforded to the appellant an opportunity to file counter affidavit.
convict remained for sentence.
one mr m k verma.
he further contended that the trial court has committed serious error in exercising jurisdiction while not granting the benefit of probation to the answering respondent and the order of the trial court was therefore rightly and justifiable modified by the high court.
2 before making any order under sub section.
against the judgment and order dated 23 3 2004the accused filed criminal revision petition no 185 of 2004 before the high court delhi.
since the high court has disposed of the criminal revision without giving an opportunity of filing counter affidavit to the counsel for the mcd and that the respondent did not disclose the fact in the criminal revision filed before the high court that he has also been convicted in another criminal case no 202 of 1997the judgment impugned in this appeal can not be allowed to stand.
the high court vide its order impugned in this appeal has observed that there is no allegation that the respondent is a previous convict.
it was therefore submitted that the sentence imprisonment awarded by the metropolitan magistrate has been suspended under section 389 of the criminal procedure code by the court of additional sessions judge delhi in view of the pendency of the appeal against the order of conviction is a continuation of proceedings and therefore there is no conviction against the answering respondent so long as the same is not decided by the court of sessions.
at the time of arguments the advocate for the accused submitted before the high court that the accused did not wish to challenge the conviction on merits and stated it a fit case of accused to be admitted to the benefit of pob act on the ground that the accused faced trial for 12 years in the lower courts and remained in jail for three days.
the appellate court held that no interference is required in the order passed by the trial court regarding point of sentence.
in the case of r mahalingam v g padmavathi and anr.
in the above background two questions of law arise for consideration by this court 1 whether the high court was correct in extending the benefit of the probation of offenders act1958 to the accused respondent without calling for a report from the authorities relating to the conduct of the respondent as per section 4 of the act.
in the interest of justice sentence of six months si with fine of rs 5000 i d one month si is imposed upon the convict for offence u s 332461 dmc act.
the words if any would only cover a case where notwithstanding such requisition the probation officer for one reason or other has not submitted a report.
it was further contended that the respondent has not contested the revision in the high court on merits and confined his submission to the benefit of section 4 of the pob act being extended to him.
no 185 of 2004 be set aside and appropriate orders be passed in this appeal.
therefore learned senior counsel appearing for the appellant prayed that order dated 26 3 2004 in crl.
aggrieved by that order the second respondent accused filed an appeal before the sessions court delhi.
these facts are of primary importance before the court can pass an order under the probation of offenders act.
he has faced trail since 1991 he is aged about 57 years.
the word shall in sub section 2 of section 4 is mandatory and the consideration of the report of the probationer officer is a condition precedent to the release of the accused as reported in the case of state v naguesh g shet govenkar and anr air 1970.
pw 4junior engineer civil line zone visited 189 prem gali punja sharif mori gate where he found unauthorized construction going at the first floor of the said plot.
the high court also observed that there is no allegation that the petitioner accused is a previous convict and it further held that the accused deserved the benefit of probation under section 4 of the pob act and while maintaining the conviction of the respondent accused the sentence of imprisonment and fine as awarded to him was set aside.
such exercise of discretion needs a sense of responsibility.
a litigant who approaches the court is bound to produce all documents which are relevant to the litigation.
