appeal allowed.
furthermore as noticed hereinbefore the authorities of the dri by a letter dated 28 02 2005 requested the bank to defreeze the bank accounts of appellant.
the said documents in our opinion were material.
20 12 2004the authorities of the dri stated that transactions after 11 10 2003 were not under scrutiny.
recording of such statement must have been made from the xeroxed copies of such documents which were available with the detaining authority.
appellant and the said prabhjot singh made statements u s 108 of the customs act.
we may notice that in sk.
but indisputably those documents involving the civil court proceedings were not placed before the detaining authority.
no hard and fast rule can be precisely formulated that would be applicable under all circumstances and no exhaustive guidelines can be laid down in that behalf.
the same was not done.
what is necessary to be supplied is the relevant and the material documents but thus all relevant documents must be supplied so as to enable the detenue to make an effective representation which is his fundamental right u art 225 of the constitution of india.
the delay caused in this case in issuing the order of detention has not been explained.
non alloy.
m s s p industrial corporation m s.
v by orders dated 31 8 2004 and 28 10 2004the civil judge directed release of documents to appellant.
but the said information report was registered only on 6 4 2005 and not prior to the date of order of detention.
it may be true that appellant in his representation dated 14 06 2005 requested for showing him the original documents referred to or mentioned in the grounds of detention but then at least the xeroxed copies thereof should have been made available to him.
the question has been considered by this court in rajinder arora 2006 indlaw sc 87 supra stating admittedly furthermore the status report called for from the customs department has not been taken into consideration by the competent authorities.
this office never intended to stop the export incentives occurring to the parties after the date of action i e 11 10 2003 in the civil your office letter.
in the meantime admittedly the period of detention being over appellant had been set at large.
the judgment of the high court therefore cannot be sustained.
in view of our findings aforementioned it is not necessary to consider the contention raised by mr mukul rohtagi that order of detention suffers from non application of mind.
it is possible to presume that the confession made by the co accused sowkath ali would also have contributed to the final opinion that the confession made by the petitioner on 7 11 1999 can safely be relied on.
even the letter dated 23 4 1999 which reached the secretary concerned at 3 00 p m on 26 4 1999 was much before the formal detention order dated 28 4 1999 the secretary concerned was obliged to place the same before the detaining authority.
he was discharged on bail on 6 1 2004 several inquiries were conducted both inside and outside india.
it was therefore difficult to appreciate why order of detention could not be passed on the basis of the materials gathered by them.
it may be that the detaining authority might have come to the same conclusion as the sponsoring authority but its contents are relevant which could not be withheld by the sponsoring authority.
it would be reasonable to assume that if the district magistrate of burdwan was really and genuinely satisfied after proper application of mind to the materials before him that it was necessary to detain the petitioner with a view to preventing him from acting in a prejudicial manner he would have acted with greater promptitude both in making the order of detention as also in securing the arrest of the petitioner and the petitioner would not have been allowed to remain at large for such a long period of time to carry on his nefarious activities.
for short cofeposa.
learned additional solicitor general submitted that due to non supply of documents which were not vital or have merely been referred to as incidental the order of detention may not become vitiated as was been held by this court in kamarunnissa v.
we may also place on record that sen j in rajendrakumar natvarlal shah 1988 indlaw sc 71 suprawhile laying down various stages of the procedures leading to an order of detention opined that rule as to unexplained delay in taking action is not inflexible and a detention under cofeposa may be considered from a different angle.
prabhjot singh allegedly admitted to have supplied fake bills to units owned and controlled by appellant on commission basis without actual supply of the goods.
so far as the question of non placement of material documents before the detaining authority is concerned we may notice the following dates i by a letter dated 5 7 2002the authorities of dri stated that appellant stood exonerated for earlier years after detailed examination.
in paragraph 36 of the order of detention the detaining authority stated in view of the facts mentioned above i have no hesitation in arriving at the conclusion that you have through your acts of omission and commission indulged in prejudicial activities as narrated above.
but we fail to understand as to why despite the fact that the proposal for detention was made on 2 12 2004the order of detention was passed after four months.
it has not been denied or disputed that even the xeroxed copies of the said documents had not been supplied to the detenue.
right to make an effective representation is also a statutory right see sunila jain v 2006 3 scc 321 2006 indlaw sc 65.
on the aforementioned allegations an order of detention was issued on 5 4 2005 appellant moved for issuance of a writ of habeas corpus before the high court of judicature of punjab and haryana.
act1974.
in the present case except stating that the documents were not supplied before the meeting of the advisory board there is no pleading that it had resulted in the impairment of his right nor could counsel for the petitioners point out any such prejudice.
serajul v state of west bengal 1975 2 scc 78 1974 indlaw sc 475this court opined there was thus delay at both stages and this delay unless satisfactorily explained would throw considerable doubt on the genuineness of the subjective satisfaction of the district magistrate burdwan recited in the order of detention.
it is set aside accordingly and the order of detention passed against appellant is quashed.
a division bench of this court in k s nagamuthu v state of tamil nadu ors 2005 9 scale 534 2005 indlaw sc 748 struck down an order of detention on the ground that the relevant material had been withheld from the detaining authority which in that case was a letter of the detenu retracting from confession made by him.
on 13 10 2003appellant was arrested.
it may further be true that appellant had remained in detention for the entire period but it is one thing to say that the writ of habeas corpus in this circumstances can not issue but it is another thing to say that an order of detention is required to be quashed so as to enable the detainee to avoid his civil liabilities under safema as also protect his own reputation.
the self inculpatory statements of appellant and that of prabhjot singh were said to have been taken off the file.
