kay aar biscuits p ltd.
instead of compelling the holder of a trade mark in every case to prove his proprietary right before he could ask the court to grant him an injunction the trade marks act provides a procedure whereby by registering his trade mark the owner gets certain facilities in the mode of proving his title.
these are considerations which are relevant in disputes arising under the trade marks act.
we do not find any merit in this argument.
the object of the notification is to grant benefits only to those industries which otherwise do not have the advantage of a brand name.
appeals dismissed.
meghraj.
the above show cause notices were issued by the department demanding differential duty for the period april 1994 to june 1994 amounting to rs 374948 plus short paid duty for the period april 1995 to may 1995 amounting to rs 92992 the said demand was based on an agreement detected by the department.
rich food products p.
that agreement was between madan verma director of a company known as m s.
it was further held that the burden is on the assessee to satisfy the adjudicating authority that there was no such intention.
the mark can be originated by a person or it can be subsequently acquired by him from somebody else.
under.
ltd and m s.
this contention was rejected by the commissioner a on the ground that under the notification no 193 ce as amended exemption was not available to the specified goods bearing brand name or trade name registered or not of another person.
the applicant was the originator of that mark so far as that class of goods is concerned and so far as this country is concerned.
the burden is on the appellants particularly when the department is relying upon the agreement dated 23 11 89 between m s lastly we are required to examine the retrospective effect of the registration certificate dated 30 6 2000 with effect from 30 9 91 at the outset we may reiterate that the object of the exemption notification was neither to protect the owners of the trade mark nor the consumers from being misled.
to summarise therefore a trader acquires a right of property in a distinctive mark merely by using it upon or in connection with his goods irrespective of the length of such user and the extent of his trade.
the proprietors of the mark on the labels bearing the mark monarch on the different kinds of its food products and therefore the respondent company had no right to apply for registration in its favours as if it was the proprietor thereof.
in the present case there is no deed or assignment from m s ltd to the m s meghraj biscuits industries ltd appellants herein as stated above there is no proof of acquisition on payment or consideration by the appellants to m s kay aar biscuits p ltd in the present case there is no evidence of assignment or licence from m s ltd to the appellants.
in many of those cases the dispute was between a foreign trader using a foreign mark in a foreign country on goods which were subsequently imported by indian importers and sold by them in this country under that very mark.
in the rectification application.
air 1947 bom 445chagla j as he then was observed in this connection as follows the question is whether in india the trade marks act of 1940 has made any change in the legal rights of the owner of a trade mark.
before concluding we may refer to the judgment of this court in the case of commissioner of central excise mumbai v bigen industries ltd 2006 197.
it was next contended by mr shavaksha that the respondent company had itself shown kipre and co private ltd.
it was urged that merely because an agreement stood entered into on 22 11 89 between m s ltd.
air 1965 bombay 35 1961 indlaw mum 91it has been held vide paras 27 and 30 that the trade marks act merely facilitates the mode of proof.
ltd had put up a unit for manufacture of wafers in noida which it sought to manufacture under the brand name meghraj.
and therefore they were entitled to exemption.
explanation ix defined the word brand name or trade name.
he in fact used it in respect of watches.
party no 1 under the agreement.
i have also pointed out that the statute which came to be enacted in england in 1875 and the subsequent statutes did nothing more than to embody the rights in relation to trade marks which were already laid down by the courts of equity.
our trade marks law is based on the english trade marks law and the english acts.
the assistant commissioner ghaziabad examined the printed wrappers.
he has filed an affidavit enclosing the registration certificate dated 30 6 2000.
this aspect is important since one of the arguments advanced by the appellants herein before the commissioner a was that the trade mark belonged to m s ltd which was registered ssi unit lying closed since 1 3 1993.
if these two names had stood by themselves without any further description of either of them it could be said that both kipre and co and the respondent company were jointly the owners of the mark as well as the owners of the goods to which the label was affixed.
on behalf of the appellants it has been vehemently argued that m s kay aar biscuits p ltd was never the registered owner of the trade mark meghraj.
a person may become a proprietor of a trade mark in diverse ways.
one more fact needs to be mentioned that on 30 6 2000 the registrar of trade marks appears to have issued registration certificate on 30 6 2000 registering the trade mark meghraj in favour of the appellants with effect form 30 9 91 it appears that issuance of this certificate was mentioned before the cegat which rejected the rectification application on 8 12 2000.
applying the above test to the facts of the present case madan verma is a common director in the two companies.
in this connection reliance was placed by the commissioner a on the said agreement dated 22 11 89 before the commissioner a the appellants herein contended that they had used the name m s meghraj biscuits industries ltd on the wrapper and not on the product.
sub cl i of s 20 of the trade marks act itself assumes and implies that such a right existed in the owner of a trade mark because it says that the unregistered holder of a trade mark can maintain a suit for the infringement of a trade mark provided that the trade mark was in use before february.
under show cause notices it was alleged that the appellants herein assessee have sold the biscuits under the brand name meghrajwhich was a registered trade mark of kay aar biscuits p ltd who was using the said trade mark on manufacture of biscuits themselves and therefore the appellants were not eligible to the benefit of ssi notification no 193 ce dated 28 2 1993 as amended by notification no 5994 ce dated 1 3 1994.
we quote hereinbelow paras 27 and 30 of the said judgment which read as follows at any rate it must be remembered that in this case i am not dealing with a passing off action or an action for infringement of a trade mark which is alleged to be common property.
abandonment of the trade mark has to be proved by the appellants in the present case.
as already stated by me while referring to the observations of sir john romily it is not really necessary for me to decide in this case as to whether there could or could not be any property in a trade mark for the purpose of deciding this case.
in cases of such marks whereas the courts of equity did require some slight user before the proprietor thereof could institute an action for infringement thereof the statute enabled the registration of such mark without any user at all because such mark being distinctive per se it was not necessary for the person applying for its registration to show that mark had acquired a reputation in the market so that it could be associated only with his goods and of nobody else.
it is correct to say that the registrar trade marks can issue registration certificate u s 28 of the trade marks act with retrospective effect.
applying the principle of deemed equivalence we may clarify that if the ssi unit wrongly affixes a trade mark of another person be it registered or not or if it uses the trade mark of an ineligible person then such default would not be eliminated by the above principle of deemed equivalence embodied in s 28 of the trade marks act1999 as that principle is based on a deeming fiction which fiction is confined only to the provisions of the trade marks act.
the object of the notification therefore was to help the ssi units and thereby increased industrial production.
however in that affidavit he has not stated as to on what basis in the agreement of 23 11 89 signed by him he had declared that m s ltd is the owner of the registered trade mark meghraj.
this argument was rejected by the commissioner a saying that the appellants were using the brand name meghraj on their products.
hence these civil appeals.
no explanation has been given as to why madan verma has not been examined by the appellants.
therefore if a person invaded or threatened to invade the other 's right to or enjoyment of property the court u s 54 had the discretion to grant a perpetual injunction and trade mark was as much property for the purpose of s 54 as any other kind of property.
the respondent company is described as the sole distributors on the label.
it was conceded by mr shah that the labels which were used on the food products manufactured by kipre and co private ltd did bear the name of kipre and co private ltd immediately below the mark monarch and that the respondent company 's name was printed below it as sole distributors.
in india the mark caltex was a totally new mark for watches and allied goods.
elt 257 2005 indlaw sc 799sc.
particularly the following a proprietary right in a mark sought to be registered can be obtained in a number of ways.
in the present case issuance of registration certificate with retrospective effect from 30 9 91 will not tantamount to conferment of exemption benefit under the excise law once it is found that the appellants had wrongly used the trade mark of m s.
305 2006 indlaw sc 546 in that matter a show cause notice was issued calling upon the assessee to show cause why the exemption be not denied to the assessee.
even if it is found to be necessary to decide this question as to property in a trade mark i have already pointed out that the courts of equity in england granted relief in cases of infringement of trade marks on the basis of infringement of the right of property in the trade mark.
elt 225 2004 indlaw sc 996scthis court held that the assessee will not be entitled to the benefit of exemption if it uses on goods in question same similar brand name with intention of indicating a connection with the goods of the assessee and such other person or uses the name in such manner that it would indicate such connection.
it was further pointed out that in fact the appellants had applied for ownership of the brand name meghraj vide application dated 30 9 91 to the registrar trade marks under the trade marks act and that the said application for registration was pending before the competent authority and since the above arguments were not recorded in the impugned order of the cegat dated 11 4 2000 the same warranted rectification.
according to this provision not only a person should claim to be the proprietor of a trade mark but he should prove that he had used it as such proprietor on his goods.
in the case of consolidated foods corporation v brandon and co.
accordingly the civil appeals stand dismissed with no order as to costs.
as between two competitors who are each desirous of adopting such a markit is to use familiar language entirely a question of who gets there first.
for instance under s 23 of the trade marks act registration is to be prima facie evidence of the validity of the trade mark.
in the present case as stated above m s kay aar biscuits p ltd entered into an agreement on 22 11 89 with m s rich food products p ltd under that agreement the director of m s kay aar biscuits p ltd declared that his company was the owner of the registered trade mark meghraj.
