it was suggested that an agreement may be signed between them for the period from 1st september1998 until the matter was finally decided by the appellant under the tender on the existing terms and conditions with the charter hire being provisionally paid on ad hoc basis at 90 of the rate which was prevailing under the existing charter party.
as such all said and done oil co ordination committee s proposal was not accepted.
october1998the respondent had informed the appellant that they were agreeable to apply new rates for use of the vessel from 1st july1998 provided all the nine vessels are used.
issue.
vide order dated 12th.
appeal dismissed.
however before the charter party was to come to an end on 29th june1998the indian oil corporation limited for short ioc acting as agent of the appellant issued a fax to various ship owners including the respondent herein requesting them to extend the validity of the charter party agreement dated 6th may1997 beyond 30th june1998 for a period of one month from 1st july1998 with option for two further extensions of 15 days each.
final voyage should the vessel be on her voyage towards the port of redelivery at the time of payment of hire is due payment of hire shall be made for such length of time as owners and charterers may agree upon as being estimated time necessary to complete the voyage less any disbursements made or expected to be made or expenses incurred or expected to be incurred by charterers for owners account and less the estimated amount of bunker fuel remaining at the termination of the voyage and when the vessel is redelivered any overpayment shall be refunded by the owners or underpayment paid by charterers.
the respondent was asked to convey their acceptance to the said suggestion.
claims and counter claims were filed before the arbitral tribunal.
rendered by the high court of judicature at bombay whereby the learned single judge has set aside the order passed by the arbitral tribunal holding that they did not have jurisdiction to entertain and try the claim and counter claim made by the parties.
respect.
jag praja and jag prayog.
issue no 2 whether there is any common practice that if the vessel is not re delivered at the end of the period mentioned in the time charter the vessel would be governed by the charter party under which originally it was chartered.
the writ petition was ultimately disposed of on 20th august1999 it was only after a gap of about seven months that on 15th march2000the ioc informed the respondent about the evaluation of the tenders in terms of the order passed by the high court.
it was only on 31st december1998 when the ioc issued a fax to the respondent enclosing draft letter regarding charter party agreement to be signed between the charterers and owners with minor modification if necessaryrequesting the respondent to sign as per proposal by the 4th january1999on which date the respondent expressed its disinclination stating in reply fax that as per usual practice pending finalization of new charter the existing terms and conditions of the charter party continue to apply.
it was also submitted that the view taken by the high court being a plausible view interference in exercise of extra ordinary jurisdiction u art 136 of the constitution is unwarranted.
mr sudhir chandra learned senior counsel appearing on behalf of the appellant has assailed the impugned order on the sole ground that the charter party dated 6th may1997 having come to an end by efflux of time on 31st august1998the arbitration clause contained in it also perished and therefore in the absence of a fresh arbitration agreement claim of the respondent relating to the period 1st september1998 to 31st august1999 could not be referred to arbitration by invoking arbitration clause in charter party dated 6th may1997 laying emphasis on the fax message dated 26th august1998 addressed by the oil co ordination committee to the oil companies including the appellant inter alia informing them that no further extension of the current charter hire rate will be allowed learned counsel submitted that the said message made it clear to all concerned that charter party dated 6th may1997 would not be extended under any circumstance.
august1998they had no jurisdiction to decide the reference.
what is in dispute is whether the arbitration agreement between the parties had got extinguished after 31st august1998i e the date of expiry of the extended period of the charter party.
january1999coupled with the fact that they continued to use the vessel manifestly goes to show that except for the charter rate there was no other dispute between the parties.
admittedly the vessels continued to be chartered by the appellant beyond the date of this letter.
it seems that pursuant to the said notice and some subsequent correspondence exchanged between the parties an arbitral tribunal was constituted.
the appellant m s bharat petroleum corporation limited is a government of india undertaking under the administrative control of the ministry of petroleum natural gas and is engaged in refining distributing and selling of petroleum products all over the country.
may1997 came to an end by efflux of time on 30th august1998.
charterers to give owners 15 days notice to probable port of re delivery.
the learned arbitral tribunal overlooked this aspect of the matter.
however on 31st october1998the appellant faxed ioc s message informing them of the extension of the existing coastal tanker fleet for the month of october1998 at reduced rates viz 80 of the charter party rates prevailing till 30th august1998 on receipt of the said letter the respondent vide their letter dated 5th november1998protested against the revision of the rates for the vessel not being considered under the new bid and stated in unequivocal terms that it was not possible for them to accept the proposal of the oil co ordination committee communicated to them vide letter dated 12th.
admittedly after 31st august1998re delivery of vessel did not take place and therefore in terms of clause 23the vessel continued to be hired on the same terms and conditions except the term as to the hire charges on which there was disagreement between the parties.
indisputably the vessel in question had not been re delivered at least during the relevant period and the appellant continued to use the vessel beyond 31st august1998 having failed to re deliver the vessel in terms of cl 4 1 of the charter party the appellant can not plead that the charter party had been fully worked out.
as noted above after the extended period of charter party dated 6th may1997 had come to an end on 31st august1998.
issue no 1 whether the hon ble arbitral tribunal has no jurisdiction to adjudicate upon the dispute between the claimant and the respondent for the period september1998 to august1999.
the respondent challenged the said award before the high court.
the learned judge also felt that the tribunal had erred in totally excluding from its consideration cls 23 and 4 1 of the charter party dated 6th may1997whereunder the charter party was to come to an end on re delivery of the vessel.
this appeal by special leave arises out of a judgment and order dated 1st march2005.
therefore we refrain from expressing any opinion on the scope and ambit of the arbitration clause though prime facie it appears to be quite widely worded.
the respondent agreed to the said proposal.
we feel that it would be proper and expedient to constitute a fresh arbitral tribunal.
on the basis of the pleadings of the parties the arbitral tribunal framed as many as eight issues.
in view of the foregoing discussion we do not find any infirmity in the view taken by the high court that charter party dated 6th may1997 had not come to an end by efflux of time and it got extended by the conduct of the parties warranting interference.
thereafter in september1998the ioc for and on behalf of the oil industry floated a fresh tender for carriage of petroleum products along the indian coast on time charter basis for a period of one year commencing from 1st september1998 to 31st august1999on the terms and conditions set out in the tender document.
charter hire rate worked out by the committee for vessel jag praja for the period from 1st september1998 to 31st august1999 was communicated to the respondent.
some other objections not relevant at this stage were also indicated.
and as the dispute between the parties related to the period subsequent to 31st.
they accepted the stand of the respondent sub silentio and thus continued to bind themselves by other terms and conditions contained in the charter party dated 6th may1997which obviously included the arbitration clause.
in response the respondent while expressing their disappointment with the rate but purportedly in view of their long business relations with the appellant conveyed their acceptance of the proposed rate in respect of each of the vessels named in separate letters all dated 1st.
we may examine the issue from another angle based on respondent s stand that charter party dated 6th may1997 continues to be in vogue till the chartered vessel is re delivered.
indubitably there was no further exchange of correspondence between the parties during the year.
it seems that being aggrieved of the decision of the ioc to invite revised price bids after opening of the sealed tenders one of the bidders filed a writ petition in the bombay high court questioning the said decision.
the state of gujarat anr 1974 indlaw sc 253.
the respondent responded immediately vide their letter dated 5th november1998agreeing in principle that revised charter hire rates as and when finalized in response to tender floated by the ioc on 1st september1998would be applicable to the vessels which are selected under the tender retrospectively from 1st september1998 it was pointed out that the vessels which are not chartered under the tender floated would be at a disadvantage.
nevertheless the appellant continued to use the vessel on hire with them under the time charter dated 6th may1997 the conduct of the parties as evidenced in the said correspondence and in particular appellant s silence on respondent s letters dated 5th november1998 and 4th.
