rasul mohammed abdul rahim 1963 3 scr 1 1962 indlaw sc 366 need not be discussed.
it is true that the high court while exercising its revisional power under section 121a of the act had set aside the concurrent findings of fact of the land tribunal as well as of the appellate authority even then examining the findings of the high court and considering the power conferred on it in the revisional jurisdiction under section 121a of the act we do not find any reason to interfere with the impugned order of the high court in the exercise of our power u art 136 of the constitution.
he also relied on a decision of this court in the case of mohan balaku patil ors vs.
he has not produced any geni receipts or any lease agreement to show that the 5th respondent has leased out the land in dispute in his favour on crop share basis and that he paid the geni to the 5th respondent.
appeal dismissed.
we have heard mr raju learned counsel appearing on behalf of the appellants and mr s n bhat learned counsel appearing on behalf of the respondents.
by lrs 2000 1 scc 518 1999 indlaw sc 941 is concerned it is difficult to conceive how this decision could be of any help to the appellants.
as noted herein earlier since section 121a of the act clearly empowers the high court to look into the legality of the orders impugned therefore it would be open to the high court to consider the material evidence on record when it finds that such evidence was not at all considered by the tribunals below or when the conclusion arrived at by the tribunals below run contrary to the materials on record or when it finds that there is no evidence to support the conclusion of the tribunals below or that the reasons given by the tribunals below are absolutely perverse or a finding was such that no court would come to such a conclusion or that the decisions of the tribunals below were manifestly unjust.
since the respondents 3 and 4 failed to produce any documentary evidence to show that their father was put in possession of the land in dispute by the 5th respondent mortgagee as a tenant and that they are continuing as tenants in respect of the said land after the death of their father i find that they are not entitled to grant of occupational rights.
so it is not possible to presume that the father of the respondent nos 3 and 4 gondappa who is the uncle of respondent no 5 was not the member of the family of the mortgagee respondent no 5.
to prove this fact he relied upon the entries in the r t c extract for the years 1968 to 1974 wherein his name is shown as the person in cultivation of the land in dispute.
ram samsthan beladhadi 1999 1 scc 74 1998 indlaw sc 1197.
right holders relying inter alia on the entries under the rtc record.
thus the r t c extracts produced by him do not support his contention that he was cultivating the land in dispute as a tenant.
so far as krishtappa yellapa pujar ors vs.
on the other hand in form no 7 filed by gondappa the father of the respondents 3 and 4he alleged that he was the tenant under the 5th respondent in respect of the land in dispute from the year 1968.
but it is significant to note that the nature of cultivation of the land is not shown as that of a tenant in the said r t c extracts.
2000 indlaw sc 332this court had laid down that when there was nothing illegal and wrong in the reasoning and conclusions arrived at by the high court and the same appeared to be well merited and in accordance with the interpretation of statutory provisions this court would not interfere with the order of the high court u art 136 of the constitution.
lastly in our view in view of the discussion made herein above the decision relied on by the learned counsel for the appellant in the case of dahya lal ors vs.
still we may not interfere if the justice of the case on facts does not require interference or if we feel that the relief could be moulded in a different fashion.
accordingly they prayed for rejection of the application filed by the father of the appellants claiming occupancy rights under the act.
we have already noted the findings made by the high court in the impugned judgment on the question whether the appellants could be held to be the tenants on the evidence and materials on record.
the tribunals below while accepting the case of the appellants had relied on the entries made in the rtc record in respect of certain period.
act1974 in shortthe act in the exercise of its revisional jurisdiction under section 121a of the act even then this is not a fit case where this court in the exercise of its power u art 136 of the constitution would interfere with such an order of the high court.
from a careful examination of the findings given by the high court as quoted hereinabove in upsetting the concurrent findings of fact arrived at by the tribunals below we are not in a position to hold that the high court was not justified in setting aside the concurrent orders of the tribunals below in the exercise of its revisional power under section 121a of the act.
in that decision it has been made clear that the high court was entitled to interfere with the orders of the appellate authority only on question of law or irregularity in procedure and on no other aspect.
in our view we have already held that the high court was entitled to interfere with the concurrent orders of the tribunals below as material evidence on record was not considered at all and non consideration of the material evidence on record is a question of law and therefore the high court was entitled to interfere.
the case of tenancy as made out by the appellants or their father was denied.
in that case the findings recorded by the appellate authority as affirmed by the high court by placing reliance on the entries made in the record of rights to the effect that the appellants were not in possession of the land on the relevant date nor were they cultivating the same were not accepted by this court.
the case of the appellants as made out was disputed by the respondent no 4 the case of respondent no 4 was that the scheduled land was mortgaged to the 3rd respondent rajashankar in the year 1968 and after the expiry of the said mortgage the mortgagee was liable to deliver possession of the same.
it is also significant to note that the respondent no 5who was alive when the enquiry was pending before the land tribunal has not given evidence in favour of the respondents 3 and 4 stating that he has leased out the land in dispute in favour of the respondents 3 and 4 except the interested testimony of respondents 3 and 4there is nothing else on record to show that their father was inducted as a tenant to cultivate the land in dispute by the 5th respondent after the land is dispute was taken on mortgage by him.
we have carefully examined the provisions under section 121a of the act which is the revisional power under the act and also the provisions u s 115 of the code of civil procedure for short the code so far as s 115 of the code is concerned it has been made clear that it is only in case of a jurisdictional error or when the courts below had acted with material irregularity in the exercise of their jurisdiction that the question of interfering with such an order can arise otherwise the high court is not entitled to interfere with any other order which does not satisfy the conditions laid down for interference u s 115 of the code.
