this view of the matter learned counsel for the petitioner has submitted that he may be permitted to withdraw this petition with permission to file a fresh petition on this very cause of action.
appeal allowed.
statement of shri hemant singh counsel for m s thakural mechanical works without oath.
any person aggrieved by the absence or omission from the register of any entry or by any entry made in the register without sufficient cause or by any entry wrongly remaining on the register or by any error of defect in any entry in the register may apply in the prescribed manner to a high court or to the registrar and the tribunal may make such order for making expunging or varying the entry as it may think fit.
first respondent withdrew the application against m s jain industries.
as it takes away somebody 's right it deserves strict construction.
the non user for a long time would disentitle a registered proprietor from renewal of the registration.
it confers an exclusive right of use of the trade mark in relation to the goods in which the trade mark is registered.
sub s 3 covers a case falling within cl b and not the cl a thereof.
the submission of mr sudhir chandra.
two interpretations of the said provision s 461b are possible.
section 56 power to cancel or vary registration and to rectify the register  1.
if thukral did then it can not be said that there was no bona fide use thereof by its proprietor.
sc 530 1970 indlaw sc 300 para 88 to mean by the use of the expression for the time being in cl 22 of art 366.
thus a case of speculative assignment is specifically required to be made out.
the order of injunction was vacated.
may1986 and may be renewed at the expiration of that period and of each succeeding period of a seven years.
the board could not while exercising its jurisdiction under s 461bof the act proceeded on the basis of such presumption.
respondent no 1 thereafter filed a suit in the delhi high court for grant of a decree of permanent injunction being suit no 2408 of 1985 alleging infringement of the said mark andor claiming right of passing off in respect thereof.
this amendment is intended to remove any ambiguity as for all other purposes the date of registration will be the date on which the application was filed vide cl 232 proviso to sub cl 1 also provides that the tribunal may refuse removal of the mark if it is shown that any proprietor had in fact made bona fide use of the trademark for goods or services of the same description or associated goods or services.
may1965 in class 7 in respect of flour mills circulating and centrifugal pumps coupling for machines pulleys included in class 7and valves parts of machines in the name of pooran chand jain and kailash chand jain trading as jain industries1166phatak.
it does not provide for a sun set law.
indisputably the scope of the provisions for removal from register in terms of s 46 and 56 of the act stand on different footings.
for the views we have taken we are of the opinion that the impugned judgment can not be sustained.
the second rectification application filed by the first respondent however was transferred to the intellectual property appellate board.
an assigner can transfer only such right which he possesses.
a writ petition was filed there against by the first respondent.
it is not correct that no cause of action survived against jain industries.
c the defendants shall maintain proper accounts of the sale of centrifugal pumps under the trade mark field marshal and shall file them in court as and when directed.
for the purpose of appreciation of the rival contentions we may notice the findings of the board as also the high court.
appellant 's counsel appeared on that date and inter alia contended that presently it was the registered owner of the trade mark which was sought to be cancelled.
it claimed user of the said mark since 1963 and sought for rectification of the register by expunging the expression circulation and centrifugal pumps from the specification of goods.
it only consented for grant of liberty in favour of the first respondent for filing of an application for the self same cause of action.
the core question which arises for our consideration is as to whether in the aforementioned facts and circumstances of the case the application under s 461b was maintainable.
leave granted.
it must not however be forgotten that s 461b provides for a special remedy.
in kabushiki kaisha toshiba this court relied upon hardie trading ltd anr.
registrar of trade marks under section 4656 and 107 of the trade and merchandise marks act1958 for rectification of entry relating to the registered trade mark no 228867 in class 7 after.
m s jain industries got itself registered and obtained periodical renewal thereof as is required under the act.
the question of maintainability of the second suit is absence of the registrant proprietor was not and could not have been the subject matter of consent at that stage.
the said application was dismissed.
if his title is not extinguished by reason of a provision of a statute for non user of the trade mark for a period of five years any assignment made shall be valid subject to such situation which we have noticed in paragraph 25 supra.
the prayer in the application was to take off the registered trade mark from the register in respect of centrifugal pumps goods so far as the registration made in favour of the appellant is concerned.
the right of the first respondent as a proprietor of the trade mark by reason of a long user is required to be determined vis  vis m s jain industries as also the appellant in the suit filed by it which is pending.
the learned judge directed recording of statements of the learned counsel in this behalf pursuant whereto the same were recorded which reads as under c o 9 of 1986.
the said m s jain industries however was not impleaded as a party therein.
under s 461it is proposed to clarify that the five years period will start from the date on which the trade mark is actually entered on the register.
allegation of trafficking is a serious one.
it therefore can be taken away only when the conditions laid down therefor are satisfied.
the trade mark for which registration is obtained is used intermittently.
our attention has again been drawn to a passage from law of trade marks geographical indications by shri k c kailasam wherein the judgment of the tribunal has been criticized in the following terms from the above legislative intent it would seem that the period of non use of the trade mark is to be reckoned continuously from the date of its registration.
the high court on the other hand opined it was not anybody 's case before us that m s jain industries.
whether the registered proprietor of the trade mark had taken recourse to trafficking or not must be determined in an appropriate proceeding.
when the applicant before the board establishes the fact in regard to non user of the mark for a period of more than five years on the part of the registered owner the latter may show that his case falls within the purview of sub s 3 of s 46.
in the case of american home products corporation v mac laboratories pvt ltd.
indisputably during the proceedings in the above suit m s.
at the time of grant of original registration advertisements are issued and objections are called for.
it seeks to enhance the period of moratorium of use of the registered trade mark from one month to three months so as to prevent speculative assignment.
ganga ram anil kumar hufsunil kumar and sumitra rani trading as thukral mechanical works railway road sirhind punjab are registered as subsequent proprietors of this mark as from 30th may1986 by virtue of agreement dated 30th may1986 and.
section 48 registered users  1 subject to the provisions of section 49a person other than the registered proprietor of a trade mark may be registered as the registered user thereof in respect of any or all of the goods in respect of which the trademark is registered otherwise than as a defensive trade mark but the central government may by rules made in this behalf provide that no application for registration as such shall be enertained unless the agreement between the parties complies with the conditions laid down in the rules for preventing trafficking in trade marks.
an ex parte order of injunction was passed on 19 12 1985 against the defendant appellant herein to the following effect.
we are not concerned herein as to since when it had been doing so.
its non user and rectification of the register could not in the aforementioned situation have been tagged with the cause of action if any against the appellant.
the registration of the aforesaid trade mark has been renewed from time to time and will remain in force for a period of a seven years from 13th.
we are not satisfied with the explanation offered by the first respondent that it gave up the case of non use of the registered trade mark against m s jain industries on the basis of statement made by the learned counsel for the appellant firstly because consent does not confer jurisdiction secondly because want andor lack of jurisdiction on the part of the tribunal can not be waived as if any order is passed without jurisdiction the same would be a nullity and thirdly because the cause of action even according to the first respondent in his application before the high court was different.
