appeal dismissed.
the next recovery relates to the ingots.
in other words there must be a chain of evidence so far complete as not to leave any reasonable ground for a conclusion consistent with the innocence of the accused and it must be such as to show that within all human probability the act must have been done by the accused.
v state of madhya.
they are 1 the circumstances from which the conclusion of guilt is to be drawn should be fully established.
i do not tell this even to p w 1.
the discovery of a fact in consequence of information received from an accused in custody must be deposed to.
at one time it was held that the expression fact discovered in the section is restricted to a physical or material fact which can be perceived by the senses and that it does not include a mental fact now it is fairly settled that the expression fact discovered includes not only the physical object produced but also the place from which it is produced and the knowledge of the accused as to this as noted in pulukuri kottaya 's case 1946 indlaw pc 23 supra.
that apart materials on record such as the statement of p w 22 recorded under section 164 of the code of criminal procedure1973.
the prosecution relied upon only circumstantial evidence namely confessional statements of the accused leading to recovery of various incriminating materials.
even according to the statement of the subsequent investigating officer pw 42several blank papers with the signature of pw 22 and cw 1 had been by pw 40 and such documents had been used to create false records to implicate pws 1 to 4 it is to be noted that pw 2 himself was one of the suspected person at the initial stage of investigation.
such alleged confession made belatedly thus creates doubt regarding its authenticity or voluntariness.
learned counsel for the respondent on the other hand supported the judgment of the high court.
p 12 dated 22 9 2003 made before p w 42 and subbiah and p w 24led to recovery of m dollar m 0 38 and key chain with key chain in m 0 39 from the toilet in the room of the accused.
he was also convicted for offences punishable under section 392 read with section 397 ipc and sentence to undergo rigorous imprisonment for 10 years and to pay a fine.
193 1996 indlaw sc 3059wherein.
p w 22who is a close relation of the deceased cousin has stated that two days after the occurrence after the information that bala prasanna was roaming near lic colony anna nagar police brought him to the police station and bala prasanna was arrested at 5 00 p m and was taken to the police station and a witness was present there.
therefore the statement of p w 3 and his mother that those articles were brought by the accused and left in the upstairs room is to be considered with a pinch of salt.
no witness has spoken that those clothes were worn by the accused at any time far less at or about the time of occurrence.
the conviction based on circumstantial evidence has been highlighted by this court in various orders of this court.
again the circumstances should be of a conclusive nature and tendency and they should be such as to exclude every hypothesis but the one proposed to be proved.
if the accused had killed the deceased and stolen those golden jewellery there is no reason as to why he had also not taken ear rings from the deceased.
law is well settled that when the prosecution relies upon circumstantial evidence all the links in the chain of circumstances must be complete and should be proved through cogent evidence.
on the basis of the aforesaid f i r investigation was taken up initially by p w 40.
the high court found that the circumstances highlighted were not sufficient to fasten the guilt on the accused and directed acquittal.
the alleged statement made by the accused led to discovery of knife bloodstained clothes rope etc.
in rammi alias rameshwar v state of madhya pradesh air 1999 sc 3544 1999 indlaw sc 1512 the scope and ambit of section 27 of the evidence act was analysed in great detail and it was concluded in para 12 as follows true such information is admissible in evidence under section 27 of the evidence act but admissibility alone would not render the evidence pertaining to the above information reliable.
it has been consistently laid down by this court that where a case rests squarely on circumstantial evidence the inference of guilt can be justified only when all the incriminating facts and circumstances are found to be incompatible with the innocence of the accused or the guilt of any other person see hukam singh v state of rajasthan air 1977 sc 1063 1977 indlaw sc 433 eradu and ors v.
state of hyderabad air 1956 sc 316 1955 indlaw sc 108 earabhadrappa v state of karnataka air 1983 sc 446 1983 indlaw sc 161 state of u p v.
further the proved circumstances must be consistent only with the hypothesis of the guilt of the accused and totally inconsistent with his innocence.
similar statement is made by p w 4 that apart c w 1 has stated that no statement has been made in his presence.
sc 79 1989 indlaw sc 31it was laid down that when a case rests upon circumstantial evidence such evidence must satisfy the following tests 1 the circumstances from which an inference of guilt is sought to be drawn must be cogently and firmly established 2 those circumstances should be of a definite tendency unerringly pointing towards guilt of the accused 3 the circumstances taken cumulatively should form a chain so complete that there is no escape from the conclusion that within all human probability the crime was committed by the accused and none else and 4 the circumstantial evidence in order to sustain conviction must be complete and incapable of explanation of any other hypothesis than that of the guilt of the accused and such evidence should not only be consistent with the guilt of the accused but should be inconsistent with his innocence.
information supplied by a person in custody that i will produce a knife concealed in the roof of my house does not lead to the discovery of the knife knives were discovered many years ago.
as a matter of fact p w 9 who was examined on the very date when police started investigation did not inform the police that she had seen the accused coming down from upstairs or that the accused had threatened her.
the trial court found the respondent guilty and recorded conviction and imposed sentence as aforestated.
in padala veera reddy v state of a p and ors air 1990.
the relevancy of the fact discovered must be established according to the prescriptions relating to relevancy of other evidence connecting it with the crime in order to make the fact discovered admissible.
the rest is inadmissible.
a the death is homicidal b the accused was in need of money to chase mathematics paper and for the aforesaid purpose he has killed the deceased to take away the valuable articles like computer and gold ornaments to sell such articles in the market.
