from the above definition it is clear thatdowry means any property or valuable security given or agreed to be given either directly or indirectly by one party to another by parents of either party to each other or any other person at before or at any time after the marriage and in connection with the marriage of the said parties but does not include dower or mahr under the muslim personal law.
p c m o 1 shall be destroyed after expiry of appeal time.
subsequently lw 3 pathan basheerunnisa sent her grandson pathan inayatullah khan lw 4 to the house of the parents of the deceased to inform them about the incident.
in our view the expression soon before her death can not be given a restricted or a narrower meaning.
they must be understood in their plain language and with reference to their meaning in common parlance.
out of this amount a sum of rs 15000 was paid at that time and it was promised that the balance dowry of rs 10000 would be paid in the month of october2002upon which the marriage was performed.
the accused did not care to explain as to how the death of his wife occurred.
they were married in the year 2002 and she committed suicide by hanging on 15th.
maintaining silence can not be equated to discharge of onus by the accused.
accused pathan hussain basha and pathan nazeer abi have rightly been found guilty of the offence by the courts.
the customary payments in connection with birth of a child or other ceremonies are not covered within the ambit of the word dowry.
secondly that soon before her death she had been subjected to cruelty or harassment by the husband or any of the relatives of the husband for or in connection with any demand for dowry then such a death shall be called dowry death and the husband or the relative as the case may be will be deemed to have caused such a death.
on 16th february2003at about 5 p m.
explanation ii  the expression valuable security has the same meaning as in s 30 of the penal code 45 of 1860.
however upon medical examination by the doctor she was declared brought dead.
first and the foremost we must consider what is the evidence led by the prosecution to bring home the guilt of accused.
all the expressions used under this section are of a very wide magnitude.
his daughter after the ramzan festival had informed him that the accused persons were harassing her and were even beating and abusing her.
applying these principles to the facts of the present case it is clear that the ingredients of section 304b read with section 498a ipc are completely satisfied in the present case.
at this stage it will be appropriate to refer to certain examples showing what has and has not been treated by the courts as dowry.
if this is so the legislature in its wisdom would have specified any period which would attract the provisions of this section.
the father of the bride could not pay the balance amount within time because he lacked the resources.
m madhusudana reddy conducted autopsy over the body of the deceased and prepared post mortem certificate giving the cause of death as asphyxia as a result of hanging.
he had called his son in law accused no 1to his house as per custom at that point the accused demanded a ceiling fan.
according to him the accused persons used to harass the deceased primarily for non payment of the amount of dowry as a result of which she was forced to commit suicide.
but even the rule of strict construction requires that the provisions have to be read in conjunction with other relevant provisions and scheme of the act.
again in satvir singh v state of punjab20018 scc 633 2001 indlaw sc 224.
appeals partly allowed.
these are penal provisions but ultimately these are the social legislations intended to control offences relating to the society as a whole.
the accused asked for rs 1000 with a ring for the deceased.
the sentence awarded by the trial court was confirmed.
there being no rebuttal thereto there is no occasion to interfere in the judgments of the courts under appeal.
similarlyin connection with the marriage is an expression which has to be given a wider connotation.
however the expression would normally imply that there has to be reasonable time gap between t he cruelty inflicted and the death in question.
investigating officer arrested all the three accused persons.
they faced the trial and were convicted by learned sixth additional munsif magistrate guntur for committing an offence under sections 498a and 304b ipc.
the concept of deeming fiction is hardly applicable to the criminal jurisprudence.
this was done in the presence of lw 10 and lw 11shaik ibrahim and mohd ghouse respectively.
the offences having been proved against the accused and keeping in view the attendant circumstances we are of the considered view that ends of justice would be met if the punishment awarded to the appellants is reduced.
12 the definition of dowry under s 2 of the act reads as under 2 definition of dowry.
after bringing the soaps she went to the house of the accused persons and found that the accused was absent and the deceased was hanging on one side of the room.
the high court of andhra pradesh vide its judgment dated 26th october2006while allowing the appeal in part convicted accused nos 1 and 2 for the aforementioned offences however acquitted accused no 3namely pathan khadar basha.
and further a 1 to a 3 are sentenced to undergo imprisonment for life for the offence u s 304 b ipc both the sentences shall run concurrently.
since these demands were not satisfied instantaneously he even left the deceased at her parental house.
as already noticed we need not deliberate on this aspect as the accused before us has neither been charged nor punished for that offence.
he had given only rs 15000 and had agreed to pay rs 10000 after four months.
this penal section clearly spells out the basic ingredients as well as the matters which are required to be construed strictly and with significance to the cases where death is caused by burns bodily injury or the death occurring otherwise than under normal circumstances in any manner within seven years of a marriage.
we have already referred to the provisions of section 304 b of the code and the most significant expression used in the section is soon before her death.
113 b lays down that for the purpose of this sectiondowry death shall have the same meaning as in section 304 b of indian penal code.
lw 1lodged the report which was registered by sri k srinivasarao lw 16the sub inspector of police.
onus has to be discharged by leading proper and cogent evidence.
despite such pressure she was not able to get that money from her family.
she had informed her parents of the ill treatment and the cruelty inflicted on her for non giving of dowry.
12 explanation appended to section.
according to this witness on 23rd january2002the marriage of his daughter was solemnised with accused pathan hussain basha and he had accepted to give rs 25000 in marriage.
thus the cruelty harassment and demand of dowry should not be so ancient whereafter the couple and the family members have lived happily and that it would result in abuse of the said protection.
in other words the offence shall be deemed to have been committed by fiction of law.
thereupon the body was sent for postmortem examination through constable p venkateswara reddy lw 15 lw 17p devdass also took photographs of the scene 3 lw 13dr.
the fir was registered under section 304b and section 498a of the indian penal code1860 for short the ipc thereafter investigation was conducted by one shri p devadass lw 17 he inspected the site from where he recovered and seized the saree that had been used for hanging.
the expression demand for dowry will have to be construed ejusdem generis to the word immediately preceding this expression.
in contradistinction to this aspect the legislature has applied the concept of deeming fiction to the provisions of section 304 b where other ingredients of section 304 b are satisfied in that event the husband or all relatives shall be deemed to have caused her death.
february2003 the witnesses including lw 1 have stated that for the first few months they were happy but thereafter there were quarrels between the accused and the deceased.
it is for the accused to show that the death of the deceased did not result from any cruelty or demand of dowry by the accused persons.
she was unable to bear the cruelty to which she was subjected by the accused persons.
the definition of dowry is not restricted to agreement or demand for payment of dowry before and at the time of marriage but even include subsequent demands was the dictum of this court in state of a p v.
