the conviction of second accused rajbir.
sentence section 325 ipc two counts was modified as the sentence section 323 ipc and he was sentenced to undergo six months rigorous imprisonment.
it is not essential that bodily injury capable of causing death should have been inflicted.
raju to pay substantial compensation to injured sukhbir.
additionally madan and rakesh attacked the complainant with lathi blows on shoulder and left elbow respectively and caused several other injuries to the complainant party.
appeal allowed.
it was submitted that injured witness sukhbir was not examined in the court and neither ct scan nor x ray nor operational notes of sukhbir were produced before the court and in the absence of such material evidence courts below erred in convicting the second accused section.
raju a 2 gave a pharsi blow on the head of sukhbir jage ram a 1 caused injury to jagdish pw 5 with two jaily blows.
307 ipc is unassailable.
aggrieved by the said judgment the accused appellants filed criminal appeal before the high court of punjab and haryana.
he surrendered on 5 1 2012 and is stated to be in custody since then for more than three years.
this position was highlighted in state of maharashtra v balram bama patil 1983 2 scc 28 1983 indlaw sc 414 girija shanker v state of u p 2004 3 scc 793 2004 indlaw sc 78 and r prakash v state of karnataka 2004 9 scc 27 2004 indlaw sc 117.
appellants have raised the contention that the prosecution failed to adduce evidence that a 2 rajbir attempted to commit murder of sukhbir.
the accused party went there and asked them not to cut the pullas.
although the nature of injury actually caused may be of assistance in coming to a finding as to the intention of the accused such intention may also be adduced from other circumstances.
further pw 9 has stated that during the ct scan it was revealed that a large extra dural haemotoma was present in the frontal region with mass effect and to avoid further deterioration of his condition he was operated upon by frontal trephine craniopmy an haemotoma measuring about 125 ml was evacuated.
air 2009.
compensation amount of rs 500000 deposited in this court by the 2nd appellant shall be paid to the injured witness sukhbir.
injured sukhkbir was found vomiting in the hospital and he was examined by a neuro surgeon dr hilol kanti pal pw 9 of safdarjung hospital delhi on 19 11 1994 i e the day after the incident.
having regard to the fact that the occurrence was of the year 1994 considering the other facts and circumstances of the case the sentence of imprisonment imposed on jage ram a 1 madan a 3 and rakesh a 4 is reduced to the period already undergone by them.
pws 5 and 6 being injured witnesses their evidence is entitled to great weight.
briefly stated case of the prosecution is that on the fateful day i e 18 11 1994 at about 8 00 a m in the morning the complainant jagdish pw 5 along with his two sons namely sukhbir and mange ram pw 6 were busy in cutting pullas reeds from the dola of their field.
he examined the witnesses and after completion of investigation challan was filed under sections 307 325 324 read with section 34 ipc.
the injured witnesses were taken to the primary health centre taoru where dr pardeep kumar medical officer medically examined the injured persons.
raju a 2 and madan a 3 stated that they were not present on the spot and they have been falsely implicated.
on failure to deposit the balance compensation the second appellant rajbir.
the section makes a distinction between the act of the accused and its result if any.
upon consideration of oral and documentary evidence the learned additional sessions judge vide judgment dated 17 2 2000 convicted all the accused persons sections 307 and 325 ipc and sentenced them to undergo rigorous imprisonment for five years and one year respectively and a fine of rs 500 each with default clause.
raju attacked on the head of sukhbir with pharsi.
ms vibha datta makhija learned senior counsel appearing for the appellants contended that the evidence of the witnesses suffers from material discrepancy and is self contradictory.
having regard to the weapon used for causing the head injuries to sukhbir nature of injures situs of the injury and the severity of the blows courts below recorded concurrent findings convicting the 2nd appellant section in our considered view the conviction of the second appellant rajbir.
6 mange ram.
whether there was intention to kill or knowledge that death will be caused is a question of fact and would depend on the facts of a given case.
in the case of state of m p vs kashiram ors.
second appellant rajbir.
for the purpose of conviction section 307 ipc prosecution has to establish i the intention to commit murder and ii the act done by the accused.
dr pardeep kumar pw 2 who examined sukhbir found during his medico legal examination a lacerated wound in the middle of the top of the skull.
307 ipc is confirmed and the sentence of imprisonment of five years is reduced to the period already undergone and additionally the second accused shall pay a compensation of rs 750000 to the injured witness sukhbir.
raju section.
in the wordy altercation second accused rajbir.
for inflicting blows on pw 5 jagidsh with jaily a 1 jage ram was convicted section 325 ipc and sentenced to undergo rigorous imprisonment for one year.
therefore an accused charged section 307 ipc can not be acquitted merely because the injuries inflicted on the victim were in the nature of a simple hurt.
we find no reason to take a different view.
as noticed above injured sukhbir sustained grievous head injuries and was deeply comatose and was in a state of shock and trauma.
he has denied that rajesh and usha had seen the incident.
it is sufficient to justify a conviction section 307 if there is present an intent coupled with some overt act in execution thereof.
we have carefully considered the rival contentions and gone through the impugned judgment and perused the materials on record.
additionally the learned counsel contended that the defence plea of private defence was not considered by the courts below in proper perspective.
as noted by the high court it is thus brought on evidence that had not surgical assistance been given to sukhbir he would have definitely died.
both the sentences were ordered to run concurrently.
in the fight the accused persons started inflicting injuries to the complainant and his sons rajbir.
in this appeal the appellants assail the correctness of the impugned judgment.
cogent and convincing grounds are required to discard the evidence of injured witnesses.
pw 8 ramesh kumar asi had taken up the investigation.
evidence of pws 5 and 6 is amply corroborated by medical evidence.
a 3 and a 4 have also given lathis blows to pw 5 and were convicted section 323 ipc and sentenced to undergo rigorous imprisonment for three months by the high court.
whether the accused person intended to commit murder of another person would depend upon the facts and circumstances of each case.
bail bonds of accused a1 a3 and a4 shall stand discharged.
first accused jage ram pleaded that on the date of occurrence complainant party jagdish and his sons mange ram and sukhbir forcibly trespassed into the land belonging to the accused and attempted to forcibly cut the pullas.
rakesh a 4 adopted the stand of his father jage ram.
jagdish further claims that he along with rakesh caused injuries to the complainant party in exercise of right of private defence of property.
when the matter came up for hearing on 14 10 2014 learned counsel for the appellants informed the court that he had offered rs 500000 by way of demand draft towards compensation to the injured sukhbir in the presence of the sarpanch of the village which he has refused to receive the same.
learned counsel for the injured witness submitted that for quite some time injured sukhbir was unconscious and thereafter suffering from mental trauma.
