section 5 makes it clear that the chief controlling authority in all matters connected with the land revenue in his division shall vest with the commissioner subject to superintendence directions and control of the state government.
section 257 reads as under 257 power of state government and of certain revenue and survey officers to call for and examine records and proceedings of subordinate officers.
thereafter the appellant filed letters patent appeal which was also dismissed by the division bench holding that when the state minister for revenue entertained the matter he was possessed of jurisdiction under section 257 of the maharashtra land revenue code and therefore the order passed by him under the said authority is within his jurisdiction power and competence.
section 11 provides that all revenue officers shall be subordinate to the state government.
being aggrieved by the order passed in the said revision respondent no 2 lalwani preferred rts appeal no 81 of 2000 and the respondent no 3 genu kadu preferred rts appeal no 114 of 2000 both.
a fair reading of sections 257 and 259 suggests that if revisional powers are exercised by a revenue officer having jurisdiction to do so further revisional power can be exercised by the superior officer or by the state government.
in fact the two authorities are interchangeable.
sc 1585 1964 indlaw sc 353 and hari shankar vs rao girdhari lal chowdhury air 1963 sc 698 1961 indlaw sc 157.
since the mutation entry no 1836 was cancelled by above order the talathi gave effect to these orders and effected the mutation entry no 2176 and showed the disputed properties in the name of the collector and deputy custodian of evacuee properties.
after remand the sub divisional officer conducted inquiry and again passed an order on 29 10 1987 and confirmed the earlier order.
3 if in any case it shall appear to the state government or any officer referred to in sub section 1 or sub section 2 that any decision or order or proceedings so called for should be modified annulled or reversed it or he may pass such order thereon as it or he deems fit.
however said revision rts 330 of 2001 is tenable since the appeals as provided under section 247 and 249 intervene in between the revisional orders passed by the sub divisional officer and the commissioner.
hence the present appeal by special leave.
petition dismissed.
thus in short we find that the scheme under maharashtra land revenue code is quite different scheme and it permits more than one revision.
chapter ii deals with the revenue officers their powers and duties.
learned counsel put heavy reliance on the decision of this court in the case of ishwar singh vs.
before parting with the order we must make it clear that in view of the request made by the appellant before the high court not to enter into the merit of the case since the party may prosecute their remedies in the civil court for adjudication we have not expressed any opinion with regard to the merit of the case of the parties.
a similar question came for consideration before this court in the case of ishwar singh vs 2 scc 334 under the rajasthan cooperative societies act1965 in that ac t by section 128 power was conferred upon the state government and the registrar to call for and examine the records of any enquiry or proceedings of any other matter of any officer subordinate to them for the purpose of satisfying themselves as to the legality or propriety of any decision or order passed by such officer.
however the sub divisional officer has taken the said mutation in revision in rts revision no 14 of 1984 and has set aside the mutation by order dated 30 7 1985 there was appeal as against that order which was remanded.
the said haji habib tar mohammed janu migrated to pakistan and while going to pakistan he sold his property to one smt.
it was submitted by the counsel that section 128 related to two authorities i e the state government and the registrar.
kra 309 l 6 was preferred before the minister for state.
a bare reading of the aforesaid provision would show that the provision uses the word and for state government but for other revenue officers.
considering the entire scheme of the code and the provisions contained in sections 257 and 259we are of the definite opinion that the minister concerned of the state government can entertain second revision to satisfy the legality and propriety of the order passed by the revenue officer.
in the said sale certificate the c t s no 129130 a130 b and 133 of village lonavala were mentioned.
that a second revision to the high court under section 482 of the cr.
the survey nos 1182 and 351being evacuee properties were allotted to the appellant in the year 1956 later on it was found that the appellant is in possession of more area and therefore the said order was modified on 6 5 1982 and excess area was granted to the appellant on payment of rs 31360 which appellant had paid on 17 5 1982 in government treasury and thereby the deputy collector and assistant settlement commissioner pune granted the excess land to the appellant and thereafter the dispute started between the parties.
2 unless the state government directs otherwise all revenue officers in a division shall be subordinate to the commissioner and all revenue officers 2in a district including the city of bombay shall be subordinate to the collector.
p c was not permitted.
the said revision was decided by the additional commissioner pune by order dated 22 11 2001 and the said revision was dismissed.
the directions were issued by the collector to the tahsildar to place the appellant in possession of the property as per the orders of the deputy collector and the deputy custodian of evacuee properties.
therefore the rts appeal no 128 of 1987 was preferred before the collector which was disposed off by the additional collector on 13 7 1993 by the said order the order of the third sub divisional officer was maintained.
appellant challenged the order dated 19 10 2002 passed by the minister by filing a writ petition which was dismissed by learned single judge of the bombay high court.
learned counsel submitted that the state government is the supreme revenue authority and existence of more than one appeal or revision to an aggrieved party is not per se abhorrent to any legal principle depends upon the statute.
the state government may appoint one or more additional collectors and in each district including the city of bombay and so many assistant collectors and deputy collectors with such designations such as firstsecondsuper numeraryetc.
section 231 defines the revenue officer as under 2 31 revenue officer means every officer of any rank whatsoever appointed under any of the provisions of this code and employed in or about the business of the land revenue or of the surveys assessment accounts or records connected therewith.
therefore under chapter xiii a clear distinction is made between the state government and the registrar.
provided that in no case the number of appeals shall exceed two 2 when on account of promotion of change of designation an appeal against any decision or order lies under this section to the same officer who has passed the decision or order appealed against the appeal shall lie to such other officer competent to decide the appeal to whom it may be transferred under the provisions of this code.
since the collector noticed on complaint that the orders of the collector has been bypassed or surpassed by the subordinate revenue officers the collector by order dated 12 7 1999 directed the sdo to take these mutations namely mutation entry no 2377 and 2394 in revision and therefore the sub divisional officer maval division has taken these mutations in revision bearing rts revision no 12 of 1999 the said revision was decided by the sub divisional officer at maval on 28 1 2000 and those mutations were cancelled.
the schedule appended to the code is as follows schedule e see section 247.
as against that the rts proceeding bearing no 3402 pra.
srivastava then contended that the high court correctly analysed and appreciated the scheme of the code vis a vis judicial review in revenue matters.
the aforesaid provision makes it clear that even if the decision is considered to be final the state government 's power to call for and examine the record and proceedings of subordinate officers is saved.
we record our finding.
the division bench observed thus.
lastly mr ahmadi submitted that the second revision would not lie under section 257 of the revenue code since section 259 of the code provides an opportunity to the state government to only correct any final order while exercising power under the provisions of section 257 i e with regard to its legality and propriety.
in the absence of any express provisions of this code or of any law for the time being in force to the contrary an appeal shall lie from any decision or order passed by a revenue or survey officer specified in column 1 of the schedule e under this code or any other law for the time being in force to the officer specified in column 2 of that schedule whether or not such decision or order may itself have been passed on appeal from the decision of order of the officer specified in column 1 of the said schedule.
we find no infirmity in the impugned order passed by the high court.
further in view of the fact that state government itself appoints the revenue officers including the commissioner under the scheme of the code and all revenue officers are subordinate to the state government as per section 11 of the act and even the chief controlling authority in all matters connected with the land revenue in his division is vested with the commissioner they are subject to the superintendence direction and control of the state government as provided under section 5 of the code.
