this appeal by special leave has been preferred against the judgment and order dated 23 february 2005 of bombay high court aurangabad bench by which the appeal preferred by the appellants was dismissed and their conviction under section 304 b read with section 34 ipc and sentence of 7 years ri imposed thereunder by the learned sessions judge aurangabad was affirmed.
the deceased bhimabai was daughter of pw 1 tukaram eknath tambe resident of village sanjkheda.
appasaheb son of sheshrao palaskar about two and half years prior to the date of incident which took place on 15 september 1991.
according to the case of prosecution a sum of rs 5000 and some gold ornaments had been given at the time of marriage of bhimabai.
thereafter the accused treated bhimabai properly but after about four months they again started harassing her.
a few days before nag panchami festival bhimabai came to her parental home and complained that the accused were not giving her proper food clothing and even footwear.
she also told her parents that her husband had asked her to bring an amount of rs 1000 1200 for the purpose of household expenses and manure.
pw 1 then immediately went to the house of the accused along with some of his relatives.
there he saw that bhimabai was lying dead and froth was coming out of her mouth which indicated that she had consumed some poisonous substance.
the police patil of the village pw 3 sandu mohanrao patil lodged an accidental death report at 9 00 p m on 15 september 1991 at the police station.
on the basis of the said accidental death report pw 6 sandeepan kamble police sub inspector visited the house of the accused held inquest on the dead body of bhimabai and thereafter sent the same for post mortem examination.
after completion of investigation charge sheet was submitted against the appellants and in due course the case was committed to the court of sessions.
the appellants pleaded not guilty and claimed to be tried.
the learned sessions judge after consideration of the material on record acquitted the appellants of the charges under sections 498 a and 306 read with section 34 ipc but convicted them under section 304 b ipc and imposed a sentence of 7 years ri thereunder.
the doctors did not find any sign of external or internal injury on the body of the deceased and in their opinion the cause of death was insecticide poisoning.
the report of the post mortem examination was admitted by the defence.
the specific case of the prosecution is that bhimabai ended her life by consuming poison because of harassment caused to her by the appellants for or in connection with demand of dowry.
he has deposed that in the marriage he had given rs 20000 as dowry.
initially bhimabai was treated well for about six months but thereafter the appellants started ill treating her.
bhimabai had complained to him that she was not being given proper food clothings and even footwear and occasionally the appellant No 1 used to beat her.
in his cross examination he has admitted that his statement that he had given rs 20000 in dowry at the time of marriage was incorrect and in fact he had given rs 5000 as dowry and the total expenses incurred in the marriage was about rs 20000.
he has also deposed that it was after about 1 12 years of marriage that bhimabai first complained to him about the harassment being caused to her.
there used to be some bickering in the marital life of bhimabai and her husband on trifling matters.
he has admitted that it was appellant No 1 who had sent a person on motorcycle who had given information regarding bhimabai being unwell and that both the appellants were present at the time of her funeral.
he has deposed that on an earlier occasion he had gone along with pw 1 and some others to the house of appellant no 1 to persuade him not to harass bhimabai and to treat her well.
she has stated in her examination in chief that bhimabai was being ill treated by the appellants and the reason for ill treatment was that they were demanding money to be brought from her parental home.
what i meant was that there was demand for money for defraying expenses of manure etc.
he then went to the house of the appellant and saw bhimabai lying with froth coming out of her mouth.
p c which was recorded on the very next day of the death of bhimabai this witness did not state that the cause for ill treatment was a demand for money and a consequent beating.
section 2 of dowry prohibition act reads as under 2.
it is well settled principle of interpretation of statute that if the act is passed with reference to a particular trade business or transaction and words are used which everybody conversant with that trade business or transaction knows or understands to have a particular meaning in it then the words are to be construed as having that particular meaning.
see union of india v garware nylons ltd air 1996.
sc 558 1991 indlaw sc 861.
the evidence adduced by the prosecution does not therefore show that any demand for dowry as defined in section 2 of the dowry prohibition act was made by the appellants as what was allegedly asked for was some money for meeting domestic expenses and for purchasing manure.
learned counsel for the appellants has also submitted that there is absolutely no evidence either direct or circumstantial to show that bhimabai committed suicide.
he has submitted that the insecticide thimet is extensively used by the farmers for preservation of crop and is kept stored in their houses and it could be a case where thimet accidentally got mixed with some food item and was consumed by bhaimabai.
the appeal before the high court and also in this court has been preferred by the appellants challenging their conviction under section 304 b read with section 34 ipc.
the appellant no 1 is in custody.
appeal allowed.
