accused pathan hussain basha was married to pathan haseena begum now deceased on 23rd june2002 at guntur.
it was an arranged marriage.
at the time of marriage it was promised that a dowry of rs 25000 besides other formalities would be paid by the side of the wife to the husband.
out of this amount a sum of rs 15000 was paid at that time and it was promised that the balance dowry of rs 10000 would be paid in the month of october2002upon which the marriage was performed.
the father of the bride could not pay the balance amount within time because he lacked the resources.
the accused pathan hussain basha his father pathan khadar basha and mother pathan nazeer abi forced her to get the balance amount of dowry.
despite such pressure she was not able to get that money from her family.
it is the case of the prosecution that for non payment of dowry the accused persons harassed the deceased and subjected her to cruelty.
this was informed by the deceased to various persons including her relatives and elders.
she was unable to bear the cruelty to which she was subjected by the accused persons.
subsequently lw 3 pathan basheerunnisa sent her grandson pathan inayatullah khan lw 4 to the house of the parents of the deceased to inform them about the incident.
however upon medical examination by the doctor she was declared brought dead.
lw 1lodged the report which was registered by sri k srinivasarao lw 16the sub inspector of police.
the fir was registered under section 304b and section 498a of the indian penal code1860 for short the ipc thereafter investigation was conducted by one shri p devadass lw 17 he inspected the site from where he recovered and seized the saree that had been used for hanging.
this was done in the presence of lw 10 and lw 11shaik ibrahim and mohd ghouse respectively.
thereupon the body was sent for postmortem examination through constable p venkateswara reddy lw 15 lw 17p devdass also took photographs of the scene 3 lw 13dr.
m madhusudana reddy conducted autopsy over the body of the deceased and prepared post mortem certificate giving the cause of death as asphyxia as a result of hanging.
on 16th february2003at about 5 p m.
investigating officer arrested all the three accused persons.
they faced the trial and were convicted by learned sixth additional munsif magistrate guntur for committing an offence under sections 498a and 304b ipc.
they were committed to the court of sessions guntur division guntur for such an offence.
the undergone remand period of a 1 to a 3 shall be set off u s 428 cr.
p c m o 1 shall be destroyed after expiry of appeal time.
the high court of andhra pradesh vide its judgment dated 26th october2006while allowing the appeal in part convicted accused nos 1 and 2 for the aforementioned offences however acquitted accused no 3namely pathan khadar basha.
first and the foremost we must consider what is the evidence led by the prosecution to bring home the guilt of accused.
accused were charged with offences under sections 498a and 304b of the ipc the fir in the present case was lodged by lw 1who is the father of the deceased.
he had called his son in law accused no 1to his house as per custom at that point the accused demanded a ceiling fan.
his daughter after the ramzan festival had informed him that the accused persons were harassing her and were even beating and abusing her.
the statement of this witness i e lw 1 is corroborated by lw 3 and lw 7.
in fact there is no dispute to the fact that the deceased died of hanging.
february2003 the witnesses including lw 1 have stated that for the first few months they were happy but thereafter there were quarrels between the accused and the deceased.
11 alongside insertion of section 304 b in ipc the legislature also introduced section 113 b of the evidence act which lays down when the question as to whether a person has committed the dowry death of a woman and it is shown that soon before her death such woman had been subjected by such person to cruelty or harassment for or in connection with any demand for dowry the court shall presume that such person had caused the dowry death.
12 explanation appended to section.
113 b lays down that for the purpose of this sectiondowry death shall have the same meaning as in section 304 b of indian penal code.
section 304 b ipc is read together with section 113 b of the evidence act a comprehensive picture emerges that if a married woman dies in unnatural circumstances at her matrimonial home within 7 years from her marriage and there are allegations of cruelty or harassment upon such married woman for or in connection with demand of dowry by the husband or relatives of the husband the case would squarely come under dowry death and there shall be a presumption against the husband and the relatives.
besides examining the ingredients of the provision it would also be necessary for us to examine the meaning and connotation of the expressions dowry deathsoon before her death and in connection with any demand for dowry as appearing in the said section.
secondly that soon before her death she had been subjected to cruelty or harassment by the husband or any of the relatives of the husband for or in connection with any demand for dowry then such a death shall be called dowry death and the husband or the relative as the case may be will be deemed to have caused such a death.
the explanation to this section requires that the expression dowry shall have the same meaning as in s 2 of the act.
12 the definition of dowry under s 2 of the act reads as under 2 definition of dowry.
the object being that everything which is offending at any time i e at before or after the marriage would be covered under this definition but the demand of dowry has to be in connection with the marriage and not so customary that it would not attract on the face of it the provisions of this section.
this court in ran singh v state of haryana2008 4 scc 700 2008 indlaw sc 120 held that the payments which are customary payments for example given at the time of birth of a child or other ceremonies as are prevalent in the society or families to the marriage would not be covered under the expression dowry.
again in satvir singh v state of punjab20018 scc 633 2001 indlaw sc 224.
this court in madhu sudan malhotra v kishore chand bhandari1988 supp.
s 4 of the act is the penal section and demanding a dowryas defined under s 2 of the act is punishable under this section.
we have already referred to the provisions of section 304 b of the code and the most significant expression used in the section is soon before her death.
they must be understood in their plain language and with reference to their meaning in common parlance.
these are the provisions relating to human behaviour and therefore cannot be given such a narrower meaning which would defeat the very purpose of the provisions of the act of course these are penal provisions and must receive strict construction.
but even the rule of strict construction requires that the provisions have to be read in conjunction with other relevant provisions and scheme of the act.
however the expression would normally imply that there has to be reasonable time gap between t he cruelty inflicted and the death in question.
if this is so the legislature in its wisdom would have specified any period which would attract the provisions of this section.
thus the cruelty harassment and demand of dowry should not be so ancient whereafter the couple and the family members have lived happily and that it would result in abuse of the said protection.
these are penal provisions but ultimately these are the social legislations intended to control offences relating to the society as a whole.
dowry is something which existed in our country for a considerable time and the legislature in its wisdom considered it appropriate to enact the law relating to dowry prohibition so as to ensure that any party to the marriage is not harassed or treated with cruelty for satisfaction of demands in consideration and for subsistence of the marriage.
the concept of deeming fiction is hardly applicable to the criminal jurisprudence.
there being no rebuttal thereto there is no occasion to interfere in the judgments of the courts under appeal.
appeals partly allowed.
