this appeal is by special leave against the judgment and decree of the high court of kerala which dismissed an appeal against the judgment and decree of the subordinate court of havelikkara.
the appellant had filed a suit on october 24 1942 for the recovery of rs 2 lakhs and interest thereon from the date of suit and for costs originally against the state of travancore now the state of kerala the respondent and three others who however were not made parties in the appeal before the high court.
it has alleged in the plaint that the plaintiff appellant was wrongfully dispossessed from 160 acres of land along with the improvements which had been effected by him and as the state had appropriated those improvements without any right or title thereto he claimed the value of those improvements.
it was the appellant s case that he had been in occupation of the said 160 acres of cherikkal land unregistered dry lands in hilly tracts about which and the adjoining lands there was a dispute as to whether the same belonged to a jenmi family known as koodalvalli illom hereinafter called the illom or to the government of the erstwhile travancore state.
the appellant s father and the appellant had occupied these lands made improvement thereon by planting coconut trees arecanut palms peppervines rubber trees jack trees other trees and by constructing bungalow huts wells etc.
in the bona fide belief that the lands belonged to the illom.
it was stated that according to the practice prevailing in the erstwhile state of travancore the cultivators could enter into unoccupied waste lands belonging to the janmies with the object of cultivating and improving them and as they held the lands under them by paying rent the consent of the jemies to such occupation was implied.
this practice it seems was also current in respect of lands belonging to the government before the travancore land conservancy act 4 of 1091 24 7 1916 hereinafter called the act.
it is the case of the appellant that even after the act was passed unauthorised occupants of land belonging to the government who had made improvements therein had under the rules made both under the act and the land assignment act a preferential claim over others for getting kuthakapattom or assignment of the property in their possession.
while this dispute was pending it appears the appellant applied to the conservator of forests for registration of the lands in his name but the application was rejected on june 14 1919 stating that the land applied for can not be registered ext.
a while the application for registration was pending the dispute between the illom and the state of travancore had reached a stage when the illom had to institute a suit o section No.
january 1918 in the district court at quilon for a declaration of its title to those properties.
in that suit the appellant after his application for registration was rejected sought to get himself impleaded but that application also was rejected.
thereafter the suit filed by the illom was dismissed on 28 6 1109 february 10 1934.
an appeal against it was dismissed on september 27 1943.
112 of 1100 1925 a d as the suit of the illom had been finally disposed of and the title of the illom to the lands was not established the appellant apprehending that he might be ejected in the above l c case filed a suit.
in that suit an injunction was prayed for in respect of 100 acres of the property involved in the suit but the prayer was rejected.
the high court issued a commission for inspecting the properties and the commissioner in his report part 13 of ext.
cc set out the improvements made by the appellant on the lands which comprised of a bungalow in which the appellant was residing a number of small houses.
a rubbers state and a large number of other valuable trees like jack trees mango trees coconut trees etc.
it appears that as there was no injunction restraining his dispossession in l c case.
112 of 11 00 m e an order was passed for dispossessing the appellant on july 24 1939 ext.
the appellant pursuant to this order was dispossessed from the lands and possession of these lands was given to the second defendant nair service society ltd in august 1939.
the respondent state contended that the appellant encroached on the suit lands that proceedings were taken against him in l c case.
112 of 11 00 m e and he was evicted in due course that the trespass by the appellant was of recent origin that the allegation that the entry was made in the belief that the land belonged to the illom was false that the revenue and forest departments did not harass the appellant but they took steps for dispossessing him only in accordance with the law that the commissioner s report was not correct in that all the improvements noted by the commissioner were not made by the appellant but by other independent squatters that after due notice an order of forfeiture had been passed in l c case.
112 of 1100 m e and the appellant was therefore not entitled to claim any value for improvements as it was his duty to remove any building before he was evicted.
all this according to the trial court would show that the appellant was aware that he was remaining on government lands without title.
in the circumstances the question that had to be considered was whether without an order of forfeiture being passed the respondent could forfeit the improvements.
accordingly the high court found that at no time the occupation of the land by the appellant was under a bona fide claim of title.
another reason for disallowing the compensation for trees given by the high court was that the position of a trespasser whether he be a mere trespasser or a trespasser under a bona fide claim of title cannot be better than that of a tenant and that if this is correct then the appeal has to be dismissed on the short ground that there is no principle of law or equity which requires the payment of compensation in respect of trees the ownership of which was all along or at any rate from the dale of the trespasser s dispossession vested in the state.
apart from this contention towards the end of his argument the learned advocate for the appellant sought to make out a fresh case namely that as the appellant was not served with a notice to quit as required under section 9 of the act but was forcibly evicted without giving him an opportunity of cutting and taking away the trees etc.
from the lands from which he was evicted he would be entitled to claim compensation for the improvements made by him.
a and also to the fact that after the application for registration was rejected the appellant tried to get himself impleaded in the suit filed by the illom against the state which application was also rejected and so the claim that his possession was bona fide or that he was a bona fide trespasser has no validity.
in view of this specific provision the contravention of which is punishable under section 6 thereof his conduct in applying for registration and for getting himself impleaded in the suit of the illom against the government would show that he knew that the land was government land or land in which the government had a claim.
in these circumstances he can not be said to be a bona fide trespasser particularly after he had applied to the government for obtaining a.
it is however urged before us that the high court was in error in thinking that the appellant did not occupy the lands as a trespasser with a bona fide claim of title because it was his case that he trespassed upon the land with a bona fide intention to improve the land and as such he can still be considered as a bona fide trespasser entitled to improvements under the general law.
before dealing with this aspect we will first consider the question whether trees are included within the meaning of section 9 so as to entitle the appellant to a notice of forfeiture there under.
forfeiture under this section shall be disposed of as the division peishkar may direct.
but the meaning to be ascribed to that word is that it connotes in its larger signification products of the soil that are grown and raised yearly and are gathered during a single season.
in this sense the term includes fructus industrials and having regard to the etymology of the word it has been held to mean only products after they have been severed from the soil.
it may however include the fruit of the trees.
this view of ours is supported by the case of clark and another v gaskarth 8 taunt 431.
at the time of the distress the sum of pound 281 6 section was due from the plaintiffs to the defendant for rent in respect of the nursery ground.
in our view therefore trees are not included within the meaning of other products raised on the land in section 9 of the act and there is therefore no obligation on the government to give notice of forfeiture under that section.
but the learned advocate for the appellant submits that it was not his case nor is it under the general law necessary for a person who trespassed on the land to trespass with a claim of bona fide title.
the case of vallabdas narainji v development officer bandra a i r 1929.
both the assistant judge and the high court negatived the claim of the appellant.
in the view we have taken the appeal has no substance and is accordingly dismissed with no order as to costs but the court fee will be recovered from the appellant.
