this appeal by special leave is from the judgment and order of the high court of andhra pradesh dated 15th april 1986.
on or about th of april 1948 sail nawaz jung the then ruler of mukkalla state south yeman in arabia settled some of the properties with which the appeal is concerned by a registered tamleeknama in favour of his son sultan awaz and his grandson galib bin awaz.
in 1954there was wakfnama by the said sail nawaz jung.
the military estate officer secunderabad of.
andhra pradesh requested for the requisition of the property named as sail gulshan with a vast extent of land and palaces with roads and surrounded by a compound wail measuring 19 acres and 10 guntas situated in the heart of hyderabad city near sarojini devi hospital.
the property in question was taken possession of on or about 12th of september1963.
he had claimed rights as a tenant during the requisition.
his claim for compensation for requisition was settled by sharing the rent in or about 1969 the appellant is one of the owners of the property in question deriving their title and right from the said sail nawaz jung.
on or about 3rd february1970 the collector issued notice for acquisition of the property u s 71 of the requisitioning and acquisition of immovable property act1952 being act 30 of 1952.
hereinafter called the central act the gazette notification for the acquisition was issued on 12th march1970 the controversy in this case relates to the question whether abdul khader was a protected tenant under the andhra pradesh telangana area.
act no xxi of 1950.
hereinafter called the andhra pradesh act.
the purpose of the said act as the preamble states was inter alia to enable the land holders to prevent the excessive sub division of agricultural holdings and empower government to assume in certain circumstances the management of agricultural lands to provide for the registration of co operative farms and to make further provision for matters incidental thereto.
s 2r states that the expression protected means a person who is deemed to be a protected tenant under the provisions of the said act.
chapter iv of the andhra pradesh act deals with protected tenants and s 34 of the said act provides who is to be considered as a protected tenant and uses the expression that a person shall subject to the provisions of sub ss 2 and 3be deemed to be a protected tenant in respect of the land if he has fulfilled the conditions mentioned in clauses a and b of sub s 1 of s 34 of the said act.
sub s 2 of s 40 of the said act indicates who are the heirs who would be entitled to hold the tenancy on the death of the protected tenant and on what terms.
i suspect that somebody has tampered the register and entered the name of sri mohd abdul khader.
hence i suspect the entry and order to cancel the copy of the tenancy issued in favour of sri modh.
1the learned single judge vaidya j held inter alia as follows whether the petitioner abdul khader is a protected tenant or whether he has any prima facie interest in the suit property are matters entirely within the sole jurisdiction of the arbitrator who has to be appointed under s 8 of the central act.
he held further that khasra pahani which is the basic record of occupancy period after spot inspections does not find the name of abdul khader and further held that all entries except this entry in the protected tenancy register prepared under section 37a of the andhra pradesh act was supported by an enquiry.
in civil revision petition no 1006 of 1972 which was filed by abdul khader as against others justice r ramachandra raju of the andhra pradesh high court on or about 19th august1974 held that abdul khader was not a protected tenant and directed deletion of entry made in the final record of tenancies as a spurious one.
claim petition was filed by the appellant before the arbitrator claim petition was also filed by abdul khader claiming 60 of compensation as a protected tenant.
despite the objection exercising the jurisdiction of the arbitrator to go into the question of protected tenant the arbitrator held that abdul khader was a protected tenant.
aggrieved by the aforesaid award the appellant claiming as one of the owners of the property filed a statutory appeal to the high court.
the appellant objected to that application but the high court on 1st april1985.
appointed advocate commissioner to record additional evidence.
dr chitale learned counsel for the appellants submitted that the high court should be directed to consider the issues relating to the jurisdiction of the arbitrator appointed and functioning under the requisitioning and acquisition of immovable property act195 i to decide whether a person is protected tenant of an agricultural land or not in the light of ss 99 and 102 of the andhra pradesh telangana area.
it has to be borne in mind that in the award the arbitrator after exhaustively discussing the evidence on record held that abdul khader was a protected tenant and as such further held that he was entitled to 60 of the compensation money payable for the acquisition of the land excluding the land of buildings wells etc.
in this appeal we are concerned with the question whether the high court was right in upholding the award of the arbitrator so far as it has held in favour of abdul khader and his rights to get 60 of the compensation.
the high court dealt with the value of the land.
the high court further modified a portion of the order in view of the decision of this court in bhag singh v union territory of chandigarh.
a i r 1985 s c 1576 1985 indlaw sc 246 on the question of solarium and interest on the amount awarded.
abdul khader on december 31950 was filed and was marked as exhibit c 1 the document recited permitted to utilise garden fruits flowers and mango.
the high court was of the view that there was surfeit of evidence prior to the commencement of the andhra pradesh act that shaik hussain was a tenant of the land.
the question was whether on enforcement of the said act abdul khader respondent herein was a protected tenant.
aggrieved by the aforesaid decision the appellants being the successor of the owner of the land in question is in appeal before us.
the arbitrator therefore exceeded his jurisdiction and the high court was in error.
shri a k sen on behalf of the respondents on the other hand contended that the compensation payable in respect of the requisitioning and acquisition must be determined under the central act and the arbitrator was the authority to decide that question.
the question of abdul khader s right to compensation had to be decided in accordance with law.
he had claimed rights of a protected tenant.
for this reliance was placed on s 102 of the andhra pradesh act which lays down that the act will not apply to lands leased granted alienated or acquired in favour of or by the central government or the state government etc and on s 99 of the act which bars the jurisdiction of civil courts to deal with any question which is under the andhra pradesh act required to be settled to be decided or dealt with by the tahsildar tribunal or collector.
according to the appellant inasmuch as whether abdul khader was a protected tenant had not to be settled by the collector or the tribunal the arbitrator and the high court were in error in going to that question.
by the scheme of the central act compensation was payable to persons who had interest in the land acquired.
determination by the revenue authorities and non determination is not conclusive or decisive.
in the background of the totality of circumstances as manifest in the different orders it appeared to the arbitrator and the court that the entry which was made in favour of abdul khader as the protected tenant was of doubtful validity.
that in any event what was the interest of abdul khader had to be determined in determining the question of payment of compensation to him and in so determining the facts and circumstances and the proceedings before the revenue authorities and entries and subsequent deletions had to be taken into consideration by the arbitrator.
the arbitrator has done so.
he had jurisdiction to do so.
in that view of the matter we are unable to accept the challenge to the award.
furthermore under s 99 of the andhra pradesh act the bar was not against the arbitrator but against a civil court.
in another context the high court of andhra pradesh enunciated the position that it was necessary to determine the interest of the persons claiming compensation.
reference may be made to the decision in the case of archi appalareddi and another v special tahsildar land acquisition visakhapatnam municipality and mother1979 andhra weekly reporter vol 1 p 101where the court observed in the context of the land acquisition act that a tenant was a person interested as defined in clause b of s 3 of the land acquisition act.
