Civil Appeal No 50 of 1961.
Appeal by special leave from the Award dated March 10 1959 of the Industrial Tribunal.
Kozhikode in ID No 89 of 1958.
A V Viswanatha Sastri and T V R Tatachari for the appellant Janardan Sharma for the resondents.
January 29.
The Judgment of the Court was delivered by WANCHOOJ.
One Sankaran was in the employ of the appellant as a crosscutter.
It is said that on June 21 1958 Sankaran came drunk to they mill and abused the Engineer the Secretary and others and threatened them with physical violence.
He was caught hold of by other workmen and taken outside.
It is said that he came again a short time later at 4 30 pm and abused the same persons again.
As no inquiry was held till July 2 1958 Sankaran again wrote to the appellant to hold the inquiry as early as possible.
On July 8 1958 the appellant terminated the services of Sankaran under r 18 a of the Standing Orders without holding any departmental inquiry and the order was communicated to Sankaran the same day.
In that order the appellant informed Sankaran that the proposed inquiry if conducted would lead to further friction and deterioration in the rank and file of the employees in general and also that maintenance of discipline in the undertaking would be prejudiced if he was retained in the service of the appellant and therefore it considered that no inquiry should be held.
A dispute was then raised by the union which was referred to the industrial tribunal for adjudication by the Government of Kerala in October 1958.
It further held that the appellant had intended to take disciplinary action against the workman but subsequently departmental proceedings were dropped and action was taken under r 18a of the Standing orders.
 It may be mentioned that r 21 deals with case of misconduct and provides for dismissal or suspension for misconduct and in such a case the workman so suspended is not entitled to any wages during the period of suspension.
But the tribunal has pointed out that the employer did not attempt to do so before it.
Learned counsel for the appellant however urges that the employer was empowered to take action under r 18 a of the Standing orders and having taken action under that rule there was nothing for it to justify before the tribunal.
It is enough to say that the position of government servants stands on an entirely different footing as compared to industrial employees.
In this case the tribunal held that the exercise of power was colourable and it cannot be said that view is incorrect.
Appeal dismissed.
