Appeal No 801 of 1963.
Appeal by special leave from the judgment and decree dated September 2 1959 of the Madras High Court in Second Appeal No 774 of 1957.
T V R Tatachari for the appellants.
P Raghaviah and R Ganapathy Iyer for the respondents.
Respondent No 4 is the Deputy Commissioner Hindu Religious and Charitable Endowments L9Sup.
CI66 9 122 Tiruchirappalli and he has been impleaded because he has purported to appoint respondents 1 to 3 as trustees of the said alleged Temple on the 7th March 1951.
Notice of this application was served on the appellants and they pleaded their own title to the properties.
Before this order could be executed and possession delivered to respondents 1 to 3 the appellants instituted the present suit.
As trustees appointed by respondent No 4 they claimed that they were entitled to the possession of the properties.
On these pleadings four substantive issues were framed by the learned trial Judge they were  whether the grant of the Inam was a personal Inam whether the grant of the Inam was a religious endowment whether plaintiffs have title to the suit properties and whether plaintiffs have acquired title by prescription  On the first two issues oral and documentary evidence was adduced by the parties.
In consequence the learned trial Judge also held that the appellants had proved their title to the suit properties.
In other words he negatived the appellants  claim that the original grant was in favour of their predecessors intitle though burdened with an obligation to render service to the matam.
2 LR 27 IA 69.
3 LR 37 IA 147.
2 LR 27 IA 69.
3 LR 37 IA 147.
Article 124 relates to suits filed for possession of a hereditary office and the limitation prescribed for such suits starts when the defendant takes possession of the office adversely to the plaintiff.
It may be permissible to state that this latter observation was made in 1899 long before the Privy Council enunciated the true legal position in regard to the status of the managers of Hindu religious endowments in Vidya Varuthi s case1.
2 LR 37 IA 147.
It is open to doubt whether the said decision could lead to the inference that if a part of the property is transferred by the manager of a religious endowment on the basis that it belongs to him and not to the religious endowment the transfer is void ab initio with the result that the possession of the transferee is adverse to the religious endowment from the very beginning and the succeeding manager s right to challenge the said transfer would be lost if his predecessor who made the transfer lives for more than 12 years after effecting the transfer.
2 ILR 3 LR 37 IA 147.
129 in violation of his duty of an interest in endowed lands which he has no authority as Shebait to make may possibly under some circumstances be good as against himself by way of estoppel but is not binding upon his successors.
 It is not easy to see why the successor s right to Challenge an unauthorised alienation made by his predecessor should be affected adversely if the alienation is made by his predecessor on the basis that the property belonged to him and not to the religious endowment.
Column 1 of article 134 B provides for suits brought inter alia by the manager of a Hindu religious or charitable endowment to recover possession of immovable property comprised in the endowment which has been transferred by a previous manager for a valuable consideration.
Besides when respondents 1 to 3 were appointed as trustees of the temple a notice was issued by the 132 office of Assistant Commissioner for Hindu Religious Endowments Tiruchirappalli on the 19th June 1948 in which it was specifically averred that there were no legally constituted trustees for Sri Pachaikantha Udayavar Temple Eragudi and it was mismanaged and so it was proposed to appoint legally constituted trustees for the said temple.
It is remarkable that this notice describes Amirthalinga Iyer and Chinnasamy lyer as de facto trustees of the temple.
It however held that the transferor and his family had been claiming beneficial interest in the properties all along and that they were not holding the same as managers of the trust.
A 3 A 6 and A 12 and restore that of the lower appellate Court.
In the circumstances of this case we direct that parties should bear their own costs.
