Appeal No 696 of 1966.
Appeal by special leave from the judgment and order dated September 13 1963 of the Madras High Court in Writ Appeal No IO of 1962.
P Ram Reddy and A V Rangam for the appellant.
R Ganapathy Iyer for the respondent.
Purushottam Raju was the sole proprietor of the business and had been assessed to sales tax in respect of his turnover for the years 1948 49 and 1949 50.
1 The State Government may make rules to carry out the purposes of this Act.
2 In particular and without prejudice to the generality of the foregoing power such rules may provide for c the assessment to tax under this Act of businesses which are discontinued or the ownership of which has changed 664 The first question to be considered in this appeal is whether Rule 21 A is intra vires of the power of the State Government under sections 191 and 2 of the Act.
It is manifest that a person who purchases a business as a dealer  can be assessed to sales tax only in respect of his turnover and under the scheme of the charging provision of the Act the purchaser of the business has nothing to do with the sales effected by the seller of the business.
By the amending Act of 1959 Act 1 of 1959 an express provision was inserted by which the transferee of the business was made liable for the arrears of sales tax due from the transferor.
On behalf of the appellants Mr Ram Reddy suggested that the State Government has power under section 191 and 192 c of the Act to frame the impugned rule.
In our opinion the principle of these decisions applies to the interpretation of the Act in the present case.
It follows therefore that Rule 21 A is beyond the rule making power of the State Government either under section 191 or section 192c of the Act.
If default is made in paying according to the notice of assessment the whole of the amount outstanding on the date of default shall become immediately due and shall be a charge on the properties of the person or persons liable to pay the tax under this Act.
 It was contended that under this section the whole of the amount outstanding on the date of default is charged on the property of the person liable to pay the tax.
In the present case the business which was transferred to the respondent was hence charged with the payment of sales tax and it was open to sales tax authorities to proceed against the assets of the business for realising the amount of sales tax due.
In default of such payment the whole of the amount then remaining due may be recovered as if it were an arrear of land revenue.
If default is made in paying according to the notice of assessment the whole of the amount outstanding on the date of default shall become immediately due and shall be a charge on the properties of the person or persons liable to pay the tax under this Act  .
 In the present case the Act is not expressed to come into operation on any particular date but as it was published in the Madras Gazette on October 8 1956 the Act came into operation on that date and not before.
In the present case the registered instrument by which the business was transferred to the respondent is dated October 5 1956 and the amending Act has therefore no application.
It was next argued on behalf of the appellants that upon a true construction of the registered instrument dated October 5 1956 the respondent undertook to pay not only Sch.
