Appeal by special leave from the jurisdiction and order dated April 29 1965 of the Allahabad High Court in Criminal Misc Contempt Case No 43 of 1965.
A section R Chari M K Ramamurthi Vineet Kumar and Shyamala Pappu for the appellants.
O P Rana for respondent No 1.
J P Goyal V C Prasar and section P Singh for respondent No 2.
An urgent copy of the order was applied for and obtained on that very day and the counsel sent a telegram in the following words Allahabad He 20 Baldeopd cashier Trust Sdr GR Mahabir application admitted stay granted Banwarilal.
 117 It is alleged on the side of the applicant Mahabir that immediately after the receipt of the telegram an application accompanied by an affidavit and the telegram of his counsel in the High Court was presented before the Nyaya Panchayat with the prayer to stay further proceedings but the Sarpanch refused to take it.
But notwithstanding my informing the Panchayat Adalat of that I am not getting any hearing there and when an application is made there it is not entertained He prayed that the Panchayat Adalat be directed to postpone proceedings pending the receipt of the stay order.
It happened that the SDM was absent on December 23 1963 and papers were put up before Shri section K Srivas tava Additional Sub Divisional Magistrate who issued the order Put up with records.
But as the notice against Shri Srivastava has been discharged by the High Court we need not give any further details about his various orders On December 25 1963 the Nyaya Panchayat met and proceeded to hear the case.
It has been admitted by the High Court which has stayed proceedings also in this case.
Phagu Prasad.
It appeared to the High Court that the Sarpanch first wanted to avoid the petitioner s affidavit being brought on the record by declaring that it was not proper because it did not fully evidence the fact that the High Court had passed an order staying proceedings before the Nyaya Panchayat The High Court further held that the Nyaya Panchas faithfully accepted the objections raised by the Sarpanch and dittoed him about the impropriety of the petitioner s affidavit and inadequacy of the evidence contained therein regarding the stay order alleged to have been.
In the alternative they should have verified from the Sub Divi sional Magistrate whether Mahabir had really filed an application and affidavit before him along with the original telegram received from his counsel at Allahabad saying that the High Court had already stayed the proceedings before the Nyaya Panchayat.
In order to justify committal for breach of a prohibitive order it is not necessary that the order should have been served upon the party against whom it has been granted if it be proved that he had notice of the order aliunde as by telegram or newspaper report or otherwise and knew that it was intended to be enforced or if he consented to the order or if he was present in Court when the order Was pronounced or hen the motion was made although he left before the order was pronounced.
It seems to us that the High Court did not appreciate that the so called affidavit which was filed before the Panchas was in fact not an affidavit at all.
