Civil Appeal No 1744 of 1968.
Appeal by Special Leave from the Judgment and Order dated 14 6 1967 of the Mysore High Court in Writ Petition No 44065.
GM Shankariah  Ors.
1 where this Court had held upon a concession by the Attorney General that a list prepared under Section 115 of the  hereinafter referred to as the Act  was provisional.
Apparently the petitioner whose date of birth is given as 28th June 1915 has retired.
He is a respondent who has not appeared before us and therefore could not be heard by us.
 It is apparent that the petitioner re spondent was claiming relief against the final Inter State seniority list although he was given due opportunity to object to the provi sional list.
In the case before us the petitioner admits that the Mysore State Civil Services Integration Rules provided for filing of objections against the preliminary provisional Inter State Seniori ty list.
As already observed above the petitioner had ample opportunity to do that.
Hence the principle recognised in Shankariah s case supra was not applicable to such a case.
As the petitioner in the High Court who is the respondent before us was unrepresented Mrs Shymala Pappu appearing on behalf of Union of India very Conscientiously took us through Union of India  Anr.
 1 from which learned Counsel thought the following observations could perhaps be cited on behalf of the petitioner respondent at p 202 it was argued by Mr Ashoke Sen that in regard to both these matters the respond ents have a right of representation and the final gradation list should have been pub lished after giving them further oppor tunity to make a representation.
As no such opportunity was furnished to the respondents with regard to these two matters 1 202.
830 we hold that the combined final gradation list dated April 6 1962 so far as category 6 is concerned is ultra vires and illegal and that part of the notification alone must be quashed by grant of a writ in the nature of certiorari.
GR Prabhavalkar  Ors.
1 where it was held by this Court at p 2106 1 AIR 1973 Sc 2102 at 2106.
It has also to give a full and fair opportuni ty to the parties affected to make their representations and the Central Government has also to give a proper consideration to those representations.
It must not only give an opportunity to the concerned officers to make representations but it must also give those representations a proper consideration.
If that is established the decision of the authorities concerned will have to stand.
