N Criminal Appeal No 332 of 1977.
Appeal by Special Leave from the Judgment and order dated 20 10 75 of the Bombay High Court in Criminal Application No 1 37975.
77 M C Bhandare A N Karkhanis Miss Malini Panduval and Mrs section Bhandare for the Appellant.
G L Sanghi and A K Verma for Respondent No 1.
M N Shroff for Respondent No 2.
The Judgment of the Court was delivered by A Prefatory statement KRISHNA IYER J.
In this appeal by special leave we are called upon to interpret a benign provision enacted to ameliorate the economic condition of neglected wives and discarded divorcees namely.
s 125.
PC Welfare laws must be so read as to be effective delivery systems of the salutary objects sought to be served by the Legislature and when the beneficiaries are the weaker sections like destitute women this spirit of article 153 of the Constitution must belight the meaning of the Section.
The Constitution is a pervasive omnipresence brooding over the meaning and transforming the values of every measure.
The Brief Facts The respondent husband married the appellant wife as a second wife way back in 1956 and a few years later had a son by her.
15 The initial warmth vanished and the jealousies of a triangular situation erupted marring mutual affection.
The respondent divorced the appellant around July 1962.
A suit relating to a flat in which the husband had housed the wife resulted in a consent decree which also settled the marital disputes.
There was a clause in the compromise G The plaintiff declares that she has now no claim or right whatsoever against the defendant or against the estate and the properties of the defendant.
 And another term in the settlement was that the appellant had by virtue of the compromise become the absolute owner of the flat and various deposits in respect of the said flat made with the cooperative housing society.
78 For some time there was flickering improvement in the relations between the quondum husband and the quondum wife and they lived together.
Thereafter again they separated became entranged.
The appellant finding herself in financial straits and unable to maintain herself moved the magistrate under section 125 of the Criminal Procedure Code 1973 for a monthly allowance for the maintenance of herself and her child.
She proceeded on the footing that she was still a wife while the respondent rejected this status and asserted that she was a divorce and therefore ineligible for maintenance.
The Magistrate who tried the petition for maintenance held that the appellant was a subsisting wife and awarded monthly maintenance of Rs 300 for the son and Rs 400 for the mother for their subsistence taking due note of the fact that the cost of living in Bombay where the parties lived was high and that the respondent had provided residential accommodation to the appellant.
The High Court deigned to bestow little attention on the matter and summarily dismissed a revision petition.
The Questions Mooted Shri Bhandare appearing for the appellant contended that the Courts below had surprisingly forgotten the plain provision in the Explanation b to section 1251 of the Code which reads wife  includes a woman who has been divorced by.
On this foundation he urged that accepting the contention of the respondent that the appellant was a divorcee his client was still entitled to an allowance.
This is obviously beyond dispute or.
In the normal course an order for maintenance must follow the quantum having been determined by the learned Magistrate at the trial level.
79 However Shri Sanghi appearing for the respondent sought sustain the order in his favour on three grounds They arc of pubic importance since the affected party in such a fact situation is the neglected divorcee.
He first argued that section 1254 would apply in the absence of proof that the lady was not living separately by mutual consent.
His next plea was that there must be proof of neglect to maintain to attract s125 and his third contention was that there was a settlement by consent decree in 1962 whereby the mehar money had been paid and all claims adjusted and so no claim for maintenance could survive.
The third contention is apparently based upon contractual arrangement in the consent decree read with section 1273 b which reads C b the woman has been divorced by her husband and that she has received whether before or after the date of the said order the whole of the sum which under any customary or personal law applicable to the parties was payable on such divorce cancel such order i in the case where such sum was paid before such order from the date on which such order was made.
ii in any other case from the date of expiry of the period if any for which maintenance has been actually paid by the husband to the woman We must state however that there was no specific plea based upon the latter provision set up anywhere in the courts below or urged before us.
But if one were to locate a legal ground to raise The contention That the liability to pay maintenance had ceased on account of the payment of mehar it is section 1273 of the Code.
So we must deal with the dual sub heads of the third ground.
The meaning of meanings is derived from values in a given society and its legal system.
Art153 has compelling compassionate relevance in the context of section 125 and the benefit of doubt.
If any in statutory interpretation belongs to the ill used wife and the derelict divorcee.
Protection against moral and material abandonment manifest in article 39 is part of social and economic justice specificated in article 38 fulfilment of which is fundamental to the governance of the country Art37.
From this coign of vantage we must view the printed text of the particular Code.
80 section 125 requires as a sine qua non for its application neglect by husband or father.
The magistrate s order proceeds on neglect to maintain the sessions judge has spoken nothing to the contrary and The High Court has not spoken at all.
Moreover the husband has not examined himself to prove that he has been giving allowances to the divorced wife.
His plea is his right to ignore.
So the basic condition of neglect to maintain is satisfied.
In this generous jurisdiction a broader perception and appreciation of the facts and their bearing must govern the verdict not chopping little logic or tinkering with burden of proof.
The next submission is that the absence of mutual consent to live separately must be made out if the hurdle of section 1254 is to be over come.
The compulsive conclusion from a divorce by a husband and his provision of a separate residence as evidenced by the consent decree fills the bill.
Do divorcees have to 1 prove mutual consent to live apart Divorce painfully implies that the husband orders her out of the conjugal home.
Ill used wives and desparate divorcees shall not be driven to material and moral dereliction to seek sanctuary in the streets.
The payment of illusory amounts by way of customary or personal law requirement will be considered in the reduction of maintenance rate but cannot annihilate that rate unless it is a reasonable substitute.
The legal sanctity of the payment is certified by the fulfilment of the social obligation not by a ritual exercise rooted in custom.
If the first payment by way of mehar or ordained by custom has a reasonable relation to the object and is a capitalised substitute for the order under section 125 not mathematically but fairly then section 1273 b subserves the goal and relieves the obligor not pro tanto but wholly.
There must be a rational relation between the sum so paid and its potential as provision for maintenance.
The proposition therefore is that no husband can claim under section 1273b absolution from this obligation under section 125 towards a divorced wife except on proof of payment of a sum stipulated by customary or personal law whose quantum is more or less sufficient to do duty for maintenance allowance.
The conclusion that we therefore reach is that the appeal should be allowed and it is hereby allowed and the order of the trial court restored.
PBR Appeal allowed.
