 Criminal Appeal No 133 of 1975.
Appeal from the Judgment and order dated 3 2 1978 of the Andhra Pradesh High Court in Crl.
R Nagarathnam for the Appellant.
365 The deceased Subhadramma was the wife of the appellant.
About three months before the occurrence the deceased gave birth to a female child in the house of the accused at Cherlopalle.
After the ninth day the mother and child according to customary practice were taken by the mother of the deceased to her house at Krishna Kalva.
Cherlopalle is about 25 miles from Krishna Kalva.
After about one and a half months the accused asked his mother in law and brother in law to send his wife to his place.
Attracted by the cries raised by the PWs 1 to 3 the neighbourers P Ws 4 5 6 and others came there.
He regained consciousness next morning.
He referred to the evidence of me Doctor who stated that the injury found on the deceased could have been caused even if she was standing.
In this appeal the learned Counsel for the appellant argued that the accused had no motive to kill his wife and that his version was more probable than the version of the prosecution.
He urged that at the reasons given by the learned Sessions Judge had not been met by the High Court.
He also contended that two views were possible on the evidence and the accused was entitled to the benefit of doubt.
According to the accused the deceased received the injury when she placed herself between P W 1 and himself.
It is true that the accused did not have any deep motive to kill the deceased.
It is obvious that he must have been upset by the persistent refusal of the brother and mother of the deceased to send her with him to his house.
At the worst the so called improvement made by her may be rejected but no more.
At one time it was thou ht that an order of acquittal could be set aside for substantial and compelling reasons only and Courts used to launch on a search to discover those substantial and compelling reasons.
However the formulae  of substantial and compelling reasons good and sufficiently cogent reasons and strong reasons and the search for them were abandoned as a result of the pronouncement of this Court in Sanwat Singh  Ors.
In Sanwat Singh s case this Court harked 1 Al.
After Sanwat Singh vs State of Rajasthan this Court has consistently recognised the right of the Appellate Court to review the entire evidence and to come to its own conclusion bearing in mind the considerations mentioned by the Privy Council in Sheo Swarup s case.
3 Al.
In Khem Karan  Ors.
P B R Appeal dismissed.
