ON Criminal Appeal No 126 of 1955.
Appeal by special leave from the judgment and order dated the 9th August 1955 of the Bombay High Court in Criminal Application No 726 of 1955.
M R Parpia J B Dadachanji and section N Andley for the appellant.
M C Setalvad Attorney General for India B Sen and R H Dhebar for the respondent.
April 24.
The Judgment of the Court was delivered by JAGANNADHADAS J.
He was in the Indian Air Force as an emergency Commissioned Officer between 1943 to 1948 and thereafter on extension for another four years until he attained the age of 55.
It appears that he was also interested in journalism and in public affairs.
On his own showing he was concerned over the political future of Goa and was opposed to any attempts at intimidation of Indian residents of Goan origin by other political groups and has freely expressed these views in his journalistic articles.
He was arrested on the 9th June 1955 and is in detention since then under the impugned order which runs as follows 384 No P D A 1555A Political and Services Department Secretariat Bombay 8th June 1955.
O R D E R.
Under Secretary to the Government of Bombay.
Political and Services Department.
In pursuance of section 7 of the Act IV of 1950 hereinafter referred to as the Act the grounds of detention also dated the 8th June 1955 was served on him along with the order of detention.
385 4The claim of State that no particulars of the grounds could be furnished in public interest is unsustainable and in any case mala fide.
These events happened between February to April 1955.
2If you wish to make a representation against the order under which you are detained you should address it to the Government of Bombay and forward it through the Superintendent Arthur Road Prison Bombay.
In the present case the detenue has been intimated why in the opinion of the Government the activities of the appellant are considered prejudicial to the security of India and to the relations of India with Portugal.
3He is carrying on these activities with the object of causing further deterioration in the relations between the Portuguese Government and the Indian Government over the question of the Goan National Movement.
But having regard to the nature of the alleged activities of the appellant it is not unlikely that no more could be gathered or furnished.
It does not appear that he applied to the Government to be supplied with particulars of the grounds furnished to him.
Assuming however that the grounds furnished in this case are open to the challenge of vagueness the further question which arises is whether the validity of the order of detention can be sustained by reason of the claim in public interest of non disclosure of facts made by the Under Secretary to the Government of Bombay by means of his affidavit filed in the High Court.
It is however to be observed that under article 226 the facts which cannot be required to be disclosed are those which such authority considers to be against public interest to disclose.
But what has been urged before us is that the decision not to disclose the facts as well as the ambit of the non disclosure must be clearly communicated to the detenue at the time when the grounds are furnished.
Such a contention as to the mala fide exercise of the power is untenable in the present case having regard to the nature of the 393 grounds on which the detention is based and the nature of activities imputed therein to the appellant.
