Civil Appeals No 2611 and 2611 A of 1981.
A K Sen and G L Sanghi Vineet Kumar and Devinder Gupta for the Appellant.
578 DD Thakur SN Kacker and RP Bhatt for respondent in 261181.
E C Agarwala section P Gupta R Satish VK Pandita and RP Sethi for respondent in 2611 2611 A L N Sinha Attn.
Altaf Ahmad and Irfan Ahmad for respondent No 2.
 We now proceed to state in this judgment the reasons in support of our aforesaid conclusion 579 In July 1966 the appellant Ved Gupta decided to embark upon a venture to construct and operate an air conditioned Cinema in a plot of land which he proposed to take on lease in Gandhi Nagar Jammu in Collaboration with two osher persons namely Todar Mal and Kishan Kumar.
Accordingly on July 22 1966 Ved Gupta purporting to act on behalf of a partnership consisting of himself and the two persons aforementioned as a matter of fact no partnership had been constituted at all by that date applied to the District Magistrate Jammu under section 3 of the Jammu and Kashmir Cinematograph Act 1989 1933 AD herein after referred to as the Act for permission to construct a modern Cinema Hall at the proposed site a detailed description of which was furnished in the plan annexed to the application.
Clause 15 of the said deed provided that the site for construction of a Cinema which had been obtained on lease by Ved Gupta Todar Mal and Krishan Kumar in their own names shall not be their personal property but shall be the property of the partnership and that the permission which Ved Gupta had obtained from the Government for construction of the Theatre in the said plot shall be treated as the property of the partnership.
By a subsequent agreement executed by the 14 partners on February 22 1969 the name of the Cinema business was changed from Metro Theatre  to Apsara Theatre.
 The construction of the Cinema Theatre appears to have been completed by the middle of June 1969.
Annexure C is a copy of the said application and it shows that it was filed by Ved Gupta in his personal capacity without any mention whatever therein of the partnership.
Annexure D is a copy of the said licence and it is expressly stated therein that the said licence has been granted to Shri Ved Gupta and that it shall remain in force until March 31 1970 provided that Shri Ved Gupta or any person to whom with the consent of the licensing authority the licence is transferred continues to own or manage the cinematographs used ill the said Apsara Theatre.
A Schedule of conditions imposing various duties and obligations on the licensee is also appended to the said licence.
Consequent thereon the firm was reconstituted and a new partnership deed was executed by the remaining partners on April 11 1970 Clause 18 of the said document contained the following recital The licence for running the Cinema by which Apsara Theatre is being run stands in the name of Shri Ved Gupta so Shakur Dass the 9th party.
 Soon thereafter on December 3 1975 Todar Mall who had retired from the firm and Krishan Kumar who continued to be a partner jointly issued a notice to the District Magistrate Jammu claiming that their names should also be included in the licence issued to Ved Gupta in respect of the Apsara Theatre.
After considering the arguments advanced before him by the counsel appearing for the contending parties the District Magistrate passed a detailed order dated December 29 1977 rejecting the request of Todar Mal and Krishan Kumar and declaring Shri Ved Gupta to be the sole licensee authorized to run the Apsara Theatre.
On April 19 1979.
Another ground put forward by the petitioner was that the District Magistrate had no power to suspend the licence under any of the provisions of the Actor the Rules and that the only power vested in the licensing authority was to revoke the licence under Section 6F of the Act and that too only if the conditions precedent mentioned in the said Section were found to exist.
But the Acting Chief Justice was of the view that where the licensed premises including the cinematographs used therein belonged to a partnership and one of the partners had obtained a licence in his separate name the other partners automatically acquired an interest in the licence.
Consequently it became impossible for the Letters Patent Appeal being heard by a third Judge designated by the Chief Justice as contemplated by Rule 23 2.
2 If the judges composing the bench are equally divided on any point they shall state the point upon which they differ and the case shall then be heard upon that point by one or more of the other Judges designated for the purpose by the Chief Justice and such point shall be decided according to the opinion of the majority if any of the judges who have heard the case including those who first heard it.
3 If there is no such majority then the decision shall be in accordance with the decision of the senior Judge except in the case of an appeal from a decree where such decree shall be confirmed 586 In the opinion of the Division Bench the present case was governed by sub rule 3 of Rule 23 and consequently the decision in the case had to be in accordance with the opinion of the senior Judge.
Accordingly the Division Bench passed orders in CMP No 454 of 1981 that the Letters Patent Appeal will stand allowed in conformity with the view taken by the Acting Chief Justice in his judgment.
Aggrieved by the decision of the High Court Ved Gupta has filed these appeals after obtaining special leave from this Court.
Civil Appeal No 2611 of 1981 is directed against the judgment of the learned Acting Chief Justice which has been treated as the final judgment in the Letters Patent Appeal and Civil Appeal No 2611 A of 1981 has been preferred against the order passed by the Division Bench CMP No 454 of 1981.
 On a careful reading of this Section it will be seen that far from supporting the view taken by the learned Acting Chief Justice this provision goes to show that the holder of a licence may be a person different from the owner of the cinematograph or a partner of the cinematography.
Civil Appeal No 261 l A of 1981 which is directed against the order passed in CMP No 454 of 1981 is disposed of as infructuous 594 in view of our having set aside the judgment of the Division Bench on the merits.
