Dr YS Chitale V G Shanker KL Hathi Ms Sadhana DK Chhaya MK Arora and Mrs H Wahi for the appellant.
352 T section Krishnamoorthi Iyer KR.
Choudhry and KS.
Choudhary for the respondents.
The Judgment of the Court was delivered by SABYASACHI MUKHARJI J.
By the said Judgment and decree the High Court of Andhra Pradesh had reversed the Judgment of the learned Subordinate Judge Masulipatam dated 19th November 1964 dismissing the suit of the plaintiffs respondents against the appellant.
Late Shri Raja Vasireddi Chandra Dhara Prashad was the husband of respondent No 1 and father of the respondents No 2 to 5 herein.
He had filled a proposal for insurance for Rs 50000 on 27th December 1960.
Cheque for Rs 300 was encashed by the appellant on 29th December 1960.
Cheque for Rs 220 was dishonoured three times and finally encashed on 11th January 1961.
As mentioned hereinbefore the deceased died on the day following ie on 12th January 1961.
On 16th January 1961 the widow of the deceased respondent No 1 herein wrote to the appellant intimating the death of the deceased and demanded payment of Rs 50000.
The Divisional Manager Masulipatam Branch denied liability on behalf of the appellant Corporation on 28th January 1961.
353 On the 10th January 1964 the plaintiffs filed the suit in the court of Subordinate Judge Masulipatam.
It was alleged in the plaint after setting out the facts which have been set out hereinbefore that the medical examination report was submitted to the appellant corporation by Dr Sri C Sambasiva Rao Approved Medical practitioner of the appellant in regard to the medical examination of the deceased.
A report described as All the Friend s report was duly sent to the appellant with regard to that proposal and all the preliminaries were completed and it was further alleged that the deceased was assured and told by the local agent and the Field officer of the Corporation that the payment of the first premium would amount to the acceptance of the proposal and advised the deceased to pay the first premium in full.
It was further stated that the said two cheques were encashed and the appellant had duly appropriated the amount and credited in the accounts towards the premium payable by the deceased.
In the premises it was said in the plaint that there was a concluded and valid insurance contract between the deceased and the appellant Corporation and that the insurance contracted commenced on 11th January 1961 being the date of the receipt of the balance towards premium by the Corporation.
It was further stated in the plaint that the office of the Divisional Manager of Masulipatam was the concerned authority to settle the claim of the plaintiffs respondents and to pay the amount.
It was alleged that with full knowledge of the completion of all the preliminaries the Corporation had encashed the cheques issued towards the first premium and therefore it was the case of the plaintiffs respondents that the encashment of the cheques amounted in those circumstances in law to an acceptance of the proposal of the deceased.
It was further alleged that the appropriation of the amounts by the Corporation towards the first premium by the deceased was only consistent with the acceptance of the proposal.
In the premises the plaintiffs claimed the said amount along with interest at six per cent per annum from the date of refusal of payment till the date of payment of the demand.
It was further stated that the two cheques were not encashed and credited towards the premium account of the proposal but these were kept only in deposit in suspense account without any liability of the appellant.
It was further stated that the averments in the plaint that the defendant Corporation cashed the above two cheques and appropriated the amounts and credited these in the account towards premium payable for the proposal were false.
It was categorically stated that the cheques were not credited and adjusted towards the premium accounts.
He had further stated that the proposal form was sent from the office at Guntur to the Divisional office at Masulipatam and exhibit B 1 to B 4 and B 8 were sent in this connection.
He further stated that according to the financial powers Standing order it was the Divisional Manager who was competent to accept a proposal for Rs 50000 exhibit B 13 is the copy of the Standing order.
Chapter III of the Standing order dealt with the powers of the different authorities for inter alia Underwriting and Revivals of Policy .
The Trial Court therefore held that there was no concluded valid insurance contract between the deceased and the Corporation.
Considering the evidence and the averments the Learned Subordinate Judge came to the conclusion that the accounts do not show the position alleged by the plaintiffs respondents that the amounts paid were appropriated towards the premium and the Trial Court was of the opinion that encashing of the cheques and the want of any further action to be done by the deceased did not themselves create a contract of insurance between the deceased and the Corporation.
The High Court took the view that exhibit B 13 dealing with Chapter III of the Financial Powers did not categorically deal with the acceptance of proposals.
In our opinion the High Court was in error in appreciating the facts and the evidence in this case.
He had stated that the purpose of review slip was to enable the Divisional Manager to asses the risk and take a decision.
Mere delay in giving an answer cannot be construed as an acceptance as prima facie acceptance must be communicated to the offeror.
See in this connection statement of law in MacGillivray  Parkington on Insurance Law Seventh Edition page 94 paragraph 215.
SR Appeal allowed.
