Civil Appeal No 1377 of 1982.
From the Judgment and Order dated 17111980 of the Bombay High Court in Special Civil Appeal No 251 of 1977.
FR Nariman EK Jose PH Parekh and Miss Sunita Sharma for the Appellant.
It is alleged that this agreement was entered into between the parties since the respondent wanted to charge more rent or mesne profits.
Clause 2 of the said agreement recites that the licensee had agreed to use the premises as above and merely for the purpose of workshop business.
It further goes on to state that the licensee shall not under any circumstances be allowed to use the premises for the residential purposes or any other purpose save and except specified therein.
It further stipulated that the licensee should deposit a sum of Rs2500 for the due performance of the terms and conditions of the agreement.
It further stipulated that the licensee shall pay to the licensor a monthly compensation of Rs225 per month.
Before the Judge Court of Small Causes the points of defences were filed in which the appellant had stated that the application was not maintainable and the plaintiff was himself occupying the premises under one Sugrabhai Mohammed Husain who himself had adopted ejectment proceedings against the respondent.
It is interesting to note that in the judgment of the Small Cause Court and also of the High Court at several places the expression BC was used this is intriguing as we find that it intrigued Vaidya J because he stated in his judgment dated 9th of December 1975 what the expression BC was meant by Court.
In order to go back to the findings of the learned Judge of the Court of Small Cause and the learned High Court Judge found that the appellant had failed to prove that he was a sub tenant of the respondent and the learned Judge found him to be a licensee.
In the light of the legal position and also the fact that the rent light bill stood in the name of the respondent showed that there was no desire to create any lease by the document mentioned hereinbefore and the appellant regarded him as a mere licensee.
In July 1967 the appellants 1064 filed an application for eviction under section 41 of the .
In support of this appeal Sree RF Nariman very laboriously took us through the documents.
Clause 12 is significant which gave to the licensor the right to enter upon the premises and inspect the same at any time.
In our opinion the background of the facts of this case and the background of the entire document negate the contention of the appellant that it was a lease and not a licence.
It was a possible view.
In the aforesaid view of the matter this appeal must fail as we find no ground to interfere with the decision of the High Court.
NPV Appeal dismissed.
