12676 77 of 1985 etc.
Under Article 32 of the Constitution of India RF Nariman PH Parekh NN Keshwani Mrs H Wahi and RN Keshwani for the Petitioners.
408 GA Shah MN Shroff KMM Khan and TU Mehta for the Respondents.
ii no royalty shall be charged from Nimbha das of village potters who manufacture upto one lakh bricks per year.
iii no royalty shall be charged from Nimbha das of village potters if their annual produc tion is not exceeding two lakhs bricks and they supply at least one lakh bricks to the Rural Housing Board or Panchayats.
iv Royalty shall be recoverable in whole rupees fraction fifty paise and above to be rounded upwards to a whole rupee and fraction below fifty paise shall be ignored and fixing the royalty payable by the lessees in respect of minor minerals known as Black Trap and Hard Murrum at Rs7 per metric tonne by amending schedule of the Rules which was being levied at Rs 4 till the date of the said amendment.
409 In order to understand the case of the petitioners it is necessary to set out some other provisions of law governing the case.
Clause e of the said section defines minor minerals  as building stones gravel ordinary clay ordinary sand other than sand used for prescribed purposes and any other mineral which the Central Government may.
1 The State Government may by notifi cation in the Official Gazette make rules for regulating the grant of quarry leases mining leases or other mineral concessions in re spect of minor minerals and for purposes connected therewith.
2 Until rules are made under sub section 1 my rules made by a State Government regulating the grant of quarry leases mining leases or other mineral concessions in re spect of minor minerals which are in force immediately before the commencement of this Act shall continue in force.
3 The holder of a mining lease or any other mineral concession granted under any rule made under sub section 1 410 shall pay royalty or dead rent whichever is more in respect of minor minerals removed or consumed by him or by his agent manager employee contractor or sub lessee at the rate prescribed for the time being in the rules framed by the State Government in respect of minor minerals Provided that the State Government shall not enhance the rate of royalty in respect of any minor mineral for more than once during any period of three years.
 It is seen from section 15 that the State Government is empowered to make rules for regulating the grant of quarry leases mining leases or other mineral concessions in re spect of minor minerals and for purposes connected there with.
In exercise of the said power under section 15 the Government of Gujarat promulgated the Gujarat Minor Minerals Rules 1966 which are referred to as the Rules as stated above.
During the pendency of the said petitions in the High Court the impugned notification was issued increasing the royalty payable in respect of Black Trap and Hard Murrum from Rs4 to Rs7.
He depended upon the language of Entry 50 which reads thus taxes on mineral rights subject to any limitations imposed by Parliament by law relating to mineral development We do not find much substance in this contention.
Any tax realised by the State Government forms part of the consolidated fund of the State and the said tax can be used by the State Government for any of the purposes to which its executive powers extend subject to any law made by the State Legislature in that regard.
Having regard to the depreci ation in the value of 413 the rupee and the increase in the cost of  administration of the State which is ever increasing as a welfare State we cannot say that Rs7 is an unreasonably high rate.
