 Criminal Appeal No 8 18 of 1979.
From the Judgment  Order dated the 27101979 of the Madras High Court in Crl.
A No 4 of 1977.
AS Nambiar and KR Nambiar for the Appellant.
V Krishnamurthy for the Respondent.
He took charge of the office on 6101975 and had been residing in a house opposite the training school.
On 21101975 the appellant is stated to have pressed the demand to PW 1.
As instructed PW 1 was ready with ten rupees currency notes.
The appellant produced the currency notes.
Finally the appellant was chargesheeted.
At the trial the prosecution witnesses supported the case.
PW 1 affirmed the fact that the appellant made the demand and had also received the amount on 2210.
Before the High Court the contentions of the appellant were that there was no independent evidence regarding the demand the messenger who had contacted PW 1 at the 337 behest of the appellant had not been examined the solitary evidence of PW 1 is insufficient the explanation offered by the appellant was probable and there is no conclusive evi dence to hold that the appellant.
It was also urged that the appellant being new in the office could exert little influence on the Principal and the whole story is therefore improbable.
It cannot therefore be said that there had been consistent explanation for the appellant.
P 2 memo had been issued on the basis of the complaint received from the appellant that on getting the explanation from PW 1 he on 18101975 itself passed orders and closed the file.
He had thereafter received the amount of Rs 100 from PW 1.
A fact is said to be proved when its existence is directly established or when upon the material before it the Court finds its existence to be so probable that a reasonable man would act on the supposition that it exists.
 On a careful consideration of the facts and circum stances we are not satisfied that the appellant had even by preponderance of probability succeeded in rebutting the presumption.
It is accordingly dismissed.
NVK Appeal dismissed.
