549 The Judgment of the Court was delivered by RANGANATHAN J.
A very interesting question comes up for consideration in this appeal.
1947 and related to Door No 2 Item No1 in Schedule A to the plaint.
1947 relating to Door No 3 Item 2 in Schedule A to the plaint covered an area of 8700 sq.
53466 did not treat the earlier decision as res judicata but came independently to the same conclusion that item No 1 belonged to the LIC.
After referring to the terms of the sale deed exhibit P 3 the superstructure constructed on the land was held to have been conveyed to the vendee under the sale deed dated 30 7 1953 and to have thus vested in the LIC.
1979 is from the order of the Division Bench rejecting the appellant s claim for arrears of rent in respect of item No 1 of the property set out in Schedule A to the plaint based on the difference between the fair rent fixed by the Rent Controller and the rent payable therefore under exhibit P 1.
552 The questions to be decided in this appeal on the above facts boil down to these 1 Was the LIC the vendee only of a vacant piece of land with no title to the buildings standing on the site in item 17 2 It is open for the tenants to contend that the order of the Court of Small Causes in the earlier rent control proceedings deciding to the contrary and fixing the fair rent of item 1 at Rs994 pm should be completely ignored as an order passed totally without jurisdiction although it has become final as be tween the parties Two interesting aspects may be pointed out in regard to these two questions.
He gave an express finding that the building No 2.
All that the Rent Controller has to do is to satisfy himself that the person seeking eviction or fixation of fair rent is a landlord who has prima facie  the right to receive the rents of the property in question.
2 Where there is an express bar of the jurisdic tion of the court an examination of the scheme of the particular Act to find the adequacy or the sufficiency of the provided may be relevant but is not decisive to sustain the jurisdiction of the civil court.
After putting up the buildings he applied for determination of standard rent under the Bombay Rents Hotel and Lodging House Rates Control Act 1947.
571 For the reasons mentioned above we are of the opinion that the High Court reached the correct conclusion and that this appeal has to fail.
