 Civil Appeals Nos 188 to 190 of 1958.
Appeals from the judgment and order dated November 20 1957 of the Andhra Pradesh High Court in Writ Petitions Nos 1 of 1956 19 and 470 of 1957.
A V Viswanatha Sastri V Vedantachari and K Sundararajan for the appellant.
H N Sanyal Additional Solicitor General of India D Venkatappiah Sastri and T M Sen for respondent No 1.
August 14.
It is alleged that on January 10 1942 an agreement was entered into between the Rajah of Venkatagiri and one Sri Balumuri Nageswara Rao whereby the Rajah agreed to give annual leases in respect of certain slate quarries within his estate for five years in succession commencing from February 1942 if the Rajah was satisfied with the work carried on by the lessee during the preceding year.
It was 551 further stipulated that if the leases were given continuously for five years then the lessee would be entitled at the end of the fifth year to obtain a lease from the Rajah for a period of 20 years commencing from the termination of the fifth year.
Instructions appear to have been issued to the manager of the Venkatagiri estate requiring him to take over possession of the slate quarries which were then being worked by the appellant immediately after the expiry of two months  notice issued to him.
2 of section 20 of the Abolition Act.
According to the argument the third proviso is not an independent proviso but is a sort of proviso to the second proviso.
 The argument of the petitioners is that the words  such rights  in the third proviso have reference to the rights created after the 1st July 1945 mentioned in the previous proviso and on that construction the lease in favour of the petitioners could be terminated only in accordance with that proviso by giving three months  notice.
It will be noticed that rule only indicates the authority who is to decide whether the right falling under the second proviso should be terminated or allowed to continue.
It does not purport to lay down the manner in which such termination is to be brought about.
It was somewhat faintly argued by learned counsel for the appellant that the Government should have 563 allowed the appellant s application for the renewal of his lease under r 47 of the Mineral Concession Rules of 1949.
In other words this rule does not do anything more than add some terms to the lease.
