out of the said twelve accused6 accused were acquitted of all the charges while the five appellants herein namely bonkya alias bharat shivaji mane a 5mandu baliba dombe a 8ashok baloba dombe a 9ranjar bhausaheb dombe a 10 and kaka alias pandurang baloba dombe a 11 were convicted for offences under section 302307149 ipc and section 3 of tada and sentenced to suffer life imprisonment and to pay a fine of rs 5000 each for the offence under section 302149 ipc.
10 years ri and a fine of rs 5000 each for the offence under section 307149 ipc 2 years ri for the offence under section 324149 ipc and life imprisonment and fine of rs 5000 each for the offence under section 3 of tada in default of payment of fine on each of the counts the appellants were to undergo further ri for two years each.
appellants a 5a 10 and a 11 thereafter assaulted bajrang band patte pw 14 on his head in front of the hotel.
bajrang pw 14 was taken to the hospital by waman pw 15ramesh pw 11 and prakash pw 2whereas popat deceased who was seriously injured and had fallen down unconscious after receipt of the injuries was removed to the hospital by the police when it arrived at the spot a little later.
during the investigation an identification parade was got conducted through the executive magistrate pw 32 when baban karpe pw 9 and other prosecution witnesses identified the assailants.
p 35requested the court for holding trial in respect of both the chargesheets together which application was allowed by the designated court vide order dated 5 december 1992 and that is how both the cases were tried together by virtue of the provisions of section 220 1 cr.
at the trial the prosecution alleged that the accused party with an intent to commit terror in the wadar community had committed the murder of popat and injured pw 9 and pw 14by using lethal weapons and had thereby committed terror in the wadar community and thus committed an offence under section 3 of tada besides the other offences as already noticed.
the learned judge of the designated court acquitted a 2a 3a 4a 6a 7 and a 12 of the offences charged against them apparently influenced by the lack of identification of these accused persons by the prosecution witnesses at the identification parade conducted by the executive magistrate.
that the incident arose out of a petty altercation between a 11 and his three companions with pw 10 and his three companions at the video parlour and later on led in the homicidal death of popat band patte on 11 august 1990 and injuries to pw9 and pw14 was neither disputed before the learned designated court nor before us.
pw 9 was examined by dr khiste pw 22 who noticed the following two injuries on his person 1 transverse superficial incised wound 10x12 cm on posterior of left knee in popliteal.
the trial court for the purposes of consideration of the evidence divided the prosecution case into three parts namely i the incident at vrindavan video parlour ii incident near jagdamba hotel and iii the incident at the math.
however according to the prosecution evidence itself during the assault none out of the four prosecution witnesses with whom the altercation had taken place at the video parlour was injured.
the evidence of pw10pw 11 and pw 12 has received ample corroboration from the testimony of pw 9pw 13pw 14 and pw 15who deposed that while the witnesses were narrating the incident of the video parlour to waman band patte pw 15 and other witnesses present there the accused party arrived in a jeep and two auto rickshaws variously armed and opened an attack on the complainant party with a view to teach them a lesson for the altercation which had taken place earlier at the video parlour.
we do not find any force in the submission of the learned counsel for the appellant that since mohan lal pw 19who runs the video parlour has not fully supported the prosecution version regarding the cause of altercation at the video parlour the genesis of the occurrence gets shrouded in doubt.
we find from a careful analysis of the evidence that the testimony of pw9 to pw 15 regarding the incident at the video parlour is cogent and trustworthy and nothing has been brought out during the cross examination of these witnesses which may cast any doubt about the correctness of the version given by them regarding the incident at the video parlour.
even from the evidence of the hostile witness pw 19 mohanlal it emerges that on the day of the incident there was an altercation at the video parlour though he has given the cause of the altercation to be somewhat different which explanation does not appeal to us.
we are in agreement with the designated court that there is ample evidence led by the prosecution to establish the incident at the video parlour and also that the said incident was the origin for the subsequent assault.
out of the remaining witnesses mentioned above pw 9 and pw 14 are the injured witnesses.
from the testimony of pw9it stands established that while mukesh pw 12 was narrating the incident which had taken place at the video parlour the appellants alongwith 78 other persons arrived in a jeep and two auto rickshaws armed with swords satturs and sticks and opened the assault on the prosecution witnesses and that a 11 and his two associates assaulted pw 14 with swords.
these witnesses categorically deposed that a 5a 10 and a 11 were responsible for causing injuries to bajrang pw 14.
they specifically described the roles played by a 5a 10 and a 11 pw 10pw 11pw 12pw 13pw 14 and pw 15 also spoke about the presence of a 1a 8 and a 9 with their respective weapons alongwith a 5a 10 and a 11 near the jagdamba hotel at the time of assault on pw 14.
at the identification parade a 5 was identified by pw 9pw10pw 11pw 14 and pw 15 a 10 by pws 10 to 15 a 11 by pw 3 and pws 9 to 15 a 1 by pws 10 to 15 a 8 and a 9 by pw 3 and by pws 10 to 15.
so far as other accused are concerned none of the prosecution witnesses ascribed any role to a 2a 3 and a 12 and even though pw 15 deposed at the trial about the presence of a 4a 6 and a 7 and stated that they were present with the accused party but the trial court for good and sufficient reasons found that his testimony as regards their presence in the unlawful assembly had not received trustworthy corroboration from any other prosecution evidence.
the learned designated court opined that though the identity of a 1 since deada 5a 8a 9a 10 and a 11 as the assailants had been established by the prosecution evidence beyond a reasonable doubt the same could not be said about the participation of the remaining accused.
from our independent analytical appreciation of the evidence on the record we are of the opinion that the designated court rightly found the participation of a 1a 5a 8a 9 and a 11in the assault to have been positively established.
baban karpe pw 9himself an injured witness failed to identify a 10 at the time of the identification parade held by pw 32though he identified a 10 later on in the court during the trial.
that apart the name of a 10 does not figure specifically in the statement of baban pw 9which formed the basis of the fir ex 77 pw 10pw 11 and pw 15 have tried to implicate a 10 by making tell tale improvements in their statements at the trial by ascribing a role to him in the assault by improving upon their statements earlier recorded during the investigation with which statements they were duly confronted.
even bajrang pw 14 who is an injured witness himself and deposed about the incident at jagdamba hotel with sufficient details appears to have exaggerated the version when he stated that he had been assaulted by a 10 also besides a 5 and a 11 auite contrary to his earlier statement.
there is only one injury which was received by pw 14 and according to the other prosecution witnesses that injury had been caused to him by a 11 the tendency to exaggerate the incident is not uncommon and that an innocent person may be roped in alongwith the guilty ones is a possibility which cannot in the facts and circumstances of this case be ruled out.
in view of the improvement made by the prosecution witnesses at the trial from their earlier statements and the infirmities already noticed we are of the opinion that it can not be said with any amount of certainty that the participation of a 10 in the assault or even his presence in the unlawful assembly at the time of the assault near jagdamba hotel or the math has been substantiated.
