the accused appellant has been held guily of of fences punishable under section 302 and section 3762f of indian penal code.
in the opinion of the other learned judge the prosecution evidence was sufficient to sustain the conviction as recorded by the trial court though the case was not one of those rarest of rare cases as would warrant death sentence being awarded to the appellant.
p c the third learned judge has on an independent appreciation of evidence recorded his own findings upholding the conviction of the accused on both the charges framed against him and thus agreeing with one of the two learned judges constituting the division bench in conclusion.
the accused was arrested on 3 4 1991 on suspicion.
the accused was challaned and charge sheeted for the offences as already stated hereinabove.
suffice it to observe that there is no direct evidence connecting the accused with the offences charged.
the pieces of circumstantial evidence which have been found proved and held as forging an incriminating chain against the accused are as under i last seen together ii abnormal conduct of the accused iii recovery of underwear and baniyan which was found to be stained with semen and blood group b which is also the blood group of the deceased iv false plea of alibi and v accused absconding since the date of offence.
we would proceed to examine each of the pieces of incriminating circumstantial evidence so as to find out if each one of the circumstantial evidence is proved individually and whether collectively it forges such a chain of incriminating circumstances as would fasten the guilt on the accused beyond by shadow of reasonable doubt.
this court held as under in a case based on circumstantial evidence the circumstances from which the conclusion of guilt is to be drawn have not only to be fully established but also that all the circumstances so established should be of a conclusive nature and consistent only with the hypoth esis of the guilt of the accused.
those circumstances should not be capable of being explained by any other hypothesis except the guilt of the accused and the chain of the evidence must be so complete as not to leave any reasonable ground for the belief consistent with the innocence of the accused.
in the later case it was also held that a false explanation or false plea taken by the accused can be used as an additional link in the chain of circumstantial evidence subject to satisfication of three essential conditions namely i various links in the chain of evidence led by the prosecution have been satisfactorily proved ii the said circumstance points to the guilt of the accused with reasonable definiteness and iii the circumstance is in proxim ity to the time and situation.
to constitute evidence of last seen together the evidence must definitely permit an inference being drawn that the victim and the accused were seen together at a point of time in close proximity with the time and date of the commission of crime.
the fact remains that the testimony of shalu pw 7 aged 4 years even if taken at its face value does not constitute such a circumstance as to draw an incriminating inference against the accused and connect him with the crime.
abnormal conduct of accused kalu ram pw5 stated that two or three days after the date of dead body of s having been found.
harish chand sharma pw21 stated that between 19th and 25th march 1991 the accused subhash was called at the police station several times for making enquiries.
on seeing the case diary he stated that on 21 3 1991 the accused was definitely called twice on the same day though there is no mention of what enquiries were made from him.
iii recovery of underwear stained with blood and semen strangely enough the underwear and baniyan though discovered and seized on an information given by the accused and on his pointing out apparently on a statement recorded under section 27 of the evidence act have not been produced and exhibited in the court.
there is not investigation directed towards finding out and no evidence worth its name collected and adduced in the court to show that the underwear and baniyan were of the accused.
no evidence is available to show as to what was the blood group of the accused and therefore the possibility of blood on the underwear being of the accused himself can not be and is not ruled out.
one of the circumstan tial evidence relied on was that a human blood stain of b group was found on the accused 's pant which blood group was also of the deceased.
another circumstantial evidence relied on was that a stain of semen was found on the under pant of the accused.
b group is not uncommon group of blood and no effort was made to exclude the possibility that the blood of the accused belonged to the same group.
as regards the dried stain of semen on the appellant 's under pant the court observed that the accused was a grown up man of 30 years and no compelling inference could arise that the stain was caused during the course of the sexual assault committed by him on the victim girl.
in the present case the age of the accused was about 21 years at the time of the incident.
presence of semen stain on underwear assuming that the underwear belonged to the accused though there is no evidence adduced in this regard is not by itself an incriminating piece of evidence connecting the accused with the crime in question.
so also the discov ery of b group blood stain on the underwear can not be treated as an incrimi nating piece of evidence against the accused connecting him with the crime because there is no evidence that the underwear belonged to the accused and further the possiblity of the underwear being stained with the blood of the person to whom it belonged or the accused if he was wearing it has not been ruled out.
the high court has gone completely amiss in holding that a plea of alibi was taken by the accused and that was found to be false.
the accused has not stated during his statement under section 313 cr.
the proprietor of the cinema hall was examined to state that on 18th and 19th march the accused had taken leave from his job and during those days he was not present on duty.
this piece of evidence was put to the accused during his statement under section 313 cr.
p c is to afford the accused personally an opportunity of explaining any incriminating circumstance so appearing in evidence against him.
in law this term is used to express that defence in a criminal prosecution where the party accused in order to prove that he could not have committed the crime charged against him offers evidence that he was in a different place at that time.
denial by an accused of an assertion made by his employer that the accused was on leave of absence from duty on the date of offence does not by any stretch of reasoning or logic amount to pleading alibi.
we are clearly of the opinion that the accused appellant has not taken a plea of alibi and therefore the question of finding it false and then drawing an inference adverse to him does not arise at all.
v absconding of the accused was the accused absconding at all.
grave injustice has been done to the accused by holding it as a fact that the accused was absconding after the date of the incident and then treating the so called absconding as a piece of incrimi nating circumstantial evidence against the accused.
according to harish chand sharma the accused was arrested on 3 4 1991 vide exbt.
the memo of arrest does not state the arrest of accused having been made at behror.
there is no evidence adduced by the prosecution to hold that soon after the date of the offence the accused was found missing from his residence or the place of his employment and was not available though searched at the place or places where normally he ought to have been.
