these appeals are directed against a judgment and order dated 17 october 2003 passed by the special court constituted under the special courts trial of offences relating to transactions in securities.
late harshad mehta were persons notified in terms of the act which was enacted to provide for the establishment of a special court for the trial of offences relating to transactions in securities and for matters connected therewith.
in terms of the provisions of the act along with late harshad mehta the custodian had notified 29 entities in terms of section 3 of the act comprising three of his younger brothers wife of late harshad mehta wives of two of his younger brothers and other corporate entities a partnership firm and three hufs.
the properties of late harshad mehta and the appellants herein being notified persons stood attached in terms of the provisions of the act.
it is not in dispute that the learned special court on or about 3 august 1993 issued directions in various proceedings before it appointing auditors to prepare and audit the books of accounts of all notified persons for the period 1 april 1990 and 8 june 1992 i e the date of the notification.
a chartered accountants firm was appointed by the learned special judge by an order dated 17 september 2003 to represent all notified entities in the family of late harshad mehta for the purpose of ascertaining their tax liabilities.
we may at this juncture notice the nature of the applications filed by the parties herein before the learned special court i on 26 april 1999 the custodian filed an application being misc.
it was directed in case all adult members of the family of late shri harshad metha who are presently occupying the abovereferred flats file an undertaking in this court within a period of four weeks from today undertaking to vacate the flat occupied by them and hand over peaceful possession thereof to the custodian within a period of four weeks from the date on which the custodian sends them communication asking them to vacate the flats on sale of the flats being sanctioned by the court.
mr mahesh jethmalani learned senior counsel appearing on behalf of the appellants in assailing the said judgment of the learned special court inter alia raised the following contentions i some of the entities having their asset base much more than actual liability the impugned judgments are unsustainable.
ii having regard to the fact that only three entitles out of eight were involved in the offences the liability of harshad mehta could not have been clubbed for the purpose of directing attachment and consequent sale of the properties which exclusively belong to them.
v the appellants having preferred appeals against the income tax orders of assessment passed by the authority and the same having been set aside no liability to pay income tax by the appellants as of now being existing the residential properties could not have been sold.
iin view of the decision of this court in l s synthetics ltd v fairgrowth financial services ltd and another 2004 11 scc 456 2004 indlaw sc 715 all properties belonging to the notified persons being subject to automatic attachment could be applied for discharge of the joint liabilities of the harshad mehta group in terms of section 11 of the act.
iithe applications for de notification filed by the appellants herein having been withdrawn the contention raised by the appellants that they are not liable in terms of the provisions of the act are not open to question particularly in view of the fact that no application for de notification could be filed subsequently as they had become barred by limitation.
iiithe order of assessment under the income tax act having become final and binding as on the date when the orders of assessment were passed and thus mere filing of appeals were not sufficient for raising a contention that the taxes did not become due.
ivthe appellants herein apart from the corporate entity which is a front company of late harshad mehta have received large loans advances and credits from the harshad mehta group and there had been intermingling of the assets to the tune of crores of rupees they can not escape their liabilities under the act.
the affidavit filed by the appellants herein before the special court clearly shows that the liabilities exceed the assets in all cases.
ixthe sale of commercial property had never been seriously contested by the appellants and in fact the contention of the appellants herein before the special court was that if the commercial properties were sold there would be no need to sell the residential properties.
the ordinance provides for the establishment of a special court with a sitting judge of a high court for speedy trial of offences relating to transactions in securities and disposal of properties attached.
3 of section 3 contains a non obstante clause providing that on and from the date of notification under sub section 2 any property movable or immovable or both belonging to any person notified under that sub section shall stand attached simultaneously with the issue of the notification and such attached properties may be dealt with by the custodian in such manner as the special court may direct.
in the ordinance which preceded the act there was no provision for giving post facto hearing to a notified person for cancellation of notification but such a provision has been made in the act as would appear from section 42 thereof 1 of section 4 of the act reads as under contracts entered into fraudulently may be cancelled if the custodian is satisfied after such inquiry as he may think fit that any contract or agreement entered into at any time after the 1st day of april 1991 and on and before the 6th june 1992 in relation to any property of the person notified under sub s 2 of section 3 has been entered into fraudulently or to defeat the provisions of this act he may cancel such contract or agreement and on such cancellation such property shall stand attached under this act.
any prosecution in respect of any offence referred to in sub s 2 of section 3 pending in any court is required to be transferred to the special court.
notwithstanding anything contained in the code and any other law for the time being in force the special court may make such order as it may deem fit directing the custodian for the disposal of the property under attachment.
the following liabilities shall be paid or discharged in full as far as may be in the order as under a all revenues taxes cesses and rates due from the persons notified by the custodian under sub s 2 of section 3 to the central government or any state government or any local authority b all amounts due from the person so notified by the custodian to any bank or financial institution or mutual fund and c any other liability as may be specified by the special court from time to time.
the right of a person notified to file an application or to raise a defence that he is not liable in terms of the provisions of the act or in any event the properties attached should not be sold in discharge of the liabilities can be taken at the initial stage by filing an application in terms of sub s 2 of section 4 of the act.
but at the stage when liabilities are required to be discharged the notified person may inter alia raise a contention inter alia for the purpose of establishing that the properties held and possessed by them are sufficient to meet their liabilities.
does the special court have any discretion relating to the extent of payments to be made under section 112a from out of the attached funds property.
whether the special court has the power to absolve a notified person from payment of penalty or interest for a period subsequent to the date of his notification section in the alternative is a notified person liable to payment of penalty or interest arising from his inability to pay taxes after his notification.
in other words taxes as assessed which are presently payable by the notified person are taxes which have to be taken into account under section 112a while distributing the property of the notified person.
in regard to question No 2 it was opined every kind of tax liability of the notified person for any other period is not covered by section 112a although the liability may continue to be the liability of the notified person.
such tax liability may be discharged either under the directions of the special court under section 112c or the taxing authority may recover the same from any subsequently acquired property of a notified person vide tejkumar balakrishna ruia v a k menon 1996 indlaw sc 2403 or in any other manner from the notified person in accordance with law.
in respect of the question No 3 it was opined that the date of distribution arrives when the special court completes the examination of claims under section 9 a and if on that date any tax liability for the statutory period is legally assessed and the assessment is final and binding on a notified person that liability would be considered for payment section 111a.
so far as question No 4 is concerned this court despite upholding the contention of the custodian that no question of any reopening of tax assessments before the special court would arise and the liability of the notified person to pay the tax will have to be determined under the machinery provided by the relevant tax law observed but the special court can decide how much of that liability will be discharged out of the funds in the hands of the custodian.
this is because the tax liability of a notified person having priority under section 112a is only tax liability pertaining to the statutory period.
but if the assessment is a best judgment assessment the special court may examine whether for example the income which is so assessed to tax bears comparison to the amounts attached by the custodian or whether the taxes so assessed are grossly disproportionate to the properties of the assessee in the hands of the custodian applying the wednesbury principle of proportionality.
the special court may in these cases scale down the tax liability to be paid out of the funds in the hands of the custodian.
in regard to question No 5 this court agreed with the finding of the special court that neither penalty nor interest can be considered as tax under section 112a of the act.
so far question No 6 is concerned it was held that the remedy of a notified person who is assessed to penalty or interest after the notified period would be entitled to move the appropriate authority under the taxing statute stating if it is open to him under the relevant taxing statute to contend that he was unable to pay his taxes on account of the attachment of all his properties under the special court act and that there is a valid reason why penalty or interest should not be imposed upon him after the date of notification the authorities concerned under the taxing statute can take notice of these circumstances in accordance with law for the purpose of deciding whether penalty or interest can be imposed on the notified person.
the special court is required to consider this question only from the point of view of distributing any part of the surplus assets in the hands of the custodian after the discharge of liabilities sections 112a and 112b.
1992 3 bom cr 716 1992 indlaw mum 6066 wherein it was held if the person approaches the special court and makes out for example a case that the property which is attached has no nexus of any sort with the illegal dealings in securities belonging to banks and financial institutions during the relevant period andor that there are no claims or liabilities which have to be satisfied by attachment and sale of such property in our view the special court would have the power to direct the custodian to release such property from attachment.
but the said observation was held to be not laying down a law by a 3 judge bench of this court in l s synthetics ltd v fairgrowth financial services ltd and another 2004 11 scc 456 2004 indlaw sc 715 holding i. a notified party has the requisite locus to bring the fact to the notice of the special court that certain sum is owing and due to him from a third party whereupon a proceeding can be initiated for recovery thereof by the custodian and consequent application thereof in discharge of the liability of the notified person.
ii sub section 3 of section 3 should be literally construed and so construed all properties belonging to the notified person shall be subject to attachment which may consequently be applied for discharge of his liabilities in terms of section 11 of the said act.
the ratio of the said decision as regard applicability of the limitation act was further considered by a division bench of this court in fairgrowth investments ltd v custodian 2004 11 scc 472 2004 indlaw sc 868 wherein it was held that section 5 of the limitation act will have no application in relation to an application falling under sub s 2 of section 4 of the act stating it is enough for the purpose of this appeal to hold that section 292 of the limitation act 1963 does not apply to proceedings under section 42 of the special court trial of offences relating to transactions in securities act 1992.
since the appellant 's petition of objection had been filed much beyond the period prescribed under that section the special court was right in rejecting the petition in limine.
the intention to attach property which did not belong to the notified person on the date of the notification but which he might acquire later would had it been there have been clearly expressed and sub s 3 would have stated that such property would stand attached the moment it was acquired by the notified person.
the apprehension expressed by the special court does not appear to be well founded if what a notified person obtains by way of purported income or gift or inheritance is really his own money such money would upon establishment of the fact stand attached automatically under the provisions of section 33.
iiwhether individual liabilities of the appellants ought to have been separately considered by the special court as not a part of harshad mehta group.
the appellants case is that the individual and corporate appellants other than harshad mehta ashwin mehta and sudhir mehta filed applications within the prescribed period before the special court praying for their de notifications.
we are therefore of the opinion that the provisions of the limitation act have no application so far as directions required to be issued by the special court relating to the disposal of attached property are concerned.
the contention of the appellants to the effect that their properties should have been attached only towards the liabilities incurred by the parties in respect of the transactions made during the statutory period can not be accepted as all the appellants being notified the attachment of the assets would be automatic.
a transaction of benami indisputably can be a subject matter of a lies in terms of section 41 of the act as and when such a question is raised the same may have to be dealt with by the special court appropriately.
the appellants however raised the following contentions i that the statement prepared by the custodian and exhibited as c to his affidavit in rejoinder dated 1 october 2003 was based on material at least all of which were not connected to the appellants as were pointed out before the court.
the learned special court despite such a contention having been raised by the appellants in their affidavit in reply did not advert thereto.
it is furthermore not in dispute that pursuant to or in furtherance of the directions issued by the learned special court the accounts of all entities be it corporate or individual were drawn up separately which approach had not been dis approved by the auditor appointed by the special court.
the learned special court in the impugned order stated i the grand total of the admitted liability thus comes to rs 7279127317 15.
v thus taking into consideration the total of the decretal amount and the income tax liability it is clear that the total assets of harshad mehta group would be far below the liabilities.
in our opinion the learned judge special court should have analysed the respective contentions of the parties in greater details and in particular in regard to assets and liabilities of the separate entities and having regard to the contentions raised by them that they are not part of the harshad mehta group and their individual liabilities can be met from the assets held and possessed by them separately.
the statement annexed to the affidavit of the custodian showed individual break up and in that view of the matter the net asset picture of each individual of the appellants herein on individual basis and the effect thereof in our opinion should have received serious consideration at the hands of the learned special court.
