the order of learned single judge was passed on 9 11 2005 against the said order special leave petition was filed which was disposed of by this court by order dated 16 2 2006 we shall refer to the text of the order later.
learned counsel for the appellant submitted that the order of this court is very clear and the conclusions of the high court that merely limitation was waived is contrary to the clear terms of the earlier order of this court.
an appeal shall lie from a judgment or order passed by the one judge of the high court in exercise of original jurisdiction u art 226 of the constitution of india to a division bench comprising of two judges of the same high court.
this court in hari vishnu kamath v syed ahmad ishaque and ors air 1955 sc 233 1954 indlaw sc 212 held that the high court while issuing writ of certiorari u art 226 of the constitution can only annul a decision of a tribunal whereas u art 227 of the constitution it can issue further directions as well.
under article 227however what comes up before the high court is the order or judgment of a subordinate court or tribunal for the purpose of ascertaining whether in giving such judgment or order that subordinate court or tribunal has acted within its authority and according to law.
it is because a single judge has no power under rules 14 and 17 to hear and dispose of a petition u art 226 or 227 that the non obstante clause has been introduced in rule 18 the use of the words be heard and finally disposed of by a single judge in rule 18 merely clarifies the position that in such cases the power of the single judge is not confined merely to issuing a rule nisi.
to say that the words finally disposed of mean finally disposed of so far as the high court is concerned is illogical because rules 14 and 7 use the words be heard and disposed of by a divisional bench and were the reasoning of the full bench correct it would mean that so far as the high court is concerned when a single judge hears a matter and disposes it of it is finally disposed of and when a division bench disposes it of it is not finally disposed of.
as we have seen above an intra court appeal against the judgment of a single judge in a petition u art 226 is not barred while cl 15 itself bars an intra court appeal against the judgment of a single judge in a petition u art 227.
this court with reference to an unreported judgment in ratnagiri district central co operative bank ltd v. dinkar kashinath watve 1989 indlaw sc 421c a no 520 of 1989 decided on 27 1 1989 held as follows even when in the cause title of an application both art 226 and art 227 of the constitution have been mentioned the learned single judge is at liberty to decide according to facts of each particular case whether the said application ought to be dealt with only u art 226 of the constitution.
for determining the question of maintainability of an appeal against such a judgment of the single judge the division bench has to find out whether in substance the judgment has been passed by the learned single judge in exercise of the jurisdiction u art 226 of the constitution.
even when the learned single judge 's order has been passed under both the articles for deciding the maintainability against such an order what would be relevant is the principal or main relief granted by the judgment passed by learned single judge and not the ancillary directions given by him.
thus the determining factor is the real nature of principal order passed by the single judge which is appealed against and neither the mentioning in the cause title of the application of both the articles nor the granting of ancillary orders thereupon made by learned single judge would be relevant.
when without mentioning the particular article the learned single judge decided on merits the application in order to decide the question of maintainability of an appeal against such a judgment the division bench might examine the relief granted by the learned single judge for maintainability of an appeal the determination would be the main and not the ancillary relief.
when a combined application u arts 226 and 227 of the constitution is summarily dismissed without reasons the appeal court may consider whether the facts alleged warranted filing of the application u art 226 or u art 227 of the constitution.
