one lakshminarayana iyer a hindu brahmin who owned considerable properties in the tirunelveli district died on 13th december 1924 leaving him surviving a widow ranganayaki and a married daughter ramalakshmi.
ramalakshmi had married the plaintiff and had a number of children from him.
they were all alive in december 1924 when lakshminarayana died.
before his death he executed a will on 16th november 1924 the construction of which is in controversy in this appeal.
by this will he gave the following directions after my lifetime you the aforesaid ranganayaki amminal my wife shall till your lifetime enjoy the aforesaid entire properties the outstandings due to me the debts payable by me and the chit amounts payable by me.
after your lifetime ramalakshmi ammal our daughter and wife of rama ayyar avergal of melagaram village and her heirs shall enjoy them with absolute rights and powers of alienation such as gift exchange and sale from son to grandson and so on for generations.
as regards the payment of maintenance to be made to chinnanmal alias lakshmi ammal wife of my late son hariharamayyan my wife ranganayaki ammal shall pay the same as she pleases and obtain a release deed.
ranganayaki entered into possession of the properties on the death of her husband.
on 21st february 1928 she settled the maintenance claim of lakshmi ammal and obtained a deed of release from her by paying her a sum of rs 3350 in cash and by executing in her favour an agreement stipulating to pay her a sum of rs 240 per annum.
ramalakshmi died on 25th april 1938 during the lifetime of the widow.
none of her children survived her.
on the 18th september 1945 the suit out of which this appeal arises was instituted by the plaintiff the husband and the sole heir of ramalakshmi for a declaration that the said sale would not be binding on him beyond the lifetime of the widow.
a prayer was made that the widow be restrained from alienating the other properties in her possession.
on the 19th september 1945 an ad interim injunction was issued by the high court restraining the widow from alienating the properties in her possession and forming part of her husband s estate inspite of this injunction on the 27th september 1945 she executed two deeds of settlement in favour of the other defendants comprising a number of properties.
the plaintiff was allowed to amend his plaint and include therein a prayer for a declaration in respect of the invalidity of these alienations as well.
it was averred in the plaint that ramalakshmi obtained a vested interest in the suit properties under the will of her father and plaintiff was thus entitled to maintain the suit.
the defendants pleaded that the plaintiff had no title to maintain the suit that the widow was entitled under the will to an absolute estate or at least to an estate analogous to and not less than a widow s estate that the estate given to ramalakshmi under the will was but a contingent one and she having predeceased the widow no interest in the suit properties devolved on the plaintiff.
the main issue in the suit was whether the widow took under the will an absolute estate or an estate like the hindu widow s estate and whether the daughter s interest therein was in the nature of a contingent remainder or whether she got in the properties a vested interest.
the subordinate judge held that the widow took under the will a limited life interest and not an absolute estate or even a widow s estate under hindu law and that the daughter got there under a vested interest in the properties to which the plaintiff succeeded on her death.
in view of this finding he granted the plaintiff a declaratory decree to the effect that the first defendant had only an estate for life in the suit properties and that the alienations made by her would not endure beyond her lifetime.
the question as to the validity of the alienations was left undetermined.
the unsuccessful defendants preferred an appeal against this decree to the high court of judicature at madras.
the high court by its judgment under appeal affirmed the decision of the trial judge and maintained his view on the construction of the will.
leave to appeal to the supreme court was granted and the appeal was admitted on the 27th november 1951.
the substantial question to decide in the appeal is whether the estate granted by the testator to his widow was a fall woman s estate under hindu law or merely a limited life estate in the english sense of that expression.
it was not contested before us that a hindu can by will create a life estate or successive life estates or any other estate for a limited term provided the donee or the persons taking under it are capable of taking under a deed or will.
the decision of the appeal thus turns upon the question whether the testator s intention was to give to his widow ail ordinary life estate or an estate analogous to that of a hindu widow.
at one time it was a moot point whether a hindu widow s estate could be created by will it being an estate created by law but it is now settled that a hindu can confer by means of a will oil his widow the same estate which she would get by inheritance.
the widow in such a case takes as a demise and not as an heir.
the court s primary duty in such cases is to ascertain from the language employed by the testator what were his intentions keeping in view the surrounding circumstances his ordinary notions as a hindu in respect to devolution of his property his family relationships etc.
considering the will in the light of these principles it seems to us that lakshminarayan iyer intended by his will to direct that his entire properties should be enjoyed by his widow during her lifetime but her interest in these properties should come to an end on her death that all these properties in their entirety should thereafter be enjoyed as absolute owners by his daughter and her heirs with powers of alienation gift exchange and sale from generation to generation.
he wished to make his daughter a fresh stock of descent so that her issue male or female may have the benefit of his property.
they were the real persons whom he earmarked with certainty as the ultimate recipients of his bounty.
in express terms he conferred on his daughter powers of alienation byway of gift exchange sale but in sharp contrast to this on his widow he conferred no such powers.
the direction to her was that she should enjoy the entire properties including the outstandings etc.
and these shall thereafter pass to her daughters.
though no restraint in express terms was put on her powers of alienation in case of necessity even that limited power was not given to her in express terms.
if the testator had before his mind s eye his daughter and her heirs as the ultimate beneficiaries of his bounty that intention could only be achieved by giving to the widow a limited estate because by conferring a full hindu widow s estate on her the daughter will only have a mere spes successions under the hindu law which may or may not mature and under the will her interest would only be a contingent one in what was left indisposed of by the widow.
it is significant that the testator did not say in the will that the daughter will enjoy only the properties left indisposed of by the widow.
the extent of the grant so far as the properties mentioned in the schedule are concerned to the daughter and the widow is the same.
just as the widow was directed to enjoy tile entire properties mentioned in the schedule during her lifetime in like manner the daughter and her heirs were also directed to enjoy the same properties with absolute rights from generation to generation.
they could not enjoy the same properties in the manner directed if the widow had a full hindu widow s estate and had the power for any purpose to dispose of them and did so.
if that was the intention the testator would clearly have said that the daughter would only take the properties remaining after the death of the widow.
vide sasiman v shib narain 491.
