we have heard learned counsel on both sides.
the admitted facts are that the respondents through their agents had registered trade mark raleigh and other trade marks 12 marks under the indian merchandise marks act1889 4 of 1989 and the trade marks act1940 5 of 1940 the trade and merchandise marks act1958 43 of 1958 for short the act which came into force with effect from october 31958 has repealed the predecessor act and now the act is in operation.
the respondents entered into an agreement with sudhir kumar sen on november 31948 to render technical know how to the indian company to be formed which would manufacture bicycles and market them under raleigh s indian trade marks.
pursuant thereto a company called sen raleigh limited came into existence which manufactured cycles with technical assistance by the respondents raleigh industries of u k and marketed the bicycles with a brand name and trade marks belonging to the respondents.
on april 241954sen.
raleigh was recorded as permitted users of the trade marks.
by agreement dated december 291962sen raleigh and the respondents agreed that sen raleigh was registered user for further period up to 1976 sen raleigh was taken over by the government of india on september 81975 under the idr act and the government took over the management of sen raleigh limited.
the agreement dated december 291962 was modified and the respondents were given option to terminate the agreement.
an agreement dated december 201976 was entered into between the appellant as registered user and the respondent in respect of 12 trade marks for a period of 5 years.
on march 281978joint application by sen raleigh and the appellant duly signed by the respondent as proprietor and sen raleigh limited as registered user came to be made before the registrar of trade marks.
on october 241980sen raleigh was nationalized and got vested in the appellant corporation by publication of the notification under idr act.
on march 51982the respondent wrote a letter to the appellant that in the absence of a new agreement they were instructing their advocate to prevent the appellant by restraint proceedings to use the trade mark effective from april 11982.
on march 241982the appellant made an application under sections 3246 and 56 of the act against the respondents in the high court of calcutta in suit no 26692 pleading inter alia that the respondents had failed to provide technical assistance by passing the technical know how to sen raleigh after november 11976 neither the appellant nor sen raleigh were registered users of the trade mark after november 11976.
u s 482 of the act up to the date of one month before filing that rectification application.
a continuous period of 5 years or longer had passed and the trade mark had not been bona fide used by the respondent.
having regard to the extended nature of non user of the concerned trade mark after november 11976any further use of the said trade marks by the respondents was likely to deceive and cause confusion to the trade and public alike in india.
by proceedings dated june 131984the registrar of trade marks informed the appellant that the registered user s applications were abandoned since the appellant failed to comply with the statutory requirements.
the learned single judge dismissed the application by his judgment dated september 131990 holding inter alia that any proprietor mentioned in s 461b of the act extends to bona fide user other than registered users.
after termination of the collaboration and user agreement between the appellant and the respondents it was likely to cause confusion and deception amongst the trade and public.
the conduct of the respondents was not violative of s 32b and c the court in those circumstances declined to rectify the trade mark and strike it off from the register of trade marks.
on appeal the division bench in appeal no 1391 confirmed the same holding that on and from october 251980the respondent had allowed and permitted the appellant to manufacture bicycles etc according its specifications and to pass off the goods under their trade marks.
though the collaboration and registered user agreements stood expired from october 311981no agreement came to be executes nor continued to use the specifications on technical know how.
there is no specific bar for an unregistered lincesee to use registered trade mark so long as there is a connection in the course of trade between the licenser and the lincesee.
the appellant was unable to prove that there had been no such user of the trade mark for a continuous period of 61 months or longer and the lack of bona fide intention the expression by any registered proprietors in s 461b should not be restricted to user by proprietor or registered user who should also include bona fide or authorized users the legislature did not intend to register proprietor to be deprived of their property at the instance of user whose use is unregistered.
the expression therefore should not be restricted to user by the proprietor himself or any registered user but should also take into account bona fide authorized user.
non registration of the user agreement by sen raleigh and the appellant was due to the default of the latter.
the appellant had not taken any steps to withdraw registered user applications and as such should not be permitted to take such a contradictory stand of applying for rectification at the same time.
the power u s 46 is discretionary.
in view of the appellant s conduct it was taking advantage of its own wrong.
the discretion therefore was not to be extended in favour of the appellant.
thus this appeal by special leave.
shri raju ramchandran learned senior counsel for the appellant raised three fold contentions.
the respondents admittedly did not use the same.
shri ashok desai learned senior counsel for respondents resisted the contentions.
