aggrieved by the decision of customs excise and gold control appellate tribunal cegat dated 11 4 2000the appellants assessee have come by way of civil appeals under section 35l of the central excise act1944.
appellants were engaged in the manufacture of biscuits classifiable under sub heading 1905 11 of the central excise tariff.
the biscuits were sold under the brand name meghraj.
under show cause notices it was alleged that the appellants herein assessee have sold the biscuits under the brand name meghrajwhich was a registered trade mark of kay aar biscuits p ltd who was using the said trade mark on manufacture of biscuits themselves and therefore the appellants were not eligible to the benefit of ssi notification no 193 ce dated 28 2 1993 as amended by notification no 5994 ce dated 1 3 1994.
the above show cause notices were issued by the department demanding differential duty for the period april 1994 to june 1994 amounting to rs 374948 plus short paid duty for the period april 1995 to may 1995 amounting to rs 92992 the said demand was based on an agreement detected by the department.
that agreement was between madan verma director of a company known as m s.
under the said agreement m s kay aar biscuits p ltd was.
party no 1 under the agreement.
it was declared that m s kay aar biscuits p ltd was the owner of the registered trade mark meghraj.
under the agreement.
it was stated that m s kay aar biscuits p ltd was using the aforestated trade mark meghraj for the manufacture of biscuits.
ltd had put up a unit for manufacture of wafers in noida which it sought to manufacture under the brand name meghraj.
the said agreement m s kay aar biscuits p ltd gave permission to m s rich food products pvt.
ltd to use its trade mark for the manufacture of wafers alone.
the said agreement was valid for three years commencing from 22 11 1989.
at this stage it may be noted that the appellants herein claim to have started manufacture of biscuits in 1991 the biscuits were sold in wrapper mentioning the name of the appellantsm s.
the appellants claimed that it has been using the wrapper since beginning and since 1991 the use of the trade name or brand name meghraj has never been challenged.
the assistant commissioner ghaziabad examined the printed wrappers.
he came to the conclusion vide his orders that the trade name meghraj was in the form of a logo printed on the wrapper of the biscuits and therefore the appellants were not entitled to the benefit of notification no 193 ce dated 28 2 93 as amended by notification no 5994 dated 1 3 94 consequently the adjudicating authority called upon the appellants to pay differential duty for the period april 1994 to june 1994 amounting to rs 374948 plus short paid duty for the period april 1995 to may 1995 amounting to rs 92992.
aggrieved by the decision of the adjudicating authority the assessee preferred appeals to the commissioner a the said appeals were rejected on the ground that the appellants were using the brand name meghraj of another manufacturer m s kay aar biscuits p ltd on their products biscuits and therefore they were not entitled to the benefit of exemption under notification no 193 ce as amended.
it was held that the word meghraj was printed on all the printed wrappers and therefore it was wrong to say that the appellants were not using the brand name meghraj on its products.
in this connection reliance was placed by the commissioner a on the said agreement dated 22 11 89 before the commissioner a the appellants herein contended that they had used the name m s meghraj biscuits industries ltd on the wrapper and not on the product.
and therefore they were entitled to exemption.
this argument was rejected by the commissioner a saying that the appellants were using the brand name meghraj on their products.
according to the commissioner athe appellants used the trade name meghraj in the form of a logo which was printed on the wrapper.
before the commissioner ait was argued in the alternative that the logo belonged to m s.
that the same was registered ssi unit that m s kay aar biscuits p ltd was lying closed since 1 3 93 and therefore the appellants have been using that logo of m s kay aar biscuits p ltd who was eligible for exemption under notification no 193 ce as amended.
this contention was rejected by the commissioner a on the ground that under the notification no 193 ce as amended exemption was not available to the specified goods bearing brand name or trade name registered or not of another person.
since the appellants herein had used the trade name meghraj on their products which trade name was owned by m s ltd the appellants were not entitled to the benefit of exemption under notification no 193 ce as amended.
accordingly the commissioner a dismissed the appeals.
the orders of the commissioner a have been confirmed by order dated 11 4 2000 passed by cegat.
hence these civil appeals.
to complete the chronology of events it may be pointed out that after the impugned decision of the tribunal dated 11 4 2000the appellants herein moved an application for rectification on 12 5 2000 rom no 722000 in that application it was urged on behalf of the appellants herein that the said brand name meghraj did not belong to m s kay aar biscuits p ltd that the department has failed to discharge its burden to prove that the trade name meghraj belonged to m s kay aar biscuits p ltd that a mere agreement between m s.
in the rectification application.
it was further pointed out that in fact the appellants had applied for ownership of the brand name meghraj vide application dated 30 9 91 to the registrar trade marks under the trade marks act and that the said application for registration was pending before the competent authority and since the above arguments were not recorded in the impugned order of the cegat dated 11 4 2000 the same warranted rectification.
by order dated 8 12 2000cegat rejected the above rectification application made by the appellants.
one more fact needs to be mentioned that on 30 6 2000 the registrar of trade marks appears to have issued registration certificate on 30 6 2000 registering the trade mark meghraj in favour of the appellants with effect form 30 9 91 it appears that issuance of this certificate was mentioned before the cegat which rejected the rectification application on 8 12 2000.
notification no 193 ce dated 28 2 93 was issued to help the ssi units to survive in the market dominated by brand name trade name.
the object of the notification therefore was to help the ssi units and thereby increased industrial production.
under para 4 of the said notification the benefit of exemption was not available for excisable goods bearing brand name or trade name registered or not of another person.
explanation ix defined the word brand name or trade name.
the same is quoted hereinbelow.
the name of that director is madan verma.
he is the director of the appellants company also.
further there is no evidence to show as to whether m s kay aar biscuits p ltd was an eligible manufacturer.
in the case of pahwa chemicals pvt.
emphasis supplied.
