this appeal is directed against the final judgment and order dated 03 10 2007 passed by the high court of judicature andhra pradesh at hyderabad in criminal appeal no 436 of 2001 whereby the high court dismissed the appeal filed by the appellant herein and confirmed the judgment dated 19 03 2001 passed by the special judge c b i cases visakhapatnam in c c no 2 of 1998.
brief facts a the appellant accused was working as a head clerk in the traffic cadre section in the office of the senior divisional personnel officer south central railway vijayawada during the period from april1992 to november1997 the nature of duties of the appellant accused included dealing with and processing of the matters like promotions transfers seniority list roster list pay fixation on promotions retirements resignations etc of the personnel.
one k rama rao the complainant who was examined as pw 1was posted as yard points man grade a under station superintendent south central railway tanuku from december1995 to june1997 in june1997due to excess staff at tanuku.
he was instructed to report at head quarters vijayawada and accordingly when he reported there he was asked to go back to tanuku.
thereafter he went back to tanuku from where he was subsequently transferred to rajahmundry.
thereafter pw 1 made a representation to his senior officer requesting him for posting at vijayawada cheerala vetapalam or tenali.
later pw 1 was transferred to vijayawada.
as the appellant accused was dealing with the transfers the complainant pw 1 met him on 05 11 1997 at his office to pursue about the issuance of the said transfer order.
the appellant accused asked him to come on 10 11 1997 when he met him on 10 11 1997the appellant asked him to come on the next day as he was busy in pay fixation work.
on 11 11 1997again he went to the office of the appellant but he could not find him on his seat.
again a day after i e on.
13 11 1997when he met the appellant accused he informed him that his request for transfer has been processed and the order is ready and the same has been placed before the a p o for signature and asked him to come on the next day i e on 14 11 1997and demanded rs 200 for releasing the said office order.
on the same daypw 1 reported the matter in writing to the inspector of police central bureau of investigation in short the cbivijayawada.
on 14 11 1997a trap was laid by the cbi officials along with panchas and when the accused demanded and accepted a sum of rs 200 as illegal gratification he was caught red handed along with the money which was recovered from the right hand side pocket of his pant.
an fir was registered by the inspector cbi visakhapatnam branch in crime No.
rc 20a97 vsp after recording the statements of the witnesses inspector of police cbi visakhapatnam filed charge sheet being no 298 ytr dated 29 04 1998 against the appellant accused for an offence punishable under sections 7131dii read with s 132 of the prevention of corruption act1988 hereinafter referred to as the act in the court of special judge for cbi cases at visakhapatnam.
the special judge cbi by order dated 19 03 2001convicted the appellant and sentenced him to undergo rigorous imprisonment for a period of six months and to pay a fine of rs 500 and in default to suffer simple imprisonment for one month for the offence punishable u s 7 of the act and one year rigorous imprisonment with a fine of rs 500 and in default to suffer simple imprisonment for one month for the offence punishable u ss 131d ii.
read with s 132 of the act.
g against the said order the appellant accused filed criminal appeal no 436 of 2001 before the high court of andhra pradesh.
the high court by impugned judgment dated 03 10 2007 dismissed the appeal filed by the appellant accused and confirmed the conviction passed by the trial court.
hence the appellant accused has preferred this appeal by way of special leave petition before this court.
heard mr atm rangaramanujam learned senior counsel for the appellant and mr harish chandra learned senior counsel for the respondent.
notice only on quantum of sentence hearing on all aspects.
on 28 01 2008this court consisting of three honourable judges issued notice in this matter confining to the quantum of sentence only.
in pursuance of the same we permitted mr rangaramanujam learned senior counsel for the appellant to address his arguments confining to quantum of sentence imposed on the appellant accused.
as stated in the narration of facts the appellant was convicted u s 7 of the act for which he was sentenced to undergo rigorous imprisonment for six months and to pay a fine of rs 500 in default simple imprisonment for one month.
he was also convicted for the offence under s 131dii read with s 132 of the act and sentenced to undergo rigorous imprisonment for one year and fine of rs 500 in default simple imprisonment for one month.
the trial court ordered that both the sentences of imprisonment shall run concurrently.
the said conviction and sentence was affirmed by the high court.
if we confine ourselves to the limited extent of notice dated 28 01 2008we have to hear both sides only on the quantum of sentence.
however mr rangaramanujam learned senior counsel for the appellant by drawing our attention to the recent judgment of this court in yomeshbhai pranshankar bhatt vs state of gujarat2011 6 scc 312 2011 indlaw sc 370submitted that in spite of limited notice this court while exercising jurisdiction u art 142 of the constitution in order to do complete justice while hearing the matter finally can go into the merits of the orders passed by the trial court and the high court.
in the reported case the appeal was against the concurrent finding of both the courts convicting the appellant u s 302 ipc and sentencing him to suffer imprisonment for life.
at the slp stage this court by order dated 27 07 2009issued notice confined only to the question as to whether the petitioner was guilty of commission of an offence under any of the parts of s 304 indian penal code1860 in short ipc and not u s 302 ipc similar request was made before the bench that the appellant was entitled to urge all the questions including his right to urge that he should have been acquitted in the facts and circumstances of the case.
this court referred to the supreme court rules1966 which have been framed u art 145 of the constitution and also considered scope of its power u art 142 as well as order 47.
rule 6 of the code of civil procedure1908.
in short the code while deciding the said question the bench has also considered the scope of s 100 of the code for entertaining the second appeal.
it further shows that the court considered the plea of the appellant therein for acquittal despite the fact that the notice was limited in terms of the order dated 27 07 2009 it is relevant to point out that the bench in para 18clarified the position and reopened the case in its entirety even though notice was issued confining to a particular aspect.
the question whether the court will enlarge the scope of its inquiry at the time of final hearing depends on the facts and circumstances of the case.
since in the facts of this case we find that the appellant should be heard on all points we have come to the aforesaid conclusion.
emphasis supplied.
it is clear that the bench itself has clarified that they are not laying down the law that in spite of issuing notice confining to a particular aspect in the case on hand quantum of sentence the parties are entitled to urge all points and re open the case as if they are free to do the same without any restriction.
as a matter of fact the last sentence in para 18 makes it clear that in the facts and circumstances of that case they permitted the appellants to urge all points on merits.
in the case on hand it is to be noted that on appreciation of oral and documentary evidence led in by the prosecution and the defence and on appreciation of entire materials the court of first instance i e the trial court convicted the appellant and sentenced him as mentioned above.
the high court as an appellate court once again analysed all the material discussed the oral and documentary evidence and finding that the prosecution had proved the guilt of the accused beyond reasonable doubt concurred with the conclusion arrived at by the trial court and dismissed the appeal of the appellant.
inasmuch as both the courts have thoroughly discussed the oral and documentary evidence with reference to the charges leveled against the appellant and in view of the limited order dated 28 01 2008 by this court issuing notice confining to quantum of sentence only and even applying the analogy enunciated in yomeshbhai 2011 indlaw sc 370 suprawe feel that it is not a case of such nature that the appellant should be heard on all points consequently we reject the request of the learned senior counsel appearing for the appellant.
quantum of sentence.
whether requires any reduction.
mr rangaramanujam learned senior counsel for the appellant submitted that inasmuch as the alleged incident took place on 14 11 1997 and 14 years have elapsed since then the amount of rs 200 said to have been received by the appellant is trivial in nature and also of the fact that due to the said conviction and sentence he lost his job leniency may be shown and sentence be reduced to the period already undergone.
he fairly admitted that out of the maximum period of one year the appellant had served only 52 days in prison.
with this factual position let us consider whether the request of the learned senior counsel for the appellant is to be accepted and sentence be reduced to the period already undergone.
it is not in dispute that the provisions of the prevention of corruption act1988 alone are applicable since the incident occurred on 14 11 1997 i e subsequent to the act.
s 7 of the act relates to public servant taking gratification other than legal remuneration in respect of an official act.
it has spread everywhere.
emphasis supplied.
