Q K Daphtary Solicitor General of India H J Umrigar and D Gupta for the Apellant In C A No 45 of 59 and Respondent In C Appeal No 46 of 59.
926 1960.
September 27.
The Judgment of the Court was delivered by DAS GUPTA J.
Ms.
Daulatram Rameshwarlal a firm registered under the Indian Partnership Act referred to later in this judgment as sellers  are registered dealers under section 11 of the Bombay Sales Tax Act.
The notice of demand for the total sales tax and the purchase tax assessed was served on the sellers on September 30 1956.
In this view the learned Judge dismissed the application under article 226.
Against this decision the sellers appealed.
The sellers  case is that these were sales on FOB contracts.
The correctness of the proposition that in the absence of special agreement the property in the goods does not pass in the case of a FOB contract until the goods are actually put on board is not disputed before us.
As has however been rightly stressed by the learned Solicitor General it is always open to the parties to come to a different agreement as to when the Dropert in the goods shall pass.
The question whether there was such a different agreement has to be decided on a consideration of all the surrounding circumstances.
We think that the learned judges who heard the appeal in the Bombay High Court were right in their conclusion that the goods remained the sellers  property till the goods had been brought and loaded on board the ship and so the sales were exempted from tax under article 2861b of the Constitution.
b of section 8 has been furnished in respect of such goods and the purchasing dealer does not show to the satisfaction of the Collector that the goods have been despatched by him or by a person to whom he has sold the goods to an address outside the State of Bombay within a period of six months from the date of purchase by the dealer furnishing such certificate .
It is therefore contended that  a person  in section 8b should be interpreted to include a registered dealer or anybody else.
Mr Sanyal contended that the certificate 933 has to declare only an intention and that if ultimately the actual despatch is made by some person who is not a registered dealer it cannot strictly be said that the declaration has not been carried out.
Appeals dismissed.
