December 19.
The Judgment of the Court was delivered by RAGUHBAR DAYAL J.
The appellant was taken in custody and as a result of the investigation was sent up for trial The appellant denied the allegation that he had caused the death of Sheo Sahai and alleged that he was falsely accused of the offence.
He also denied the other allegations for the prosecution.
He alleged that one Paley Singh informed him about the murder of Sheo Sahai and asked him to go to the Police Station Ekdil and to inform the Station Officer orally about the murder.
The Courts below rightly did not accept his version.
The evidence led by the prosecution consisted of the evidence relating to motive to his extrajudicial confession to one Ujagar Singh when he was having a bath in the Canal to his purchasing the sword and to his delivering it at the police Station after he had dictated the report.
Both the Courts below rightly believed the evidence about the motive and purchase of the sword by the appellant.
The learned counsel for the appellant has argued that the entire report dictated by the appellant was inadmissible in evidence as its contents amounted to a confession of the offence by the appellant made to a Police Officer and that the evidence relied upon by the High Court was insufficient to establish that the appellant had murdered Sheo Sahai.
He also urges that such portions of the report which did not amount to a direct admission of the appellant s striking Sheo Sahai with a sword and thereby causing his death were admissible in evidence.
We do not consider it necessary to decide whether any portion of the report dictated by the appellant at the Police Station is admissible or not in evidence as there is good independent evidence with respect to the four matters mentioned in the report and relied on by the High Court in considering the case against the appellant.
These admissions of the appellant are i that he purchased a cycle from the deceased ii that there was a quarrel in a play of cards iii that he purchased a sword and iv that he deposited the sword at the Police Station.
Ajit Singh bears no enmity with the appellant.
In fact none of the prosecution witnesses is alleged to bear enmity with the appellant.
Paley Singh PW 2 and Baij Nath PW 4 depose about the dispute during the game of cards played on June 12 1960.
Kehar Singh PW3.
It is therefore not necessary to rely on the admissions of the appellant in the report with respect to these facts deposed to by the various witnesses whose testimony has been rightly accepted.
If Ujagar Singh s statement made it very likely that what he stated did happen there could not have appeared any improbability in Ujagar Singh s sleeping in his field and meeting the appellant in the manner alleged especially when the learned Judges believed and there was evidence about it that the fields had chari and sugarcane crop at the time.
The learned Judges have not stated those considerations if any in addition to the improbability of Ujagar Singh s presence in his field on account of the crops being not very high which made them doubt the appellant s confessing to Ujagar Singh.
The learned Sessions Judge has discussed the criticism urged before him against the acceptance of the statement of Ujagar Singh and considered 208 it for reasons given not to justify the rejection of Ujagar Singh s statement.
There is no enmity between Ujagar Singh and the appellant and therefore no good reasons existed for Ujagar Singh to state falsely.
The murder was committed in the month of June.
Both on account of the temperature and on account of the culprit s desire to wash of blood marks on his person the appellant s bathing in the Canal at that hour of the night cannot be said to be improbable.
It is not stated by sub Inspector Kishan Singh nor it is alleged that the appellant had on his person or on his clothes blood stains when he presented himself at the Police Station.
This tends to support Ujagar Singh s statement that the appellant had a bath in the Canal at that hour.
Of course this consideration springs out of the supposition that the appellant did commit the murder.
It is not therefore a matter of surprise that he wakes up and proceeds to the spot from where the splashing sound which is supposed to be due to the wading of the neel gais came.
Taken by surprise it is not unlikely that the appellant should have made a statement that he had committed the murder of Sheo Sahai and was thereafter having a bath.
There is no reason to think that the appellant would not make such a statement when the appellant himself proceeds to the Police Station and hands over the blood stained sword.
It is no doubt unusual as urged for the appellant that a person who commits a murder in pursuance of an enmity arising out of minor disputes would be feeling so justified in his conduct as to openly admit it to the first person he met and to go to the Police Station and report about it.
It may be that having blurted out the truth to Ujagar Singh when taken by surprise the appellant thought the best thing to be to proceed to the Police Station and report the matter there.
This statement of his is supported impliedly by Paley Singh PW 2 who states that the Sub Inspector was not present when Ujagar Singh related to them the fact which had taken place at night and by Bishram Singh PW 13 who 210 deposed that Ujagar Singh stated that Ram Singh was taking his bath at night in the Canal Distributory and had said that he had come after committing the murder of Sheo Sahai and that the appellant had then proceeded towards the police station.
The evidence of the appellant s having enmity with Sheo Sahai the appellant s conduct in purchasing a sword and delivering it stained with human blood to the Police and the appellant s confession to Ujagar Singh fully establish that the appellant did commit the murder of Sheo Sahai.
