Two witnesses were produced before the tribunal in connection with the alleged misconduct but the tribunal did not rely on them on the ground that the important witnesses namely the Engineer the Secretary and other members of the staff whose evidence would have been of more value had not been produced and no explanation had been given why they were not produced.
As far back as 1952 the Labour Appellate Tribunal had occasion to consider this matter relating to discharge by notice or in lieu thereof by payment of wages for a certain period without assigning any reason see Buckingham and Carnatic Co Ltd Etg.
etc 1.
It was of opinion that even in a case of this kind the requirement of bona fides is essential and if the terminataton of service is a colourable exercise of the power or as a result of victimisation or unfair labour praction the industrial tribunal would have the jurisdiction to intervene and set aside such termination.
Further it held that where the termination of service is capricious arbitrary or unnecessarily harsh on the part of the employer judged by normal standards of a reasonable man that may be cogent evidence of victimisation or unfair labour practice.
and Assam Oil Company vs Its Workmen 2.
The reason given by the appellant in the order terminating the services of Sankaran of July 8 1958 namely that the proposed inquiry if conducted would lead to further friction and deterioration in the rank and file of the employees in general and also that maintenance of discipline in the undertaking would be prejudiced if Sankaran were retained in service cannot be accepted at its face value so that the necessity for an inquiry intended to be held for misconduct actually charged might be done away with.
In any case even if the inquiry was not held by the appellant and action was taken under r 18 a it is now well settled in view of the decisions cited above that the employer could defend the action under r 18a by leading evidence before the tribunal to show that there was in fact misconduct and therefore the action taken under r 18a was bona fide and was not colourable exercise of the power under that rule.
No such constitutional provisions have to be considered when one is dealing with industrial employees.
The appellant failed to satisfy the tribunal when the matter came before it for adjudication that the exercise of the power in this case was bona fide and was not colourable.
That case in our opinion has no application to the facts of this case because that case dealt with an application under section 33 of the Industrial Disputes Act while the present proceedings are under section 10 of the Act and the considerations which apply under section 33 are different in many respects from those which apply to an adjudication under section 10.
