iminal Appeals Nos.
Appeals by special leave from the judgment and order dated January 20 1960 of the Allahabad High Court in Criminal Government Appeals Nos.
The learned Additional Sessions judge acquitted the appellant of all these offences.
The State then preferred an appeal against his acquittal in these three cases to the High Court of Allahabad but restricted the appeal to the acquittal of the appellant in respect of offences under 410 section 52 of the Indian Post Office Act 1898 hereafter referred to as the Act.
These articles were found in an almirah the key of which was produced by the appellant s father.
A number of other articles were also seized at that time but we are not concerned with them as they have no connection with the charges against the appellant.
He stated and that fact is not denied that the house which consists of two rooms only has been rented in his father s name that both of them live in those two rooms and that the almirah was in his father s possession inasmuch as the key was produced by him.
2 That it has not been established that the five registered letters were in the exclusive possession of the appellant.
It may also be that because of the illegality of the search the Court may be inclined to examine carefully the evidence regarding the seizure.
In so far as section 52 of the Act is concerned the argument is that the prosecution having merely shown that the registered letters were recovered from an almirah in the house in which the appellant lives the 413 utmost that could be said is that he was in possession of letters that is assuming that he was in the exclusive possession of the house and the almirah.
The mere fact of possession according to learned counsel does not suffice to show that the letters were secreted by the appellant.
To secrete means according to the dictionary to hide.
In connection with a postal article addressed to some person the fact that it is retained in his possession by an officer of the post office in an almirah and that too for an inordinately long period would be tantamount to hiding that 414 article.
Further a perusal of section 55 makes it clear that where the entrustment of an article is made an ingredient of an offence the legislature has used appropriate words to make the matter clear.
If therefore it was the intention of  the legislature that for an officer of the post office to be punished for secreting destroying or throwing away a postal article in the oucrse of transmission by post entrustment of that article to him was essential it would have used language similar to that used by it in section 55.
The object of the provision is to prevent postal articles in course of transmission by post  from being tampered with and so the secreting destruction  etc of postal articles to which the provision is directed is to such secreting destruction etc as would frustrate or tend to frustrate their delivery to the addressees.
It is probably for this reason that the definition clearly lays down that until an article despatched by post is delivered or can be said to be delivered that it will be deemed to be in course of transmission.
The next and in our opinion the most important question to be considered is whether the prosecution has established that the five registered letters in question were recovered from the possession of the appellant.
As already stated all that the prosecution has been able to prove is this case is that these letters were found in an almirah of the house in which the appellant lives jointly with his father and of which the key was furnished by the father.
2 that at least nine of those postal articles were addressed to the respondent himself vide exhibit Ka 9 serial No 66 3 that Dewan Singh who we are informed is a very old man would not foist the said incriminating articles on his son and thus ruin his career for ever and 4 that the respondent alone can be said to have had some motive for secreting and concealing the registered letters and other postal articles in question.
 Before the High Court could take into consideration the circumstance that as between himself and his father the appellant had a better opportunity to 417 get at postal articles it had to find affirmatively that the almirah was in the exclusive possession of the appellant.
But to say that he must be deemed to be in exclusive possession of these articles and not merely in their joint possession along with his father because he had the opportunity to get at the articles and then infer that he must have utilized the opportunity and was therefore in their exclusive possession would be arguing in a circle.
Indeed had it been so found he could have been convicted under section 52 without the Court having to consider whether he had secreted the articles.
