M C Setalvad R K Garg and section C Agarwala for the appellants.
BACHAWAT and SHELAT JJ.
Mudholkar J.
 The order was made by the Chairman of the Board Mr R C Dutt on behalf of the Board by virtue of the powers conferred on him by certain rules to which we shall refer later.
On June 4 1965 the Company preferred a writ petition under article 226 of the Constitution in the Punjab High Court for the issue of a writ of mandamus or other appropriate writ direction or order quashing the order of the Board dated May 19 1965.
The Managing Director Mr Balasubramanian joined in the petition as petitioner No 2.
The second respondent is Mr T T Krishnamachari who was at that time Minister for Finance in the Government of India.
The order of the Board was challenged on 5 grounds which are briefly as follows 1 that the order was made mala fide 2 that in making the order the Board had acted on material extraneous to the matters mentioned in section 237b of the  3 that the order having in fact been made at the instance of the shareholders is invalid and on a true construction of section 237 this could not be done 4 that the order was invalid because it was made by the Chairman of the Board and not by the Board and 5 that the provisions of section 237b are void as offending articles 14 and 191 g of the Constitution.
i to iii.
i to iii.
In paragraph 13 he has stated that without prejudice to his submissions in the earlier paragraphs he would reply to allegations contained in the various paragraphs of the writ petition.
Its object is to find out the facts.
The investigation according to Mr Setalvad.
For sub section.
1 As soon as may be after the commencement of the Companies Amendment Act 1963 the Central Government shall by notification in the Official Gazette constitute a Board to be called the Board of Company Law Admin istration to exercise and discharge such powers and functions conferred on the Central Government by or under this Act or any other law as may be delegated to it by that Government.
a of sub section.
1 of section 637 read with sub section.
1 of section 642 read with sub section.
The Board.
It is not necessary to go into it.
No jurisdiction outside the section which empowers the initiation of investigation can be exercised.
Bachawat J.
The power under sub section.
Shelat J.
