AK Sen and D N Mukherjee for the appellant.
Sukumar Ghose for respondent No 1.
Mitter J This is an appeal by a certificate granted by the High Court at Calcutta from a judgment and decree in Second Appeal passed by that court in January 1961.
The question before us is whether the respondent No 1 was entitled.
On the 18th June 1948 the plaintiff the appellant before us instituted Suit No 292 of 1948 for ejectment of three Persons namely Abdul Rahim Abdul Hamid and Abdul Gaffur from the property in suit a parcel of land about 1 cottah 8 chittaks being part of premises No 6  1 Shibtola Lane Entally Calcutta.
In the notice to quit served on the 7th May 1948 the first two persons were described as tenants under the plaintiff and the third as a person who had purported to purchase the structures on the land and the tenancy right therein.
In the plaint itself the first two defendants were described as thika tenants.
No claim was made for rents or taxes although it was alleged that the same were in arrears.
The suit was decreed by a Munsif of Sealdah court 24 Parganas on March 18 1949 after the Calcutta Thika Tenancy Act of 1949 had come into force on February 28 1949.
On March 14 1953 the Calcutta Thika Tenancy Amendment Act 1953 was passed amending the definition of thika tenant still further and introducing important changes in the Act of 1949.
The Subordinate Judge dismissed the plea on the ground that the defendant appellant had not erected the structures on the land and was not a successor in interest of the tenant but only a transferee.
The learned Judge held that at the time when the appeal of the defendant was disposed of by the Subordinate Judge the rights of the parties were governed by the Thika Tenancy Act of 1949 and the definition of a thika tenant in that Act was not such as to afford any protection to the appellant.
He also observed that section 4 of the Act would be applicable.
The learned Judges of the Division Bench of the High Court found themselves unable to accept this argument and held that the only power vested in civil courts in respect of ejectment suits against 173 thika tenants like the present one was to be found in sections 28 and 29 of the original Act and by their omission from the statute suits for eviction became infructuous before civil courts.
We need not consider the proviso to the section as we are not concerned with the condition mentioned therein.
The definition of a thika tenant was modified slightly but the change affected thereby need not be taken account of because the respondent Gaffur s position was not improved thereby.
The incidents of thika tenancy were mentioned in various sections from section 3 to section II contained in Chapter 11 of the Act.
5 of section 2 the definition of a thika tenant or violation of a condition consistent with the Act by a breach of which he was under the terms of a contract between himself and his landlord liable to be ejected iii refusal to agree to pay rent at such enhanced rate as might be determined under section 25 iv requirement 174 of the land by the landlord for his own occupation or for the purpose of building on the land or otherwise developing the land except during any period limited by a registered lease under which the tenant might be holding v failure on the part of the holding for his own residential manufacturing or business purpose for more than six consecutive months omitting the priviso and vi on the expiry of a registered lease in favour of the tenant.
Under section 27 any person aggrieved by an order of the Controller might present an appeal in writing either to the Chief Judge of the Court of Small Causes in the Presidency town or to 175 the District Judge of a district in which the holding was situate.
Sub section.
5 of the section provided for reviews.
A series of decisions of the Calcutta High Court shows that the tenants failed to get any relief because they could not prove any system either of the kind specifically mentioned in section 2 sub section.
5 or an other like system.
It is however clear that the benefit of section 28 was available only if the decree or order for the recovery of possession had been made before the date of the commencement of the Act but 176 possession of such holding had not been recovered from him.
No exception was made under section 29 to cases where possession of the holding had been recovered from the thika tenant.
The consequence was that even if the tenant had lost possession but any proceeding even arising from an execution proceeding was pending the provisions of the Act would be attracted.
The most important one was however that contained in section 5 sub section.
Sub section.
Sub section.
Sub section.
1 of section 5 made the Act as amended by the Ordinance applicable to all cases pending before a court or a controller.
Sub section.
Finally came the Thika Tenancy Amendment Act VI of 1953.
Under section 9 any proceedings commenced under sub section.
Sub section.
Only suits which were pending on 21st October 1952 were to be decided in terms of the Act as finally amended.
According to Craies on Statute Law Sixth Edition at p 391 If it is a necessary implication from the language employed that the legislature intended a particular section to have a retrospective operation the courts will give it such an operation.
He could only make an application under section 5 after giving notice under section 4.
The language of section 5 being closely similar to that used in section 4 that section should also be held to be prospective only.
182 We cannot speculate as to why the legislature thought fit to omit sections 28 and 29 from the Act of 1949.
