Jai Gopal Sethi Naunit Lal with him for the appellant.
N section Bindra Porus A Mehta and P G Gokhale with him for the respondent.
It was part of his duties to disburse the wages to the workmen employed in the works and the procedure usually followed was that be drew the amount required from the treasury and paid the same to the emplo yees against their signatures or thumb impressions in the monthly acquittance roll.
In support of  the appeal it is argued by Mr Jai Gopal Sethi that the conviction of the appellant is illegal as sanction had not been obtained under section 197 1 of the Code of Criminal Procedure for his prosecution that the evidence on record is insufficient to establish an offence either under section 465 or section 409 of the Indian Penal Code and that there having been an acquittal of the appellant by the trial Magistrate the materials on record did not justify a reversal of that verdict by the appellate Court.
But after the disposal of the appeal by the High Court it was discovered that in fact there was no order of the Government sanctioning the prosecution and that the Chief Secretary had committed a mistake in sendidg the communication Exhibit PX.
The point for decision is whether sanction under section 197 1 of the Code of Criminal Procedure is necessary for prosecuting the appellant under section 409.
The result of the authorities may thus be summed up It is not every offence committed by a public servant that requires sanction for prosecution under section 1971 of the Code of Criminal Procedure nor even every act done by him while he is actually engaged in the performance of his official duties but if the act complained of is directly concerned with his official duties so that if questioned it could be claimed to have been done by virtue of the office then sanction would be necessary and that would be so irrespective of whether it was in fact a proper discharge of his duties because that would really be a matter of defence on the merits which would have to be in vestigated at the trial and could not arise at the stage of the grant of sanction which mut precede the institution of the prosecution.
But he contends that misappropriation of funds could under no circumstances be said to be within the scope of the duties of a public servant that he could not when charged with it claim justification for it by virtue of his office that therefore no sanction under section 1971 was necessary and that the question was concluded by the decisions in Hori Ram Singh vs Emperor1 and Albert We8t Meads vs The King1 in both of which the charges were of criminal misappropriation.
4 1948 LR 75 IA 180 1308 ing to the office as to be inseparable from them then sanction under section 1971 would be necessary but if there was no necessary connection between them and the performance of those duties the official status furnishing only the occasion or opportunity for the acts then no sanction would be required.
There the law was laid down in the following terms The section has content and its language must be given meaning.
Appeal allowed.
