1 To secure the interests and well being of the Indian business communities abroad.
n O p q r s t u v x y To sell or dispose of the undertaking of the Federation or any part thereof for such consideration as the Federation may think fit and in particular for shares debentures or securities of any other association or company having objects altogether or in similar to those of the Federation.
 352 It was then contended that the activities of the Federation carried on in the premises in question amounted to work in connection with or incidental or ancillary to trade or business in general within the latter part of the definition of commercial establishment.
It shall apply in the first instance.
They read Commercial establishment means any premises wherein any trade business or profession or any work in connection with or incidental or ancillary thereto is carried on and includes a society registered under the  and charitable or other trust whether registered or not which carries on any business trade or profession or work in connection with or incidental or ancillary thereto  journalistic and printing establishments quarries and mines not governed by the  educational or other Institutions run for private gain and premises in which business of banking insurance stocks and shares brokerage or produce exchange is carried on but does not include a shop or a factory registered under the  or theaters cinemas restaurants eating houses residential hotels clubs or other places of public amusement or entertainment.
Mr Pai learned Counsel for the Federation has firstly raised a preliminary objection that before the High Court at no stage it was urged on behalf of the Appellants that the activity of the Federation carried on in the premises was a business or trade.
As regards the preliminary objection it is true that before the High Court it was not argued that the activity of the Federation amounts to the carrying on of any business or trade in the premises in question.
therein the Memorandum of Association Articles of Association and the other material placed before the court were closely examined.
It undertakes regular publication of periodicals bulletins Reviews etc.
These services are material services.
In the matter.
It was condended that the activity of the Association was not a business or trade because by the Memorandum of Associ 1 357 ation all the property and income of the association were applicable solely to the promotion of the above objects and no part thereof could be paid as dividend or otherwise to any member.
