ivil Appeal Nos.
630 631 of 1971.
Appeals by Special Leave from the Judgment and order dated the 19 1 1970 of the Andhra Pradesh High Court in Tax Revision Cases Nos 46 and 47 of 1969.
P Ram Reddy and P P Rao for the Respondents.
The Judgment of the Court was delivered by BEG J.
This entry reads as follows Cinematographic equipment including cameras projectors and sound recording and reproducing equipment 562 lenses films and parts and accesories required for use their with As indicated above the very name of the Arc Carbons as commercial commodities seems to attach the word Cinema to them because of the use to which they are generally put.
Of course it is very difficult to identify a taxable commodity merely by the use to which it may be put.
Nevertheless it appears that the entry under consideration links the taxable object with its general or ordinary use.
It was pointed out that the Sales Tax Appellate Tribunal the final departmental authority under the Act had allowed an application for adducing expert evidence to determine the question whether arc carbons manufactured by the appellant company could be covered by the entry under consideration.
It however appears that before further evidence could be taken at the appellate stage on the subject a decision of the Andhra Pradesh High Court in the State of Andhra Pradesh vs Srimathi Nidmarthi Saraswathi Devi1 was brought to the notice of the Tribunal.
There the High Court had held that such arc carbons are covered by the 4th entry in the 1st Schedule of the Act.
Hence the Tribunal dismissed the appeal without taking further evidence.
The High Court pointed out that in both these cases what was decided was whether welding electrodes considered by themselves were electrical goods falling within entry 41 of Schedule 1 of the Madras General Sales Tax Act.
Neither the use of the term electrode to describe them suggesting a connection with electricity nor their utilisation in a process involving application of electrical power could convert them into electrical goods as contemplated by the entry in the Madras Act.
The High Court rightly observed that these decisions had no bearing whatsoever upon the very different entry in a schedule of an entirely different Act of a different State.
The same question has been argued before us with the help of some more cases to which the same criticism applies.
The entry No 4 occurs in a schedule in which descriptions of goods to be taxed indicate that the expression required for use there with has been employed for equipment or accessories connected with the main purpose.
For instance in entry No 5 the expression occurs at the end as follows Photographic and other cameras and enlargers films and plates paper and cloth and other parts and accessories required for use therewith.
Apparently the deciding factor is the predominant or ordinary purpose or use.
It is not enough to show that the article can be put to other uses also.
It is its general or predominant user which seems to determine the category in which an article will fall.
The first entry in the schedule relates to motor vehicles and includes component parts of motor vehicles and articles including batteries adapted for use as parts and accessories of motor vehicles but excludes certain other articles by putting in the words not being such articles as are ordinarily also used for other purposes than as 1 1965 16 STC 860.
3 1970 26 STC 428.
4 1971 27 STC 45.
564 part and accessories of motor vehicles.
Entry No 2 relating to refrigerators air conditioning plants covers also component parts thereof.
Again entry No 3 for wireless reception instruments and apparatus includes electrical valves accumulators amplifiers and loud speakers and spare parts and accessories thereof  .
The words parts thereof are used in several entries such as entry No 6 for clocks time pieces and watches entry No 10 for dictaphones and other similar apparatus for recording sound and entry No 11 for sound transmitting equipment such as telephones and loud speakers.
our object in indicating the nature of entries amdist which entry No 4 occurs is to show that some precision has been attempted in making the entries.
When it was intended to confine the entry to particular gadgets and parts thereof the entry said so.
Of course even where an entry relates to parts manufactured for use for a particular kind of instrument of gadget only the article manufactured to serve as a part of a particular kind of apparatus would not cease to be covered by the intended entry simply because a purchaser makes some other use of it.
We have to find the intention of the framers of the schedule in making the entry in each case.
The best guide to their intentions is the language actually employed by them.
We find that the term accessories is used in the schedule to describe goods which may have been manufactured for use as an aid or addition.
Other meanings given there are supplementary or secondary to something of greater or primary importance additional any of several mechanical devices that assist in operating or controlling the tone resources of an organ Accessories are not necessarily confined to particular machines for which they may serve as aids.
The same item may be an accessory of more than one kind of instrument.
It will be noticed that the entry we have to interpret includes parts as well as accessories which are required for use in projectors or other cinematographic equipment.
We think that the Andhra Pradesh High Court correctly held that the main use of the arc carbons under consideration was duly proved to be that of production of powerful light used in projectors in cinemas.
That is determined by their ordinary or commonly known purpose or user.
This as already observed by us is evident from the fact that they are known as cinema arc carbons in the market.
This finding was enough in our opinion to justify the view taken by the Andhra Pradesh High Court that the goods under consideration are covered by the relevant entry No 4.
VPS Appeals dismissed.
