Civil Appeal Nos.
For the purpose of holding election to the .
Aggrieved by the order passed by the High Court Ashok Kumar Mishra and Bhagwat Singh Thakur Petitioners No 1 and 5 respectively in the 494 petition before the High Court filed a petition for special leave to appeal to this Court and Purshottam Lal Sharma petitioner No 6 before the High Court filed another petition.
On special leave being granted the above petitions were registered as appeals.
One of the grounds on which the appellants challenged the validity of the electoral roll the calendar of events and the declaration of results of election was that the entire election process had become vitiated on account of the defect in the notice issued under Rule 1 of the Rules notifying that claims and objections should be preferred within a period of 20 days from the date of the publication of that notice when sub rule 3 of Rule 4 of the Rules prescribed that such claims and objections could be preferred within 30 days from the date of publication of that notice.
It was also alleged that on October 20 1978 34 persons mentioned in Annexure P 7 approached the Deputy Collector to entertain their claim for inclusion in the electoral roll and he refused to receive their applications.
became a nullity and that therefore the declaration of results of all the 44 successful candidates was liable to be quashed.
The claim of petitioner No 5 was rejected as no evidence in support of his claim was produced before the Deputy Collector.
The petitioners were not entitled to any relief under Article 226 of the Constitution on account of the inordinate delay involved in the presentation of the writ petition.
The period prescribed for preferring claims and objections under Rule 43 was 30 days.
It is not the case of the petitioners that they did not know immediately after the publication of such notice that in the said notice a period of 20 days had been mentioned in its preamble as the period within which the claims and objections could be preferred and in paragraph 7 thereof it had been stated that any such claim or objection filed beyond the prescribed period was liable to be rejected.
It was open to them to move the State Government under Rule 6 of the Rules to make an order directing the Collector to follow .
It was also open to them to file a writ petition immediately after the publication of the said notice questioning its legality.
Persons whose claims were rejected could have filed an appeal under Rule S before the Collector.
The final electoral roll was published on November 16 1978.
After November 25 1978 a large number of nominations were received by the Returning officer.
By that time the nominations had all been received.
The writ petition itself was filed on December 28 198 when the poll had to take place on December 31 1978.
It was however argued before us relying upon a news item which had appeared in a daily called Nav Bharat  dated October 21 1978 in which there was a reference to a statement made by the Minister for Local Self Government of Madhya Pradesh regarding the irregularity in the division of Raipur town into different wards for purposes of election.
The other documents produced alongwith the writ petition referred to omissions of certain names from the electoral roll.
No satisfactory reason for the delay was set out in the petition.
We therefore find it unnecessary to deal with the other points urged before us.
