M R Parpia J B Dadachanji and section N Andley for the appellant.
M C Setalvad Attorney General for India B Sen and R H Dhebar for the respondent.
April 24.
The Judgment of the Court was delivered by JAGANNADHADAS J.
This is an appeal by special leave against the judgment of the High Court of Bombay dismissing an application made to it under article 226 of the Constitution.
It appears that he was also interested in journalism and in public affairs.
O R D E R.
Whereas the Government of Bombay is satisfied with respect to the person known as Shri Lawrence Joachim Joseph DeSouza of Bombay that with a view to preventing him from acting in any manner prejudicial to the relations of India with the Portuguese Government and to the Security of India it is necessary to make the following Order Now therefore in exercise of the powers conferred by sub clause 1 of clause a of sub section 1 of section 3 of the Act IV of 1950 the Government of Bombay is pleased to direct that Shri Lawrence Joachim Joseph DeSouza of Bombay be detained.
The validity of the order is challenged on the following contentions.
1The order of detention was mala fide.
385 4The claim of State that no particulars of the grounds could be furnished in public interest is unsustainable and in any case mala fide.
The last two have been urged before us not only as independent points but as reinforcing the first two.
It is therefore enough to state in its broad outlines the background which is alleged as follows 1a There was a sudden search by the police on the 24th August 1954 at the appellant s place for alleged possession of illicit liquorwhich in fact was not found.
bOn the same day a search was carried out by the police also at his residence at Mahim but nothing was found.
The appellant s counsel strongly urged that the bona fides of the detaining authority is to be judged with reference to the above background of events and that viewed in that light the vagueness of the grounds and the belated claim of privilege under article 226 of the Constitution strengthen his contention.
In the present case the detenue has been intimated why in the opinion of the Government the activities of the appellant are considered prejudicial to the security of India and to the relations of India with Portugal.
51 390 to notice that the appellant himself does not appear to have felt that the grounds furnished were so vague as to hamper him in his right to make a representation under article 225 and section 7 of the Act.
The fact that be bad made no such application for particulars is therefore a circumstance which may well be taken into consideration in deciding whether the grounds can be considered to be vague.
Assuming however that the grounds furnished in this case are open to the challenge of vagueness the further question which arises is whether the validity of the order of detention can be sustained by reason of the claim in public interest of non disclosure of facts made by the Under Secretary to the Government of Bombay by means of his affidavit filed in the High Court.
On this assumption it was contended that the claim for non disclosure was invalid.
If the appellant bad exercised his right to ask for particulars at the time from the detaining authority there can be no doubt that he would have been furnished then the very information which has been supplied in paragraph 12 of the Under Secretary s affidavit in answer to para 15g of the appellant s petition both of which have been already set out above.
