A K Sen and G L Sanghi Vineet Kumar and Devinder Gupta for the Appellant.
J Sorabjee K K Venugopal and R P Bhatt for respondent in 2611 A81.
Reasons will follow.
Thereafter under a deed dated July 15 1969 the aforesaid three persons entered into a partnership along with 11 others under the name and style Metro Theatres for carrying on the business of constructing and running a modern air conditioned Cinema in the site covered by the permission granted by the Government.
The Minister of State for Revenue and Law Government of Jammu and Kashmir heard counsel on both sides and ultimately dismissed Todar Mal s appeal by a detailed order of which Annexure G is a copy.
Krishan Kumar was a party respondent in the Special Leave Petition also.
On April 19 1979.
On the date of the institution itself the District Judge Jammu issued an order of temporary injunction restraining defendants 1 to 7 from interfering with the possession and the running of the Theatre Apsara by the plaintiffs.
It reads Whereas it has been brought to my notice by Shri Ved Gupta sole licensee Apsara Theatre that the District and Sessions Judge Jammu has issued a temporary injunction against the exhibition of films by him in the above said Theatre And whereas the SP City by his letter No 1Conf.
This order shall come into force with immediate effect.
It was further held by The Acting Chief Justice that the effect of the licence was that it renders privilege the building of the cinematographs used therein and the privilege must necessarily follow the title in such building and the cinematograph.
The learned Judges took the view that Rule 23 of the Jammu and Kashmir High Court Rules 1975 squarely covered the situation that had arisen before them.
Aggrieved by the decision of the High Court Ved Gupta has filed these appeals after obtaining special leave from this Court.
Civil Appeal No 2611 of 1981 is directed against the judgment of the learned Acting Chief Justice which has been treated as the final judgment in the Letters Patent Appeal and Civil Appeal No 2611 A of 1981 has been preferred against the order passed by the Division Bench CMP No 454 of 1981.
In making this approach to the case the learned Acting Chief Justice has 587 wrongly lost sight of certain crucial facts which clinch the issue.
The District Magistrate and the State Government whose orders were sought to be quashed were the main respondents in this writ petition.
That writ petition was dismissed by the High Court on May 9 1978 SLP Civil No 3490 of 1978 filed by Todar Mal against the High Court s order dismissing his writ petition was rejected by this Court on November 13 1978.
The order of the licensing authority was confirmed on appeal by the State Government.
It is sufficient to state that these reasons do not appeal to us as correct or tenable.
We are also unable to accept as correct the view expressed by the learned Acting Chief Justice that under the Act the licence is granted for premises permanently equipped for cinematograph exhibition in the name of the owner Manager of the Cinematographs used in the premises and hence it necessarily follows that where the licensed premises including the cinematograph used therein belongs to a partnership and one of the partners obtains a licence in his separate name the other partners automatically acquire interests in the licence and that the privilege granted by the licensing authority must necessarily follow the title in such building and the cinematograph.
We are of the opinion that on a reading of the provisions contained in the Act and the Rules and the explicit terms of the licence itself it is impossible to sustain the view expressed in the judgment under appeal that the licence is a grant for the premises and constitutes an interest attached to the premises.
It is therefore not possible to uphold the view expressed in the impugned judgment that the effect of the licence is that it renders privileged the building and the cinematograph used therein and that the privilege must necessarily follow the title in such building and the cinematograph.
Section 6 F has been relied on by the learned Acting Chief Justice as lending support to the aforesaid view expressed by him.
That Section is in the following terms 6 F Power to revoke licence Where the holder of a licence or a person in charge of a cinematography or management thereof or an owner or partner thereof or an employee thereof has been convicted of an offence under Section 6 or Section 6 E of this Act or under Section 15 of the Jammu and Kashmir Entertainments Duty Act 1959 the licence may be revoked by the licensing authority.
The object and purpose of this Section obviously is to empower the licensing authority to revoke the licence in the event of the commission of an offence under Section 6 or Section 6 E of the Act not merely by the licensee but also by any person who may be in actual charge of a cinematography or management of the cinematograph.
The next ground stated in the impugned judgment for quashing the order passed by the District Magistrate is that the said order was violative of the principles of natural justice in as much as no notice or hearing had been given to the partnership firm before the order was passed.
Hence it becomes obvious that the basic premise on which the learned Acting Chief Justice has founded his reasoning cannot be accepted as correct or sound.
While the firm and the partners may have a right to share in the profits of the business which may be conducted in the Theatre on the strength of licence issued to Ved Gupta they have no right or interest in the licence which was granted to Ved Gupta in his personal and individual capacity.
That Rule reads 88v.
There was thus a clear 591 prohibition against the licensee from transferring assigning subletting or otherwise transferring the licence without the permission of the licensing authority and also against his allowing any other person to exhibit films in the licensed place without obtaining such permission.
It is now relevant to recall that what has happened in this case is that in a suit filed by Krishan Kumar along with 11 other partners an order of temporary injunction was issued on September 23 1980 restraining Ved Gupta from interfering in any manner with the running of the Theatre by the plaintiffs.
The District Magistrate was requested by the said letter that orders may be passed suspending the exhibition of films in the Cinema till the final decision of the court is made in favour of either of the parties.
What was done by the District Magistrate was only to suspend the exhibition of cinematograph films in Apsara Theatre by persons who are not licensees and who had no authority in law to conduct such exhibition of films.
There was no suspension of the licence issued to Ved Gupta in respect of the Theatre.
They had no legal right whatever to conduct the cinema shows in the Theatre without a licence in contravention of the law.
We make it clear that the inter se rights and claims of Shri Ved Gupta on the one hand and the firm and its partners on the other in respect of the Apsara Theatre are left open to be decided in the civil suit that is said to be pending.
HLC Appeal allowed.
