Dr YS Chitale V G Shanker KL Hathi Ms Sadhana DK Chhaya MK Arora and Mrs H Wahi for the appellant.
The Judgment of the Court was delivered by SABYASACHI MUKHARJI J.
By the said Judgment and decree the High Court of Andhra Pradesh had reversed the Judgment of the learned Subordinate Judge Masulipatam dated 19th November 1964 dismissing the suit of the plaintiffs respondents against the appellant.
Cheque for Rs 220 was dishonoured three times and finally encashed on 11th January 1961.
353 On the 10th January 1964 the plaintiffs filed the suit in the court of Subordinate Judge Masulipatam.
It was alleged in the plaint after setting out the facts which have been set out hereinbefore that the medical examination report was submitted to the appellant corporation by Dr Sri C Sambasiva Rao Approved Medical practitioner of the appellant in regard to the medical examination of the deceased.
A report described as All the Friend s report was duly sent to the appellant with regard to that proposal and all the preliminaries were completed and it was further alleged that the deceased was assured and told by the local agent and the Field officer of the Corporation that the payment of the first premium would amount to the acceptance of the proposal and advised the deceased to pay the first premium in full.
It was further stated that the said two cheques were encashed and the appellant had duly appropriated the amount and credited in the accounts towards the premium payable by the deceased.
The contention of the Corporation that the proposal was not accepted and as such there was no concluded insurance contract between the deceased and the Corporation was untenable according to the plaintiffs.
In the premises the plaintiffs claimed the said amount along with interest at six per cent per annum from the date of refusal of payment till the date of payment of the demand.
Written statement was filed on behalf of the appellant.
It was further stated that the two cheques were not encashed and credited towards the premium account of the proposal but these were kept only in deposit in suspense account without any liability of the appellant.
It was further stated that the averments in the plaint that the defendant Corporation cashed the above two cheques and appropriated the amounts and credited these in the account towards premium payable for the proposal were false.
In these circumstances the appellant Corporation claimed that there was no liability for the risk and as such the plaintiffs had no right to claim and there was no cause of action.
It was categorically stated that the cheques were not credited and adjusted towards the premium accounts.
During the trial before the learned Subordinate Judge five different issues were raised.
The respondents plaintiffs examined Shri RV Bhupala Prasad son of the deceased and the Corporation on its behalf examined Shri Jagannadhachari the Superintendent of the Corpo 355 ration branch at Guntur.
He also produced ex.
B 4 the review slip prepared by the Branch office Guntur and sent to the Divisional officer Masulipatam.
In his deposition he had stated that the Divisional Manager was the competent authority for accepting the proposal for Rs 50000.
Normally it took some time for the Divisional Manager to accept.
There was no communication from the Divisional office to the Branch officer accepting the proposal.
He had further stated that the proposal form was sent from the office at Guntur to the Divisional office at Masulipatam and exhibit B 1 to B 4 and B 8 were sent in this connection.
He stated that the endorsement marked as exhibit B 14 was initialled by him.
He further stated that the letters DM  were also written by him indicating that the papers should go to the Divisional Manager on exhibit B 4.
When the acceptance was complete and when there was no requirement necessary and if the full first instalment was 356 in deposit it would be adjusted towards premium amount he stated.
Chapter III of the Standing order dealt with the powers of the different authorities for inter alia Underwriting and Revivals of Policy .
He held that as per the prospectus of Life Insurance Corporation of India the risk under the Corporation policy commenced on the date of receipt of the first premium in full or the date of acceptance whichever was later and the second instalment of the premium falls due on a date calculated from such date of commencement of risk.
The Trial Court therefore held that there was no concluded valid insurance contract between the deceased and the Corporation.
The Trial Court further expressed the view that the other averments in the claim that the deceased was assured and told by the local agent and the field officer of the Corporation that the payment of the first premium would amount to the acceptance of the proposal were not established and even if such a representation was made that did not alter the position as under the rules the payment of the premium could never amount to the acceptance of the proposal if the proposal was not otherwise accepted.
In the result the suit filed by the respondents plaintiffs was dismissed with costs.
Being aggrieved by the said decision the plaintiffs respondents field appeal in the High Court.
The High Court was of the view that the plea that Divisional Manager was the only authority to accept had not been categorically taken in the written statement filed on behalf of the Corporation.
He had stated that the purpose of review slip was to enable the Divisional Manager to asses the risk and take a decision.
When an insurance policy becomes effective is well settled by the authorities but before we note the said authorities it may be stated that it is clear that the expression underwrite signifies accept liability under .
XLV page 986 wherein it has been stated as The mere receipt and retention of premiums until after the death of applicant does not give rise to a contract although the circumstances may be such that approval could be inferred from retention of the premium.
When the application so requires the acceptance must be evidenced by the signature of one of the company s executive officers.
See in this connection statement of law in MacGillivray  Parkington on Insurance Law Seventh Edition page 94 paragraph 215.
Having regard to the clear position in law about acceptance of insurance proposal and the evidence on record in this case we are therefore of the opinion that the High Court was in error in coming to the conclusion that there was a concluded contract of insurance between the deceased and the Life Insurance Corporation and on that basis reversing the judgment and the decision of the learned Subordinate Judge.
We order accordingly that the respondents will therefore pay back half of the actual amount received both of the principal together with interest within three months from this date.
