1073 1100 1117 19 1229 95 142 1554 1746 2140 2155 2271 2396 2459.
LN Sinha Attorney General Anil B DivanB Parthasarthi and KR Chaudhary for the Respondents.
GN Rao for the State.
Miss A Subhashini for the Union.
The Judgment of the Court was delivered by CHANDRACHUD C J.
In the elections held to the Legislative Assembly of Andhra Pradesh in January 1983 a new political party called Telugu Desam was swept to power.
It assumed office on January 9 1983.
On February 8 1983 an Order GO Ms No 36 was issued by the Government of Andhra Pradesh stating that it had decided to reduce the age of superannuation of all Government employees other than in the last Grade Service from 58 to 58 years.
Two notifications issued in exercise of the power conferred 586 by the Proviso to Article 309 read with Article 313 of the Constitution was appended to that order.
By these notifications every Government servant whether ministerial or non ministerial but not belonging to the last Grade Service who had already attained the age of 55 years was to retire from service with effect from February 28 1983.
Over 18000 Government employees and 10000 public sector employees were superannuated as a result of the order.
The case of the petitioners as laid in the writ petitions is that there was no basis at all for reducing the age of retirement from 58 to 55 that the age of retirement was increased from 55 to 58 by the Government of Andhra Pradesh by a notification dated October 29 1979 and nothing had happened since then to justify reduction of the age of retirement again to 5 i that providing employment opportunities to the youths h Is no relevance on the question of fixing the age of retirement that the Government had exercised its power arbitrarily without having regard to factors which are relevant on the fixation of the age of retirement that the Government had acted unreasonably in not giving any previous notice to the employees which would have enabled them to arrange their affairs on the eve of retirement that the Government was estopped from reducing the age of retirement to 55 since the employees had acted on the representation made to them in 1979 by increasing the age of retirement from 55 to 58 that as a result of the increase in the age of retirement from 55 to 58 years in 1976 a vested right had accrued to the employees which could be taken away if at all only from future entrants to the Government service that retirement of experienced and mature persons from Government service will result in grave detriment to public services of the State and that the decision of the Government is bad for a total non application of mind to the relevant facts and circumstances bearing on the question of the age of retirement like increased longevity.
A counter affidavit was filed on behalf of the State of Andhra Pradesh by Shri R Parthasarathy Joint Secretary in the Finance Department of the State at the stage of admission of the writ petitions.
after which the age of retirement was increased to 58 in 1979 has no relevance to the present decision of the State to reduce the age of retirement that the fact that the average expectation of life is about 70 years is not a ground for increasing the age of retirement of Government employees that the general trend was for reducing the age of retirement that the Government of Kerala and Karnataka had reduce the age of retirement of their employees to 55 though it was earlier increased from 55 to 58 that in some States in India the age of retirement is 55 and not 58 the present decision was taken by the Government in order to fulfill its commitment that it will take welfare measures in order to improve the lot of the common man and.
The inconvenience alleged by the petitioners in the matter of payment of their pension and other retirement benefits was imaginary since the Government was making extensive arrangements to disburse such benefits expeditiously.
Rule Nisi was issued on the writ petitions by this Court on February 25 1983.
Clause 101 of the Ordinance prescribes that every Government employee not being a workman and not belonging to Last Grade Service shall retire from service on the afternoon of the last day of the month in which he attains the are of 55 years.
Clause 102 provides that every Government employee not being a workman but belonging to the Last Grade Service shall retire from service on the afternoon of the last day of the month in which he attains the age of 60 years.
Clause 103 provides that every workman belonging to the Last Grade Service or employed on a monthly rate of pay in any service notified as Inferior shall retire from service on the afternoon of the last day of the month in which he attains the age of 60 years.
By clause 15 All Rules and Regulations made under the proviso to Article 309 or continued under Article 3 l 3 of the Constitution or made under any other law for the time being in force governing the recruitment and conditions of service of the Government employees continue to be in force in so far as they are not inconsistent with the provisions of the Ordinance.
Clause 16 of the Ordinance provides that no amendment to the Fundamental Rules shall be deemed to be invalid merely by reason of the fact that the proviso to rule 2 of the Fundamental Rules laid down that the said rules shall not be modified or replaced to the disadvantage of any person already in service.
Clause 16 of the Ordinance declares that every amendment made before or after the commencement of the Ordinance to the Fundamental Rules and the Hyderabad Civil Services Rules shall be and shall be always deemed to have applied to all Government employees whether appointed before or after the amendment.
Clause 18 of the Ordinance provides by sub clause i that the proviso to rule 2 of the Fundamental Rules shall be and shall be deemed always to have been omitted.
The age of retirement was previously governed by these two Rules.
The arguments advanced before us fall under distinct heads learned counsel having shared their burden equitably.
Shri Venugopal challenged the Ordinance on the ground that it is unreasonable.
The challenge of Shri Siddhartha Shankar Ray is based on the ground of a total non application of mind.
Shri ATM Sampath laid stress on the lack of acceptable reasons to justify the issuance of the Ordinance Like some of the other learned counsel he suspects the bona fides of the state Government in issuing the Order and the Ordinance.
We will presently set out the specific contentions advanced before us but before doing so.
Inevitably the public administrator has to counter balance conflicting claims while determining the age of superannua 591 tion.
Even otherwise not more than one per cent of the unemployed educated youths are likely to get employment as a result of the reduction in the age of retirement from 58 to 55.
In this connection the first ground of challenge to the reduction of the age of retirement is that the One man Pay Revision Commission appointed by the Government of Andhra Pradesh had recommended that the age of retirement should be increased from 55 to 58 that the said recommendation was accepted by the State Government and consequently the age of retirement was raised to 58 with effect from October 29 l 979.
The very foundation of this argument is fallacious By GO NO.
745 dated November 31977 the Government of Andhra Pradesh had appointed Shri A Krishnaswamy a retired member of the l.
Clause 101 of the Ordinance prescribes that every Government employee not being a workman and not belonging to Last Grade Service shall retire from service on the afternoon of the last day of the month in which he attains the are of 55 years.
Clause 102 provides that every Government employee not being a workman but belonging to the Last Grade Service shall retire from service on the afternoon of the last day of the of the Commission cover the review of the existing retirement benefits  the reference would naturally include the age of retirement.
 This was an erroneous and unwarranted reading of the terms of reference.
That question was not within its purview.
The reasonableness of a decision in any jurisdiction does not depend upon the time which it takes.
It is untenable to contend that a law is bad because it is passed immediately on the assumption of office by a new Government.
There is a wealth of material on that subject and many a Pay Commission has dealt with it comprehensively.
The State 596 Government had the relevant facts as also the reports of the various Central and State Pay Commissions before it on the basis of which it had to take a reasonable decision.
The aid and assistance of a well trained bureaucracy which notoriously plays an important part not only in the implementation of policies but in their making was also available to the Government.
The contentions of Shri Venugopal which arc set out in paragraphs c to g above and partly in paragraph b itself are by and large matters of legislative policy in the formulation of which the Government of the day must be allowed a free though fair play.
If reduction of the retirement age from 58 to 55 is to be regarded as arbitrary on the ground that it overlooks the advance made in longevity fixation of retirement age at 58 is also not likely to sustain the charge of arbitrariness.
The argument could still be made that improvement in the expectation of life requires that the age of retirement should be fixed at 60 or 62 or even at 65.
Then again though immutable considerations which are generally or universally true like increased life expectation are as much Jammu and Kashmir as for Tamil Nadu that cannot justify the conclusion that fixation of the retirement age at 55 in Jammu and Kashmir is invalid since the State of Tamil Nadu has fixed it at 58.
Neither the American nor the English notions or norms for fixing retirement age can render invalid the basis which is widely accepted in our country as reasonable for that purpose.
Prior to 1917 the superannuation rule applicable to both ministerial and non ministerial staff was that a Government servant who had attained the age of 55 might be required to retire but that in order to avod depriving the State of the valuable experience of efficient officers and adding unnecessarily to the non effective charges the rule should be applied with discretion and whenever it was applied reasons should be recorded.
This was considered injurious to the efficiency of the public service on the ground that most officers lost their keenness and initiative at the age of 55.
The rule was accordingly changed so as to make retirement at 55 the normal practice and retention in service beyond that age the exception.
A distinction was however made between ministerial and non ministerial officers presumbly because it was thought that the duties of the former did not suffer from the effects of advancing age as did those of the others and it was decided in effect that subject to continued efficiency ministerial officers should be retained in service till they attained the age of 60.
Paragraph 6 of the Commission s Report shows that the question was reconsidered in 1963 when the only additional argument advanced against an upward change its adverse effect on educated 599 unemployment.
The earlier decision to maintain the age of retirement at 55 was re affirmed but in view of the widespread shortage of trained personnel it was decided that extension of service beyond that age might be given liberally on the ground of public interest more specially in the case of scientific and technical personnel.
There was an extraordinary unanimity of opinion amongst Heads of Departments distinguished retired public servants public men and economists who gave evidence before the Commission that the age of superannuation should be raised the only difference being as to whether it should be raised to 58 or 60 years.
In paragraph 15 of the Report the Commission considered the effect of increasing the age of retirement on the employment situation and concluded that the likely repercussion of increasing the age of retirement on educated unemployment would not be substantial.
After talking into account all the relevant considerations including the fact that most Government servants themselves do not wish to continue in service until they are worn out and have one foot in the grave the Commission summed up its findings by saying that there was much in favour of and very little against raising the age of superannuation.
The recommendation of the Second Central Pay Commission that the age of retirement should be raised from 55 to 58 years was not accepted by the Government initially because it felt that raising the age of retirement would reduce employment opportunities in the immediate future.
However.
The Third Tamil Nadu Pay Commission 1978 has also dealt with the question of the age of retirement.
Our attention was also drawn to the views expressed on Employment Policy in the Sixth Five Year Plan 1980 85.
Soon after the assumption of office the Government of Andhra Pradesh presented a White Paper to the State Legislative Assembly in March 1983 on the question of reduction in the age of superannuation from 58 years to 55 years in respect of Government employees employees of Panchayat Raj Institutions Local Bodies and aided Educational Institutions for whom the pensionary liability is borne by Government.
By a notification dated September 17 199 the recommendations of the Commission B in regard to the revision of pay scales were accepted by the Government but not so the recommendation regarding increasing the age of retirement from 55 to 58 years.
It is estimated that on an average there would be approximately 6500 retirements each year from Government departments Panchayat Raj Institutions and also Aided Institutions where pensionary liability is borne by Government.
Besides experienced deserving inservice personnel whose legitimate aspirations for promotion were thwarted could also now look for this much awaited promotion.
Government were thus able to create promotional avenues to serving employees at various levels and create opportunities for appointment against about 18000 posts in Government Panchayat Raj and aided educational institutions alone not to speak of the opportunities that were created in the various Corporations etc owned or controlled by Government.
 604 The White Paper explains that in order to ensure that the employees who had retired by the end of February 1983 should get their pensionary benefits without delay the Government had constituted a special Pension cell in the Finance Department by a notification dated February 16 1983.
The function of that cell is to monitor the progress of settlement of pension eases In addition it is said the Government had issued instructions by a notification dated February 14 1983 for payment of anticipatory pension at 3110th of the last pay drawn in all cases wherein the sanction of pension was delayed.
on the basis of this data it is difficult to hold that in reducing the age of retirement from 58 to 55 the State Government or the Legislature acted arbitrarily or irrationally.
Either the one or the other of these two stages is regarded generally as acceptable depending upon the employment policy of the Government of the day.
If the policy adopted for the time being by the Government or the Legislature is shown to violate recognised norms of employment planning it would be possible to say that the policy is irrational since in that event it would not bear reasonable nexus with the object which it seeks to achieve.
The fixation of age of retirement has minute and multifarious dimensions which shape the lives of citizens.
What is vital for the welfare of the citizens is of necessity vital for the survival of the State.
See Satish Chandra vs Union of India1 Shyam Lal vs State of U P1 State of Bombay vs Saubhagchand M Doshi3 Purshottam Lal Dhingra vs Union of India4 and P Balakotiah vs Union of India5.
It was held by this Court that the termination of service of an employee on account of his reaching the age of superannuation does not amount to his removal from service within the meaning of Article 311 2.
Learned counsel contends that this decision is of doubtful authority since the Court based its opinion on the majority judgment in Moti Ram Deka vs yGeneral Manager North Frontier Railway7 in which the Court was not called upon to consider and did not consider the validity of a rule of superannuation.
It is true that in Moti Ram Deka the Court was concerned to G 1  2 1955 1 SCR26.
See page 696 of the Report.
The instances of non application of mind cited by the learned counsel are these The inclusion o f the employees of the High Court within the sweep of the Ordinance in violation of the provisions of Chapters V and VI of the Constitution the inclusion of the employees of the Legislature Secretariat within the Ordinance the extension of the Ordinance even to the daily rate workers and finally the fact that nothing worthwhile is likely to be achieved by the passing of the Ordinance since at the highest it would create employment at this point of time only for about 19500 employees After that point of time passes the same state of affairs will continue since the age of retirement will be merely substituted by 58 in place of 55 years.
The 607 power to issue an ordinance is not an executive power but is the power of the executive to legislate.
The power of the Governor to promulgate an ordinance is contained in Article 213 which occurs in Chapter IV of Part VI of the Constitution.
The heading of that Chapter is  Legislative Power of the Governor.
This power is plenary within its field like the power of the State Legislature to pass laws and there are no limitations upon that power except those to which the legislative power of the State Legislature is subject Therefore though an ordinance call be invalidated for contravention of the constitutional limitations which exist upon the power of the State Legislature to pass laws it cannot be declared invalid for the reason of non application of mind any more than any other law can be.
Not the act of a Legislature.
Though Shri Ray presented his argument in the shape of a challenge to the Ordinance on the ground of non application Of mind the real thrust of his argument was that the hurry with which the Ordinance was passed shows the arbitrary character of the action taken by the State Government.
Relying upon certain decisions of this Court like Maneka Gandhi vs Union India1 and State of Madras vs VG Row2 in support of his submission that arbitrariness invalidates laws counsel contends that a law which overrules an industrial adjudication or settlement is fundamentally unreasonable or arbitrary and must therefore be held to be violative of Article 14 of the Constitution.
The burden to establish maa fides is a heavy burden to discharge.
There will be no order as to costs.
2  965.
