Civil Appeals Nos.
1264 6771 etc.
 The High Court has struck down the aforesaid provision only on the ground that it suffers from the vice of excessive delegation of legislative power inasmuch as no criteria or guide lines have been 954 provided by reference to which the power conferred on the Administrator to refuse permission or grant permission should be exercised and that the section confers an arbitrary uncanalised power upon the Administrator with the result that the licensed dealer is at his mercy while seeking permission to carry on money lending or banking business on the security of any article ornament or both in the same premises in which he carried on business as such dealer.
28 are meant to prevent the circumvention of other provisions of the Act.
Therefore in our view the objective the policy and the Scheme of the Act together with the necessity to ensure prevention of circumvention of the other provisions of the Act afford more than sufficient guidance to the Administrator in the matter of exercising the power of discretion conferred on him under sec.
In fact sec.
51 of the Act requires that the Administrator should have regard to the policy and purposes of the Act in making his orders.
Moreover against his order under that section a revision lies to Central Government which implies that he will have to make judicious use of his power or discretion and any improper exercise is liable to be corrected by a higher authority.
28 cannot be struck down on the ground of excessive delegation of legislative power and its validity has to be upheld.
We may indicate that the same provision section 28 was challenged before the Patna High Court in Bihar State Bullion Merchants  Association vs Union of lndia1 and the Gujarat High Court in Ramanlal Purshottamamdas Chokshi vs Union of India  Others 2 and these High Courts have upheld its validity.
276 of the Act invalid we would like to point out that while conferring power on the Administrator in the matter of granting or renewing a license to a dealer the unamended sec.
For instance under clause a the Administrator was required to have regard to the number of dealers existing in the region  in which the applicant was intending to carry on business as dealer but the word region  was no where defined in the Act similarly clause b required the Administrator to have regard to the anticipated demand  as estimated by him for the ornaments in that region but the expression anticipated demand  was really vague and incapable of assessment leading to a great deal of uncertainty similarly the expression 1AIR 1971 Patna 240.
214 Guj.
e and public interest  in cl.
276 this Court struck down sec.
SR Appeal allowed.
