Appeals by Special Leave granted by Supreme Court on the 18th January 1954 from the Judgment and Order dated the 18th June 1953 of the High Court of Judicature at Hyderabad in Confirmation Case No 3766 of 1952 53 and Criminal Appeals Nos3946 3956 and 3926 of 1952 53 arising out of the Judgment and Order dated the 2nd June 1952 of the Court of the Sessions Judge at Bidar in Sessions Case No 98 of 1951 52.
The appeals and the confirmation proceedings in the High Court were heard by M section Ali Khan and V R Deshpande JJ.
Leave to appeal was refused.
Pandurang Tukia and Bhilia who were sentenced to death applied here for special leave to appeal.
Both give substantially the same version of what they saw of the assault.
But what the learned counsel for the appellants says is that he saw Narsabai on the evening of the murder and as she did not give him any names it is evident that no one knew who the assailants were and that therefore the accusation made against the accused was a subsequent concoction and that it was for that reason that they waited till the next morning before reporting the matter to the police.
The remaiding four are described as blue and black marks.
We refer to the other eye witnesses here to show that there is no discrepancy on this point but we only rely on Rasikabai and Subhana for determining the fact Bhilia was directly charged with the murder and the injury on the throat is ascribed to him in the charge.
We uphold his conviction under section 302 of the Indian Penal Code.
As this is the only evidence indicating a common purpose and as we know nothing about what preceded the assault for the witnesses arrived after it bad started we cannot gatber any common object from the fact that Pandu rang though armed with an axe only inflicted a light blow on the scalp which did not break any of the 1 1924 LR 52 IA 40 52 1094 fragile bones in that region and from the fact that two others who were lightly armed with what have been called sticks inflicted no injuries at all.
Rasikabai says that the accused raised their axes and sticks and threatened her when she called out to them but that again is an all embracing statement which we are not prepared to take literally in the absence of further particulars.
We do not intend to examine that here because we are of opinion that the sentence should be reduced to transportation in these two cases mainly because of the difference of opinion in the High Court not only on the question of guilt but also on that of sentence.
