Special leave granted in all the cases.
These appeals raise common questions of law and may therefore be disposed of by a common judgment.
In exercise of its powers under section 637 of the  the Central Government specified 50 as the number of All India Tourist Vehicle Permits  which may be granted by the Karnataka State Transport Authority.
By section 24 of Amending Act 47 of 1978 a proviso to section 637 was introduced.
We are concerned in these appeals with the vires and interpretation of this proviso.
By an order dated February 1 1984 the Supreme Court directed the Karnataka State Transport Authority to dispose of these applications.
The State Transport Authority by its proceedings dated April 30 1984 granted 11 out of the 14 permits to the Karnataka State Tourism Development Corporation one permit to the Indian Tourism Development Corporation and two permits to the Karnataka State Road Transport Corporation.
It was also urged that the fourth sub clause of the proviso offended article 14 and had to be struck down.
A public service vehicle is defined in section 225 as any motor vehicle used or adapted to be used for the carriage of passengers for hire or reward and includes a motor cab contract carriage and stage carriage.
Sections 46 47 and 48 deal with the grant of stage carriage permits.
Section 471 C enables the State Government to reserve a certain percentage of stage carriage permits to persons belonging to economically weaker sections of the community.
Section 68 F1 prescribes that where in pursuance of an approved scheme a State Transport Undertaking applies for a stage carriage permit a contract carriage permit or a public carrier s permit in respect of a notified area or notified route such permit shall be granted to the State Transport Undertaking by the State Transport Authority in a case where the said area or route lies in more than one region and the Regional Transport Authority in any other case.
The proviso to section 471 for example provides that other conditions being equal an application for a stage carriage permit from a cooperative society or a person holding a valid licence for driving transport vehicles shall as far as may be be given preference over applications from individual owners.
There is no problem here since the proviso itself says that the rules of preference will apply only if other conditions are equal.
When an application for a stage carriage permit is being processed as required by sec.
Though the permits to be granted are for tourist vehicles the preference is confined to operators of tourist cars and travel agents.
One may understand a preference granted to operators of tourist vehicles but it is difficult to understand why preference should be given to operators of tourist cars in the matter of granting permits for tourist vehicles which may well be omnibuses required to travel long distances.
The High Court of Karnataka tided over the difficulty by interpreting the expression tourist cars as meaning tourist vehicles.
While a tourist vehicle may include a motor car a motor car by definition excludes an omnibus.
In the second place we have no indication as to the manner in which the approval of the Central Government is to be sought and granted and the considerations which are expected to weigh with the Central Government.
637 of the .
and should be financially sound or that they should be owning and operating five vehicles as tourist taxies of either indigenous make or acquired from elsewhere regardless of the period in the car hire business or that they should be ex Defence Service personnel who satisfy certain prescribed conditions.
PSS Appeals allowed.
