AM the subject alongwith Ramashish Bangali Gulam Rambriksha armed with Rifle gun etc.
As a result of this firing one innocent namely Brahamdeo Mishra was killed.
The normal tempo of life was completely disturbed.
The people started running helter and skelter for their lives.
Besides the aforesaid ground the following cases are also referred hereunder as background to show the criminality of the subject.
Jogta PS Case No 2284 dated 11384 us 147148 307326353333324325 IPC27 Arms Act.
Emphasis supplied 5.
The service of order of detention on the petitioner while he was in jail was futile and useless since such an order had no application under section 32 of the Act.
In the affidavit of the District Magistrate the detaining authority it has been stated that the activities of the petitioner s brother and the petitioner have disturbed the normal tempo of life in Katras and Jogta Police Stations in Dhanbad area.
Grounds were all indicated.
All the documents which formed the basis of detention were supplied to the detenu.
His representation was duly considered and rejected.
The grounds stated that there was indiscriminate firing on 24th December 1985 on Katras Coal Dump and the petitioner started indiscriminate firing to kill Birendra Pratap Singh a rival of his calendestine business of coal to establish the criminal superiority in full view of the shopkeepers customers and passers by of the area.
The acts alleged created a terror and not only law and order problem but problem of public order.
26986.
Judged on the basis of 911 the said principles there is no ground for interference with the order of detention as passed.
If a man is in custody and there is no imminent possibility of his being released the power of preventive detention should not be exercised.
In the instant case when the actual order of detention was served upon the detenu the detenu was in jail.
There is no indication that this factor or the question that the said detenu might be released or that there was such a possibility of his release was taken into consideration by the detaining authority properly and seriously before the service of the order.
A bald statement is merely an ipso dixit 912 of the officer.
At least the records of the case do not indicate that.
The writ petition and the appeal are allowed to the extent indicated above.
This how ever will not affect detenu s detention under the criminal cases.
