The Judgment of the Court was delivered by VENKATARAMIAH J.
1977 by the Life Insurance Corporation of India hereinafter referred to as the Corporation  which pro vides that an employee belonging to Class I or Class II appointed to the service of the Corporation on or after 1st September 1956 shall retire on completion of 58 years of age but the competent authority may if it is of the opinion that it is in the interest of the Corporation to do so direct such employee to retire on completion of 50 years of age and at any time thereafter on giving him three months  notice or salary in lieu thereof.
Prior to January.
1955 there were more than 200 insur ers carrying on life insurance business in India.
As it came to the notice of the Government that the Indian life insur ers with a few exceptions were virtually controlled by few individuals who were utilising the funds of those companies to the detriment of the industry and the policyholders the Government decided to nationalise the life insurance busi ness.
Pursuant to the said decision the President of India promulgated the Life Insurance Emergency Provisions Ordi nance 1956 on January 19 1956 providing for the vesting of the management of the life insurance business which was called the controlled business under the Ordinance which was being carried on by any insurer in India on that day in the Central Government and providing for its management.
On the passing of the said Ordinance the management of the controlled business of all the insurers in India thus vested in the Central Government and pending the appointment of the custodians for the controlled business of any insurer the person in charge of the management of such business immedi ately before the passing of the Ordinance was required to be in charge of the management of the business for and on behalf of the Central Government.
The Ordinance was replaced by the which was published on 21st of March 1956.
The Act provided for the establishment and incorporation of the Corporation.
By virtue of section 7 of the Act on the appointed day all the assets and liabilities appertaining to the controlled business of all insurers the management of which it had been taken over earlier by the Central Govern ment stood transferred to and vested in the Corporation.
It therefore became necessary to transfer the services of the existing employees of the insurers to the Corporation because without the services of those employees it was almost impossible for the Corporation to run the life insur ance business in India which involved management of the various offices situated in different parts of India serv icing of lakhs of insurance policies the administration of the assets taken over from the insurers and several other activities connected with the life insurance business.
The nature of the work of the Corporation was such that it required the services of the employees with sufficient experience and expertise in running the life insurance business.
Transfer of service of existing employees of insurers to the Corporation 1 Every whole time employee of an insurer whose controlled business has been transferred to and vested in the Corporation and who was employed by the insurer wholly or mainly in connection with his controlled business immediately before the appointed day shall on and from the appointed day become an employee of the Corporation and shall hold his office therein by the same tenure at the same remuneration and upon the same terms and conditions and with the same rights and privi leges as to pen 190 sion and gratuity and other matters as he would have held the same on the appointed day if this Act had not been passed and shall continue to do so unless and until his employ ment in the Corporation is terminated or until his remuneration terms and conditions are duly altered by the Corporation Provided that nothing contained in this sub section shall apply to any such employee who has by notice in writing given to the Central Government prior to the ap pointed day intimated his intention of not becoming an employee of the Corporation.
Explanation The compensation payable to an employ ee under this sub section shall be in addition to and shall not affect any pension gratuity provident fund money or any other benefit to which the employee may be entitled under his contract of service.
The above decision of the Bombay High Court was delivered on 1641957.
It is stated that there were cases pending in other courts also questioning the scope and ambit of sub section 2 of sec tion 11 of the Act as it stood originally.
is not acceptable to any employee the Corporation may terminate his employ ment by giving him compensation equivalent to three months  remuneration unless the contract of service with such em ployee provides for a shorter notice of termination.
Explanation The compensation payable to an employee under this sub section shall be in addition to and shall not affect any pension gratuity provident fund money or any other benefit to which the employee may be entitled under his contract of service.
Regulation 21 reads as follows 21.
The employees of the Corporation were divided lati tudinally into two groups.
The Writ Petition was allowed striking down regulation 192 as being violative of Articles 14 and 16 of the Constitution of India and the Corporation was directed not to retire the 1st Respondent before he attained the age of 60 years.
In other words the contention of the 1st Respondent before the High Court was that since he had the fight to continue in service if he had remained in Class III only till he attained the age of 60 years as a Class III employee by virtue of the settlement and the amendment of the regula tion 19 in the year 1965 the age of retirement in his case could not be reduced to 58 years only because he had been promoted to a Class I post.
The Central Government and the Corporation felt that 60 years of age could be a proper age of retirement in the circumstances in respect of the transferred employees and that was the reason why by regulation 19 and the standardisation order issued earlier in the case of certain classes of transferred em ployees under section 112 of the Act the retirement age was fixed at 60 years and this was done with a view to retaining the services of the experienced employees of the erstwhile insurers.
Sub section.
Sub section.
The power under this part of sub section.
The second limb of sub section.
The question is whether the provision is confined to transferred employees only or extends to all employees generally.
Sub section.
The standpoint of the second limb of the sub section as its language plainly indicates is provided by the inter ests of the Corporation and its policy holders.
Unless the statute provided for such relief the weight of that burden could conceivably cripple the successful working of the Corporation from its inception as a business organisation.
Like any other employer the Corporation is then open to the normal play of industrial relations in contemporary or future time.
That the two provisions of sub section.
There is no danger of an order made by the Central Government under the second limb of sub section 2 in respect of transferred employees being struck down on the ground that it violates the equality provisions of Part 111 of the Constitution because similar action has not been taken in respect of newly recruited employees.
2 of section 11 can be exercised more than once.
I am not impressed by the circumstances that the original Bill moved in Parliament for amending sub section.
The observation made by Pathak J in the course of his judgment that there is no danger of an order made by the Central Government under the second limb of sub section 2 in respect of transferred employeesbeing struck down on the ground that it violates the equality provisions of Part III of the Constitution because similar action has not been taken in respect of newly recruited employees is signifi cant.
The teachers then employed in those schools thus became State employees.
If through historical reasons the teachers had remained in two separate catego ries the classification of the provincialised teachers into a separate cadre could not be said to infringe article 14 and article 16.
Thereafter only the employees who are directly recruited by the Corporation who are about 54000 in number would continue to remain in its service.
Accordingly the President of India agreed to release 16 persons from the service of the Government of India to enable the Corporation to appoint them in its service by the Order of the Central Government dated 25th February 1964.
The second of them is due toretire within 23 months and only one of them would continue in the service of the Corporation for about a period of two years more.
While dealing with this question the Court can take judicial notice of the differ ent ages of retirement prevailing in the several services in India.
2        cc.
217 In OP No 5295 of 1985 and connected cases on the file of the High Court of Kerala which was decided on 42.
