MC Dhingra for the Petitioners.
In this petition under Article 32 of the Constitution they are seeking enforcement of their fundamental right to have equal pay for equal work.
The Corporation has clearly stated that there are no regular employees of the petitioners  categories in its establishment and as such the question of payment to the petitioners the pay admissible to regular employees does not arise.
Apart from giving training the Corporation also ensures marketing support to the artisans and craftsmen by purchasing their products at remunerative prices and sell them through the marketing network of the Corporation.
Nonetheless for the purpose of preserv ing and promoting traditional arts and crafts the Corpora tion has been kept alive.
Article 14 permits reasonable classification rounded on rational basis.
Apart from that the Court has expressly observed that the higher pay scale to avoid stagnation or resultant frustration for lack of promotional avenues may also be allowed.
His case was based on the allegations that he was discharging same duties and performing similar functions as Senior Speech Therapist Senior Physiotherapist Senior Occupa tional Therapist Audiologist and Speech Pathologist.
If the classification has reasonable nexus with the objective sought to be achieved efficiency in the administration the State would be justified in prescribing different pay scales.
In the light of the aforesaid principles we may now consider whether the equality claims of the petitioners could be allowed.
From the averments in the pleadings of the parties it will be clear that the Corporation has no regularly employed carpenters.
In the first place even assum ing that the petitioners  jobs are comparable with the counterparts in the government service the petitioners cannot enforce the right to equal pay for equal work.
They cannot claim wages payable to their counterparts in government service.
The accuracy required by the job and the dexterity it entails may differ from job to job.
PSS Petition dismissed.
