On 2nd July 1983 a notice in respect of a consignment was issued to show cause as to why value of the drums should not be included in the value of the goods.
There was a further appeal to the Tribunal.
Collector.
The Asstt.
3 SCR 123.
Explanation.
For the purposes of this sub clause the amount of the duty of excise payable on any excisable goods shall be the sum total of a the effective duty of excise payable on such goods under this Act and b the aggregate of the effective duties of excise payable under other Central Acts if any providing for the levy of duties of excise on such goods  and the effective duty of excise on such goods under each Act referred to in clause a or clause b shall be i in a case where a notification or order providing for any exemption not being an exemption for giving credit with respect to for reduction or duty of excise under such Act on such goods equal to any duty of excise under such Act or the additional duty under Section 3 of the 51 of 1975 already paid on the raw material or component parts used in the production or manufacture of such goods from the duty of excise under such Act is for the time being in force the duty of excise computed with refer ence to the rate specified in such Act in respect of such goods as reduced so as to give full and complete effect to such exemption and ii in any other case the duty of excise computed with reference to the rate specified in such Act in respect of such goods.
The explanation to the said sub section defines the expression packing as the wrapper container bobbin pirn spool reel or warp beam or any other thing in which or on which the excisable goods are wrapped contained or wound.
This Court rejected the contention of the assessee in that case that because the levy of excise is a levy on goods manufactured or produced the value of an excisable article must be limited to the manufacturing cost plus manufacturing profit.
The scheme of the old section 4 is indisputedly to determine the assessable value of the goods on the basis of the price charged by the assessee less certain abatements.
Therefore it was held that the value of the excisable article has to be computed with reference to the price charged by the manufacturer the computation being made in accordance with the terms of section 4.
Chief Justice Bhagwati dissented.
AN Sen J who agreed with Pathak J observed that on a proper construction of section 44di it was clear that any secondary packing done for the purpose of facilitating transport and smooth transit of the goods to be delivered to the buyer in the wholesale trade could not be included in the value for the purpose of assessment of excise duty.
There was no evidence that there was any necessity of pack ing or putting these in drums prior to their sale.
The manufac ture of the goods was complete before these were placed in drums.
