Dissatisfied with the order of the Revenue Appellate Authority Raghubir Singh filed a revision application under Section 230 of the Act of 1955 before the Board of Revenue for Rajasthan.
The application for adducing additional evidence was disallowed.
Before the Division Bench of the High Court in the writ petitions it was urged on behalf of Raghubir Singh that no appeal having been filed by the State from the order the Sub Divisional Officer dated 5th May 1976 the said order became final and the Board of Revenue had no jurisdiction to set aside that part of the Sub Divisional Officer s order which had gone against the State and in his favour.
Surendrapal Singh the erstwhile minor son of Raghubir Singh has come up to this Court by way of special leave which was granted and hence the present appeal.
Section 221 of the Act of 1955 provides as under 221Subordination of revenue courts.
The general superintendence and control over all revenue courts shall be vested in an all such Courts shall be subordinate to the Board and subject to such superintendence control and subordination a x x x omitted b all Additional Collectors Sub.
 The contention of learned counsel for the appellant is that the section confers executive powers of superintendence and control on the Board and it does not vest any power of superintendence on the Board on judicial side.
For this purpose he relied or the decision of the Division Bench of the Rajasthan High Court reported as Karan Singh vs Board of Revenue Rajasthan.
Section 9 whereof provides as under 9 Subject to the other provisions of this Act the general superintendence and control over all revenue courts and over all revenue officers shall be vested in and all such Courts and Officers shall be subordinate to the Board.
 In that case also the High Court took the view that it is not correct to say that Section 9 is limited to the executive control and superintendence of the Board over subordinate revenue courts and it does not apply to judicial proceedings.
The contention on behalf of the appellant to that effect was negatived but on merits the High Court held that it was not appropriate for the Board to exercise the powers conferred by Section 9 of the land Revenue Act in view of the fact that the Board had appellate jurisdiction and it could not therefore make use of its powers of superintendence and control and the order of the Board could not be held proper with reference to Section 9 of the Land Revenue Act.
This case has no application for interpretation of the present Section 221 of the Act of 1955.
Section 221 of the Act of 1955 is not subject to the other provisions of the Act.
It is open to the Board to exercise its powers of superintendence on all its subordinate courts in order to regulate the functioning of  the subordinate courts so as to keep them within their respective spheres of jurisdiction.
A similar question arose before the Rajasthan High Court in Kana and others vs.
Board of Revenue.
There also there was similar provision like Section 9 of the Land Revenue Act and it was held that Section 12 of the said Ordinance must be held to give powers to the Board to revise judicial orders also passed by courts in appropriate cases.
At the same time the power is there and it may be exercised sparingly in extraordinary case where interest of justice requires that the Board should exercise the power.
Under Section 107 of the Government of India Act 1955 there was provision of superintendence by High Court in these terms  728 Each of the High Courts has superintendence over all the courts for the time being subject to its appellate jurisdiction.
 These words have been consistently interpreted to mean that the High Court had power in appropriate cases to interfere with the judicial orders of the courts.
Section 221 of the Act of 1955 is similar to Section 107 of the Government of India Act 1915 and there is no section like sub section 2 of Section 224 of the Government of India Act of 1935 in the Act of 1955.
U R Appeal dismissed.
