plaintiff filed the suit for redemption of the said mortgages in the year 1966 defendant 2brother of defendanti had been joined in that suit on the allegation that the latter was put in possession of mortgage properties by the former subsequent to the coming into existence of the mortgages.
that suit was resisted by the defendants each of them having filed separate written statements which in sub stance did not differ from each other.
even if the sale of said properties in favour of defendant l it was asserted therein was not proved they continued to be tenants of the said properties on the date of suit as they were tenants even before the date of coming into existence of the mortgages.
on the basis of findings so recorded by the civil.
a learned single judge of the high court who heard the second appeal while upheld the concurrent findings of the courts below that the deeds of mortgage executed by the plaintiff in respect of the suit properties in favour of defendant l were mortgages by conditional sale and the defendants had failed to prove that there was sale of the suit properties in their favour subsequent to the coming into existence of the said mortgages found that the defendants had raised in their written statements the plea that they were tenants not only prior to the date of suit but also at the time of the filing of the suit and having regard to that plea the suit ought to have been stayed by the civil court and the issue of tenancy should have been referred to the mamlatdar for obtaining a finding from him thereon both under section 85 a of the bt.
however the arguments addressed before us on behalf of the plaintiff appellant in support of the appeal by learned senior counsel mr s k dholakia were these that defendant l respondent l although was in possession of the suit properties.
in this regard support was sought from the decision of this court in raizada topandas and another v m s gorakhram gokalchand 1963 indlaw sc.
hence the judgment and order of the high court according to him was liable to be interfered with and set aside.
however learned counsel appearing for the defendants respondents sought to refute the arguments advanced on half of the plaintiff appellant.
bombay tenancy and agricultural lands act1948bombay tenancy and agricultural lands act1948.
4 a person lawfully cultivating any land belonging to another person shall be deemed to be a tenant if such land is not cultivated personally by the owner and if such person is not a a member of the owner s family or b a servant on wages payable in cash or kind but not in crop share or a hired labourer cultivating the land under the personal supervision of the owner or any member of the owner s family or c a mortgagee in possession.
2 no order of the mamlatdar the tribunal the collector or the maharashtra revenue tribunal or the state government made under this act shall be questioned in any civil or criminal court.
section 85a as it stood before the amendment of this act by gujarat act no 5 of 1973 w e f 3rd march1973.
the civil court shall stay the suit and refer such issues to such competent authority for determination.
2 on receipt of such reference from the civil court the competent authority shall deal with and decide such issues in accordance with the provisions of this act and shall communicate its decision to the civil court and such court shall thereupon dispose of the suit in accordance with the procedure applicable thereto.
section 85a as it came into force after it was amended by gujarat act no 5 of 1973 w e f 3rd march1973.
we shall now proceed to deal with the aforesaid questions.
interests of the lessee and the lessor in the whole of the property become vested at the same time in one person in the same right because of section 11 ld of the t p act.
if that be so merger of lease hold estate in reversion can not arise inasmuch as there can not be any inconsistency or incompatibility in one person being the tenant and also the mortgagee of the same property for in that event instead of the tenant paying rent to the landlord he may adjust it against the amount claimable by him as a mortgagee from the landlord.
moreover if a lessee of a property takes a mortgage of the sum property from the landlord it would be unreasonable to attribute to a tenant the intention to surrender the tenancy and to invoke the sophisticated doctrine of implied surrender as has been held by the gujarat high court in patel atmaram nathudas v babubhai keshavlal 1974 indlaw guj 88.
the decision of this court in shah mathuradas case 1976 indlaw sc 400 supra and g appalaswamy case 1984 indlaw sc 314 supra sought to be relied upon by learned counsel for the appellant plaintiff in support of his arguments that there was a merger of the leasehold right of the tenant in the suit properties when he took mortgages of those properties from the landlord as would deny him the right to continue in possession of those properties as a tenant instead of supporting his argument would go against it as we shall presently point out.
since the following observations in the said case confirm the view we have taken on non merger they can be excerpted for a merger to arise it is necessary that a lesser estate and a higher estate should merge in one person at one and the same time and in the same right and no interest in the property should remain outside.
former lessor this court dealing with the said question said that all depends upon whether there was an implied surrender of the lessee s rights when the usufructuary mortgage was executed in his favour by the lessor mortgagor and only if an implied surrender of lossee s rights could be inferred then the mortgagor would be entitled to have delivery of physical possession upon redemption but not otherwise.
in the case of a lease the estate that is outstanding in the lessor is the reversion in the case of a mortgage the estate that is outstanding is the equity of redemption of the mortgagor.
accordingly there can not be a merger of a lease and a mortgage in respect of the same property since neither of them is a higher or lesser estate than the other.
question 2.
support was sought for the argument from the decision of this court in topandas case 1963 indlaw sc 379 supra.
act1947.
the rents control actthe court of small causes.
bombay had exclusive jurisdiction in dealing with the suit out of which the appeal had arisen.
it instituted a suit in the bombay city civil court not the court of small causes bombay praying for a declaration that it was in lawful possession of the shop and the appellants had no right to enter into or remain in possession of the shop and for grant of an injunction restraining the appellants from interfering with the respondent s possession.
the agreement was to remain in force for a period of four years.
the appellants despite being asked not to visit the shop after the expiry of the period in the concerned agreement they continued to visit the shop and were preventing the respondent from having access to its various articles such as stock in trade books of account furniture fixtures etc.
if he frames his suit in a manner not warranted by the facts and goes for his relief to a court which can not grant him relief on the true facts he will have his suit dismissed.
if the jurisdiction is only one relating to territorial limits or pecuniary limits the plaint will be ordered to be returned for presentation to the proper court.
by referring to the material portion of section 28 of the rents control act the argument made on behalf of the appellants was found by this court to be untenable by stating thus we do not think that the section says or intends to say that the plea of the defendant will determine or change the forum.
it proceeds on the basis that exclusive jurisdiction is conferred on certain courts to decide all questions or claims under the act as to parties between whom there is or was a relationship of landlord and tenant.
but if the provisions of the bt al act which bear on the question of matters to be decided by the mamlatdar are seen they give no room for one even to think that those matters could be decided by a civil court when a question is raised in that behalf even by a defendant in a suit.
furthermore section 85a as it stood prior to its amendment by gujarat amendment act no 5 in the year 1973 and as stands thereafter requires that if any suit instituted in civil court involves the question of tenancy of present or pastas the case may be the same being required to be decided or dealt with by an authority competent under the bt al act the civil court has to stay the suit and refer the issue to such competent authority for determination and after receiving the decision thereon to dispose of the suit in accordance with such decision.
appeal dismissed.
