the 1st respondent are an advertising agency and have been the advertising agents in respect of the products manufactured by the petitioners as aforesaid for number of years.
the 2nd respondent is a director andor partner of the 1st respondent and has mainly dealt with the petitioners on behalf of the 1st respondent.
respondents nos 3 4 are proprietary concerns of respondent no 2 the 5th respondent is the union of india and has been joined as the authority concerning television in india in the name and style of doordarshan which is a television media.
further the said respondents had been recovering the cost of production well in advance of the serial episodes being actually produced.
01 january 1985 the petitioners though not required to do so made an ex gratia payment to respondent nos 1 to 4 of a portion of the royalty received by them from the said m s esquire distributing and servicing pvt.
however the petitioners were not interested in the same as they wanted the serial to project their products only exclusively and did not agree to any other products being tied up with the said serial.
by their letter dated 02 january 1986 the petitioners informed the 1st and 2nd respondents that it was not possible to increase the costs of production for the episodes and that in the circumstances the production of the serial may stop.
consistently with the said intention further the master cassette of the said serial at all relevant times remained exclusively with the respondents and not with the petitioners and the petitioners paid to the respondents 50 of the royalty received from m s esquire distributing and servicing pvt.
ltd under the agreement dated 1 januray 198504 march 1985 and 16 september 1985 the advertisements issued by the petitioners themselves in various newspapers to give wide publicity to the said serial would indicate that the serial mentioned these respondents are the owners of the copyright in respect of the said serial and the petitioners claim in that behalf is devoid of any substance.
in the course of his business the 2nd respondent has developed contacts and connections with important and renowned personalities artists technicians etc in the film industry.
in the year 1967the 2nd respondent s wife mrs sunanda s oberoi started the proprietary business of advertising agency in the name and style of art commercial and the 2nd respondent used to work in various capacities for the said firm.
in the year 1983the said proprietary firm was converted into a private limited company which is the 1st respondent in the present suit and the 2nd respondent constituted respondent nos 3 and 4 as his proprietary firm.
about 18 years ago before filing of the suit the respondents came into contact with the petitioners initially as clients in connection with the job of advertisement of their products on all india radio theatre and films and later on television.
in course of time the 2nd respondent and partners of the petitioners especially g k pendharkar came very close to each other and developed very intimate relations.
either at the end of 1983 or early part of 1984the 5th respondent through the said doorsarshan decided to introduce the production of films or serials especially for exhibitions on tv instead of exhibiting telecasting films produced by the professional film producers on payment of exorbitant royalty to them partly as an economy measure and partly to provide avenues to and exposure new talents.
as against the regular rates charge of rs 324000 for display of advertisements on tv of such advertisers for 120 seconds per telecast the relevant time at the rate of rs 35000 only for 120 seconds in addition to the royalty or consideration payable to the producers of such films or serials which invariably was far less than the difference between the usual rates and concession rates of advertisements.
the 2nd respondent undertook the preliminary project work on his own without loss of any time.
the 2nd respondent made extensive study and research and prepared a format of the proposed serial.
after a number of meetings between the 2nd respondent and the concerned officers and the authorities of the respondents at delhi in connection with the said proposal approved a pilot i e the first episode as sample on 19 september 1984 to produce a tv serial comprising 52 episodes subject of course to the 5th respondent discretion to discontinue the same if the same proved a flop before the expiry of the stipulated period.
after finalizing the proposal by the tv authorities respondent no 2 asked the petitioners as to whether they were interested in the linking up their ads with the said serial.
petitioners agreed to link up their ads with 26 episodes of the said serial.
in these circumstances the respondents contended that by entering into the said agreement of sponsorship neither the petitioners nor the respondents created nor did they ever intend to create any relationship of employer and employee andor master and servant or principal and agent between the petitioners on the one hand and the respondents no 1 to 4 on the other.
nor did the parties intend that the respondents should produce the said serial for the petitioners or at the instance of the petitioners and the respondents intended to embark on the production of the said serial on their own.
on these grounds the respondents contended that the suit of the petitioners is misconceived malicious and baseless and is liable to be dismissed.
3 do the plaintiffs prove that the entire serial rights including the excluding the exclusive right to use the title thereof belong to the plaintiffs as alleged.
4 are defendant nos 1 to 4 entitled to deny the ownership of the plaintiffs of the film.
the defendant nos 1 to 4 prove that it was intended between the parties that copyrights in respect of the said film should vest exclusively with the defendants or that the right of ownership was waived by the plaintiffs.
7 does.
the suit suffer from non joinder of necessary parties.
9 are.
11 to what relief if any are the plaintiffs entitled.
12 what order.
it was also held that the respondents nos 1 to 4 are entitled to deny the ownership of the petitioners of the film yeh jo hai zindagi in view of exhibits a b and e produced in the case.
exhibit g 1 which is exhibit 27 a in the petitioners compilation is a letter written by shri s p agrawal controller of programmes of doordarshan to respondent no 1m s art commercia with reference to the format for the proposed serial of half and hour duration tentatively titled musibat hai serial sent to them on 13 july 1984 since the letter was addressed to m s art commercia in which the proposal was accepted for production of the serial and the first episode was to be sent for preview and approval which would be given only after seeing the recording of the first episode.
that letter had been addressed to respondent no 1m s art commercia.
the learned judge of the trial court took the view that this letter nowhere mentioned that the respondents wanted to register their format on behalf of their producers which is consistent with the modern norms of advertising.
it was therefore found that there was no copy right attached to any idea but copy right is attached to the work and what is important is that not only the idea of producing the suit serial on tv came to the mind of respondent no 2 but he had already started working on it in advance and forwarded it to doordarshan for its approval.
relying upon this letter emphasis was laid on the words produced by sponsors whether two capacities sponsor and producer can co exist in one and the same person or not has been examined and the trial court noted that the wording had been borrowed from the tariff card and tariff card also indicated what are the categories of the advertisers and rates thereof.
on proper construction of the bills the trial court rejected the contention that these bills and payments as showing that they had borne the costs of production of the suit serial and therefore they are the producers.
strong reliance was placed upon certain circumstances namely that the format had been approved by the petitioners only on 11 july 1984 and pw 1 admitted that in view of the bill the entry claiming deduction made by the petitioners in their accounts in the financial year ending on 30 march 1984 that the amount was not to be paid for all 26 episodes or even thereafter in lump sum and the bill for 26 episodes enabled petitioners to claim deduction for the entire amount without actual payment in financial year 1983 84 that the entry made for the financial year 1983 84 was beneficial to the petitioners that there was no ceiling on advertising expenditure and it was introduced from 1 april 1984 onwards the plaintiff did not produce the account books to show if the deduction in respect of the entire amount was claimed or not though they were repeatedly called upon to produce them.
the 55th episode was telecast sometime at the end of november or beginning of december 1985 and thus there was a time gap of 78 months between the protest and the telecast of the 55th episode.
on appeal the high court re examined the matter and on examination of the pleadings the contentions put forth before the court the evidence on record and the findings recorded by the trial court concluded that the findings recorded by the trial court are proper.
2 the bills of cost of production.
4 contracts with doordarshan.
5 contractd with esquire distributing servicing pvt ltd.
2 that the petitioners had agreed to sponsor only 26 episodes whereas the respondents had agreed to produce 52 episodes and had given a firm commitment to that effect to doordarshan as is clear from the letter dated 12 july 1984 sent by the respondents to doordarshan.
4 that the courts below have refuted the claim of the petitioners that the bill dated 19 march 1984 establishes the fact that the production work had been started by the respondents at the behest of the petitioners.
in his further evidence mr gill stated that some time in the month of may june1984 he had met kundan shah and requested to make a comedy serial for doordarshan which clearly indicated that it is only the respondents who were dealing with doordarshan.
ltd that the respondents were asked by the petitioners to issue another letter in this regard.
so far as the contentions raised on the basis of s 17 of the copyright act is concerned it is clear that the petitioners were not able to establish that the respondent nos 1 to 4 produced the said serial 1 as the agents of the petitioners 2 in the course of their employment with the petitioners 3 for valuable consideration paid by the petitioners to them and iv at the instance of the petitioners.
