herein after referred to as pob act to the second respondent gurcharan singh but maintained the conviction preferred the above appeal.
the brief facts leading to the filing of the above appeal are as under.
one mr m k verma.
pw 4junior engineer civil line zone visited 189 prem gali punja sharif mori gate where he found unauthorized construction going at the first floor of the said plot.
f i r was prepared on the report of mr m k verma who forwarded the f i r before zonal engineer who ordered to issue notice under section 343344 of the delhi municipal corporation act1957 for short the dmc act subsequently the second respondent along with kuldeep singh were prosecuted for commission of offences under sections 332 and 461 of the dmc act before the designated municipal court.
the high court vide its order dated 26 3 2004 held that the accused suffered the agony of trial lasting for 12 years.
besides that he has already undergone some period in custody.
the appellant aggrieved by the judgment of the high court preferred the above appeal by way of special leave petition before this court.
learned senior counsel appearing for the appellant submitted that the high court before extending the benefit of pob act to the accused did not call for a report from the authorities to check upon the conduct of the accused respondent as per section 42 of the pob act and that the appellant mcd was also not given time to file their counter affidavit on the question of sentence.
it was further submitted by learned senior counsel appearing for the appellant that the court shall not direct release of offender unless it is satisfied that the offender or his surety if any has a fixed place of abode or regular occupation in the place over which the court exercises jurisdiction or in which the offender is likely to live during the period for which he enters into the bond.
no 185 of 2004 be set aside and appropriate orders be passed in this appeal.
it was therefore submitted that the high court passed the said order in the presence of the counsel of all the parties.
he further contended that the trial court has committed serious error in exercising jurisdiction while not granting the benefit of probation to the answering respondent and the order of the trial court was therefore rightly and justifiable modified by the high court.
concluding his arguments he submitted that the respondent has been released after compliance of the order passed by the high court by furnishing the bone of good conduct and security to the satisfaction of the additional court of metropolitan magistrate delhi and there is no report of any misconduct or breach of the bond of good conduct by the answering respondent since the date of the order of the high court therefore the order of the high court is not liable to be interfered with.
in the above background two questions of law arise for consideration by this court 1 whether the high court was correct in extending the benefit of the probation of offenders act1958 to the accused respondent without calling for a report from the authorities relating to the conduct of the respondent as per section 4 of the act.
before proceeding further it would be beneficial to reproduce section 4 of the probation of offenders act1958 which is extracted below for ready reference.
power of court to release certain offenders on probation of good conduct.
1 when any person is found guilty of having committed an offence not punishable with death or imprisonment for life and the court by which the person is found guilty is of opinion that having record to the circumstances of the case including the nature of the offence and the character of the offender it is expedient to release him on probation of good conduct then notwithstanding anything contained in any other law for the time being in force the court may instead of sentencing him at once to any punishment direct that he be released on his entering into a bond with or without sureties to appear and receive sentence when called upon during such period not exceeding three years as the court may direct and in the meantime to keep the peace and be of good behaviour provided that the court shall no direct such release of an offender unless it is satisfied that the offender or his surety if any has a fixed place of abode or regular occupation in the place over which the court exercises jurisdiction or in which the offender is likely to live during the period for which he enters into the bond.
2 before making any order under sub section.
1the court shall take into consideration the report if any of the probation officer concerned in relation to the case.
in the said case the accused has been convicted under sections 332461 of the dmc act and sentenced to six months simple imprisonment with fine of rs 5000 in our view there was no good reason for letting the respondent off by granting to him the said benefit of pob act particularly keeping in view the large scale irregularity and unauthorized constructions carried by the builders in delhi despite strict direction of the municipal authorities and despite of the courts passing various orders from time to time against the unauthorized construction.
in fact as could be seen from the annexures filed along with this appeal the respondent has been convicted for offence under sections 332 and 461 of the dmc act.
it is contended that he is first offender.
he is not doing any business due to his bad health.
hence request declined.
fine deposited.
convict remained for sentence.
the additional sessions judge new delhi also in civil appeal no 7 of 2002 annexure p 2 dismissed the appeal as there is no infirmity in the order of the trial court and uphold the conviction order passed by the trial court on the point of sentence.
since the appellant mcd was not given any opportunity by the high court to file conduct report of the respondent the order impugned in this appeal is liable to be set aside.
if he withholds a vital document in order to gain advantage on the other side then he would be guilty of playing fraud on the court as well on the opposite party.
it applied to all kinds of offenders whether under or above 21 years of age.
such exercise of discretion needs a sense of responsibility.
the second respondent is a previous convict as per the records placed before us.
such a previous convict can not be released in view of section 4 of the pob act.
goa 49 1969 indlaw goa 8 and a release without such a report.
lj noc 20 mad.
the court observed as under if any report is filed by the probation officer the court is bound to consider it.
appeal allowed.
