the order of learned single judge was passed on 9 11 2005 against the said order special leave petition was filed which was disposed of by this court by order dated 16 2 2006 we shall refer to the text of the order later.
learned counsel for the appellant submitted that the order of this court is very clear and the conclusions of the high court that merely limitation was waived is contrary to the clear terms of the earlier order of this court.
additionally it is submitted that the prayer in the writ petition was to quash the order passed by the assistant commissioner commercial tax.
since the impugned order is passed by a learned single judge.
since we had entertained the special leave petition against the learned single judge s order it would be appropriate to grant three weeks time to the petitioner to prefer the lpa which if otherwise free from defect shall be entertained for being considered on merits.
the high court was therefore not justified in holding that this court s earlier order only waived the limitation for filing a letters patent appeal.
as noted above the prayer was to quash the order of assessment passed by the assistant commissioner commercial tax levying purchase as well as entry tax.
this court in hari vishnu kamath v syed ahmad ishaque and ors air 1955 sc 233 1954 indlaw sc 212 held that the high court while issuing writ of certiorari u art 226 of the constitution can only annul a decision of a tribunal whereas u art 227 of the constitution it can issue further directions as well.
in umaji keshao meshram v radhikabai air 1986 sc 1272 1986 indlaw sc 651.
it was noted as follows.
u art 226 an order direction or writ is to issue to a person authority or the state.
under article 227however what comes up before the high court is the order or judgment of a subordinate court or tribunal for the purpose of ascertaining whether in giving such judgment or order that subordinate court or tribunal has acted within its authority and according to law.
prior to the commencement of the constitution the chartered high courts as also the judicial committee had held that the power to issue prerogative writs possessed by the chartered high courts was an exercise of original jurisdiction see mahomedalli allabux v ismailji abdulali air 1926.
v banwarilal roy 1947 indlaw pc 15 1946 47 74 ind app 120130 131 in the last mentioned case which dealt with the nature of a writ of quo warranto.
the judicial committee held in their lordships opinion any original civil jurisdiction possessed by the high court and not in express terms conferred by the letters patent or later enactments falls within the description of ordinary original civil jurisdiction.
by art 226 the power of issuing prerogative writs possessed by the chartered high courts prior to the commencement of the constitution has been made wider and more extensive and conferred upon every high court.
it was noted as follows.
to say that the words finally disposed of mean finally disposed of so far as the high court is concerned is illogical because rules 14 and 7 use the words be heard and disposed of by a divisional bench and were the reasoning of the full bench correct it would mean that so far as the high court is concerned when a single judge hears a matter and disposes it of it is finally disposed of and when a division bench disposes it of it is not finally disposed of.
the right of appeal against the judgment of a single judge is given by the letters patent which have been continued in force by art 225 of the constitution.
if under the rules of the high court a matter is heard and disposed of by a single judge an appeal lies against his judgment unless it is barred either under the letters patent or some other enactment.
in sushilabai laxminarayan mudliyar v nihalchand waghajibhai shaha 1993 supp 1 scc 11 1991 indlaw sc 718.
in the event in passing his judgment on an application which had mentioned in its cause title both arts 226 and 227the single judge has in fact invoked only his supervisory powers under article 227the appeal under cl 15 would not lie.
the cl 15 of the letters patent expressly bars appeals against orders of single judges passed under revisional or supervisory powers.
even when the learned single judge s order has been passed under both the articles for deciding the maintainability against such an order what would be relevant is the principal or main relief granted by the judgment passed by learned single judge and not the ancillary directions given by him.
thus the determining factor is the real nature of principal order passed by the single judge which is appealed against and neither the mentioning in the cause title of the application of both the articles nor the granting of ancillary orders thereupon made by learned single judge would be relevant.
thus in each case the division bench may consider the substance of the judgment under appeal to ascertain whether the single judge has mainly or principally exercised in the matter his jurisdiction.
u art 226 or u art 227 in.
the event in his judgment the learned single judge himself had mentioned the particular article of the constitution under which he was passing his judgment in an appeal under cl 15 against such a judgment it may not be necessary for the appellate bench to elaborately examine the question of its maintainability.
in the present case the division bench was clearly wrong in holding that the appeal was not maintainable against the order of the learned single judge.
the learned single judge examined the matter on merit and set aside the orders of the rent controller as well as the resident deputy collector on the ground that the aforesaid judgments were perverse.
the findings of the rent controller and resident deputy collector were set aside on the question of habitual defaulter as well as on the ground of bona fide need.
after taking the aforesaid view one course open was to set aside the order of the division bench and to remand the matter for being disposed of on merits by the division bench of the high court.
however taking in view the fact that this litigation is going on for nearly a decade and also the fact that even the learned single judge in his impugned order dated december 111987 had remanded the case to the rent controller we considered it proper in the interest of justice to hear the appeal on merits against the judgment of the learned single judge.
it is true as submitted by learned counsel for the appellant that the order of the learned single judge nowhere stated that the court was considering the writ petition u art 226 of the constitution of india.
firstly the writ of certiorari is an exercise of its original jurisdiction by the high court exercise of supervisory jurisdiction is not an original jurisdiction and in this sense it is akin to appellate revisional or corrective jurisdiction.
the impugned order is set aside.
the writ appeal shall be heard by the division bench on merits.
