he was also convicted for offences punishable under section 392 read with section 397 ipc and sentence to undergo rigorous imprisonment for 10 years and to pay a fine.
the deceased is one mayurani a sri lankan student who was residing in the first floor of the house belonging to one solsimalai p w 1 the accused is also a sri lankan student studying in a different college but staying in the second floor of the same premises.
on opening the window he noticed that mayurani was lying in a pool of blood with her face covered with a bag.
p 6 is the statement leading to recovery of travel bags m os 2 3knife m 0 5wooden log m 0 28rubber gloves m 0 29 series cotton rope with human hair mn o 30 seriestwo sponges soaked with blood m 0 31 seriesbloodstained blue clolour jean pant m 0 32bloodstained white banian m 0 33colour banian m 0 34bloodstained grey colour pant m 0 35bloodstained pillow m 0 36plastic bucket m 0 37 from the house of p w 3 ex p 8 is the statement leading to recovery of computer and its accessories m os 6 to 17 from the house of p w 15a classmate of the accused.
c at the time of occurrence only the accused deceased and pw 9 were available in the premises and there was no other person.
d statement of the accused leading to recovery of incriminating materials such as knife rope clothes wooden log and other valuable articles such as computer gold ornamentsm dollar and the key chain with key belonging to the deceased.
the conviction based on circumstantial evidence has been highlighted by this court in various orders of this court.
further the proved circumstances must be consistent only with the hypothesis of the guilt of the accused and totally inconsistent with his innocence.
1992 indlaw sc 107it was pointed out that great care must be taken in evaluating circumstantial evidence and if the evidence relied on is reasonably capable of two inferences the one in favour of the accused must be accepted.
it was also pointed out that the circumstances relied upon must be found to have been fully established and the cumulative effect of all the facts so established must be consistent only with the hypothesis of guilt.
sir alfred wills in his admirable book wills circumstantial evidence chapter vi lays down the following rules specially to be observed in the case of circumstantial evidence 1 the facts alleged as the basis of any legal inference must be clearly proved and beyond reasonable doubt connected with the factum probandum 2 the burden of proof is always on the party who asserts the existence of any fact which infers legal accountability 3 in all cases whether of direct or circumstantial evidence the best evidence must be adduced which the nature of the case admits 4 in order to justify the inference of guilt the inculpatory facts must be incompatible with the innocence of the accused and incapable of explanation upon any other reasonable hypothesis than that of his guilt 5 if there be any reasonable doubt of the guilt of the accused he is entitled as of right to be acquitted.
in other words there must be a chain of evidence so far complete as not to leave any reasonable ground for a conclusion consistent with the innocence of the accused and it must be such as to show that within all human probability the act must have been done by the accused.
a reference may be made to a later decision in sharad birdhichand sarda v state of maharashtraair 1984 sc 1622 1984 indlaw sc 432 therein while dealing with circumstantial evidence it has been held that onus was on the prosecution to prove that the chain is complete and the infirmity of lacuna in prosecution can not be cured by false defence or plea.
the conditions precedent in the words of this court before conviction could be based on circumstantial evidence must be fully established.
the circumstances concerned must or should and not may be established 2 the facts so established should be consistent only with the hypothesis of the guilt of the accused that is to say they should not be explainable on any other hypothesis except that the accused is guilty 3 the circumstances should be of a conclusive nature and tendency 4 they should exclude every possible hypothesis except the one to be proved and 5 there must be a chain of evidence so compete as not to leave any reasonable ground for the conclusion consistent with the innocence of the accused and must show that in all human probability the act must have been done by the accused.
law is well settled that the prosecution while relying upon the confessional statement leading to discovery of articles under section 27 of the evidence act has to prove through cogent evidence that the statement has been made voluntarily and leads to discovery of the relevant facts.
however in almost all such decisions reference is made to the observation of the privy council in pulukuri kotayya v emperor air 1947 pc 67 1946 indlaw pc 23 it is worthwhile to extract such quoted observation it is fallacious to treat the fact discovered within the section as equivalent to the object produced the fact discovered embraces the place from which the object is produced and the knowledge of the accused as to this and the information given must relate distinctly to this fact.
information supplied by a person in custody that i will produce a knife concealed in the roof of my house does not lead to the discovery of the knife knives were discovered many years ago.
it leads to the discovery of the fact that a knife is concealed in the house of the informant to his knowledge and if the knife is proved to have been used in the commission of the offence the fact discovered is very relevant.
at one time it was held that the expression fact discovered in the section is restricted to a physical or material fact which can be perceived by the senses and that it does not include a mental fact now it is fairly settled that the expression fact discovered includes not only the physical object produced but also the place from which it is produced and the knowledge of the accused as to this as noted in pulukuri kottaya s case 1946 indlaw pc 23 supra.
the fact must have been discovered.
the discovery of a fact in consequence of information received from an accused in custody must be deposed to.
7 thereupon only that portion of the information which relates distinctly or strictly to the fact discovered can be proved.
his evidence has to be considered in the background of what has been stated by pw 22 and cw 1 it has been accepted by the prosecution that great efforts were made by pw 40 to falsely implicate to pws 1 to 4 and for that purpose a departmental proceeding was initiated.
similar statement is made by p w 4 that apart c w 1 has stated that no statement has been made in his presence.
apart from the fact that there is niggling doubt about the so called confession in view of statement under section 164 of the code of p w 22 and the statement of c w 1a further doubt is raised regarding such aspect in view of evidence of c w 1 to the effect that he had seen such computer in the room of the deceased when they had gone to the room after the offence was reported.
the fact that p w 9 had not initially stated anything before p w 40 about the accused coming down with computer at 3 30 p m and stated so for the first time when she was re examined after 5 months can not be lost sight of.
i did not tell this even to the inspector of police after going to the police station.
if the accused had killed the deceased and stolen those golden jewellery there is no reason as to why he had also not taken ear rings from the deceased.
for the aforesaid purpose they have relied upon the evidence of p w 42 and the seizure witness p w 24 the accused had allegedly made earlier confessional statement before p w 40 on 26 4 2003 leading to discovery of several articles.
such alleged confession made belatedly thus creates doubt regarding its authenticity or voluntariness.
law is well settled that when the prosecution relies upon circumstantial evidence all the links in the chain of circumstances must be complete and should be proved through cogent evidence.
the appeal is dismissed.
