this appeal is by special leave against the judgment and decree of the high court of kerala which dismissed an appeal against the judgment and decree of the subordinate court of havelikkara.
the appellant had filed a suit on october 24 1942 for the recovery of rs 2 lakhs and interest thereon from the date of suit and for costs originally against the state of travancore now the state of kerala the respondent and three others who however were not made parties in the appeal before the high court.
it was the appellant s case that he had been in occupation of the said 160 acres of cherikkal land unregistered dry lands in hilly tracts about which and the adjoining lands there was a dispute as to whether the same belonged to a jenmi family known as koodalvalli illom hereinafter called the illom or to the government of the erstwhile travancore state.
the appellant s father and the appellant had occupied these lands made improvement thereon by planting coconut trees arecanut palms peppervines rubber trees jack trees other trees and by constructing bungalow huts wells etc.
in the bona fide belief that the lands belonged to the illom.
it was stated that according to the practice prevailing in the erstwhile state of travancore the cultivators could enter into unoccupied waste lands belonging to the janmies with the object of cultivating and improving them and as they held the lands under them by paying rent the consent of the jemies to such occupation was implied.
it is the case of the appellant that even after the act was passed unauthorised occupants of land belonging to the government who had made improvements therein had under the rules made both under the act and the land assignment act a preferential claim over others for getting kuthakapattom or assignment of the property in their possession.
a while the application for registration was pending the dispute between the illom and the state of travancore had reached a stage when the illom had to institute a suit o section No.
126 of 1096.
january 1918 in the district court at quilon for a declaration of its title to those properties.
an appeal against it was dismissed on september 27 1943.
in that suit an injunction was prayed for in respect of 100 acres of the property involved in the suit but the prayer was rejected.
the high court issued a commission for inspecting the properties and the commissioner in his report part 13 of ext.
a rubbers state and a large number of other valuable trees like jack trees mango trees coconut trees etc.
the appellant pursuant to this order was dispossessed from the lands and possession of these lands was given to the second defendant nair service society ltd in august 1939.
the respondent state contended that the appellant encroached on the suit lands that proceedings were taken against him in l c case.
112 of 1100 m e and the appellant was therefore not entitled to claim any value for improvements as it was his duty to remove any building before he was evicted.
it was observed by the trial court that though there is no specific evidence to show when exactly the possession of the appellant had commenced the evidence however indicated that it must have started close to the year i 100 m e and that in any case the claim of the appellant that possession was from 1030 m e was not true inasmuch as from the year 1067 m e when the act was passed possession without permission was penal and it could not be imagined that the appellant was left in peace for all these long years.
the trial court also held that all through these long years there had been a dispute as to the title between the illom and the state and after the suit of the illom was dismissed and the illom s title was not sustained the allegation that the improvements were effected can not be stated to be bona fide.
need be given under section 9 of the act and therefore no compensation or damages were payable in respect thereof.
the high court accepted the finding of the trial court on issue.
the contention of the appellant that the trees which are the subject matter of the appeal should have been forfeited by an order passed under section 9 of the act and in the absence of such.
an order his right to the value of those trees had to be adjudged and paid.
in this view it held that compensation for trees which are to be dealt with under the general law can not be decreed in favour of a mere trespasser who had no rights therein.
the learned advocate for the appellant has reiterated the submissions made before the trial court and the high court and contends that there is no order forfeiting the improvements as required under section 9 of the act and if section 9 does not apply and there is no right of forfeiture as contemplated under section 9 then the appellant is entitled to compensation under the general law.
this finding is fortified by section 5 of the act which provides that from and after the commencement of the act it shall not be lawful for any person to occupy land which is the property of the government whether poramboke or not without the permission from the government or such officer of the government as may be empowered in that behalf.
section 9 of the act is in the following terms any person unauthorised occupying any land for which he is liable to pay a fine under section 6 and an assessment or prohibitory assessment under section 7 may be summarily evicted by the division peishkar and any crop or other product raised on the land shall be liable to forfeiture and any building or other structure erected or anything deposited thereon shall also if not removed by him after such written notice as the division peishkar may deem reasonable be liable to forfeiture.
forfeiture under this section shall be disposed of as the division peishkar may direct.
in these circumstances the question that would arise for determination is whether the trees come within the description of other product raised on the land.
it is stated before us that at the time when the appellant was evicted the transfer of property act was not in force.
in this sense the term includes fructus industrials and having regard to the etymology of the word it has been held to mean only products after they have been severed from the soil.
the products of a farm may include the increase of cattle on the premises.
this view of ours is supported by the case of clark and another v gaskarth 8 taunt 431.
that was a case of a trespass for breaking and entering the closes of the plaintiffs and tearing up digging up cutting down and carrying away the plaintiff s trees plants roots and seeds growing on the closes.
it was contended that the defendant s action was justified under the statute ii g 2 c 19 section 8 which after enumerating certain crops empowered the landlord to seize as a distress any other product whatsoever which shall be growing on any part of the estate demised and therefore the trees and shrubs in question came within that description.
but the learned advocate for the appellant submits that it was not his case nor is it under the general law necessary for a person who trespassed on the land to trespass with a claim of bona fide title.
this vicarious and altruistic exhibition of good intention may even cause damage to the land of an owner who may not want improvements of such a kind as tree plantation.
the case of vallabdas narainji v development officer bandra a i r 1929.
p c 163 1929 indlaw pc 11 which was cited by the learned counsel for the appellant does not assist him for the privy council did not think it necessary to give a decision on what it termed to be a far reaching contention.
on these findings it was observed that the government were in a position by law at any rate to regularize their possession by such a notification a fact which becomes material when it has to be considered what the nature of the trespass is.
both the assistant judge and the high court negatived the claim of the appellant.
the board however agreed with what was apparently the view of both courts in india that under the circumstances of this case as already set forth by the law of india which they appear to have correctly interpreted the government officials were in possession not as mere trespassers but under such a colour of title that the buildings erected by them on the land ought not to be included in the valuation as having become the property of the landowner.
this case does not support the contention that a mere trespasser who has deliberately and wrongfully contrary to the provisions of section 5 of the act entered upon another s land which makes such an act even punishable under section 6 thereof is entitled to compensation for the trees planted by him on the land.
in any case as the high court rightly observed the position of a trespasser can not be better than that of a lawful tenant who having lost his possession can not claim compensation or damages for anything erected on the land or any improvements made therein.
these averments in the above paragraph do not clearly allege that he was not evicted without notice nor has any allegation been made that he was forcibly evicted from the lands with the help of the police etc.
as it has now been contended before us.
the issues that had been famed by the trial court also do not refer to this aspect.
p w 4 the manager was asked in cross examination whether he had been given any priorinformation or notice about eviction and this witness also said that there was no prior information or notice.
in the view we have taken the appeal has no substance and is accordingly dismissed with no order as to costs but the court fee will be recovered from the appellant.
