a suit was filed in s c suit no 493 of 1986 in the bombay city civil court bombay by vicco laboratories appellant herein manufacturers of ayurvedic pharmaceutical products against defendant nos 1 to 4respondents herein for a declaration that the title and format of the suit serial yeh jo hai zindagi exclusively belonged to them and respondents nos 1 to 4 have no right thereto and for permanent injunction restraining the said respondents from making use of the title or episodes belonging to the petitioners or any episodes hereafter made.
a number of averments germane to this case as set out in the plaint are set out hereunder.
the petitioners carried on business as manufacturers of ayurvedic pharmaceuticals products which were sold under the brand name of vicco and have acquired substantial reputation in the market.
the 1st respondent are an advertising agency and have been the advertising agents in respect of the products manufactured by the petitioners as aforesaid for number of years.
the 2nd respondent is a director andor partner of the 1st respondent and has mainly dealt with the petitioners on behalf of the 1st respondent.
respondents nos 3 4 are proprietary concerns of respondent no 2 the 5th respondent is the union of india and has been joined as the authority concerning television in india in the name and style of doordarshan which is a television media.
in 1984doordarshan in order to popularize sponsored serial undertook the production of a serial by the name humlog.
pursuant to the said arrangement the respondent nos 1 to 4 as the agents of the petitioners prepared at the costs and expenses of the petitioners a serial entitled yeh jo hai zindagi.
the first and second respondents under the arrangement produced about 60 episodes and the petitioners have spent a crore of rupees for the products and telecast of the said episodes and have also spent large sums of money on advertising to popularize the said programme.
the petitioners claimed that they were the real producers and owners of the said serial yeh jo hai zindagi and the petitioners to the knowledge of the respondents have entered into an agreement assigning the video rights in the said serial to one m s esquire distributing and servicing pvt.
1st and 2nd respondents had by their letter dated 14 december 1984 confirmed that the petitioners have all t v and video rights of the sponsored programme in hindi yeh jo hai zindagi and vest with the petitioners.
though original agreement was to have 27 episodes but having regard to the popularity of the programme the petitioners decided to increase the said serial to 52 episodes and by a letter dated 22 april 1985 the petitioners informed respondent nos 1 and 2 that in the title of the 27th and 28th episodes it has been stated that it is presented by oberoi films.
however the petitioners were not interested in the same as they wanted the serial to project their products only exclusively and did not agree to any other products being tied up with the said serial.
the respondents on 27 december 1985 alleged that they were losing rs 50000 to rs 75000 per episode and indicated that they wanted to get a new sponsor.
therefore it was submitted that the suit lacked cause of action.
while traversing the case on merit they contended that it was all along agreed between the petitioners and respondents that the copyright in the said serial would rest exclusively in the respondents and not in the petitioners.
consistently with the said intention further the master cassette of the said serial at all relevant times remained exclusively with the respondents and not with the petitioners and the petitioners paid to the respondents 50 of the royalty received from m s esquire distributing and servicing pvt.
it was also contended that the 2nd respondent is an artist and a film maker and has been in the field of film making for the past 20 years.
in the year 1967the 2nd respondent s wife mrs sunanda s oberoi started the proprietary business of advertising agency in the name and style of art commercial and the 2nd respondent used to work in various capacities for the said firm.
these ad films and jingles fetched handsome returns for the petitioners and boosted their sales beyond their own expectations.
either at the end of 1983 or early part of 1984the 5th respondent through the said doorsarshan decided to introduce the production of films or serials especially for exhibitions on tv instead of exhibiting telecasting films produced by the professional film producers on payment of exorbitant royalty to them partly as an economy measure and partly to provide avenues to and exposure new talents.
the 2nd respondent made extensive study and research and prepared a format of the proposed serial.
after a number of meetings between the 2nd respondent and the concerned officers and the authorities of the respondents at delhi in connection with the said proposal approved a pilot i e the first episode as sample on 19 september 1984 to produce a tv serial comprising 52 episodes subject of course to the 5th respondent discretion to discontinue the same if the same proved a flop before the expiry of the stipulated period.
in these circumstances the respondents contended that by entering into the said agreement of sponsorship neither the petitioners nor the respondents created nor did they ever intend to create any relationship of employer and employee andor master and servant or principal and agent between the petitioners on the one hand and the respondents no 1 to 4 on the other.
in the meanwhile the respondents contended that m s brook bond ltd who wanted to link up their commercial with 13 episodes and agreed to pay and paid the ruling market price.
the respondents contended that on no occasion the petitioners acted as a producer and even the contract was signed by the petitioners as an advertiser and by the respondent no 1 as an approved agent.
the respondents strongly contended that the serial hum log was produced by the petitioners in collaboration with m s concept advertisers.
yeh jo hai zindagi in view of exhibits a b and e colly to the plaint.
the defendants prove that the plaintiffs are not the owners of the copyright of the tv serial film viz.
10 are.
yeh jo hai zindagi within the meaning of s 17 of the copy right act and it was intended between the parties that copy rights in respect of the said film should vest exclusively with the respondents or that the rights of ownership was waived by the petitioners.
after examining the oral and documentary evidence on record it is disclosed that prior to letter sent on 11 july 1984 the petitioners were acquainted even with the format of the suit serial they did not have any connection with the suit serial till that date and relied upon the wording used therein to the effect that you and mr g k pendharkar are requested to join mr oberoi and his creative team when the format of the proposed half and hour sponsored programme shall be presented to you.
exhibit g 1 which is exhibit 27 a in the petitioners compilation is a letter written by shri s p agrawal controller of programmes of doordarshan to respondent no 1m s art commercia with reference to the format for the proposed serial of half and hour duration tentatively titled musibat hai serial sent to them on 13 july 1984 since the letter was addressed to m s art commercia in which the proposal was accepted for production of the serial and the first episode was to be sent for preview and approval which would be given only after seeing the recording of the first episode.
the trial court proceeded thereafter to examine the payments made in regard to production of the serial.
strong reliance was placed upon certain circumstances namely that the format had been approved by the petitioners only on 11 july 1984 and pw 1 admitted that in view of the bill the entry claiming deduction made by the petitioners in their accounts in the financial year ending on 30 march 1984 that the amount was not to be paid for all 26 episodes or even thereafter in lump sum and the bill for 26 episodes enabled petitioners to claim deduction for the entire amount without actual payment in financial year 1983 84 that the entry made for the financial year 1983 84 was beneficial to the petitioners that there was no ceiling on advertising expenditure and it was introduced from 1 april 1984 onwards the plaintiff did not produce the account books to show if the deduction in respect of the entire amount was claimed or not though they were repeatedly called upon to produce them.
the suit serial was produced by the respondents as agents of the petitioners was false.
the high court observed that the petitioners had no knowledge of the doordarshan scheme regarding the sponsored programme and linking of 2 minutes advertisement and agreed with the findings of the trial court that it is improbable for the respondents to have agreed to reduce its income in the form of commission and undertake the responsible job of production of the serial.
the explanation given by the petitioners that they were busy in the shootings did not carry much weight with the high court.
in this special leave petition u art 136 of the constitution the contentions raised before the high court are reiterated particularly as to the effect of s 17 of the copyright act and whether the correspondence on record would not indicate that they were entitled to ownership and copyright in respect of the tv programme yeh jo hai zindagi.
the learned counsel for the petitioners strongly relied upon the following documents 1 the cost estimate.
2 the bills of cost of production.
3 letters dated 14 december 1984 and 15 november 1985.
5 contractd with esquire distributing servicing pvt ltd.
we have carefully considered the contentions urged on behalf of the petitioners.
we are not satisfied that the petitioners have made out a case for consideration by this court.
the matter rests purely upon the appreciation of evidence on record and does not give rise to any question of such importance as to be decided by this court u art 136 of the constitution.
2 that the petitioners had agreed to sponsor only 26 episodes whereas the respondents had agreed to produce 52 episodes and had given a firm commitment to that effect to doordarshan as is clear from the letter dated 12 july 1984 sent by the respondents to doordarshan.
in his further evidence mr gill stated that some time in the month of may june1984 he had met kundan shah and requested to make a comedy serial for doordarshan which clearly indicated that it is only the respondents who were dealing with doordarshan.
when these factors had not been established and the suit is itself not dependent on the interpretation of s 17 of the copyright act pleadings and issues raised did not attract the same.
on appreciation of evidence the courts below have come to the conclusion that the respondents did not make the said serial for valuable consideration at the instance of the petitioners and in view of the findings of fact the claim of copyright or ownership in respect of the serial u s 17b and c would not arise at all.
we decline to interfere with the order made by the high court affirming the decree of the trial court.
