municipal corporation of delhi aggrieved against the judgment and final order dated 26 03 2004 passed by the high court delhi in criminal revision petition no 185 of 2004 by which order the high court gave the benefit of probation under section 4 of the probation of offenders act1958.
herein after referred to as pob act to the second respondent gurcharan singh but maintained the conviction preferred the above appeal.
the brief facts leading to the filing of the above appeal are as under.
one mr m k verma.
pw 4junior engineer civil line zone visited 189 prem gali punja sharif mori gate where he found unauthorized construction going at the first floor of the said plot.
the high court also observed that there is no allegation that the petitioner accused is a previous convict and it further held that the accused deserved the benefit of probation under section 4 of the pob act and while maintaining the conviction of the respondent accused the sentence of imprisonment and fine as awarded to him was set aside.
learned senior counsel appearing for the appellant further submitted that there was no good reason for letting the respondent off by granting to him the said benefit of pob act particularly keeping in view the large scale irregularity and unauthorized constructions carried by the builders in delhi despite strict direction of the municipal authorities and courts passing various orders from time to time against the unauthorized constructions.
it was further submitted by learned senior counsel appearing for the appellant that the court shall not direct release of offender unless it is satisfied that the offender or his surety if any has a fixed place of abode or regular occupation in the place over which the court exercises jurisdiction or in which the offender is likely to live during the period for which he enters into the bond.
it was also contended that before making any order under section 41 of the pob act the court shall take into consideration the report if any of the probation officer concerned in relation to the case which the high court has miserably failed to do so.
therefore learned senior counsel appearing for the appellant prayed that order dated 26 3 2004 in crl.
no 185 of 2004 be set aside and appropriate orders be passed in this appeal.
learned senior counsel appearing for the contesting respondent submitted that the order of the high court does not require any reconsideration by this court and that the high court while extending the benefit of pob act had clearly recorded in the order that the counsel for the state of delhi is not averse to the grant of benefit of probation to the answering respondent and therefore the requirement under section 42 of the pob act has been waived off by the state and that the high court took into consideration the fact that the answering respondent has faced the agony of trial for over 12 years and has also undergone some period in custody and while maintaining the conviction of the answering respondent the benefit of probation was extended to him.
it was therefore submitted that the sentence imprisonment awarded by the metropolitan magistrate has been suspended under section 389 of the criminal procedure code by the court of additional sessions judge delhi in view of the pendency of the appeal against the order of conviction is a continuation of proceedings and therefore there is no conviction against the answering respondent so long as the same is not decided by the court of sessions.
it was also submitted that the requirement of calling of a report from the probationer officer under section 42 of the pob act has been waived off by the counsel for the state of delhi and that the counsel for the mcd also did not raise any objection before the high court.
it was further contended that the respondent has not contested the revision in the high court on merits and confined his submission to the benefit of section 4 of the pob act being extended to him.
in the above background two questions of law arise for consideration by this court 1 whether the high court was correct in extending the benefit of the probation of offenders act1958 to the accused respondent without calling for a report from the authorities relating to the conduct of the respondent as per section 4 of the act.
1the court shall take into consideration the report if any of the probation officer concerned in relation to the case.
it is the specific case of the appellant herein that the high court has not afforded to the appellant an opportunity to file counter affidavit.
the high court while passing the impugned order and judgment did not take into consideration that the accused respondent has been convicted in another criminal case no 202 of 1997 by the court of metropolitan magistrate patiala house new delhi.
the high court also failed to take into consideration that the respondent has been in jail for three days and had not put in substantial period in custody.
the high court vide its order impugned in this appeal has observed that there is no allegation that the respondent is a previous convict.
he has faced trail since 1991 he is aged about 57 years.
the appellate court held that no interference is required in the order passed by the trial court regarding point of sentence.
a person whose case is based on falsehood can be summarily thrown out at any stage of the litigation.
if he withholds a vital document in order to gain advantage on the other side then he would be guilty of playing fraud on the court as well on the opposite party.
such exercise of discretion needs a sense of responsibility.
the offender can only be released on probation of good conduct under this section when the court forms an opinion having considered the circumstances of the case the nature of the offence and the character of the offender that in a particular case the offender should be released on probation of good conduct.
the word shall in sub section 2 of section 4 is mandatory and the consideration of the report of the probationer officer is a condition precedent to the release of the accused as reported in the case of state v naguesh g shet govenkar and anr air 1970.
these facts are of primary importance before the court can pass an order under the probation of offenders act.
in the case of r mahalingam v g padmavathi and anr.
1979 crl.
the words if any would only cover a case where notwithstanding such requisition the probation officer for one reason or other has not submitted a report.
before deciding to act under s 4 1it is mandatory on the part of the court to call for a report from the probation officer and if such a report is received it is mandatory on the part of the court to consider the report.
appeal allowed.
