aggrieved by the decision of customs excise and gold control appellate tribunal cegat dated 11 4 2000the appellants assessee have come by way of civil appeals under section 35l of the central excise act1944.
appellants were engaged in the manufacture of biscuits classifiable under sub heading 1905 11 of the central excise tariff.
the biscuits were sold under the brand name meghraj.
the above show cause notices were issued by the department demanding differential duty for the period april 1994 to june 1994 amounting to rs 374948 plus short paid duty for the period april 1995 to may 1995 amounting to rs 92992 the said demand was based on an agreement detected by the department.
under the said agreement m s kay aar biscuits p ltd was.
party no 1 under the agreement.
the said agreement m s kay aar biscuits p ltd gave permission to m s rich food products pvt.
ltd to use its trade mark for the manufacture of wafers alone.
the said agreement was valid for three years commencing from 22 11 1989.
the appellants claimed that it has been using the wrapper since beginning and since 1991 the use of the trade name or brand name meghraj has never been challenged.
the assistant commissioner ghaziabad examined the printed wrappers.
according to the commissioner athe appellants used the trade name meghraj in the form of a logo which was printed on the wrapper.
meghraj.
in the rectification application.
the object of the notification therefore was to help the ssi units and thereby increased industrial production.
explanation ix defined the word brand name or trade name.
the same is quoted hereinbelow.
explanation ix brand name or trade name shall mean a brand name or trade name whether registered or not that is to say a name or a mark such as symbol monogram label signature or invented word or writing which is used in relation to such specified goods for the purpose of indicating or so as to indicate a connection in the course of trade between such specified goods and some person using such name or mark with or without any indication of the identity of that person.
this aspect is important since one of the arguments advanced by the appellants herein before the commissioner a was that the trade mark belonged to m s ltd which was registered ssi unit lying closed since 1 3 1993.
no explanation has been given as to why madan verma has not been examined by the appellants.
he has not been examined even on the question of alleged transfer of the trade mark in favour of the appellants.
on behalf of the appellants it has been vehemently argued that m s kay aar biscuits p ltd was never the registered owner of the trade mark meghraj.
it was urged that merely because an agreement stood entered into on 22 11 89 between m s ltd.
it was urged that a false declaration was made by m s kay aar biscuits p ltd under the above agreement on 22 11 89.
elt 257 2005 indlaw sc 799sc.
this court has held that the object of the exemption notification was neither to protect the owners of the trade mark nor the consumers from being misled.
these are considerations which are relevant in disputes arising out of infringement passing of actions under the trade marks act.
applying the ratio of the above judgment to the present case it is clear that grant of registration certificate under the trade marks act will not automatically provide benefit of exemption to the ssi unit.
abandonment of the trade mark has to be proved by the appellants in the present case.
these are considerations which are relevant in disputes arising under the trade marks act.
the trade marks act1999 has been enacted to amend and consolidate the law relating to trade marks to provide for registration and better protection of trade marks and for prevention of the use of fraudulent marks.
u s 28 of the trade marks act1999registration gives to the registered proprietor of the trade mark the exclusive right to the use of the trade mark in relation to the goods in respect of which the trade mark is registered and to obtain relief in respect of infringement of the trade mark in the manner provided by the trade marks act.
it is correct to say that the registrar trade marks can issue registration certificate u s 28 of the trade marks act with retrospective effect.
then came the english trade marks act of 1875which was substituted later by later acts.
the effect of the relevant provision of the english acts was that registration of a trade mark would be deemed to be equivalent to public user of such mark.
prior to the acts one could become a proprietor of a trade mark only by user but after the passing of the act of 1875one could become a proprietor either by user or by registering the mark even prior to its user.
he could do the latter after complying with the other requirements of the act including the filing of a declaration of his intention to use such mark.
before the deputy registrar and before mr justice shah proprietorship was claimed on the basis that the applicant was entitled to it as an importer s mark.
in many of those cases the dispute was between a foreign trader using a foreign mark in a foreign country on goods which were subsequently imported by indian importers and sold by them in this country under that very mark.
in india the mark caltex was a totally new mark for watches and allied goods.
he in fact used it in respect of watches.
on reading the above quoted paragraphs from the above judgment with which we agree it is clear that the effect of making the registration certificate applicable from retrospective date is based on the principle of deemed equivalence to public user of such mark.
it is confined to the provisions of the trade marks act.
apparently in such a case there is no question of infringement of any right of property in a trade mark for which any relief is sought nor is there any question of passing off so that it might be necessary to enter into questions of nicety as regards whether there could or could not be any property in a trade mark.
even if it is found to be necessary to decide this question as to property in a trade mark i have already pointed out that the courts of equity in england granted relief in cases of infringement of trade marks on the basis of infringement of the right of property in the trade mark.
i have also pointed out that the statute which came to be enacted in england in 1875 and the subsequent statutes did nothing more than to embody the rights in relation to trade marks which were already laid down by the courts of equity.
as a matter of fact the statute enabled a person to have registered a mark not only which he had been using but also a mark which he proposed to use.
the latter type of mark would evidently refer to a distinctive mark a mark which does not directly describe the nature or quality of the goods to which it is attached.
even so far as this country is concerned the trade marks act of 1940 does not seem to have made any change in the legal rights of the owner of a trade mark as established by the courts of chancery in england.
to my mind it is clear that even prior to the passing of this act the owner of a trade mark could maintain an action for the infringement of a trade mark and that action could only be maintained on the assumption that he was the owner of the trade mark and he had a proprietary right in the trade mark.
as regards the question whether there could be any property in a trade mark the learned judge further observed on the same page as follows again turning to s 54 of the specific relief act which deals with cases when a perpetual injunction may be granted the explanation to that section lays down that for the purpose of that section a trade mark is property.
i therefore agree with the learned advocate general that all that the trade marks act has done is to facilitate the mode of proof.
instead of compelling the holder of a trade mark in every case to prove his proprietary right before he could ask the court to grant him an injunction the trade marks act provides a procedure whereby by registering his trade mark the owner gets certain facilities in the mode of proving his title.
for instance under s 23 of the trade marks act registration is to be prima facie evidence of the validity of the trade mark.
this was precisely the view which was expressed by lord justice romer in 1905 1 k b 592 to which i have already referred in the earlier part of the judgment.
to summarise therefore a trader acquires a right of property in a distinctive mark merely by using it upon or in connection with his goods irrespective of the length of such user and the extent of his trade.
the trader who adopts such a mark is entitled to protection directly the article having assumed a vendible character is launched upon the market.
as between two competitors who are each desirous of adopting such a markit is to use familiar language entirely a question of who gets there first.
gaw kan lye v saw kyone saing air 1939.
fb registration under the statute does not confer any new right to the mark claimed or any greater right than what already existed at common law and at equity without registration.
it does however facilitate a remedy which may be enforced and obtained throughout the state and it established the record of facts affecting the right to the mark.
registration itself does not create a trade mark.
the trade mark exists independently of the registration which merely affords further protection under the statute.
priority in adoption and use of a trade mark is superior to priority in registration.
mr shah however contended that by an agreement exhibit f made between the respondent company and kipre and co private ltd in 1951.
according to this provision not only a person should claim to be the proprietor of a trade mark but he should prove that he had used it as such proprietor on his goods.
the reasonable inference that could be drawn from this description surely is that the goods were the property of kipre and co and so also the mark.
applying the principle of deemed equivalence we may clarify that if the ssi unit wrongly affixes a trade mark of another person be it registered or not or if it uses the trade mark of an ineligible person then such default would not be eliminated by the above principle of deemed equivalence embodied in s 28 of the trade marks act1999 as that principle is based on a deeming fiction which fiction is confined only to the provisions of the trade marks act.
305 2006 indlaw sc 546 in that matter a show cause notice was issued calling upon the assessee to show cause why the exemption be not denied to the assessee.
before concluding we may point out that we do not wish to express any opinion on the subsequent events which have taken place in this case.
accordingly the civil appeals stand dismissed with no order as to costs.
appeals dismissed.
