this appeal by special leave which is directed against the judgment and order dated april 241974 of the letters patent bench of the high court of judicature at madras reversing the judgment and order dated april 191971 of the single judge of that court passed in writ petition no 3822 of 1969 presented u art 226 of the constitution raises a complex but an interesting question relating to the construction of the phrases maternity benefit for the period of her actual absence immediately preceding and including the day of her delivery and for the six weeks immediately following that day occurring in s 51 of the maternity benefits act1961.
act liii of 1961 hereinafter referred to as the act which in view of s 21 of the act is the law applicable even to women workers employed in plantations.
it appears that in october1967subbammal respondent no 2 herein who is a woman worker employed in mount stuart estate hereinafter referred to as the establishmentwhich is carrying on plantation industry was allowed leave of absence by the establishment on the basis of a notice given by her of her expected delivery which actually took place on december 161967 after her delivery the respondent was paid by her employers on account of maternity benefit an amount equivalent to what she would have earned on the basis of her average daily wage in 72 working days falling within twelve week s of the maternity period.
dissatisfied with this computation the respondent made a representation to her employers claiming maternity benefit for the entire period of twelve weeks under the act i e for 84 days on the plea that a week consisted of seven days.
as her demand did not evoke a favourable response the respondent applied to the labour court coimbatore under section 33c2 of the industrial disputes act for redress of her grievance.
the claim preferred by the respondent was resisted by the appellant herein who contended that the respondent was admittedly working and was being paid only for six days in a week and that a pregnant woman worker is entitled to maternity benefit for 72 days which are the normal working days in twelve weeks and not for 84 days as no wage is payable for the seventh day of the week i e sunday which is a nonworking wageless holiday.
by its order dated february 261969the labour court allowed the claim of the respondent.
thereupon the establishment moved the high court at madras u art 226 of the constitution challenging the decision of the labour court.
contending that the claim made by the respondent was untenable as normally a worker works only for six days in a week and the maternity benefit had to be computed only for 72 days.
as against this the respondent pleaded that the computation had to be made not with reference to the actual number of working days but with reference to total number of days covered by twelve weeks i e 84 days.
the single judge of the high court to whom the case was assigned allowed the petition holding that twelve weeks for which maternity benefit is provided for in subs 3 of s 5 of the act must be taken to mean twelve weeks of work and the computation of the benefit had to be made with reference to the actual days on which the woman would have worked but for her inability.
aggrieved by this decision the respondent filed an appeal u cl 15 of the letters patent which as already stated was allowed by the letters patent bench of the high court observing that the maternity benefit which the respondent was entitled to receive was for the period of her absence before delivery including the day of delivery and also six weeks thereafter each week consisting of seven days including sundays.
dissatisfied with this decision the establishment has already stated come up in appeal to this court by special leave.
we place on record our deep appreciation of the valuable assistance rendered to us by both of them.
assailing the judgment and order under appeal mr pai has urged that since legislative intent as revealed from the scheme of s 51 of the act is to compensate the woman worker who expects delivery for the loss that her forced absence from work on account of pregnancy and confinement may entail the liability which has to be imposed on her employer can not exceed the amount that she would have earned if she had not been compelled to avail of the maternity leave and since sunday is a non working wageless day the employer can not be made to pay for that day.
he has further urged that since u s 5 1 of the act the maternity benefit has to be computed with reference to the period of the workers actual absence thereby meaning absence on days on which there was work excluding sundays and the term week in the context of sub ss 1 and 3 of s 5 of the act is to be under stood as a week of work consisting of six days and in the instant case respondent no 2 was working and earning wages for six days in a week the seventh day being a wageless holiday her claim can not be sustained.
in support of his contention.
mr pai has referred us to the full bench decision of the kerala high court in malayalam plantations ltd.
cochin v.
inspector of plantation mundakayam.
1975.
i c 848  a i r 1975.
s 21 of the act makes the act applicable to every establishment being a factory mine or plantation including any such establishment belonging to government and to every establishment wherein persons are employed for the exhibition of equastrain acrobatic and other performance.
sub s 2 of s 2 of the act specifically excludes the applicability of the provisions of the act to any factory or other establishment to which the provisions of the employees state insurance act1948 apply for the time being s 3n of the act defines wages as under 3n   wages means all remuneration paid or payable in cash to a woman if the terms of the contract of employment express or implied were fulfilled and includes 1 such cash allowances including dearness allowance and house rent allowance as a woman is for the time being entitled to.
2 incentive bonus and 3 the money value of the concessional supply of food grains and other articles but does not include.
i any bonus other than incentive bonus ii over time earnings and any deduction or payment on account of fines iii any contribution paid or payable by the employer to any pension fund or provident fund or for the benefit of the woman under any law for the time being in force and iv any gratuity payable on the termination of service.
the above definition it would be noted does not restrict the meaning of the term wages to contractual wages but gives the term a composite meaning covering all remunerations in the nature of cash allowances incentive bonus and the money value of the concessional supply of foodgrains and other articles.
s 5 of the act which confers right to payment of maternity benefit on a woman worker provisions.
5 right to payment of maternity.
explanation.
provided that the qualifying period of one hundred and sixty days aforesaid shall not apply to a woman who has immigrated into the state of assam and was pregnant at the time of the immigration.
6 the failure to give notice under this section s not disentitle a woman to maternity benefit or any other amount under this act if she is otherwise entitled to such benefit or amount and in any such case an inspector may either of his own motion or on an application made to him by the woman order the payment of such benefit of amount within such period as may be specified in the order.
the provisions of s 5 of the act quoted above make it clear that a woman worker who expects a child is entitled to maternity benefit for a maximum period of twelve weeks which is split up into two periods viz prenatal and post natal.
the benefit has to be calculated for the aforesaid two periods on the basis of the average daily wage.
according to the explanation appended to s 51 of the act the average daily wage has to be computed taking into consideration the average of the woman s wager payable to her for the days on which she has worked during the period of three calendar months immediately preceding the date from which she absents herself on account of maternity or one rupee a day whichever is higher.
for fixing the average daily wage it has therefore first to be ascertained whether the wages with were paid or were payable to the woman was for time work or for piece work.
it has next to be ascertained as to what were the cash wages paid or payable to her in terms of the definition contained in s 3 n of the act for the days on which she worked during the period of three calendar months immediately preceding the date of delivery reckoned according to the british calendar month.
after thus finding out the average daily wage the liability of the employer in respect of the maternity benefit has to be calculated in terms of s 5 of the act for both ore natal and post natal period indicated above.
a week according to halsbury s laws of england.
weekwe think that in the context of sub ss 1 and 3 of s 5 of the act the term has to be taken to signify a cycle of seven days including sundays.
the language in which the aforesaid sub s s are couched also shows that the legislature intended that computation of maternity benefit is to be made for the entire period of the woman worker s actual absence i e for all the days including sundays which may be wageless holidays falling within that period and not only for intermittent periods of six days thereby excluding sundays falling within that period for if it were not so the legislature instead of using the words for the period of her actual absence immediately preceding and including the day of her delivery and for the six weeks immediately following that day would have used the words for the working days falling within the period of her actual absence immediately preceding and including the day of her delivery and the six weeks immediately following that day but excluding the wageless days.
again the word period occurring in s 51 of the act is a strong word.
it has also to be borne in mind in this connection that in interpreting provisions of beneficial pieces of legislation like the one in hand which is intended to achieve the object of doing social justice to women workers employed in the plantations and which squarely fall within the purview of art 42 of the constitution the beneficent rule of construction which would enable the woman worker not only to subsist but also to make up her dissipated energy nurse her child preserve her efficiency as a worker and maintain the level of her previous efficiency and output has to be adopted by the court.
in view of what we have stated above we can not uphold the view of the law expressed by the full bench of kerala high court in malayalam plantations ltd inspector of plantations mundakayam ors 1974 indlaw ker 91 supra.
appeal dismissed.
