this appeal by special leave has been preferred by tata consultancy engineers against an award dated 20th december1978 of the industrial tribunal maharashtra bombay revising the wage scales of certain categories of employees and granting various other benefits.
tata consultant engineers at its inception was a partnership firm but subsequently the partnership was dissolved and in 1974 the undertaking became one of the divisions of tata sons limited.
it functions as a consulting organisation and a service industry and does not manufacture any product or carry on trade.
its work force consists of engineers and supervisors and different categories of workmen.
out of 665 employees at bombay the draftsmen and the administrative staff number 306 these workmen are members of the tata consultant employees union.
they served a charter of demands in july1974on the appellant and as their demands were not accepted and conciliation proceedings proved fruitless the state government made a reference of the dispute under s 101 dindustrial tribunal maharashtra for adjudication.
the reference was numbered i t no 292 of 1975.
the union filed a statement before the tribunal claiming an upward revision of the wage scales and dearness allowance and an increase from fifteen years to twenty years in the span for earning annual increments.
it was urged that the efficiency bar as a feature of the wage scales should be removed.
the dearness allowance it was claimed should be granted on a slab system.
the claim of the union was resisted by the appellant who maintained that the existing wage scales were fair and reasonable on a region cum industry basis and that it would not be possible for the appellant to bear the additional financial burden if the demands of the union were accepted.
there was fierce competition also it was asserted from other similar organisations.
the appellant had introduced various pay scales in 1973 and some time later they were revised.
there was no separate dearness allowance until january1977 when it was introduced for the first time.
house rent allowance was also paid.
the need for revising the wage scales was not disputed by the appellant.
in proceeding to revise the wage structure the tribunal took into account the two principles involved in the process the financial capacity of the industry to bear the burden of an increased wage bill and the prevailing wage structure on an industry cum region basis.
wage scale statements were filed by the parties before the tribunal pertaining to several engineering consultancy organisations but.
holding it impossible in the circumstances to apply the principle of industry cum region basis the tribunal turned to a consideration of the financial capacity of the company to bear an additional burden in this connection it proceeded on the footing that the appellant was a separate and independent division of tata sons limited and had no functional integrality with the other divisions.
the particular character of the appellant that it was a service industry and not a manufacturing concern was taken into account and it was observed that unlike a manufacturing business there was little scope for diversification in the case of an engineering consultancy.
nonetheless the tribunal observed there was every reason to expect that the appellant would be able to earn sound profits in the future and the instability in its business activities occasioned by the turbulent political situation in iran would be it was expected compensated by contracts secured in different developing countries.
for the purpose of determining the financial capacity of the appellant the tribunal followed unichem laboratories v their workmen 1972 indlaw sc 181 where it was held that the gross profits should be computed without making deductions on account of taxation development rebate and depreciation.
the tribunal took note of the elaborate scales of wages already existing in the wage structure of the appellant and decided to modify the existing structure of the scales with flat increases in each category.
taking into account the circumstance that besides the staff of 306 workmen represented by the union there were several other employees who would also have to be paid the tribunal considered it fair in paragraph 23 of the award to give a flat increase of rs 150 in the category of draughtsmen and rs 100 in the case of other categories.
the tribunal maintained the existing schemes of dearness allowance and house rent allowance and observed that in view of the revised basic wages there would be a resultant increase in the dearness allowance and house rent allowance.
further it appears that the tribunal intended to grant the increase of rs 150 to each draughtsman and rs 100 to all other workmen in their basic pay.
accordingly the contention raised on behalf of the appellant against retrospectivity of the wage scales must be rejected.
the challenge embodied in the second contention against the amendment of the award is more serious.
in making the application of 22nd.
december1978the union invoked the jurisdiction of the.
the jurisdiction given to the tribunal by rule 31 is closely circumscribed.
it must be a mistake or error amenable to clerical correction only.
to answer the question it is necessary to examine the basis of the award and the intent which flows from that basis.
the terms of reference in the state government s order required the tribunal to revise the scales of pay and dearness allowance and there was no mention of giving any ad hoc increase in the basic pay of individual workman.
no ad hoc increase to the pay of each individual workman was intended.
individual workmen were not present to the mind of the tribunal.
the amendment made by the tribunal has the effect of providing a second increase this time to each individual workmen.
if as the tribunal has stated in the amendment order the increase in paragraph 23 was intended to apply to each individual workmen there is nothing in the body of the award to form the foundation on which the actual figures in the restructured pay scales can be made to rest.
the evidence contained in the award throughout provides incontrovertible proof that this flat increase was never originally intended in the award.
it is an accepted principle that consent by a party can not confer jurisdiction on a court.
what is without jurisdiction will remain so.
the corrigendum amending the award in consequence is liable to be quashed.
the second contention of the appellant is entitled to succeed.
reliance was placed on the hindustan times ltd new delhi v their workmen 1964 1 scr 234 1962 indlaw sc 436247 where it was observed by this court that dearness allowance should not remain fixed at any figure but should be on a sliding scale in order to neutralise a portion of the increase in the cost of living.
reference was also made to bengal chemical pharmaceutical works limited v its workmen.
it was open to the tribunal to adopt the position which it did.
it is not possible to maintain one part of the award and supersede another.
accordingly the appeal filed by the workmen must fail.
further it appears that the tribunal intended to grant the increase of rs 150 to each draughtsman and rs 100 to all other workmen in their basic pay.
the primary and basic question considered by the industrial tribunal in making the award dated december 201978 was the question of revision of the wage scales.
implicit and intrinsically connected with the question of revision of the wage scales were the questions of fitment of employees into the wage scales and flat or ad hoc increase of salaries of workmen wherever considered necessary.
nor can it be doubted that fitment into the revised pay scales is certainly a part of the revision of pay scales.
this in our opinion is elementary and fundamental to the jurisdiction of the industrial tribunal in revising wage scales.
in the present case the industrial tribunal on a consideration of the material placed before it came to the conclusion that the company was in an undoubted position to bear the additional financial burden.
the question is what should be the extent of such burden.
the annexures from the company to the director general posts telegraphs delhi ex.
the application before the tribunal was filed under rule 31 of the bombay industrial disputes rules 1957which is as follows.
we are not impressed with the submission of the learned counsel for the company that the corrigendum was in effect a fresh award.
we therefore see no ground for quashing the order dated december 221978 of the tribunal.
in the result both the appeals are dismissed without any order as to costs.
the order of the court was as follows.
