these two appeals involve identical questions and therefore are disposed of by this common judgment after noticing the factual position so far as they are relevant.
the appellants question correctness of the judgment rendered by a division bench of the madras high court which held that the withdrawal of benefits extended to the appellants as subsidy was in order.
the appellants questioned legality or the g o ms No 989 dated 1 9 1988 directing discontinuance of purchase tax exemption in case of mills which exceeded the ceiling of rs 300 lakes during the period of five years and government letter dated 28 12 1988 which made the aforesaid g o ms No 989 of 1 9 1988 operative retrospectively from 1 4 1988.
initially the writ petitions were filed before the high court but after constitution of the tamil nadu taxation special tribunal hereinafter referred to as the tribunal the writ petitions were transferred to the tribunal which held that on application of the principles of promissory estoppel and legitimate expectation the withdrawal of benefit was not sustainable in law.
the state questioned correctness of the judgment before the high court which as noted above held the g o ms and the govt.
letter to be valid reversing the conclusions arrived at by the tribunal.
the judgment forms subject matter of challenge in these appeals.
in support of the appeals the primary stands raised by the appellants are.
the doctrines of promissory estoppel and legitimate expectation were applicable to the facts of the case.
there was no material to show existence of any overriding public interest to rule out application of the aforesaid doctrine there was no scope for retrospective withdrawal.
in any event before withdrawal of the benefits no opportunity of hearing was granted.
the high court erroneously came to hold that the state government had not filed any counter.
the materials which were produced before the high court and on the basis of which it is decided that the decision of the government is in order were not even pleaded in the pleadings and during arguments.
the appellants were taken by surprise by production of materials which were not even disclosed to the appellants.
the contents of the files which were produced before the high court and on which reliance was placed to hold against the appellants are not known to the appellants.
in other words there was clear violation of the principles of natural justice.
the government s letter dated 28 12 1988 refers to some decision but in the absence of any authentication as required under article 166 of the constitution of india 1950 in short the constitution the same is ineffective.
in any event the retrospective withdrawal of the benefit on the basis of an executive decision is impermissible.
in response learned counsel for the respondent state submitted that the appellants have failed to adduce any evidence or material to show that were in any way induced by any governmental action to set up industries.
in fact the government of tamil nadu vide g o ms.
No 1294 dated 24 10 1975 granted exemption from purchase tax on sugarcane in favour of sugar mills established in co operative and public sectors in the form of annual subsidy equivalent to purchase tax on sugarcane.
there was no scope for any mis understanding that it applied to any private sector participation in the sphere of sugar manufacturing.
the commercial productions were started in case of appellants in c a No 86062002 i e ponni sugars erode ltd v govt.
of tamil nadu ors on 27 1 1984 and in c a 86052002 i e bannari amman sugars ltd v commercial tax officer.
on 22 1 1986.
the appellants only made representation to government subsequently claiming exemption at par with the cooperative and public sector mills.
as there was no inducement or assurance the question of any promissory estoppel did not arise.
so far as legitimate expectation aspect is concerned it is too well known that the benefit extended can be withdrawn and with this knowledge if the units are set up the principle of legitimate expectation does not apply.
the high court recorded the following findings on the factual aspects.
no inducement was made in the government orders to establish the units.
the respondents have not acted on the basis of the government orders for establishing the units.
the grant of subsidy is a concession and the government has got good reasons for modifying the scheme in public interest.
no prejudice is caused to the respondents since the scheme was interested to make the units viable and the modified scheme provides for safeguards to that extent.
the order granting subsidy can be withdrawn in public interest.
the government has exercised their right to modify the scheme in the interest of public revenue.
the stand taken by the present appellants before the tribunal and the high court was rejected.
with reference to the files produced certain factual conclusions were arrived at the correctness of those form the core challenge in these appeals.
estoppel is a rule of equity which has gained new dismensions in recent years.
a new class of estoppel has come to be recognized by the courts in this country as well as in england.
the doctrine of promissory estoppel has assumed importance in recent years though it was dimly noticed in some of the earlier cases.
the leading case on the subject is central london property trust ltd v high trees house ltd 1947 1 k b 130.
the rule laid down in high trees case supra again came up for consideration before the king s bench in combe v bombe 1951 2 k b 215.
therein the court ruled that the principle stated in high trees s case supra is that where one party has by his words or conduct made to the other a promise or assurance which was intended to affect the legal relations between them and to be acted on accordingly then once the other party has taken him at his word and acted on it the party who gave the promise or assurance can not afterwards be allowed to revert to the previous legal relationship as if no such promise or assurance had been made by him but he must accept their legal relations subject to the qualification which he himself has so introduced even though it is not supported in point of law by any consideration but only by his word.
the principle enunciated in the high trees case supra was also recognized by the house of lords in tool metal manufacturing co ltd v tungsten electric co ltd 1955.
all e r 657 1955 1 w l r 761.
that principle was adopted by this court in union of india v indo afghan agencies ltd air 1968.
sc 718 1967 indlaw sc 411 and turner morrison and co ltd v hungerford investment trust ltd 1972 1 scc 857 1972 indlaw sc 190.
so far as this court is concerned it invoked the doctrine in indo afghan agencies s case 1967 indlaw sc 411 supra in which is was inter alia laid down that even though the case would not fall within the terms of section 115 of the indian evidence act 1872 in short the evidence act which enacts the rule of estoppel it would still be open to a party who had acted on a representation made by the government to claim that the government should be bound to carry out the promise made by it even though the promise was not recorded in the form of a formal contract as required by article 299 of the constitution.
see century spinning co v ulhasnagar municipal council air 1971.
sc 1021 1970 indlaw sc 341 radhakrishna v state of bihar air 1977.
sc 1496 1977 indlaw sc 282 motilal padampat sugar mills co ltd v state of u p 1979 2 scc 409 1978 indlaw sc 56 union of india v godfrey philips indian ltd 1985 4 scc 369 1985 indlaw sc 275 and dr ashok kumar maheshwari v state of u p another 1998 2 supreme 100 1998 indlaw sc 1376.
this principle has been evolved by equity to avoid injustice.
it is nether in the realm of contract nor in the realm of estoppel.
its object is to interpose equity shorn of its form to mitigate the rigour of strict law as noted in anglo afghan aencies s case1967 indlaw sc 411 supra and sharma transport represented by d p sharma v government of a p and others 2002 2 scc 188 2001 indlaw sc 19917.
the rule of promissory estoppel can be invoked only if on the basis of representation made by the government the industry was established to avail benefit if of exemption.
in kasinka trading and anr v union of india and anr.
1995 1 scc 274 1994 indlaw sc 2183.
the doctrine of legitimate expectation has an important place in the developing law of judicial review.
it is generally agreed that legitimate expectation gives the applicant sufficient locus standi for judicial review and that the doctrine of legitimate expectation to be confined mostly to right to a fair hearing before a decision which results in negativing a promise or withdrawing an undertaking is taken.
the doctrine does not give scope to claim relief straightway from the administrative authorities as no crystallized right as such involved.
the protection of such legitimate expectation does not require the fulfilment of the expectation where an overriding public interest requires otherwise.
see union of india and others.
v hindustan development corporation and others air 1994.
sc 9981993 indlaw sc 1085.
the wide sweep of article 14 and the requirement of every state action qualifying for its validity on this touchstone irrespective of the field of activity of the state is an accepted tenet.
the basic requirement of article 14 is fairness in action by the state and non arbitrariness in essence and substance is the heart beat of fair play.
a question whether the impugned action is arbitrary or not is to be ultimately answered on the facts and circumstances of a given case.
where a particular mode is prescribed for doing an act and there is no impediment in adopting the procedure the deviation to act in different manner which does not disclose any discernible principle which is reasonable itself small be labelled as arbitrary.
every state action must be informed by reason and it follows that an act uninformed by reason is per se arbitrary.
this court s observations in g b mahajan v jalgaon municipal council air 1991 sc 1153 1990 indlaw sc 438 are kept out of lush field of administrative policy except where policy is inconsistent with the express or implied provision of a statute which creates the power to which the policy relates or where a decision made in purported exercise of power is such that a repository of the power acting reasonably and in good faith could not have made it.
but there has to be a word of caution.
something overwhelming must appear before the court will intervene.
that is and ought to be a difficult onus for an applicant to discharge.
the courts are not very good at formulating or evaluating policy.
sometimes when the courts have intervened on policy grounds the court s view of the range of policies open under the statute or of what is unreasonable policy has not got public acceptance.
on the contrary curial views of policy have been subjected to stringent criticism.
the reasonableness in administrative law must therefore distinguish between proper course and improper abuse of power.
the point to note is that the thing is not unreasonable in the legal sense merely because the court thinks it to be unwise.
if it is a question of policy even by ways of change of old policy the courts can not intervene with the decision.
as was observed in punjab communications ltd v union of india of others air 1999 sc 1801 1999 indlaw sc 1548 the change in policy can defeat a substantive legitimate expectation if it can be justified on wednesbury reasonableness.
it is therefore clear that the choice of police is for the decision maker and not the court.
the legitimate substantive expectation merely permits the court to find out if the change of policy which is the cause for defeating the legitimate expectation is irrational or perverse or one which no reasonable person could have made.
how significant is the statement that today is tomorrows yesterday.
the present is as we experience it the past is a present memory and future is a present expectation.
legitimacy of an expectation can be inferred only if it is founded on the sanction of law.
as observed in attorney general for new south wale v quinn 1990 64 australian ljr 327 to strike the exercise of administrative power solely on the ground of avoiding the disappointment of the legitimate expectations of an individual would be to set the courts adrift on a featureless sea of pragmatism.
if a denial of legitimate expectation in a given case amounts to denial of right guaranteed or is arbitrary discriminatory unfair or biased gross abuse of power of violation of principles of natural justice the same can be questioned on the well known grounds attracting article 14 but a claim based on mere legitimate expectation without anything more can not ipso facto give a right to invoke these principles.
it can be one of the grounds to consider but the court must lift the veil and see whether the decision is violative of these principles warranting interference.
otherwise a resourceful litigant having vested interest in contract licences etc can successfully indulge in getting welfare activities mandated by directing principles thwarted to further his own interest.
the caution particularly in the changing scenario becomes all the more important.
if the state acts within the bounds of reasonableness it would be legitimate to take into consideration the national priorities and adopt trade policies.
reasonableness of restriction is to be determined in an objective manner and from the standpoint of interest of the general public and not from the standpoint of the interests of persons upon whom the restrictions have been imposed or upon abstract consideration.
a restriction can not be said to be unreasonable merely because in a given case it operates harshly.
in determining whether there is any unfairness involved the nature of the right alleged to have taken infringed the underlying purpose of the restriction imposed the extent and urgency of the evil sought to be remedied thereby the disproportion of the imposition the prevailing condition at the relevant time enter into judicial verdict the reasonableness of the legitimate expectation has to be determined with respect to the circumstances relating to the trade or business in question.
canalisation of a particular business in favour of even a specified individual is reasonable where the interests of the country are concerned or where the business affects the economy of the country.
see parbhani transport co operative society ltd v regional transport authority aurangabad and others air 1960.
sc 9011960 indlaw sc 472 shree meenakshi mills ltd v union of india air 1974.
sc 3651973 indlaw sc 291 hari chand sarda v mizo district council and another air 1967 sc 829 1966 indlaw sc 125 krishnan kakkanth v government of kerala and others air 1997.
sc 128 1996 indlaw sc 1845 and union of india and another v international trading co and another 2003 5 scc 437 2003 indlaw sc 472.
article 166 of the constitution deals with the conduct of government business.
the said provision reads as follows 166.
conduct of business of the government of a state 1 all executive action of the government of a state shall be expressed to be taken in the name of the governor.
further is no particular formula of words required for compliance with article 1661.
a constitution bench in r chitralekha etc.
v state of mysore and ors.
air 1964.
while clause 1 is in relation to the mode of expression clause 2 lays down the ways in which the order is to be authenticated.
whether there is any government order in terms of article 166 has to be adjudicated from the factual background of each case.
v u p state electricity board and others air 1997.
sc 3910 1997 indlaw sc 1364 and in sales tax officers and anr.
v shree durga oil mills and anr.
the doctrine of promissory estoppel had no application to the facts of the case at that stage.
as the correctness of factual basis justifying withdrawal is in issue fair play certainly warranted grant of opportunity to the appellants to present its side of the picture.
the high court has not dealt with the issue.
another point which was specifically raised before the high court but has not been dealt by it is the legality of the action in directing retrospective withdrawal of the benefit by a letter of the government.
whether the same is permissible in law has to be decided by the high court.
to the aforesaid limited extent the matter is remitted to the high court for fresh consideration.
appeals disposed of.
