leave granted in slp crl.
no 37372014.
these appeals are preferred by four accused against the common judgment of the high court of chhattisgarh at bilaspur confirming the judgment of the additional sessions judge bemetara district durg convicting the appellants u s 302 read with ss 34 and 120b of the indian penal code hereinafter referred to as ipc and sentencing each of them to undergo imprisonment for life with a fine of rs 1000 and in default to undergo additional rigorous imprisonment for three months.
these appeals have been taken up for disposal together since they arise from a common judgment of the high court deciding the appeals of the accused.
the appellant raju.
devendra choubey accused no 4 has filed criminal appeal no 822 of 2012 the appellant mahesh accused no 3 has filed criminal appeal no 867 of 2013 the appellant beenu.
chandra prakash accused no 2 has filed criminal appeal no 589 of 2014 the appellant smt.
shashi tripathi accused no 1 has filed criminal appeal arising out of special leave petition criminal no 3737 of 2014.
pw 1 dr.
sharda prasad tripathi is the husband of accused shashi tripathi.
on 25 11 2003when pw 1 dr.
sharda prasad tripathi came home from his clinic found that his daughter in law bhavna tripathi has been murdered.
he lodged a first information report f i r on 25 11 2003 at about 2045 hours.
the crime was registered.
he deposed in court that on 25 11 2003when he returned home he found servant anil kumar pw 21 was weeping.
after registration of the crime inquest was conducted over the dead body of bhavna on 26 11 2003 post mortem was conducted by dr naresh tiwari and dr m deodhar who gave their report which is marked as exhibit p18 spot map was prepared by the inquiry officer io bloodstained cloth of accused shashi tripathi was taken into possession along with broken bangles bloodstained cement mortar and plain cement mortar were also taken into possession.
shashi tripathi mahesh and binu.
a test identification was conducted by the executive magistrate in the sub jail bemetara on 13 12 2003 a similar identification parade of raju.
a sealed packet containing hair found in the grip of the deceased and another sealed packet containing bloodstained cloth of the deceased were taken into possession vide exhibit p35.
after committal the trial court framed charges u s 302 read with ss 34 and 120b of the ipc the prosecution examined 32 witnesses.
no defence witness was examined after the statements of the accused were recorded u s 313 of the criminal procedure code1973.
according to the prosecution the accused shashi tripathi is the step mother in law of deceased bhavna tripathi.
she engaged the other accused for murdering bhavna.
there is no dispute that bhavna s death is homicidal.
dr m deodhar who conducted the postmortem opined that cause of her death was neurogenic and hemorrhagic shock.
x 3 cm lobe was cut and there was 3 cm punctured wound.
incised wound was also present on the right lobe of size 3 cm x 13 cm x 3 cm.
liver kidney and spleen were pale.
it is obvious that accused nos 2 and 4 did not enter the house to commit a robbery and had a single mission namely to kill bhavana.
there is no evidence that they had any previous animosity with the deceased and appeared to have acted as contract killers.
in fact he even came to the court in the company of a police constable after being served summons at allahabad.
merely because he has been some time in the company of the police at the police station his testimony can not be discarded as untrue.
the learned counsel for the appellants forcefully attacked the conviction of the other accused viz mahesh chandra prakash and devendra kumar who admittedly were not known to the child witness anil kumar.
it was submitted that the test identification parade were delayed and the identification of these accused by the witness in court was not reliable.
it is not possible for us to accept this contention.
mahesh and chandra prakash were arrested on 29 11 2003their identification parade was conducted on 13 12 2003 within a fortnight or so.
the accused devendra kumar was arrested on 22 12 2003 and his identification parade was conducted on 26 12 2003 within four days there is no evidence on record to show that the child witness had an opportunity to see and study the features of the accused between their arrest and test identification parade to enable a tutored identification.
in any case the period between the arrest and the identification parade was not large enough to constitute inordinate delay.
the learned counsel for the appellants relied upon the judgment of this court in budhsen and anr.
as a general rule the substantive evidence of a witness is a statement made in court.
the evidence of mere identification of the accused person at the trial for the first time is from its very nature inherently of a weak character.
the evidence in order to carry conviction should ordinarily clarify as to how and under what circumstances he came to pick out the particular accused person and the details of the part which the accused played in the crime in question with reasonable particularity.
the purpose of a prior test identification therefore seems to be to test and strengthen the trustworthiness of that evidence.
it is accordingly considered a safe rule of prudence to generally look for corroboration of the sworn testimony of witnesses in court as to the identity of the accused who are strangers to them in the form of earlier identification proceeding.
the identification parades belong to the investigation stage.
they are generally held during the course of investigation with the primary object of enabling the witnesses to identify persons concerned in the offence who were not previously known to them.
this serves to satisfy the investigating officers of the bona fides of the prosecution witnesses and also to furnish evidence to corroborate their testimony in court.
identification proceedings in their legal effect amount simply to this that certain persons are brought to jail or some other place and make statements either express or implied that certain individuals whom they point out are persons whom they recognise as having been concerned in the crime.
they do not constitute substantive evidence.
these parades are of the essentially governed by section 162criminal procedure code.
it is for this reason that the identification parades in this case seem to have been held under the supervision of a magistrate.
keeping in view the purpose of identification parades the magistrates holding them are expected to take all possible precautions to eliminate any suspicion of unfairness and to reduce the chance of testimonial error.
they must therefore take intelligent interest in the proceedings bearing in mind two considerations i that the life and liberty of an accused may depend on their vigilance and caution and ii that justice should be done in the identification.
those proceeding should not make it impossible for the identifiers who after all have as a rule only fleeting glimpses of the person they are supposed to identify.
generally speaking the magistrate must make a note of every objection raised by an accused at the time of identification and the steps taken by them to ensure fairness to the accused so that the court which is to judge the value of the identification evidence may take them into consideration in the appreciation of that evidence.
the power to identify it may be kept in view varies according to the power of observation and memory of the person identifying and each case depends on its own facts but there are two factors which seem to be of basic importance in the evaluation of identification.
the persons required to identify an accused should have had no opportunity of seeing him after the commission of the crime and before identification and secondly that no mistakes are made by them or the mistakes made are negligible.
the identification to be of value should also be held without much delay.
the number of persons mixed up with the accused should be reasonably large and their bearing and general appearance not glaringly dissimilar.
the evidence as to identification deserves therefore to be subjected to a close and careful scrutiny by the court.
the observations of this court undoubtedly lay down the correct law and we have no reason to doubt them.
state of u p 1987 3 scc 331 1987 indlaw sc 28887and mohd abdul hafeez vs.
state of andhra pradesh air 1983.
the learned counsel for mahesh accused no 3 relied on several decisions of this court in suresh sakharam nangare vs.
state of maharashtra 2012 9 scc 249 2012 indlaw sc 304jai bhagwan vs.
state of haryana air 1999 sc 1083 1999 indlaw sc 391 and ramashish yadav vs.
state of bihar 1999 8 scc 555 1999 indlaw sc 693.
it is settled law that common intention and conspiracy are matters of inference and if while drawing an inference any benefit of doubt creeps in it must go to the accused vide baliya vs.
9 scc 696 2012 indlaw sc 343.
on a careful conspectus of the facts and the law we are of the view that the prosecution has failed to prove the guilt of mahesh beyond reasonable doubt.
there is no evidence of his having played any part in the crime.
he was merely seen by the witness as standing outside the house when the witness came home.
mahesh did not even act as a guard he did not prevent anil kumar pw 21 from entering the house.
there is no evidence of the formation or sharing of any common intention with the other accused.
no weapon was seized from him nor was any property connected with the crime seized.
having regard to the role attributed to him and the absence of incriminating factors we find that it is not safe to convict mahesh of the offence of murder with the aid of ss 34 and 120b.
we therefore hold that the accused mahesh accused no 3 in criminal appeal no 867 of 2013 is innocent and the conviction against him is set aside.
his bail bonds stand cancelled and sureties are discharged.
in view of the above criminal appeal no 867 of 2013 is allowed and criminal appeal nos 822 of 2012589 of 2014 and criminal appeal arising out of slp criminal no 3737 of 2014 are dismissed.
