he made representation to the additional chief engineer for cancelling his transfer order on the ground that his mother aged 70 years was ailing and it would cause great inconvenience to him if he was required to join at ukai.
his representation was rejected and he was directed to join at ukai but he did not do so instead he filed a civil suit at baroda challenging validity of the order of transfer.
the learned single judge granted a declaration in respondent s favour holding the order void and illegal but having regard to recalcitrant attitude of the appellant and his continued conduct of disobedience of the orders of his superior authorities he refused to grant consequential reliefs regarding reinstatement or payment of back wages.
the respondent as well as the appellant board both preferred letters patent appeals against the order of learned single judge.
a division bench of the high court dismissed the appeal preferred by the appellants but it allowed the respondent s appeal.
the division bench upheld the order of the learned single judge holding the order of discharge illegal and void but it set aside the order of the learned single judge refusing to grant consequential relief instead it directed the appellants to reinstate the respondent and to treat him in service without any break in service and to grant him benefits of increments seniority and promotion to which he may be entitled under the rules.
the bench however did not grant full back wages to the respondent instead it directed the board to pay him 50 per cent of back wages.
aggrieved the appellant has preferred the instant appeal after obtaining special leave of this court.
sh b k mehta advocate appearing for the appellants and sh.
after hearing learned counsel for the parties we were satisfied that the learned single judge as well as the division bench both had committed error in allowing the writ petition and granting relief to the respondent.
the appellants were directed by means of interim order of this court to continue to pay salary to the respondent which was being paid to him regularly.
the hearing was adjourned to enable sh.
vimal dave to obtain instructions from the respondent.
the appeal came up for hearing before us on 16 2 1988 when another counsel appeared to argue the appeal on behalf of the respondent on merits.
however in the interest of justice we permitted the respondent to file written submissions if any in support of his case.
since this was unusual uncalled for and unjustified request we ignored the same and reserved the order.
no government servant or employee of public undertaking has legal tight for being posted at any particular place.
if the order of transfer is not stayed modified or cancelled the concerned public servant must carry out the order of transfer.
if he fails to proceed on transfer in compliance to the transfer order he would expose himself to disciplinary action under the relevant rules as has happened in the instant case.
the respondent lost his service as he refused to comply with the order of his transfer from one place to the other.
chief engineer who discharged the respondent s services exercised his power under service regulation no 113which runs as under 113 the continued absence from duty or overstay m spite of warning to return to duty shall render the employee liable to summarily discharge from service without the necessity of proceedings under the gujarat electricity board conduct discipline and appeal procedure.
march 301974 to may 271974.
the division bench of the high court held that no warning as contemplated by service regulation no 113 had been issued to the respondent nor he had been afforded any opportunity of showing cause before the impugned order of discharge was passed and consequently the order of discharge was null and void being contrary to service regulation no 113 itself.
on perusal of the material on record we are of the opinion that the view taken by the high court is not sustainable as there is sufficient material on record which shows that warning had been issued to the respondent before the order of discharge was issued.
on march 291974 the superintending engineer of the board issued the order transferring the respondent from surat to ukai on 30 3 1974 the respondent was relieved from surat and directed to join his duty at ukai but the respondent did not join his duty at the new place of posting.
no 113 the letter is as under gujarat electricity board o m division nana varchha road surat.
sub transfer from surat to ukai.
i ve engineer o m surat copy f w c s to.
the sequence of events and the correspondence which ensued between the officers of the board and the respondent clearly show that the respondent disobeyed the order of transfer and he remained absent from duty in an unauthorised manner without obtaining sanction of leave.
the aforesaid documents leave no room for any doubt that the respondent was reminded of his failure to join his duties at ukai and he was further reminded that his unauthorised absence had exposed him to disciplinary action.
the division bench of the high court has held that since no warning was issued to the respondent action taken under service regulation no 113 was not in accordance with law.
a warning need not be in any particular form.
firstly even if the letter dated 24 4 1974 was not served on the respondent there is no dispute that the superintending engineer s letter dated 18th april1974 had been served on him.
apart from denying the postal endorsement the respondent placed no material before the court in support of his pleading.
in this view we are of the opinion that the division bench was totally wrong in holding that no opportunity was afforded to the respondent to meet the case set up by the board that the letter dated 24 4 1974 was served on the respondent.
no doubt the presumption is rebuttable and it is open to the party concerned to place evidence before the court to rebut the presumption by showing that the address mentioned on the cover was incorrect or that the postal authorities never tendered the registered letter to him or that there was no occasion for him to refuse the same.
the burden to rebut the presumption lies on the party challenging the factum of service.
in the instant case the respondent failed to discharge this burden as he failed to place material before the court to show that the endorsement made by the postal authorities was wrong and incorrect.
mere denial made by the respondent in the circumstances of the case was not sufficient to rebut the presumption relating to service of the registered cover.
consequently the service was complete and the view taken by the high court is incorrect.
the respondent acted in an irresponsible manner in not complying with the order of transfer which led to his discharge from service in accordance with the service regulation.
no 113 the learned single judge as well as the division bench both erred in law in setting aside the order of discharge.
there would be no order as to costs.
the respondent has been paid a sum of rs 104170 towards salary under the interim orders of this court.
