even if the sale of said properties in favour of defendant l it was asserted therein was not proved they continued to be tenants of the said properties on the date of suit as they were tenants even before the date of coming into existence of the mortgages.
on the basis of findings so recorded by the civil.
a learned single judge of the high court who heard the second appeal while upheld the concurrent findings of the courts below that the deeds of mortgage executed by the plaintiff in respect of the suit properties in favour of defendant l were mortgages by conditional sale and the defendants had failed to prove that there was sale of the suit properties in their favour subsequent to the coming into existence of the said mortgages found that the defendants had raised in their written statements the plea that they were tenants not only prior to the date of suit but also at the time of the filing of the suit and having regard to that plea the suit ought to have been stayed by the civil court and the issue of tenancy should have been referred to the mamlatdar for obtaining a finding from him thereon both under section 85 a of the bt.
al act as it stood before its amendment at the time of filing of the suit and as it stood after its amendment after the filing of the suit.
consequently the learned single judge set aside the judgments and decrees of the trial court and the appellate court relating to the issue of tenancy raised by the defendants in the suit and remanded the case to the civil court trial court directing it to refer the issue of such tenancy to the mamlatdar baroda for his determination and to stay all further proceedings in the suit till he got the finding from the mamlatdar on that tenancy issue and thereafter to proceed to dispose of that suit in the light of that finding and the other findings recorded by the appellate court district judge.
however the arguments addressed before us on behalf of the plaintiff appellant in support of the appeal by learned senior counsel mr s k dholakia were these that defendant l respondent l although was in possession of the suit properties.
even otherwise it was argued by him that the civil court before whom the plaintiff had filed the suit for redemption of the suit properties could not have driven the plaintiff to the forum of mamlatdar merely because the defendants had raised the plea that they were tenants of the suit properties agricultural lands.
according to him when the plaintiff had not admitted that the defendants were tenants of the suit properties it was not open to the defendants to force the plaintiff who had a right to choose his forum to file a suit to go before another forum on the plea that jurisdiction lay before another forum that is mamlatdar.
hence the judgment and order of the high court according to him was liable to be interfered with and set aside.
2 when a plea of tenancy is raised with regard to suit property an agricultural land by a defendant who claims to be a tenant of such property under the bt al act and seeks a reference of that issue by the civil court to the mamlatdar under that act for obtaining a finding thereon can the civil court decide such issue by itself and proceed to decide the suit on the basis of the finding thereon.
bombay tenancy and agricultural lands act1948bombay tenancy and agricultural lands act1948.
4 a person lawfully cultivating any land belonging to another person shall be deemed to be a tenant if such land is not cultivated personally by the owner and if such person is not a a member of the owner s family or b a servant on wages payable in cash or kind but not in crop share or a hired labourer cultivating the land under the personal supervision of the owner or any member of the owner s family or c a mortgagee in possession.
70 for the purposes of this act the following shall be the duties and functions to be performed by the mamlatdar a to decide whether a person is an agriculturist b to decide whether a person is a tenant or a protected tenant or a permanent tenant c to decide such other matters as may be referred to him by or under this 85 1 no civil court shall have jurisdiction to settle decide or deal with any question which is by or under this act required to be settled decided or dealt with by the mamlatdar or tribunal a manager the collector or the maharashtra revenue tribunal in appeal or revision or the state government in exercise of their powers of control.
2 no order of the mamlatdar the tribunal the collector or the maharashtra revenue tribunal or the state government made under this act shall be questioned in any civil or criminal court.
2 on receipt of such reference from the civil court the competent authority shall deal with and decide such issues in accordance with the provisions of this act and shall communicate its decision to the civil court and such court shall thereupon dispose of the suit in accordance with the procedure applicable thereto.
if that be so merger of lease hold estate in reversion can not arise inasmuch as there can not be any inconsistency or incompatibility in one person being the tenant and also the mortgagee of the same property for in that event instead of the tenant paying rent to the landlord he may adjust it against the amount claimable by him as a mortgagee from the landlord.
if that be the position there can be no bar for the defendants to claim the right to continue in possession of the suit properties as tenants under the bt.
in the case of a lease the estate that is in the lessor is a reversion.
in the case of a mortgage the estate that is outstanding is the equity of redemption of the mortgagor.
coming to g appalaswamy case 1984 indlaw sc 314 supra which considered the question whether a sitting tenant who took property by a possessory or usufructuary mortgage in his favour was liable to deliver physical possession upon redemption to the mortgagor.
dealing with the question of non merger this court approved the ratio of the decision in shah mathuradas 1976 indlaw sc 400 supra thus in our view there can be no merger of a lease and a mortgage even where the two transactions are in respect of the same property.
in the case of a lease the estate that is outstanding in the lessor is the reversion in the case of a mortgage the estate that is outstanding is the equity of redemption of the mortgagor.
accordingly there can not be a merger of a lease and a mortgage in respect of the same property since neither of them is a higher or lesser estate than the other.
even if the rights of the lessee and the rights of the mortgagee in respect of a property were to be united in one person the reversion in regard to the lease and the equity of redemption in regard to the mortgage would be outstanding in the owner of the property and accordingly there would not be a complete fusion of all the rights of ownership in one person.
hence the lease hold of a tenant lessee in a property does not merge in mortgage security of that property even if it is given to.
him by the landlord lessor on a mortgage by conditional sale as would debar the tenant from desisting the suit of the landlord mortgagor for recovery of possession of such property by obtaining decree for redemption of the mortgage.
if he establishes the correctness of his facts he will get his relief from the forum chosen.
if the jurisdiction is only one relating to territorial limits or pecuniary limits the plaint will be ordered to be returned for presentation to the proper court.
if on the other hand it is found that having regard to the nature of the suit it is not cognizable by the class of court to which the court belongs the plaintiff s suit will have to be dismissed in its entirety.
if therefore the plaintiff in his plaint does not admit a relation which would attract any of the provisions of the act on which the exclusive jurisdiction given under s 28 depends we do not think that the defendant by his plea can force the plaintiff to go to a forum where on his averments he can not go.
as seen from the above observations this court has held that it did not think that the section concerned says or intends to say that the plea of the defendant will determine or change the forum.
but if the provisions of the bt al act which bear on the question of matters to be decided by the mamlatdar are seen they give no room for one even to think that those matters could be decided by a civil court when a question is raised in that behalf even by a defendant in a suit.
further section 85 of the bt al act to which also we have already adverted in unequivocal terms says that in deciding any issue which is required to be decided by the mamlatdar under the bt al act no civil court has jurisdiction to decide it.
furthermore section 85a as it stood prior to its amendment by gujarat amendment act no 5 in the year 1973 and as stands thereafter requires that if any suit instituted in civil court involves the question of tenancy of present or pastas the case may be the same being required to be decided or dealt with by an authority competent under the bt al act the civil court has to stay the suit and refer the issue to such competent authority for determination and after receiving the decision thereon to dispose of the suit in accordance with such decision.
in the result we dismiss this appeal with costs.
