pursuant thereto a company called sen raleigh limited came into existence which manufactured cycles with technical assistance by the respondents raleigh industries of u k and marketed the bicycles with a brand name and trade marks belonging to the respondents.
a continuous period of 5 years or longer had passed and the trade mark had not been bona fide used by the respondent.
simultaneously an application for registration of three trade marks an their favour was filed by the appellant on march 251982.
by proceedings dated june 131984the registrar of trade marks informed the appellant that the registered user s applications were abandoned since the appellant failed to comply with the statutory requirements.
special circumstances as a defense were available to the respondent for non user even after 1979the supply technical know how by the respondent was not totally absent.
the appellant had not taken any steps to withdraw registered user applications and as such should not be permitted to take such a contradictory stand of applying for rectification at the same time.
in view of the appellant s conduct it was taking advantage of its own wrong.
shri raju ramchandran learned senior counsel for the appellant raised three fold contentions.
it is his pivotal contention that undisputedly when the respondent was not in urge of trade mark as a registered proprietor or its agent sen raleigh as permitted user for a period of 5 years immediately preceding the date of the application u s 46 for removal of the trade mark from the register there was no bona fide user thereof in relation to those goods by the proprietor himself.
the appellant can not be said to be either the proprietor of the trade mark since 1976since the agreement lapsed or permitted user  the high court therefore was wrong in holding that 5 years period had not lapsed.
he further contended that the special circumstances enumerated in sub s 3 of s 46 must be such that the respondents had intended to use the registered trade mark.
for over a long period the trade mark was not used by the respondents as its registered proprietor.
in normal circumstances when it is established that the trade mark was not used either by the registered proprietor or the permitted user the public interest of supply of the quality of the goods marketed by the appellant should be taken into factual consideration for removal of the trade mark from the register.
shri ashok desai learned senior counsel for respondents resisted the contentions.
the appellant was using the same as an agent.
in view of the prohibition to import bicycles the respondent was prevented to use the trade mark but by collaboration agreement it was continuing to use the trade mark by the permitted user.
it would also be considered as a special circumstance for non user.
in view of the diverse contentions the question arises whether the high court was right in refusing to rectify and strike off the trade marks of the respondents from the register of trade marks.
s 461b reads as under.
46 removal from register and imposition of limitations on ground of non use  1.
it is not in dispute that till date of filing of the application the appellant used the trade mark in passing off the bicycles under the trade mark of the respondent.
on admitted position and in the facts and circumstances we are of the view that the appellant was a ago user of the trade mark of the respondent in passing off the bicycles under the trade mark of the respondent who admittedly is a registered proprietor.
it is true as held by this court that to get a trade mark registered without any intention to use it in relation to any goods but merely to make money out of it by selling it to others the right to use it as a commodity would be trafficking in that trade mark.
it is a question of fact in every case.
it was therefore not a case of getting the trade mark registered under the predecessor act and continuing under the act for trafficking of the trade mark.
it is true that u s 431 either the registered proprietor or a permitted person is required to register as permitted user.
it appears that even an unregistered licensee so long as there is unbroken connection in the course of the trade between the licensor and the passing off lincesee s goods under the trade mark there would be sufficient connection in the course of the trade between the proprietor and bona fide user of the trade mark by unregistered user.
it must therefore be held that though the deemed presumption under sub s 2 of s 48 is referable to the permitted user or the registered user and it does not extend to unregistered permitted user the connecting link of passing off the goods between the licensor s trade mark and the lincesee should bona fide be with the permission or consent which may be express or implied by long course of dealings.
it would connect the registered proprietor and the user of the trade mark by the unregistered lincesee.
the appellant must be presumed by course of conduct that he is a bona fide user for the purpose of s 461b.
in k r beri and co vs.
co pvt limited and anr.
air 1980 delhi 299 1980 indlaw del 180the division bench construed s 482 and held that an unregistered user of the trade mark even with the consent of the proprietor can not be construed to be a registered user u s 481 and such construction renders sub s 2 of s 48 surplus age or otios which is impermissible by statutory construction.
it is true that the burden flies on the registered proprietor of the trade mark to establish the exceptions provided under s 463 equally the applicant for rectification also prima facie shows non user for the relevant period.
it must be shown that the non use of the trade mark is due to special circumstances of the trade and not due to some other cause which would have operated whether the special circumstances had arisen off not.
although the special circumstances of trade taken by themselves would have prevented the use of the trade mark.
if the non user was in fact due to some other circumstances and would have occured whether the circumstances had followed or not subs 3 would not apply.
it must therefore be duty of the registered proprietor to show what non user was strictly due to the special circumstances of trade and not of any intention on the part of the registered proprietor not to use the trade mark during the relevant period.
it is also not necessary to go into the question whether the application filed by the appellant u s 481 and its pendency would be a special circumstance in favour of the respondent.
is not attracted to the facts in this case.
it is true that while exercising discretion the court u s 46 of the act should take into consideration not only commercial interest of the parties but also public interest in para 21 82 at page 386 of the law of trade marks and passing off by p narayanan 4th ed it is stated that the court or the registrar has discretion in granting or refusing an application for rectification.
suffice it to state that the appellant as a fact had used the trade mark of the respondent in passing off the bicycles manufactured by it.
in these circumstances we are of the view that the high court has properly exercised its discretion and refused to rectify and strike off the trade mark from the register of trade marks of the registrar.
the appeal is accordingly dismissed but in the circumstances without costs.
