meanwhile the mahatama gandhi university by their letter dated 31 5 1995 forwarded to the government a list of colleges and courses for affiliation during the academic year 1995 96 the appellant s college was shown as one of the colleges among the affiliated colleges for the said period.
in inviting your attention to the reference cited i am to inform you that government regret their inability to comply with your request.
the government was also directed to reconsider its decision.
it is against the abovesaid judgment of the division bench that this appeal has been preferred.
learned senior counsel for the appellant.
iyer contended that the division bench erred in reversing the well considered judgment of the learned single judge and according to him after the coming into force of the aicte act1987the statutes conferring power on the state or university to the extent they were inconsistent with the central act were void.
in so far as institutions imparting technical education were concerned the university or the state government had no independent role to play except to the extent provided in the above said enactment in the present case the aicte had made inspections and was satisfied that the necessary infrastructure was available and that the appellant would be able to conform to the required standards of the education.
according to the learned senior counsel it was indeed not necessary for the appellant to have applied to the state government for any further sanction to establish the college.
another v adhiyaman educational research institute.
othersl995 4 scc 104 1995 indlaw sc 1631.
on the other hand learned additional solicitor general sri mukul rohtagi contended on behalf of the state of kerala that the policy of the state of kerala at the relevant time was not to grant approval for establish ment of more engineering colleges in the state.
also there were four engineering colleges at kannur trichur kottayam and thiruvananthapuram districts and three private aided engineering colleges at palakkad ernakulam kothamangalam and kollam districts.
if more approvals were granted it might lead to commercialisation of education.
the following points arise for consideration 1.
2 whether the orders of rejection passed by the state government were valid on merits and whether the university should have granted further orders to continue the affiliation solely on the basis of the aicte permission.
but in the context of s 10k regarding approval for starting a technical institution certain aspects of the judgment need to be highlighted.
before we refer to the abovesaid judgment it will be necessary to refer to certain provisions of the aicte act and the relevant regulations.
for the purposes of performing its functions under the act the council may a undertake survey in various fields of technical education collect data on all related matters and make forecast of the needed growth and development in technical education b coordinate the development of technical education in the country at all levels c allocate and disburse out of the fund of the council such grants on such terms and conditions as it may think fit to i technical institutions and ii universities imparting technical education in coordination with the commission d promote innovations research and development in established and new technologies generation adoption and adaptation of new technologies to meet developmental requirements and for overall improve ment of educational processes e formulate schemes for promoting technical education for women handicapped and weaker sections of the society f promote an effective link between technical education system and other relevant systems including research and development organisations industry and the community g evolve suitable performance appraisal systems for technical institutions and universities imparting technical education incorpo rating norms and mechanisms for enforcing accountability h formulate schemes for the initial and in service training of teachers and identify institutions or centres and set up new centres for offering staff development programmes including continuing education of teachers i lay down norms and standards for courses curricula physical and instructional facilities staff pattern staff qualifications quality instructions assessment and examinations j fix norms and guidelines for charging tuition and other fees.
the clause in s 101 which is important in the present case is subcl k of s 101 and it provides that the council might grant approval for starting new technical institutions and for introduction of new courses or programmes in consultation with the agencies concerned.
sub cl 1 permits the council to advice the central government in certain respects sub cl m lay down norms for granting autonomy subcl n to take necessary steps to prevent commercialisation of technical education cl o to provide guidelines for admission of students to technical institutions and universities imparting technical education cl p to inspect or cause inspection to any technical institution cl q to withhold or discontinue grant cl r to strengthen the existing organisa tions etc.
s 11 of the act deals with inspection.
regulations have been framed on 31st october1994 by the aicte in exercise of powers conferred on it by s 231 of the aicte act.
regulation 2 states that these regulations will be applicable to proposals relating to a grant of approval of the council for establishment of new technical institutions including universities or university depart ments and deemed universities and for technical institutions function ing on the date of commencement of these regulations at degree and diploma levels b grant of approval of the council for introduction of any course or programme in the technical institutions and technical departments or universities or deemed universities c grant of approval of the council for existing intake capacity of seats and for increase in the annual intake capacity of seats in courses and programmes.
d no approved intake capacity of seats shall be increased or varied except with the approval of the council.
sub cl 4 of regulation 8 reads as follows.
i the state government concerned ii the affiliating university state board of technical education iii bureaus mpcd iv bureau bos v bureau ra vi the regional office.
on the recommendation of the central task force the council shall decide the question of grant of approval as sought for in the application.
the tamil nadu case.
at that time in 1984the aicte act was not on the statute book.
88 later on these permissions were withdrawn by the state after issuing show cause on 16 7 89 so did the university on 26 7 89 but by that date the aicte act1987 had come into force.
after the constitutional amendment 42 amendment act1976 entry 25 of list iii in the concurrent list.
hence on the subjects covered by the statute the state could not make a law under entry 25 of list iii after the forty second amendment.
if there was any such existing law immediately before the commencement of the constitution within the meaning of art 372 of the constitution as the madras university act 1923 on the enactment of the present central act the provisions of the said law if repugnant to the provisions of the central act would stand impliedly repealed to the extent of repugnancy.
it was stated that inasmuch as the state act will overlap and will be in conflict with the provisions of the central act in various areas.
granting approval for starting new technical institution.
inspection of technical institution which are matters covered by the central act.
all that was necessary was that under the regulations the aicte council had to consult them.
in case affiliation is granted the fact shall be reported to the senate at its next meet ing.
it will be noticed that cl 97 of the statute required that before the university took a decision on affiliationit had to ascertain the views of the state government.
sub cl 1 of cl 9 of the statute required verification of the facilities that may exist for starting the new colleges course.
as held in the tamil nadu case the central act of 1987 and in particular s 10k occupied the field relating the grant of approvals for establishing technical institutions and the provisions of the central act alone were to be complied with.
so far as the provisions of the mahatma gandhi university act or its statutes were concerned and in particular statute 97they merely required the university to obtain the views of the state government.
if indeed the university statute could be so inter preted such a provision requiring approval of the state government would be repugnant to the provisions of s 10k of the aicte act1987 and would again be void.
as pointed out in the tamil nadu case there were enough provisions in the central act for consultation by the council of the aicte with various agencies including the state governments and the universities concerned.
in case of difference of opinion as between the various consultees the aicte would have to go by the views of the central task force.
no doubt the question of affiliation was a different matter and was not covered by the central act but in the tamil nadu case it was held that the university could not impose any conditions inconsistent with the aicte act or its regulation or the conditions imposed by the aicte therefore the procedure for obtaining the affiliation and any conditions which could be imposed by the university could not be inconsistent with the provisions of the central act.
factual position and pleadings in this case.
no reasons were assigned in the said letter.
the all india council for technical education and the mahatma gandhi university have sought for the remarks of the state government.
we have already referred to these details.
state government s refusal to grant permission is illegal and void on merits.
as already stated in view of the judgment of this court in tamil nadu case it is obvious that there is no need to approach the state of kerala for its approval for starting the engineering colleges.
even on merits the reasons given by the state government in its counter are not tenable in law.
the director of technical education of the state was a member of the state level committee as per regulation 94 of the aicte regulations.
the aicte s approval dated 30 4 95 showed that the approval had been given by the state level com mittee of which they were obviously members.
regulation 84 of aicte only required calling for the com ments recommendations of the state government and of the university.
in case there was difference between the state government university or the regional committee the central task force was to make a final recommen dation under regulation.
admittedly the university s inspection report was in favour of the appellant.
procedure and conditions for affiliation could not be inconsistent with the provisions of the central act in particular s 10k of the regulation and the university could not seek approval of government.
for the aforesaid reasons we set aside the judgment of the division bench of the high court and uphold the reasoning of the learned single judge in his judgment in op 461296 dated 14 1 1997 we hold that the approval of the aicte was sufficient we do not also think that it was necessary for the learned single judge to direct the state government to reconsider its decision.
the appeal is allowed and disposed of as stated above.
it will be for the petitioner to have the said matter disposed of by the high court of delhi.
