the first and second respondents under the arrangement produced about 60 episodes and the petitioners have spent a crore of rupees for the products and telecast of the said episodes and have also spent large sums of money on advertising to popularize the said programme.
further the said respondents had been recovering the cost of production well in advance of the serial episodes being actually produced.
01 january 1985 the petitioners though not required to do so made an ex gratia payment to respondent nos 1 to 4 of a portion of the royalty received by them from the said m s esquire distributing and servicing pvt.
some time in may 1985the 1st respondent proposed to the petitioners that some other products should be tied up with the serial yeh jo hai zindagi.
however the petitioners were not interested in the same as they wanted the serial to project their products only exclusively and did not agree to any other products being tied up with the said serial.
by their letter dated 02 january 1986 the petitioners informed the 1st and 2nd respondents that it was not possible to increase the costs of production for the episodes and that in the circumstances the production of the serial may stop.
it was also pointed out that the name yeh jo hai zindagi is associated with the vicco laboratories and that if they wanted to obtain another sponsor they could produce a new serial under a different name.
apart from raising the question of valuation of the suit and the pecuniary jurisdiction of the court to try the same they also raised question that the petitioners are not the owners of the copyright in the said serial within the meaning of s 17 of the copyright act1957 and the copyright in respect of the said serial belongs and vests with the respondent nos 1 to 4.
therefore it was submitted that the suit lacked cause of action.
consistently with the said intention further the master cassette of the said serial at all relevant times remained exclusively with the respondents and not with the petitioners and the petitioners paid to the respondents 50 of the royalty received from m s esquire distributing and servicing pvt.
ltd under the agreement dated 1 januray 198504 march 1985 and 16 september 1985 the advertisements issued by the petitioners themselves in various newspapers to give wide publicity to the said serial would indicate that the serial mentioned these respondents are the owners of the copyright in respect of the said serial and the petitioners claim in that behalf is devoid of any substance.
it was also contended that the 2nd respondent is an artist and a film maker and has been in the field of film making for the past 20 years.
in the course of his business the 2nd respondent has developed contacts and connections with important and renowned personalities artists technicians etc in the film industry.
in the year 1967the 2nd respondent s wife mrs sunanda s oberoi started the proprietary business of advertising agency in the name and style of art commercial and the 2nd respondent used to work in various capacities for the said firm.
in the year 1983the said proprietary firm was converted into a private limited company which is the 1st respondent in the present suit and the 2nd respondent constituted respondent nos 3 and 4 as his proprietary firm.
about 18 years ago before filing of the suit the respondents came into contact with the petitioners initially as clients in connection with the job of advertisement of their products on all india radio theatre and films and later on television.
either at the end of 1983 or early part of 1984the 5th respondent through the said doorsarshan decided to introduce the production of films or serials especially for exhibitions on tv instead of exhibiting telecasting films produced by the professional film producers on payment of exorbitant royalty to them partly as an economy measure and partly to provide avenues to and exposure new talents.
the 2nd respondent made extensive study and research and prepared a format of the proposed serial.
after a number of meetings between the 2nd respondent and the concerned officers and the authorities of the respondents at delhi in connection with the said proposal approved a pilot i e the first episode as sample on 19 september 1984 to produce a tv serial comprising 52 episodes subject of course to the 5th respondent discretion to discontinue the same if the same proved a flop before the expiry of the stipulated period.
the entire cost of the spade work and the cost of the title song was borne exclusively by the respondents and nothing was contributed by the petitioners in this regard.
the 5th respondent registered the respondent nos 1 and 2 as the producers of the said serial.
in these circumstances the respondents contended that by entering into the said agreement of sponsorship neither the petitioners nor the respondents created nor did they ever intend to create any relationship of employer and employee andor master and servant or principal and agent between the petitioners on the one hand and the respondents no 1 to 4 on the other.
in the meanwhile the respondents contended that m s brook bond ltd who wanted to link up their commercial with 13 episodes and agreed to pay and paid the ruling market price.
on these grounds the respondents contended that the suit of the petitioners is misconceived malicious and baseless and is liable to be dismissed.
3 do the plaintiffs prove that the entire serial rights including the excluding the exclusive right to use the title thereof belong to the plaintiffs as alleged.
4 are defendant nos 1 to 4 entitled to deny the ownership of the plaintiffs of the film.
the defendant nos 1 to 4 prove that it was intended between the parties that copyrights in respect of the said film should vest exclusively with the defendants or that the right of ownership was waived by the plaintiffs.
it was also on record that the shri g k pendharkar of the petitioners and respondent no 2 had long standing relations with each other and they had already done a lot of advertising works for the petitioners before the production of the suit serial.
exhibit g 1 which is exhibit 27 a in the petitioners compilation is a letter written by shri s p agrawal controller of programmes of doordarshan to respondent no 1m s art commercia with reference to the format for the proposed serial of half and hour duration tentatively titled musibat hai serial sent to them on 13 july 1984 since the letter was addressed to m s art commercia in which the proposal was accepted for production of the serial and the first episode was to be sent for preview and approval which would be given only after seeing the recording of the first episode.
in one of the contracts exhibit h 1 the wording used is as under sponsorship of programme of 25 mts duration produced by sponsor entitled yeh jo hai zindagi including 2 mts free commercial time.
relying upon this letter emphasis was laid on the words produced by sponsors whether two capacities sponsor and producer can co exist in one and the same person or not has been examined and the trial court noted that the wording had been borrowed from the tariff card and tariff card also indicated what are the categories of the advertisers and rates thereof.
strong reliance was placed upon certain circumstances namely that the format had been approved by the petitioners only on 11 july 1984 and pw 1 admitted that in view of the bill the entry claiming deduction made by the petitioners in their accounts in the financial year ending on 30 march 1984 that the amount was not to be paid for all 26 episodes or even thereafter in lump sum and the bill for 26 episodes enabled petitioners to claim deduction for the entire amount without actual payment in financial year 1983 84 that the entry made for the financial year 1983 84 was beneficial to the petitioners that there was no ceiling on advertising expenditure and it was introduced from 1 april 1984 onwards the plaintiff did not produce the account books to show if the deduction in respect of the entire amount was claimed or not though they were repeatedly called upon to produce them.
the facts emerging in the case indicate that the petitioners had joined the production of the suit serial after some concrete beginning had been made like recording of the title song the conceiving of the title and format of the suit serial etc.
the explanation given by the petitioners that they were busy in the shootings did not carry much weight with the high court.
in this special leave petition u art 136 of the constitution the contentions raised before the high court are reiterated particularly as to the effect of s 17 of the copyright act and whether the correspondence on record would not indicate that they were entitled to ownership and copyright in respect of the tv programme yeh jo hai zindagi.
the learned counsel for the petitioners strongly relied upon the following documents 1 the cost estimate.
2 the bills of cost of production.
3 letters dated 14 december 1984 and 15 november 1985.
5 contractd with esquire distributing servicing pvt ltd.
it is clear from the findings recorded by the trial court and the appellate court 1 that the respondents have not undertaken the production of the said serial at the instance of the petitioners.
g k pendharkar the managing director of petitioner no 1 was asked to come to view the format of the programme and the petitioners were not even acquainted with the format of the serial while the respondents had taken concrete steps in this regard prior to the letter dated 11 july 1984.
3 that the titles of each episode indicated that respondent no 2 is the producer of the said serial and the petitioners are only the sponsors.
in his further evidence mr gill stated that some time in the month of may june1984 he had met kundan shah and requested to make a comedy serial for doordarshan which clearly indicated that it is only the respondents who were dealing with doordarshan.
the aggregate amount of rs 76 50 lakhs which was paid to the respondents for 60 episodes is not the amount for cost of production but the fixed price for sponsoring the said serial in order to link up their advertisement with the serial and avail substantial benefit of concessional rate under the scheme envisaged by doordarshan.
it is clear that the bills that have been raised were only to accommodate the petitioners from the circumstances narrated above.
it is probable that the respondents had obliged the petitioners by issuing these bills because the bills can not be read in isolation but with reference to surrounding circumstances.
on appreciation of evidence the courts below have come to the conclusion that the respondents did not make the said serial for valuable consideration at the instance of the petitioners and in view of the findings of fact the claim of copyright or ownership in respect of the serial u s 17b and c would not arise at all.
