letter to be valid reversing the conclusions arrived at by the tribunal.
in response learned counsel for the respondent state submitted that the appellants have failed to adduce any evidence or material to show that were in any way induced by any governmental action to set up industries.
No 1294 dated 24 10 1975 granted exemption from purchase tax on sugarcane in favour of sugar mills established in co operative and public sectors in the form of annual subsidy equivalent to purchase tax on sugarcane.
as there was no inducement or assurance the question of any promissory estoppel did not arise.
so far as legitimate expectation aspect is concerned it is too well known that the benefit extended can be withdrawn and with this knowledge if the units are set up the principle of legitimate expectation does not apply.
no prejudice is caused to the respondents since the scheme was interested to make the units viable and the modified scheme provides for safeguards to that extent.
estoppel is a rule of equity which has gained new dismensions in recent years.
a new class of estoppel has come to be recognized by the courts in this country as well as in england.
all e r 657 1955 1 w l r 761.
promissory estoppel is defined in black s law distionary as an estoppel which arises when there is a promise which promissor should reasonable expect to induce action or forbearance of a definite and substantial character on the part of promisee and which does include such action or forbearance and such promise is binding if injustice can be avoided only by enforcement of promise.
sc 1496 1977 indlaw sc 282 motilal padampat sugar mills co ltd v state of u p 1979 2 scc 409 1978 indlaw sc 56 union of india v godfrey philips indian ltd 1985 4 scc 369 1985 indlaw sc 275 and dr ashok kumar maheshwari v state of u p another 1998 2 supreme 100 1998 indlaw sc 1376.
in the backdrop let us travel a little distance into the past to understand the evolution of the doctrine of promissory estoppel.
dixon j an australian jurists in grundt v great boulder gold mines prorietary ltd 1939 59 clr 641 aust laid down as under it is often said simply that the party asserting the estoppel must have been induced to act to his detriment.
it is nether in the realm of contract nor in the realm of estoppel.
no vested right as to tax holding is acquired by a person who is granted concession.
in kasinka trading and anr v union of india and anr.
1995 1 scc 274 1994 indlaw sc 2183.
a person may have a legitimate expectation of being treated in a certain way by an administrative authority even though he has no legal right in private law to receive such treatment.
it is however not necessary to explore the doctrine in this case it is enough merely to note that a legitimate expectation can provide a sufficient interest to enable one who can not point to the existence of a substantive right to obtain the leave of the court to apply for judicial review.
it is generally agreed that legitimate expectation gives the applicant sufficient locus standi for judicial review and that the doctrine of legitimate expectation to be confined mostly to right to a fair hearing before a decision which results in negativing a promise or withdrawing an undertaking is taken.
see union of india and others.
sc 9981993 indlaw sc 1085.
a question whether the impugned action is arbitrary or not is to be ultimately answered on the facts and circumstances of a given case.
a basic and obvious test to apply in such cases is to see whether there is any discernible principle emerging from the impugned action and if so does if really satisfy the test of reasonableness.
but there has to be a word of caution.
something overwhelming must appear before the court will intervene.
sometimes when the courts have intervened on policy grounds the court s view of the range of policies open under the statute or of what is unreasonable policy has not got public acceptance.
on the contrary curial views of policy have been subjected to stringent criticism.
as professor wade points out in administrative law by h w r wade 6th edition there is ample room within the legal boundaries for radical differences of opinion in which neither side is unreasonable.
in hindustan development corporation s case1993 indlaw sc 1085 supra it was observed that decision taken by the authority must be found to be arbitrary unreasonable and not taken in public interest where the doctrine of legitimate expectation can be applied.
if it is a question of policy even by ways of change of old policy the courts can not intervene with the decision.
it is therefore clear that the choice of police is for the decision maker and not the court.
a claim based on merely legitimate expectation without anything more can not ipso facto give a right.
its uniqueness lies in the fact that it covers the entire span of time present past and future.
how significant is the statement that today is tomorrows yesterday.
legitimacy of an expectation can be inferred only if it is founded on the sanction of law.
as observed in attorney general for new south wale v quinn 1990 64 australian ljr 327 to strike the exercise of administrative power solely on the ground of avoiding the disappointment of the legitimate expectations of an individual would be to set the courts adrift on a featureless sea of pragmatism.
it can be one of the grounds to consider but the court must lift the veil and see whether the decision is violative of these principles warranting interference.
it depends very much on the facts and the recognised general principles of administrative law applicable to such facts and the concept of legitimate expectation which is the latest recruit to a long list of concepts fashioned by the courts for the review of administrative action must be restricted to the general legal limitations applicable and binding the manner of the future exercise of administrative power in a particular case.
it follows that the concept of legitimate expectation is not the key which unlocks the treasure of natural justice and it ought not to unlock the gates which shuts the court out of review on the merits particularly when the elements of speculation and uncertainty are inherent in that very concept.
otherwise a resourceful litigant having vested interest in contract licences etc can successfully indulge in getting welfare activities mandated by directing principles thwarted to further his own interest.
if the state acts within the bounds of reasonableness it would be legitimate to take into consideration the national priorities and adopt trade policies.
reasonableness of restriction is to be determined in an objective manner and from the standpoint of interest of the general public and not from the standpoint of the interests of persons upon whom the restrictions have been imposed or upon abstract consideration.
a restriction can not be said to be unreasonable merely because in a given case it operates harshly.
canalisation of a particular business in favour of even a specified individual is reasonable where the interests of the country are concerned or where the business affects the economy of the country.
article 166 of the constitution deals with the conduct of government business.
the said provision reads as follows 166.
conduct of business of the government of a state 1 all executive action of the government of a state shall be expressed to be taken in the name of the governor.
further is no particular formula of words required for compliance with article 1661.
v state of mysore and ors.
sc 1823 1964 indlaw sc 103 held that the provisions of the article were only directory and not mandatory in character and if they were not complied with it could still be established as a question of fact that the impugned order was issued in fact by the state government or the governor.
clause 1 does not prescribe how an executive action of the government is to be performed it only prescribes the mode under which such act is to be expressed.
in order to invoke the doctrine of promissory estoppel clear sound and positive foundation must be laid in the petition itself by the party invoking and doctrine the bald expressions without any supporting material to the effect that the doctrine is attracted because the party invoking the doctrine has altered its position relying on the assurance of the government would not be sufficient to press into aid the doctrine.
in shrijee sales corporation and anr v union of india 1997 3 scc 398 1996 indlaw sc 1561 it was observed that once public interest is accepted as the superior equity which can override individual equity the principle would be applicable even in cases where a period has been indicated for operation of the promise.
similar view was expressed in m s pawan alloys and casting pvt ltd meerut etc.
sc 3910 1997 indlaw sc 1364 and in sales tax officers and anr.
1999 1 scc 573 1997 indlaw sc 1219 it was further held that the government could change its industrial policy if the situation so warranted and merely because the resolution was announced for a particular period it did not mean that the government could not amend and change the policy under any circumstances.
contrary to what the high court has stated it appears from record that counter affidavits were filed.
further a definite plea was taken that there was no scope for retrospective withdrawal of benefit by an executive order.
