party no 1 under the agreement.
it was stated that m s kay aar biscuits p ltd was using the aforestated trade mark meghraj for the manufacture of biscuits.
ltd had put up a unit for manufacture of wafers in noida which it sought to manufacture under the brand name meghraj.
the said agreement was valid for three years commencing from 22 11 1989.
meghraj biscuits industries ltd or meghraj.
and therefore they were entitled to exemption.
it was further pointed out that in fact the appellants had applied for ownership of the brand name meghraj vide application dated 30 9 91 to the registrar trade marks under the trade marks act and that the said application for registration was pending before the competent authority and since the above arguments were not recorded in the impugned order of the cegat dated 11 4 2000 the same warranted rectification.
by order dated 8 12 2000cegat rejected the above rectification application made by the appellants.
notification no 193 ce dated 28 2 93 was issued to help the ssi units to survive in the market dominated by brand name trade name.
explanation ix brand name or trade name shall mean a brand name or trade name whether registered or not that is to say a name or a mark such as symbol monogram label signature or invented word or writing which is used in relation to such specified goods for the purpose of indicating or so as to indicate a connection in the course of trade between such specified goods and some person using such name or mark with or without any indication of the identity of that person.
he is the director of the appellants company also.
further there is no evidence to show as to whether m s kay aar biscuits p ltd was an eligible manufacturer.
he has not been examined even on the question of alleged transfer of the trade mark in favour of the appellants.
it was urged that merely because an agreement stood entered into on 22 11 89 between m s ltd.
it was urged that a false declaration was made by m s kay aar biscuits p ltd under the above agreement on 22 11 89.
it was urged that a mere agreement between two parties can not constitute ownership of the trade mark in favour of m s it was urged that in any event m s kay aar biscuits p ltd had stopped its production in 1993 that the company had become defunct that the appellants herein had applied to the registrar of trade marks for registration of the mark meghraj and vide registration certificate dated 30 6 2000 the registrar has recognized the appellants as owner of the trade mark with effect from 30 9 91 in the circumstances the appellants submitted that the demand for differential duty was unwarranted.
in the case of pahwa chemicals pvt.
ltd v.
elt 257 2005 indlaw sc 799sc.
elt 225 2004 indlaw sc 996scthis court held that the assessee will not be entitled to the benefit of exemption if it uses on goods in question same similar brand name with intention of indicating a connection with the goods of the assessee and such other person or uses the name in such manner that it would indicate such connection.
it was further held that the burden is on the assessee to satisfy the adjudicating authority that there was no such intention.
applying the above test to the facts of the present case madan verma is a common director in the two companies.
he has filed an affidavit enclosing the registration certificate dated 30 6 2000.
before us it has been urged that m s ltd is non functional since 1 3 93 and therefore in any event appellants were entitled to use the trade mark meghraj.
abandonment of the trade mark has to be proved by the appellants in the present case.
he could do the latter after complying with the other requirements of the act including the filing of a declaration of his intention to use such mark.
before the deputy registrar and before mr justice shah proprietorship was claimed on the basis that the applicant was entitled to it as an importer s mark.
in our opinion it is not necessary in this case to go into details about facts in the various decided cases dealing with importer s marks.
in many of those cases the dispute was between a foreign trader using a foreign mark in a foreign country on goods which were subsequently imported by indian importers and sold by them in this country under that very mark.
in short it was a competition between a foreign trader and the indian importer for the proprietorship of that mark in this country.
in india the mark caltex was a totally new mark for watches and allied goods.
in a given case like the present case where there is evidence with the department of the trade mark being owned by m s ltd and where there is evidence of the appellants trading on the reputation of m s ltd which is not rebutted by the appellants assesseeissuance of registration certificate with retrospective effect can not confer the benefit of exemption notification to the assessee.
in the present case issuance of registration certificate with retrospective effect from 30 9 91 will not tantamount to conferment of exemption benefit under the excise law once it is found that the appellants had wrongly used the trade mark of m s.
air 1965 bombay 35 1961 indlaw mum 91it has been held vide paras 27 and 30 that the trade marks act merely facilitates the mode of proof.
instead of compelling the holder of a trade mark in every case to prove his proprietary right the act provides a procedure whereby on registration the owner gets certain facilities in the mode of proving his title.
apparently in such a case there is no question of infringement of any right of property in a trade mark for which any relief is sought nor is there any question of passing off so that it might be necessary to enter into questions of nicety as regards whether there could or could not be any property in a trade mark.
as already stated by me while referring to the observations of sir john romily it is not really necessary for me to decide in this case as to whether there could or could not be any property in a trade mark for the purpose of deciding this case.
even if it is found to be necessary to decide this question as to property in a trade mark i have already pointed out that the courts of equity in england granted relief in cases of infringement of trade marks on the basis of infringement of the right of property in the trade mark.
all that was necessary for the plaintiff to prove was that he had used that mark in respect of his particular type of goods.
i have also pointed out that the statute which came to be enacted in england in 1875 and the subsequent statutes did nothing more than to embody the rights in relation to trade marks which were already laid down by the courts of equity.
as a matter of fact the statute enabled a person to have registered a mark not only which he had been using but also a mark which he proposed to use.
even so far as this country is concerned the trade marks act of 1940 does not seem to have made any change in the legal rights of the owner of a trade mark as established by the courts of chancery in england.
as regards the question whether there could be any property in a trade mark the learned judge further observed on the same page as follows again turning to s 54 of the specific relief act which deals with cases when a perpetual injunction may be granted the explanation to that section lays down that for the purpose of that section a trade mark is property.
i therefore agree with the learned advocate general that all that the trade marks act has done is to facilitate the mode of proof.
instead of compelling the holder of a trade mark in every case to prove his proprietary right before he could ask the court to grant him an injunction the trade marks act provides a procedure whereby by registering his trade mark the owner gets certain facilities in the mode of proving his title.
for instance under s 23 of the trade marks act registration is to be prima facie evidence of the validity of the trade mark.
as between two competitors who are each desirous of adopting such a markit is to use familiar language entirely a question of who gets there first.
fb registration under the statute does not confer any new right to the mark claimed or any greater right than what already existed at common law and at equity without registration.
it does however facilitate a remedy which may be enforced and obtained throughout the state and it established the record of facts affecting the right to the mark.
common law rights are left wholly unaffected.
it was next contended by mr shavaksha that the respondent company had itself shown kipre and co private ltd.
mr shah however contended that by an agreement exhibit f made between the respondent company and kipre and co private ltd in 1951.
if the respondent company was really the proprietor of the mark and also the owner of the goods one would expect some such words as manufactured by kipre and co for brandon and co private ltd in the absence of any such words a person buying any of these goods on reading the label would naturally believe that what he was buying was the property of kipre and co which was selling its goods under the mark monarch.
applying the principle of deemed equivalence we may clarify that if the ssi unit wrongly affixes a trade mark of another person be it registered or not or if it uses the trade mark of an ineligible person then such default would not be eliminated by the above principle of deemed equivalence embodied in s 28 of the trade marks act1999 as that principle is based on a deeming fiction which fiction is confined only to the provisions of the trade marks act.
before concluding we may refer to the judgment of this court in the case of commissioner of central excise mumbai v bigen industries ltd 2006 197.
305 2006 indlaw sc 546 in that matter a show cause notice was issued calling upon the assessee to show cause why the exemption be not denied to the assessee.
in the present case the facts are entirely different.
in the present case there is no deed or assignment from m s ltd to the m s meghraj biscuits industries ltd appellants herein as stated above there is no proof of acquisition on payment or consideration by the appellants to m s kay aar biscuits p ltd in the present case there is no evidence of assignment or licence from m s ltd to the appellants.
in the present case we are concerned with the retrospective effect of the certificate issued by the registrar of trade marks on 30 6 2000 with effect from 30 9 91.
for the aforestated reasons we do not find any merit in these civil appeals.
before concluding we may point out that we do not wish to express any opinion on the subsequent events which have taken place in this case.
our judgment is confined only to the period in question under the impugned show cause notices.
accordingly the civil appeals stand dismissed with no order as to costs.
