appasaheb son of sheshrao palaskar about two and half years prior to the date of incident which took place on 15 september 1991.
according to the case of prosecution a sum of rs 5000 and some gold ornaments had been given at the time of marriage of bhimabai.
for about six months bhimabai was treated well but thereafter the accused started asking her to bring rs 1000 1200 from her parents to meet the household expenses and also for purchasing manure.
her father pw 1 tukaram along with some of his relatives went to the house of the accused and tried to persuade them not to ill treat bhimabai.
a few days before nag panchami festival bhimabai came to her parental home and complained that the accused were not giving her proper food clothing and even footwear.
she also told her parents that her husband had asked her to bring an amount of rs 1000 1200 for the purpose of household expenses and manure.
the case of the prosecution futher is that in the evening of 15 september 1991 a person came from village palshi on a motorcycle and informed pw 1 tukaram that bhimabai was unwell.
pw 1 then immediately went to the house of the accused along with some of his relatives.
pw 1 tukaram lodged the fir of the incident at 7 00 p m on 16 september 1991 at p s chikalthana on the basis of which case crime No 144 of 1991 was registered against the appellants under sections 498 a 306 and 304 b ipc.
the appellants pleaded not guilty and claimed to be tried.
the doctors did not find any sign of external or internal injury on the body of the deceased and in their opinion the cause of death was insecticide poisoning.
the last time she visited her parental home was during the festival of nag panchami and at that time she looked depressed.
he then went to village palshi along with other persons of his family where he reached after sun set.
he saw that bhimabai was lying dead and froth was coming out of her mouth which was smelling of thimet insecticide.
in his cross examination he has admitted that his statement that he had given rs 20000 in dowry at the time of marriage was incorrect and in fact he had given rs 5000 as dowry and the total expenses incurred in the marriage was about rs 20000.
pw 2 babaji is real brother of father in law of pw 1 tukaram.
she has stated in her examination in chief that bhimabai was being ill treated by the appellants and the reason for ill treatment was that they were demanding money to be brought from her parental home.
in her cross examination pw 5 sumanbai has stated that after news about the condition of bhimabai was given by a man from village palshi she along with her husband and some other relations went there and noticed that bhimabai was lying dead in the house and froth was coming out of her mouth.
in her statement under section 161 cr.
p c which was recorded very next day of the incident i e on 16 september 1991 she did not state that cause of ill treatment was a demand for money and a consequent beating.
p c which was recorded on the very next day of the death of bhimabai this witness did not state that the cause for ill treatment was a demand for money and a consequent beating.
accepting the statements of father and mother on their face value that utmost which can be held is that the appellant no 1 had asked his wife bhimabai to bring money for meeting domestic expenses and for purchasing manure.
in view of the aforesaid definition of the word dowry any property or valuable security should be given or agreed to be given either directly or indirectly at or before or any time after the marriage and in connection with the marriage of the said parties.
sc 558 1991 indlaw sc 861.
a demand for money on account of some financial stringency or for meeting some urgent domestic expenses of for purchasing manure can not be termed as a demand for dowry as the said word is normally understood.
learned counsel for the appellants has also submitted that there is absolutely no evidence either direct or circumstantial to show that bhimabai committed suicide.
he has submitted that the insecticide thimet is extensively used by the farmers for preservation of crop and is kept stored in their houses and it could be a case where thimet accidentally got mixed with some food item and was consumed by bhaimabai.
it has thus been submitted that no offence under section 306 ipc is made out against the appellants.
as already stated the appellants were also charged under sections 498 a and 306 read with section 34 ipc but were acquitted of the said charges by the learned sessions judge which order has attained finality for the reason that the state did not prefer appeal against the same.
the appeal before the high court and also in this court has been preferred by the appellants challenging their conviction under section 304 b read with section 34 ipc.
in view of the discussion made above the appeal is allowed.
he shall be released forthwith unless wanted in some other case.
the appellant No 2 is on bail.
the sureties and bail bonds furnished by her are discharged.
