hereinafter called as the scheduled land situated in lingabahalli village madhugiri taluk in the state of karnataka filed form no 7 before the land tribunal praying for a declaration that they had acquired occupancy rights in respect of the scheduled land.
right holders relying inter alia on the entries under the rtc record.
the case of tenancy as made out by the appellants or their father was denied.
feeling aggrieved the respondent no 4 filed an appeal before the appellate authority which was also dismissed.
a revision petition thereafter was moved before the high court and the high court by the impugned judgment had set aside the concurrent findings of fact and rejected the application filed by the father since deceased of the appellants holding inter alia that the appellants or their father had failed to prove the tenancy in respect of the scheduled land.
a special leave petition was filed against the judgment of the high court setting aside the concurrent orders allowing the application in respect of which leave has already been granted.
it is true that the high court while exercising its revisional power under section 121a of the act had set aside the concurrent findings of fact of the land tribunal as well as of the appellate authority even then examining the findings of the high court and considering the power conferred on it in the revisional jurisdiction under section 121a of the act we do not find any reason to interfere with the impugned order of the high court in the exercise of our power u art 136 of the constitution.
but it is significant to note that the nature of cultivation of the land is not shown as that of a tenant in the said r t c extracts.
in one year the nature of cultivation is described as swanthaand in the years the column is left blank.
he has not produced any geni receipts or any lease agreement to show that the 5th respondent has leased out the land in dispute in his favour on crop share basis and that he paid the geni to the 5th respondent.
in the present case also the respondents 3 and 4 failed to prove that their father was cultivating the land in dispute from the year 1968 as a tenant under the respondent no 5 and that after the death of their father they continued as tenants in respect of the land in dispute.
it is also significant to note that the respondent no 5who was alive when the enquiry was pending before the land tribunal has not given evidence in favour of the respondents 3 and 4 stating that he has leased out the land in dispute in favour of the respondents 3 and 4 except the interested testimony of respondents 3 and 4there is nothing else on record to show that their father was inducted as a tenant to cultivate the land in dispute by the 5th respondent after the land is dispute was taken on mortgage by him.
from a careful examination of the findings given by the high court as quoted hereinabove in upsetting the concurrent findings of fact arrived at by the tribunals below we are not in a position to hold that the high court was not justified in setting aside the concurrent orders of the tribunals below in the exercise of its revisional power under section 121a of the act.
from a plain reading of section 121a of the act under which revisional jurisdiction can be exercised it would be clear that the high court while exercising such power is entitled to re appreciate the evidence when it finds that the conclusion arrived at by the appellate authority runs contrary to the materials on record and when it finds that there is no evidence to support the conclusion of the appellate authority or when it finds that the reasons given by the appellate authority are absolutely perverse and can not be supported by the evidence on record.
it would also be clear from a plain reading of section 121a of the act that the high court is also entitled to interfere with the orders of the tribunals below when the material evidence on record was ignored or a finding was such that no court would come to such conclusion or that the decision of the tribunals below was manifestly unjust.
as noted herein earlier since section 121a of the act clearly empowers the high court to look into the legality of the orders impugned therefore it would be open to the high court to consider the material evidence on record when it finds that such evidence was not at all considered by the tribunals below or when the conclusion arrived at by the tribunals below run contrary to the materials on record or when it finds that there is no evidence to support the conclusion of the tribunals below or that the reasons given by the tribunals below are absolutely perverse or a finding was such that no court would come to such a conclusion or that the decisions of the tribunals below were manifestly unjust.
in this case while rejecting the claim of the appellants the high court had considered that the appellants had failed to satisfy the court that any payment of rent was made either by the father of the appellants or by the appellants themselves.
considering the above aspect of the matter and after considering the scope of section 121a of the act we are therefore unable to agree with the learned counsel for the appellants that in the exercise of revisional jurisdiction under section 121a of the act the high court was not entitled to set aside the concurrent findings of fact arrived at by the appellate authority and the land tribunal.
mr raju the learned counsel appearing on behalf of the appellants however contended before us that it was not open to the high court in the exercise of its revisional jurisdiction under section 121a of the act to interfere with the concurrent findings of fact arrived at by the appellate authority and the land tribunal.
rasul mohammed abdul rahim 1963 3 scr 1 1962 indlaw sc 366.
by lrs 2000 1 scc 518 1999 indlaw sc 941 and krishtappa yellappa pujar ors vs.
ram samsthan beladhadi 1999 1 scc 74 1998 indlaw sc 1197.
in our view so far as the decision in the case of mohan balaku patil ors vs.
so far as krishtappa yellapa pujar ors vs.
in that decision it has been made clear that the high court was entitled to interfere with the orders of the appellate authority only on question of law or irregularity in procedure and on no other aspect.
in our view we have already held that the high court was entitled to interfere with the concurrent orders of the tribunals below as material evidence on record was not considered at all and non consideration of the material evidence on record is a question of law and therefore the high court was entitled to interfere.
lastly in our view in view of the discussion made herein above the decision relied on by the learned counsel for the appellant in the case of dahya lal ors vs.
rasul mohammed abdul rahim 1963 3 scr 1 1962 indlaw sc 366 need not be discussed.
even assuming that the high court was not justified in setting aside the concurrent findings of fact in the exercise of its revisional jurisdiction under section 121a of the act then also we are of the view that it is not a fit case where this court should interfere with the impugned judgment of the high court in the exercise of our power u art 136 of the constitution.
in union of india ors vs.
considering the concurrent orders of the appellate authority and the land tribunal and the impugned order of the high court we are in agreement with the high court because the view taken by it was plausible and therefore the question of interference by us u art 136 of the constitution is not warranted.
finally in taherakhatoon d by lrs.
in view of the aforesaid we are therefore of the view that this is not a fit case where this court shall interfere with the order passed by the high court under section 121a of the act 19 for the reasons aforesaid this appeal fails and is dismissed without any order as to costs.
