it is the appellant s case that his father shri nawoosingh panjumal panjwani was a displaced person who migrated from pakistan to india during the period of partition and the appellant s family while in pakistan was having agricultural land over there admeasuring 4 acres 10 gunthas.
accordingly father of the appellant was allotted a land admeasuring 2 acres 5 gunthas bearing revenue survey nos 351 and 1182 situated at village lonavala taluka maval district pune.
it has been pleaded by the appellant that survey no 1181 and 1182 are one and the same thing.
it appears that in cts no 129130 a130 b and 133apart from vacant land there is a bungalow no 52 habib villa.
it appears that the regional settlement commissioner placed this property for auction through government auctioner and one gulabbai desaipurchased the said property in auction for a consideration of rs 16750 on 17 5 1956 and accordingly sale certificate was issued by the regional settlement commissioner bombay on behalf of the government.
in the said sale certificate the c t s no 129130 a130 b and 133 of village lonavala were mentioned.
on the basis of the said sale certificate the mutation entry no 1836 was effected in the village record in favour of gulabai desai and thereby her name was entered in survey nos 1181b and 328 of village lonavala to the extent of 29 30 ares and 70 ares respectively.
prem hasmatraj lalwani in the year 1980.
in the impugned order division bench made it clear that since the dispute between the parties was in respect of the area as to what has been purchased in auction sale by gulabai desai and what is the area allotted to the appellant by the orders of the deputy collector and deputy custodian of evacuee properties the appellant requested the bench not to enter into the merits on this question in this lpa since the parties may prosecute their remedies in the civil court for such adjudication and therefore that aspect was not considered by the high court.
in view of these directions the sub divisional officer haveli sub division pune initiated proceeding rts revision 14 of 1984 and by order dated 30 7 1985 cancelled the mutation entry no 1836 which comprises land admeasuring 7897 sq yards and directed necessary corrections in the record as per the observations made in the order.
it appears that the said order was taken in appeal by the respondent and the matter was remanded to the sub divisional officer.
after remand the sub divisional officer conducted inquiry and again passed an order on 29 10 1987 and confirmed the earlier order.
however further inquiry as directed by the sdo was to be conducted.
being aggrieved by the order passed in the said revision respondent no 2 lalwani preferred rts appeal no 81 of 2000 and the respondent no 3 genu kadu preferred rts appeal no 114 of 2000 both.
collector pune dismissed the said appeals and confirmed the order of the sub divisional officer maval.
aggrieved by the said order of the additional collector respondent no 2 preferred rts revision no 330 of 2001 under section 257 of maharashtra land revenue code1966 before the additional commissioner pune division pune.
now coming to the facts of the present case the mutation entry no 1836 was in fact certified.
however the sub divisional officer has taken the said mutation in revision in rts revision no 14 of 1984 and has set aside the mutation by order dated 30 7 1985 there was appeal as against that order which was remanded.
mr huzefa ahmadi learned senior counsel appearing for the appellant mainly attacked the revisional power exercised by the minister concerned in purported exercise of jurisdiction under section 257 of the maharashtra land revenue code.
in the alternative learned senior counsel submitted that even if it were to be admitted without prejudice that second revision is maintainable the minister being the revisional authority should not have interfered with the findings recorded by all the six revenue authorities.
referring the decision of the bombay high court in the case of sambappa vs state of maharashtra 2002 scc on line bombay 1222learned counsel submitted that when the sub divisional officer additional collector and additional commissioner had concurrently recorded finding in favour of the appellant by observing that the revenue record is not in consonance with the factual aspect and they have directed to correct the revenue entries in such a case the second revisional authority exceeded its jurisdiction in entertaining the said application and interfering with the finding of fact.
section 257 makes it clear that a revisional authority has to consider only the legality and propriety of the decision.
learned counsel referring the revisional jurisdiction of the high court under section 115 of the code of civil procedure tried to impress us that when the power of revision is given to the district judge then the high court can not entertain second revision petition under section 115 of the code.
sc 1585 1964 indlaw sc 353 and hari shankar vs rao girdhari lal chowdhury air 1963 sc 698 1961 indlaw sc 157.
ahmadi learned senior counsel further submitted that a request was made to the high court not to enter into the merit of the case and to confine itself to the question whether a second revision was at all maintainable in the light of the ratio in harishankar s case 1961.
indlaw sc 157 supra1962 suppl 1 scr 933.
1961 indlaw sc 157hiralal kapur vs prabhu choudhury1988 2 scc 172 1988 indlaw sc 342 and helper girdharbhai vs saiyed mohmad mirasaheb kadri and others1987 3 scc 538 1987 indlaw sc 28281 learned counsel also drew our attention to the decision of this court in dharampal vs ramshri1993 1 scc 435 1993 indlaw sc 1325 where this court held.
p c was not permitted.
ravindra srivastava learned senior counsel appearing for the respondent state at the very outset submitted that the appellant conceded before the high court not to decide the merit of the case.
learned counsel submitted that the commissioner or the additional commissioner is not equal in a rank but subordinate to the state government.
learned counsel submitted that the state government is the supreme revenue authority and existence of more than one appeal or revision to an aggrieved party is not per se abhorrent to any legal principle depends upon the statute.
learned counsel put heavy reliance on the decision of this court in the case of ishwar singh vs.
state of rajasthan and others2005.
2 scc 334 2005 indlaw sc 6 for the proposition that there can be a second revision under the same provision of the statute.
before we proceed to decide the aforesaid question we would like to refer the relevant provisions of the maharashtra land revenue code 1966.
chapter ii deals with the revenue officers their powers and duties.
assistants as may be expressed in the order of their appointmentone or more naib tahsildars in a taluka and one or more additional tahsidars or naib tahsildars therein and such other persons having such designations to assist the revenue officers as it may deem expedient.
3 subject to the general orders of the state government the collector may place any assistant or deputy collector in charge of one more sub divisions of a district or may himself retain charge thereof.
such assistant or deputy collector may also be called a sub divisional officer.
section 11 of the code is worth to be quoted herein.
below 11 subordination of officers.
3unless the state government directs otherwise all other revenue officers including survey officers shall be subordinated the one to the other in such order as the state government may direct.
sections 13 and 14 deal with the powers and duties of all revenue officers.
from reading of the aforesaid provisions it is manifest that the state government makes appointment of the revenue officers including the commissioner and the chief controlling authorities in the revenue matters.
it is therefore clear that in revenue matters the state government is the supreme revenue authority.
in the present case we noticed the scheme of the code in the matters of hearing and disposal of appeals revision and review.
hence even if one party goes to the commissioner in revision the state government can still be approached under section 257 for revision.
in other words the state government in exercise of its revisional as well as general power of superintendence and control can call for any record of proceedings and consider the legality and propriety of the orders passed by the revenue officers under section 247 or 257 of the code.
from perusal of the entire scheme of the code including section 257it is manifest that the revisional powers are not only exercisable by the state government but also by certain other revenue officers.
a fair reading of sections 257 and 259 suggests that if revisional powers are exercised by a revenue officer having jurisdiction to do so further revisional power can be exercised by the superior officer or by the state government.
a similar question came for consideration before this court in the case of ishwar singh vs 2 scc 334 under the rajasthan cooperative societies act1965 in that ac t by section 128 power was conferred upon the state government and the registrar to call for and examine the records of any enquiry or proceedings of any other matter of any officer subordinate to them for the purpose of satisfying themselves as to the legality or propriety of any decision or order passed by such officer.
it was submitted by the counsel that section 128 related to two authorities i e the state government and the registrar.
if one authority exercises revisional power the other authority logically can not have exercised such power.
it is therefore not correct as contended by learned counsel for the appellant that the two authorities i e the state government and the registrar are interchangeable.
we find no infirmity in the impugned order passed by the high court.
hence this appeal has no merit which is accordingly dismissed.
