Appeal No 101 of 1959.
Appeal by special leave from the judgment and order dated November 8 1957 of the Deputy Custodian General Evacuee Property Now Delhi Revision Petition No 17 R55 of 1955.
Achhru Ram and K L Mehta for the appellants.
BK Khanna and T M Sen for the respondent No 1.
NS Bindra and A G Ratnaparkhi for the respondents Nos.
March 15.
The Judgment of the Court was delivered by MUDHOLKAR J.
The appellants who are admittedly displaced persons from West Pakistan were granted quasi permanent allotment of 24 standard acres and 15 34 units in the village of Raikot in Ludhiana District in 1949.
The two villages are however 25 miles or so distant from each other.
Acting suo motu the Additional Custodian made an order on October 31 1952 cancelling the order of allotment of land in the village Raikot made in favour of the appellants in the year 1949 and instead allotted to them land in Karodian in substitution of the lands at Raikot and of the lands allotted to their father.
The Additional Custodian however dismissed the application on the ground that r 146 of the Evacuee Property Rules which came into force on July 22 1952 stood in the way of cancellation of the allotment in favour of the appellant.
and allotment of which had been cancelled earlier.
By the order dated November 8 1957 the Deputy Custodian General dismissed the appellants  application.
The ground on which the appellants  application was rejected by the Deputy Custodian General was that his jurisdiction to revise the order has been 332 taken away by virtue of the provisions of  44 of 1954 and the notification issued thereunder on March 24 1955.
Mr Achhruram for the appellants challenged the correctness of this decision.
333 provides that on the publication of the notification under sub section 1 the right title or interest of any evacuee in the property specified in the notification shall immediately stand extinguished and that property shall vest absolutely in the Central Government free from all encumbrances.
But the consequence of the publication of the notification by the Central Government under section 121 of the with respect to any property or a class of property would be to divest the Custodian completely of his right in the property flowing from section 8 of the  and vest that property in the Central Government.
Sub section.
Under section 161 of this Act the Central Government is empowered to take such measures as it considers necessary or expedient for the custody management and disposal of the compensation pool.
Sub section.
Section 19 of the Act provides that notwithstanding anything contained in any contract or any other law for the time being in force but subject to the rules that may be made under the Act the managing officer or managing corporation may cancel any allotment etc under which any evacuee property acquired under the Act is held or 334 occupied by a person whether such allotment or lease was granted before or after the commencement of the Act.
This provision thus confers the power to deal with evacuee property acquired under the Act only on a managing officer appointed or managing corporation constituted under the Act and makes no mention whatsoever of the Custodian appointed under the .
jab in the Department of Rehabilitation No 4892 S or 4892 S dated the 8th July 1949 or bby the notification of the Government of Patiala and East Punjab States Union in the Department of Rehabilitation No 8R or 9R dated the 23rd July 1949 and published in the official Gazette of that State dated the 7th August 1949 and such property is acquired under the provisions of this Act and forms part of the compensation pool the displaced person shall so long as the property remains vested in the Central Government continue in possession of such property on the same conditions on which he held the property immediately before the date of the acquisition and the Central Government may for the purpose of payment of compensation to such displaced person transfer to him such property on such terms and conditions as may be prescribed.
Mr Achhruram contended that r 74 of the Displaced Persons Compensation and Rehabilitation Rules 1955 stood in the way of the Custodian allotting the Raikot property to the respondents during the pendency of the proceedings before the Custodian General.
There is therefore no substance in this argument.
Finally Mr Achhruram referred to section 17 of the 1954 Act and to r 102 of the Rules framed thereunder and said that the powers of the managing officers appointed under the Act are confined only to properties which are entrusted to them for management and not with respect to any other property.
Sub section.
Sub section.
2 provides that subject to the provisions of the Act and the rules made thereunder a managing officer or a managing corporation may among other things take such measures as he or it considers it necessary or expedient for the purpose of securing administering preserving managing or disposing of any property in the compensation pool entrusted to him or it etc.
He cannot therefore be permitted to make out a new case at this stage of argument.
He then says that this rule restricts the powers of a managing officer or a managing corporation in the matter of cancellation of allotment in the sense that it permits cancellation only on certain specified grounds and therefore it cannot be said that section 191 of the Act is completely in conflict with section 10 of the in so far as the question of cancellation of allotment is concerned.
d of r 102 permits the managing officer or managing corporation to cancel allotment for any other sufficient reason to be recorded in writing.
Appeal dismissed.
