Civil Appeal No 50 of 1961.
Kozhikode in ID No 89 of 1958.
January 29.
This is an appeal by special leave in an industrial matter.
The same day Sankaran protested against his suspension and requested that in any case the departmental inquiry should be expedited.
On July 8 1958 the appellant terminated the services of Sankaran under r 18 a of the Standing Orders without holding any departmental inquiry and the order was communicated to Sankaran the same day.
The tribunal held that 825 something seemed to have happened on the afternoon of June 21 1958 but there was no evidence to prove what had actually happened.
Two witnesses were produced before the tribunal in connection with the alleged misconduct but the tribunal did not rely on them on the ground that the important witnesses namely the Engineer the Secretary and other members of the staff whose evidence would have been of more value had not been produced and no explanation had been given why they were not produced.
The main contention of the appellant is that it is entitled under r 18 a of the Standing Orders to dispense with the service of any employee after complying with its terms.
Rule 18 a is in these terms When the management desires to determine the services of any permanent workmen 826 receiving 12 as.
or more as daily wages otherwise than under rule 21 he shall be given 14 days notice or be paid 12 days wages.
As far back as 1952 the Labour Appellate Tribunal had occasion to consider this matter relating to discharge by notice or in lieu thereof by payment of wages for a certain period without assigning any reason see Buckingham and Carnatic Co Ltd Etg.
etc 1.
Further it held that where the termination of service is capricious arbitrary or unnecessarily harsh on the part of the employer judged by normal standards of a reasonable man that may be cogent evidence of victimisation or unfair labour practice.
and Assam Oil Company vs Its Workmen 2.
The reason given by the appellant in the order terminating the services of Sankaran of July 8 1958 namely that the proposed inquiry if conducted would lead to further friction and deterioration in the rank and file of the employees in general and also that maintenance of discipline in the undertaking would be prejudiced if Sankaran were retained in service cannot be accepted at its face value so that the necessity for an inquiry intended to be held for misconduct actually charged might be done away with.
We have already said that this position cannot be accepted in industrial adjudication relating to termination of service of an employee and has not been accepted by industrial tribunals over a long course of years now and the view taken by industrial tribunals has been upheld by this Court in the two cases referred to above.
Appeal dismissed.
