Appeal No 381 of 1966.
On June 4 1965 the Company preferred a writ petition under article 226 of the Constitution in the Punjab High Court for the issue of a writ of mandamus or other appropriate writ direction or order quashing the order of the Board dated May 19 1965.
The second respondent is Mr T T Krishnamachari who was at that time Minister for Finance in the Government of India.
They disputed the validity of all the other grounds raised by the petitioners.
Thereafter a permit for importing the requisite machinery was granted to the Company.
As a result of the notice Lord Poole visited India in AprilMay 1965.
It is said that the plaint was producing at that time only 25 per cent of its installed capacity but that according to the assurance given by Lord Poole it would yield full production by April 1966.
According to the appellants before entering into a collaboration agreement with Ms L A Mitchell Ltd the appellant No 2 Balasubramanian was negotiating with a German firm named Kali Chemie A G of Hanover for obtaining their collaboration.
On this part of the case the appellant s contention is that the Chairman of the Company Law Board Mr R C Dutt made the order for investigation into the affairs of appellant No 1 at the instance of Mr T T Krishnamachari the then Finance Minister and also because of his bias against appellant No 2.
320 A lengthy argument was addressed before us by Mr Setalvad bearing on the question of mala fides in the course of which he referred us to certain documents.
We were however not impressed by this argument.
Our learned brother Shelat has dealt with this aspect of the matter fully in his judgment and as we agree with him it is not necessary to say much on the point.
If the decision arrived at by the Chairman was an independent one it cannot be said to have been rendered mala fide because it was later approved by Mr Krishnamachari whose sons undoubtedly constitute the partnership firm of Ms T T Krishnamachari  Sons.
Mr Setalvad said that as the appellants had made out a prima facie case of mala fides in their affidavits and as these allegations had been denied by the respondents the High Court was in error in refusing permission to the appellants to cross examine the persons who swore the affidavits on the side of the respondents.
He has specifically denied that it was issued at the instance of the second respondent.
