The principle for fixation of minimum wages that should ordinarily be adopted was laid down by this Court in the case of French Motor Car Co Limited.
They are Titaghur Paper Mill No 3 situated at Chaudwar and the JK Paper Mills at Rayagada.
These two Paper Mills were therefore both of very recent origin compared with the Company.
Learned counsel had to admit that no specific plea was taken by the Company in this behalf and at least no evidence at all was led to show that these concerns are not comparable with the Company.
Having come to this view it is clear that to give full effect to the principle laid down by this Court the case of French Motor Car Co1 the Tribunal should have proceeded to fix the minimum wage in the Company on the basis of the average minimum wage prevailing in these concerns.
not think that such a consideration should be taken.
into account.
Finally it was argued that other amenities being provided by the Company should also be taken into account when fixing the minimum wage.
On behalf of the workmen it was urged before the Tribunal that the proportion should be 3 1 1 so that the production bonus and the dearness allowance would both be equal and 13rd of the basic wage.
In connection with the fixation of minimum wage one point vehemently argued by learned counsel for the workmen was that at least the dearness allowance element of the wage should have been made variable with the Price Index so that the labour could automatically be compensated for further rise in the cost of living subsequent to the making of the award.
It appears to us that an Industrial Tribunal has the discretion in appropriate cases of making a direction linking the dearness allowance element of a wage to the Price Index but at the same time the Tribunal is entitled to choose the alternative course of fixing the wage at the prevailing Price Index and leaving the labour to raise a fresh demand and if necessary a fresh industrial dispute for further rise in wages in case there is marked variation in the Price Index and the wage fixed in the award becomes out dated.
It appears that the Tribunal did not accept this demand primarily on the ground that the distinction between casual workers and  the permanent workers was recognised by both the parties in the agreement of 1959.
The demand made by the workmen was for bonus equivalent to six months  wages and the argument was that if the Tribunal had worked out the surplus available on the correct basis that surplus would have certainly justified grant of profit bonus at the rate of six months  wages.
