The assessee is having construction contracts under the Railways as well as the Government.
The assessee also produced before him a statement showing various creditors from whom it had borrowed on Hundis during the accounting year in question.
I therefore propose to re assess the income for the said assessment year and I hereby require you to deliver to me within 30 days from the date of service of this notice a return in the prescribed form of your income The income assessable relevant to the assessment year 1960 61 of in respect of which you are assessable for the said assessment year.
The notice is being issued after obtaining the necessary satisfaction of the Commissioner of IncomeTax Bihar and Orissa Patna.
As we are accepting the contention of the assessee that the impugned notice is invalid inasmuch as it did not comply with the requirements of section 1512 of the Act we have not thought it necessary to examine the other contentions advanced on behalf of the assessee.
At this stage we need not refer to that section  We shall refer to that provision at a later stage.
When the appeal was taken up for hearing on the 18th January 1971 only the report submitted by the Income tax Officer to the Commissioner and the order of the Commissioner was produced.
Name of District Ward of Circle A Ward Muzaffarpur G IR No 303 C 11.
Name and address of the assessee MS Chugamal Rajpal Muzaffarpur.
RF 2Status 3.
446 4.
Whether it is a new case or one in which re assessment or recomputation has to be made Re assessment 5.
If a case of reassessment or recomputation the income or loss or depreciation allowance originally assesseddetermined.
Rs 73604 6.
8Whether the Commissioner is satisfied that Yes it is a fit case for the issue of notice under Sd K Narain section 148.
13 5 66 Commissioner of Income tax Bihar and Orissa Patna 9.
Seth Bhagwan Singh Sricharan.
Sd section P Chaliha 30 4 66.
Income tax Officer A Ward Muzaffarpur.
 In his report the Income tax Officer does not set out any reason for coming to the conclusion that this is a fit case to issue notice under section 148.
The material that he had before him for issuing notice under section 148 is not mentioned in the report.
All that he says is that from those communications it appears that these persons alleged creditors are name lenders and the transactions are bogus.
Unless the requirements of clause a or b of section 147 are satisfied the Income tax Officer has no jurisdiction to issue a notice under section 148.
From the report submitted by the Income tax Officer to the Commissioner it is clear that he could not have had reasons to believe that by reason of the assessee s omission to disclose fully and truly all material  facts necessary for his assessment for the accounting year in question income chargeable to tax has escaped assessment for that year nor could it be said that he as a consequence of information in his possession had reasons to believe that the income chargeable to tax has escaped assessment for that year.
To Question No 8 in the report which reads Whether the Commissioner is satisfied that it is a case for the I issue of notice under section 148 he just noted the word yes and affixed his signatures thereunder.
