Appeal No 1604 of 1967.
Whether the Federation of Indian Chambers of Commerce and Industry New Delhi Respondent 1 is a commercial establishment within the meaning of s25 of the Delhi Shops and Establishments Act 1954 for short the Act is the sale question that falls for determination in this appeal by certificate directed against the judgment dated February 8 1967 of the High Court of Delhi.
1 To secure the interests and well being of the Indian business communities abroad.
Before the High Court the contention of the Federation was that the premises in which the registered office of the Federation is located is not a commercial establishment within the meaning of section 25 of the Act which in consequence had no application.
This contention was negatived in these terms    that contention overlooks the fact that the advice in question is not tendered for any consideration.
it is predominantly a charitable organization and not a professional one.
 352 It was then contended that the activities of the Federation carried on in the premises in question amounted to work in connection with or incidental or ancillary to trade or business in general within the latter part of the definition of commercial establishment.
Before dealing with the contentions canvassed before us it will be useful to notice briefly the scheme and the relevant provisions of the Act.
The title of the Act is Delhi Shops and Establishments Act 1954.
 Mr Pai further maintains that the ratio in R K Mittal s case supra is not applicable to the instant case because the definition of  industry in section 2j of the is far wider than that of commercial establishment in section 25 of the Act.
It is pointed out that it was wrongly assumed in Mittal s case supra that the Federation was systematically assisting not only its members but also other business men and industrialists even if they were not its members.
As regards the preliminary objection it is true that before the High Court it was not argued that the activity of the Federation amounts to the carrying on of any business or trade in the premises in question.
Alternatively it was contended that the case fell within part b of the definition of commercial establishment inasmuch as its activities were connected with trade and business generally.
The very definition of commercial establishment indicates that the activity of a registered society charitable or other trust will not take it out of the definition if the activity carried on by it amounts to a busi 11971 1 SCR 177.
