Hemendra Shah J B Dadachanji and Rajinder Narain for the petitioner.
M C Setalvad Attorney General of India C K Daphtary Solicitor General of India B Sen and R H Dhebar with them for the respondent No 1 890 1955 October 14.
This rule was issued on a petition filed under article 32 of the Constitution by one Purshottam Govindji Halai a citizen of India calling upon the respondents to show cause why a writ in the nature of a writ of habeas corpus should not be issued by this Court directing the Superintendent House of Correction Byculla being the second respondent herein to produce before this Court one Govindji Deoji Halai the father of the petitioner who is also a citizen of India for the purpose of being released forthwith.
The facts which are not in dispute may be shortly stated as follows.
The said Govindji Deoji Halai hereinafter referred to as the assessee is the sole proprietor of a business carried on under the name and style of Indestro Sales and Service Co at No 50 52 Lohar Chawl Street in the City of Bombay.
Two private limited companies namely Indestro India Ltd and Indestro Eastern Ltd also carry on business and have their respective offices in the same premises.
The assessee is said to have some connection with the two companies the nature of which however is not quite clear on the record before us.
In respect of his own business of Indestro Sales and Service Co the assessee was assessed to income tax for the years 1943 44 to 1947 1948 and 1951 1952 by the Third Income tax Officer C 1 Ward Bombay at and for Rs 40178 4 0.
It may here be mentioned that the Indestro Eastern Ltd was also assessed to income tax at and for Rs 192000 and a recovery certificate was also issued by the Income tax Officer to the Additional Collector of Bombay.
On the 1st February 1954 the Additional Collector issued a notice of demand on the assessee for payment of the assessed amount of tax.
No payment 891 having been made the Additional Collector attached the goodwill and tenancy rights in the said premises by a warrant of attachment issued on the 24th March 1954.
The sale proclamation was issued on the 15th January 1955.
The sale was held on the 25th February 1955 fetching a price of Rs 33000 and it was confirmed on the 30th March 1955.
The sale proceeds not being sufficient to satisfy the assessed tax the Additional Collector on the 7th June 1955 issued a notice under section 13 of the Bombay City Land Revenue Act 1876 requiring the assessee to appear before him in person on the 16th June 1955 and show cause why he the assessee should not be apprehended and confined to civil jail in satisfaction of the said certified demand.
The assessee did not appear in person on the appointed day but on the next day the 17th June 1955 an Advocate acting on behalf of the assessee wrote a letter to the Additional Collector purporting to show cause why the assessee should not be arrested and sent to the civil jail.
The contentions put forward on behalf of the assessee not being considered satisfactory the Additional Collector on the 30th June 1955 issued a warrant for the arrest of the assessee under section 13 of the Bombay City Land Revenue Act 1876.
The assessee was actually arrested on the 1st July 1955.
A rule was issued by the High Court but eventually on the 24th August 1955 the High Court Chagla CJ and Desai J discharged the rule.
No application was made to the High Court for leave to appeal to this Court from the decision of that High Court but on the 2nd September 1955 the present petition was filed in this Court under article 32 of the Constitution for the relief hereinbefore mentioned.
Their needs as understood by their own Legislature are different from those of the people of other States.
114 900 of public demand prevailing in that State Here the defaulters are classified on a territorial or geographical basis and this basis of classification has precisely the same correlation to the object of the Indian Income tax Act as it has to the object of the different Public Demands Recovery Acts.
The grouping of the income tax defaulters into separate categories or classes Statewise is certainly a territorial classification which is based on an intelligible differentia and the subjection for the purposes of the recovery of the certified demand of each of such classes of defaulters to the same coercive process devised by their own State on a consideration of local needs for the recovery of their own public demands cannot be regarded as bereft of a reasonable nexus or correlation between the basis of classification and the object sought to be achieved by the Indian Income tax Act any more than it can be so regarded with respect to the respective State laws.
A cursory perusal of the two sections will show at once that the procedure prescribed by section 13 of the Bombay City Land Revenue Act 1876 for the recovery of arrears of land revenue was harsher and more drastic than the procedure laid down in section 157 of the Bombay Land Revenue Code 1879 in that a defaulter residing in the City of Bombay could be kept in detention for a day for every rupee of the arrears which might considerably exceed the maximum period of six months which is the period 904 limited by the Code of Civil Procedure for the detention of a judgment debtor in civil jail.
