J Sorabjee K K Venugopal and R P Bhatt for respondent in 2611 A81.
From Annexure B it would appear that the permission so granted was in favour of Ved Ved Gupta in his individual capacity and not as the representative of any firm.
Clause 15 of the said deed provided that the site for construction of a Cinema which had been obtained on lease by Ved Gupta Todar Mal and Krishan Kumar in their own names shall not be their personal property but shall be the property of the partnership and that the permission which Ved Gupta had obtained from the Government for construction of the Theatre in the said plot shall be treated as the property of the partnership.
Thereupon Todar Mal preferred an appeal against the said order passed by the District Magistrate.
The Minister of State for Revenue and Law Government of Jammu and Kashmir heard counsel on both sides and ultimately dismissed Todar Mal s appeal by a detailed order of which Annexure G is a copy.
Krishan Kumar was a party respondent in the Special Leave Petition also.
Krishan Kumar addressed a letter to the District Magistrate Jammu requesting that the renewal of the licence may be granted in the name of the premises of Apsara Theatre The District Magistrate rejected the said request by a detailed order dated April 21 1979.
These contentions were repelled by the District Magistrate who held that the renewal of the licence could not be made in the name of any party other than the original licensee namely Shri Ved Gupta who had been declared to be the sole licensee in respect of the Apsara Theatre by the proceedings of his predecessor dated December 29 1977 which was confirmed in appeal by the State Government and which had acquired finality between the parties by reason of the dismissal of the writ petition and the Special Leave Petition by the High Court and Supreme Court respectively.
In March 1980 the licence for the Theatre was renewed by the District Magistrate in the name of Ved Gupta.
On the date of the institution itself the District Judge Jammu issued an order of temporary injunction restraining defendants 1 to 7 from interfering with the possession and the running of the Theatre Apsara by the plaintiffs.
In being served with the order of injunction Ved Gupta wrote to the District Magistrate on September 24 1980 that it had become impossible for him to operate the Cinema licence in view of the temporary injunction issued by the District Court and since it is only the licensee who is held responsible under the Act and the Rules for due compliance with all the terms and conditions of the licence and answerable to the licensing authority for all commissions and omissions in the Cinema premises he may be saved from any prosecution or other action under law in the capacity of licensee of the Apsara Theatre in respect of any illegal acts or offences committed by others in the said premises.
It reads Whereas it has been brought to my notice by Shri Ved Gupta sole licensee Apsara Theatre that the District and Sessions Judge Jammu has issued a temporary injunction against the exhibition of films by him in the above said Theatre And whereas the SP City by his letter No 1Conf.
16980 has intimated that there was exhibition of films on 25th September 1980 in Apsara Theatre by persons other than the licensee And whereas under the provisions of the Cinematograph Act read with rules none other than licensee is permitted to exhibit films during the currency of the licence without permission of the licensing authority Now therefore I A Sahasranaman District Magistrate Jammu hereby order that exhibition of films in Apsara Theatre will remain suspended till further orders.
This order shall come into force with immediate effect.
Aggrieved by the decision of the High Court Ved Gupta has filed these appeals after obtaining special leave from this Court.
That writ petition was dismissed by the High Court on May 9 1978 SLP Civil No 3490 of 1978 filed by Todar Mal against the High Court s order dismissing his writ petition was rejected by this Court on November 13 1978.
In proceedings to which the licensing authority was a party the High Court as well as this Court had upheld its order holding Ved Gupta to be the sole licensee rejecting the case put forward on behalf of the firm and the firm and its partners are bound by the said decision.
We are also unable to accept as correct the view expressed by the learned Acting Chief Justice that under the Act the licence is granted for premises permanently equipped for cinematograph exhibition in the name of the owner Manager of the Cinematographs used in the premises and hence it necessarily follows that where the licensed premises including the cinematograph used therein belongs to a partnership and one of the partners obtains a licence in his separate name the other partners automatically acquire interests in the licence and that the privilege granted by the licensing authority must necessarily follow the title in such building and the cinematograph.
That Section is in the following terms 6 F Power to revoke licence Where the holder of a licence or a person in charge of a cinematography or management thereof or an owner or partner thereof or an employee thereof has been convicted of an offence under Section 6 or Section 6 E of this Act or under Section 15 of the Jammu and Kashmir Entertainments Duty Act 1959 the licence may be revoked by the licensing authority.
The next ground stated in the impugned judgment for quashing the order passed by the District Magistrate is that the said order was violative of the principles of natural justice in as much as no notice or hearing had been given to the partnership firm before the order was passed.
In this connection it is relevant to refer to Rule 88v.
The effect of the order was that Ved Gupta had no longer possession or control over the Theatre premises or the cinematograph apparatus installed therein despite the fact that the was the licensee responsible to the authorities under the statute for the due discharge of the obligations contained in the Rules and in the conditions appended to the licence.
On September 26 1980 the Superintendent of Police Jammu reported to the District District Magistrate that cinema exhibition in Apsara Theatre was being conducted by some persons other than the licensee and hence the licensee had been challenged by him under Section 6 of the Act.
If Ved Gupta the licensee bad been expelled from the partnership the proper course to be adopted by the firm and its partners was to move the authorities for the grant of a licence and to run the Theatre only after obtaining such licence.
So long as they did not have a licence we have already found that the licence had been granted to Ved Gupta only in his individual and personal capacity and not as a representative of the firm the firm and the partners had no legal right whatever to operate the cinema.
Proceeding on that premise the learned Acting Chief Justice has said that under the provisions of the Act the power to suspend a licence is conferred only by Section 6 F of the Act as one implicit in the larger power of revocation and unless the conditions precedent mentioned in the said Section are present the licensing authority had no jurisdiction to suspend the licence.
HLC Appeal allowed.
