minal Appeals Nos.
91 to 93 of 1954.
The petition was heard by Ali Khan and Reddy JJ.
Leave to appeal was refused.
Pandurang Tukia and Bhilia who were sentenced to death applied here for special leave to appeal.
We gather that this field is near a river called 1086 Papana.
There are four eye witnesses and the main question we have to consider is whether they can be believed.
Both give substantially the same version of what they saw of the assault.
They say they saw all five accused striking him the three appellants Pandurang Tukia and Bhilia with axes the other two who have not appealed with sticks.
Rasika Bai s version is that on seeing the assault she called out to the accused not to hit but they  raised their axes and sticks and threatened her and then ran away.
On hearing this he wrote out 1088 a report exhibit No 4 and sent it to the Police Station at Udgir which is about six miles from the scene of the murder.
He says he did not know any names at that time and that is evident from the report.
But what the learned counsel for the appellants says is that he saw Narsabai on the evening of the murder and as she did not give him any names it is evident that no one knew who the assailants were and that therefore the accusation made against the accused was a subsequent concoction and that it was for that reason that they waited till the next morning before reporting the matter to the police.
He also admits that he saw Narsabai there but says he did not speak to her.
We have no doubt that he learned the names of the assailants when he went there but this was after he had sent his report.
In the circumstances we think Mahadappa told the truth.
The absence of the names in the report is therefore not of much consequence in this case especially as the names were disclosed in full at the time of the inquest.
The remaiding four are described as blue and black marks.
So the part they played was negligible.
We refer to the other eye witnesses here to show that there is no discrepancy on this point but we only rely on Rasikabai and Subhana for determining the fact Bhilia was directly charged with the murder and the injury on the throat is ascribed to him in the charge.
We do not intend to examine that here because we are of opinion that the sentence should be reduced to transportation in these two cases mainly because of the difference of opinion in the High Court not only on the question of guilt but also on that of sentence.
