Civil Appeal Nos3677 3680 of 1986 Etc.
From the Judgment and Order dated 1031986 of the Karnataka High Court in WP Nos.
4053 to 4056 of 1985.
Shanti Bhushan Dr YS Chitale HB Datar KR Nagaraja 1011 RS Hegde RB Datar SS Jawali BP Singh NDB Raju RP Wadhwani Aruneshwar Gupta Swaraj Kaushal KMM Khan SR Setia ATM Sampath and CS Vaidyanathan for the appearing parties.
The Judgment of the Court was delivered by CHINNAPPA REDDY J.
Special leave granted in all the cases.
These appeals raise common questions of law and may therefore be disposed of by a common judgment.
In exercise of its powers under section 637 of the  the Central Government specified 50 as the number of All India Tourist Vehicle Permits  which may be granted by the Karnataka State Transport Authority.
By section 24 of Amending Act 47 of 1978 a proviso to section 637 was introduced.
We are concerned in these appeals with the vires and interpretation of this proviso.
By the time the proviso came into force 36 permits had been granted by the Karnataka State Transport Authority and 14 remained to be granted.
There were as many as 495 applications for the grant of these 14 permits.
By an order dated February 1 1984 the Supreme Court directed the Karnataka State Transport Authority to dispose of these applications.
The State Transport Authority by its proceedings dated April 30 1984 granted 11 out of the 14 permits to the Karnataka State Tourism Development Corporation one permit to the Indian Tourism Development Corporation and two permits to the Karnataka State Road Transport Corporation.
A number of appeals were preferred to the Karnataka State Transport Appellate Tribunal.
The writ petitions were rejected by the High Court on the ground that the preference contemplated by the proviso to section 637 contemplated exclusion of the non preferred  class if sufficient number of applicants from the preferred classes were available.
It was also urged that the fourth sub clause of the proviso offended article 14 and had to be struck down.
Since the State Transport Appellate Tribunal and the High Court have failed to consider the merits of the claims of the Karnataka State Road Transport Corporation and the private operators who did not get a certificate of approval from the Central Government because of the rule of preference contained in proviso to section 637 the proper course for us is to set aside the orders of the State Transport Appellate Tribunal and the High Court and to direct the State Transport Appellate Tribunal to re hear the appeals and dispose them of in accordance with law after considering the claims of the eligible applicants in the manner indicated in Sher Singh s case and now.
Clauses i to iii of the proviso providing for preference to be given to applications for permits from the Indian Tourism Development Corporation the State Tourism Development Corporation and the State Tourist Department were not questioned but the preference provided for by clause iv and to be given to such operators of tourist cars or such travel agents as may be approved in this behalf by the Ministry dealing in tourism was questioned as an infringement of article 14 of the Constitution.
It is seen that the scheme excludes omnibus operators and requires applicants to have 1019 either two years  experience in the car hire business with contacts in the tourist business or to own five tourist taxies.
In the result we set aside the orders of the State Transport Appellate Tribunal and the High Court and direct the State Transport Appellate Tribunal to hear the appeals in the light of what we have said.
