On or about 2nd January 1985 the order of detention was passed on an incident relating to the exchange of fire between two rival groups.
As a result of this firing one innocent namely Brahamdeo Mishra was killed.
The exchange of indiscriminate firing in the main market area of Katras created great panic and alarm in the area.
The normal tempo of life was completely disturbed.
The people started running helter and skelter for their lives.
Jogta PS Case No 2284 dated 11384 us 147148 307326353333324325 IPC27 Arms Act.
In this case subject and his associates opened fire on police party who went to apprehend Raghunath Singh absconder under NSA.
Sri Sisir Rajan Das however acceded to their request and started dancing.
The order of detention though dated 2nd January 1986 was served on or about 11th January 1986.
There were criminal cases against the petitioner.
In the said case investigation was in progress and the defence of the petitioner in the murder case was that he was falsely implicated and was not at all concerned with the murder.
In the affidavit of the District Magistrate the detaining authority it has been stated that the activities of the petitioner s brother and the petitioner have disturbed the normal tempo of life in Katras and Jogta Police Stations in Dhanbad area.
The grounds stated that there was indiscriminate firing on 24th December 1985 on Katras Coal Dump and the petitioner started indiscriminate firing to kill Birendra Pratap Singh a rival of his calendestine business of coal to establish the criminal superiority in full view of the shopkeepers customers and passers by of the area.
26986.
Nor does it appear that before the service there was consideration of this aspect properly.
If a man is in custody and there is no imminent possibility of his being released the power of preventive detention should not be exercised.
There is no indication that this factor or the question that the said detenu might be released or that there was such a possibility of his release was taken into consideration by the detaining authority properly and seriously before the service of the order.
It may be mentioned that in the petition it is nowhere stated that the detenu has since been released or that the prospect of his imminent release was properly and with seriousness considered by the detaining authority.
The writ petition and the appeal are allowed to the extent indicated above.
