It was also stated to be carrying on business of advancing money and taking money on loan when necessary.
34 and 5 were answered in the negative.
In the case of banking companies or other firms and companies who have overdraft facilities even if the sums are not in credit of the donor and are not with such companies or firms gifts might be possible by adjustment of the book entries.
This question has been examined by the various High Courts.
The assessee must also have sufficient credit balance to enable him to make the gift.
Reference may also be made for this proposition to the decision of the Delhi High Court in New India Colour Co vs Commissioner of IncomeTax New Delhi The effect of the two aforesaid decisions of the learned fudges of the Delhi High Court indicates that in case there was not sufficient cash balance from out of which the amount gifted could be physically given to the donee more entries in the books of account in the form would not constitute delivery of possession over the gifted property to the donee and gift in such case will not be valid.
The Madras High Court in the case of Mrs Ida L Cham bers and Three Others vs Kelland Huxford Chambers was dealing with a case where C proprietor of a business who had invested a large amount of capital in it caused entries to be made in his account books crediting his wife and certain other members of his family with sums which were debited to his capital account.
C was not in a position to make gifts in cash of the amounts credited in favour of his wife and relatives.
He had large assets but these were represented by land buildings plant machinery and stock in trade.
Interest on the amounts was also credited in the accounts regularly for some time until a bank from which C had obtained an overdraft objected to such crediting of interest.
It was further held that there was no trust either and that there was nothing in the acts or conduct of C to show that he intended to create a trust or to constitute himself a trus tee.
Rangoon High Court in Abba Dada and Company vs Commis sioner of Income Tax Burma held that the mere book entries were not sufficient in that case to constitute valid gift.
Memo of gift recorded on stamp paper.
No acceptance was produced.
There the assessee was the karta of a Hindu undivided family.
The transfer was effected by debit ing the assessee s personal account in the books of the Hindu undivided family with Rs50000 and crediting the same in the personal account of his son.
The Wealth Tax Officer and the Income Tax Officer rejected the contention that he made a gift of Rs50000 to his son and this amount should be excluded from his taxable net wealth.
There M the deceased was a 132 partner in a firm having a half share in the partnership.
On 27th March 1957 M made a gift of Rs 1 lakh to his son L and of Rs50000 to his wife K by making debit entries in his account in the firm and corresponding credits to the accounts of L and K With effect from 28th March 1957 L was taken as a partner in the firm by giving L one forth share out of the half share of M M died on 9th January 1962.
As the respondent is not appearing there will be no order as to costs.
