Under Article 32 of the Constitution of India.
Ram Jethmalani and Miss Rani Jethmalani for the Petitioner.
G Ramaswamy Additional Solicitor General RP Srivastava 634 and Miss A Subhashini for the Respondent.
The Judgment of the Court was delivered by RANGANATH MISRA J.
The petitioner of this application under Article 32 of the Constitution is an engineer who was employed in the Central Public Works Department under the Ministry of Works and Housing in Government of India and was compulsorily retired by order dated 381976 with effect from 5111976 made under Rule 56j of the Fundamental Rules.
He has assailed that order for retirement and has claimed payment of remuneration which he would have been entitled to draw upto the normal date of superannuation.
The short facts are these.
The petitioner was born on 1021922 and secured his first appointment as a Section Officer under the named employer on 22101947.
He was pro moted as officiating Assistant Engineer in class II service with effect from  255.
1954 and came to be confirmed as Section Officer by an order dated 8101955.
On 371961 he was further promoted as officiating Executive Engineer in Class I service but on 491965 he was reverted to the post of Assistant Engineer in officiating position and was con tinuing in that post when he was compulsorily retired.
Union of India vs KR Tahiliani and Anr 1980 1 SLR 847.
 The impugned notice ran thus No 3245266 EC.
 It is clear from it that the petitioner attained the age of 50 years on 1021972 and therefore on the date of the order he had completed the age of 54 years.
We have already indicated that sub clause ii did not apply to the facts of this case as the petitioner had not attained the age of 55 years by the date of the order.
The observations made in Tahiliani s case indisputably support the petitioner.
But the correct ness thereof is disputed by learned Additional Solicitor General appearing for the Union of India and that is why this writ petition was directed to be heard by a larger Bench.
The purpose of Fundamental Rules 56j is to confer power on the appropriate authority to compulsorily retire Government servant in the public interest and the classification of Government servants into two categories covered by sub clauses i and ii has a purpose behind it.
If the condi tion indicated in sub clause i is satisfied namely the Government servant is in Class I or Class II service or post and he had entered into service before attaining the age of 35 years and has attained the age of fifty the further condition that he must substantively belong to the two classes of service or post cannot be introduced into the scheme.
Such judgments have become final and Union of India has given effect to the decisions of the Delhi High Court.
Even if the writ petition is allowed and the order of compulsory retirement is set aside the petitioner cannot go back to service.
1976 and 292.
Such payment be made within two months from today.
WRIT PETITION NOS.
They would however be entitled to salary and other service allowances payable to them from the date of compulsory retirement till the date of their normal superannuation.
