The appellant had filed its price lists in respect of the same.
The same were allowed by the Collector Appeals.
The appellant was not a manufacturer of drums.
Learned Attorney General emphasised that it is a well settled principle of construction that in taxing statutes one has only to look merely at what is clearly stated.
For the purposes of this sub clause the amount of the duty of excise payable on any excisable goods shall be the sum total of a the effective duty of excise payable on such goods under this Act and b the aggregate of the effective duties of excise payable under other Central Acts if any providing for the levy of duties of excise on such goods  and the effective duty of excise on such goods under each Act referred to in clause a or clause b shall be i in a case where a notification or order providing for any exemption not being an exemption for giving credit with respect to for reduction or duty of excise under such Act on such goods equal to any duty of excise under such Act or the additional duty under Section 3 of the 51 of 1975 already paid on the raw material or component parts used in the production or manufacture of such goods from the duty of excise under such Act is for the time being in force the duty of excise computed with refer ence to the rate specified in such Act in respect of such goods as reduced so as to give full and complete effect to such exemption and ii in any other case the duty of excise computed with reference to the rate specified in such Act in respect of such goods.
The explanation to the said sub section defines the expression packing as the wrapper container bobbin pirn spool reel or warp beam or any other thing in which or on which the excisable goods are wrapped contained or wound.
This Court rejected the contention of the assessee in that case that because the levy of excise is a levy on goods manufactured or produced the value of an excisable article must be limited to the manufacturing cost plus manufacturing profit.
The respondent supplied these gases in cylinders at their factory gate.
There fore the rental of the same though income of ancillary activity was not the value incidental to the manufacture and could not be included in the assessable value.
Furthermore no cost was in fact incurred by the assessee.
Here also obviously the reference is not generally to the taxes payable on such goods by either the assessee or the buyer but is obviously to the taxes payable by the assessee.
The scheme of the old section 4 is indisputedly to determine the assessable value of the goods on the basis of the price charged by the assessee less certain abatements.
It is only that degree of secondary packing which is necessary for assessable articles to be in the condition in which it is generally sold in the wholesale market which can be included at the factory gate which should be included in the value of the article.
