before his death he executed a will on 16th november 1924 the construction of which is in controversy in this appeal.
by this will he gave the following directions after my lifetime you the aforesaid ranganayaki amminal my wife shall till your lifetime enjoy the aforesaid entire properties the outstandings due to me the debts payable by me and the chit amounts payable by me.
after your lifetime ramalakshmi ammal our daughter and wife of rama ayyar avergal of melagaram village and her heirs shall enjoy them with absolute rights and powers of alienation such as gift exchange and sale from son to grandson and so on for generations.
as regards the payment of maintenance to be made to chinnanmal alias lakshmi ammal wife of my late son hariharamayyan my wife ranganayaki ammal shall pay the same as she pleases and obtain a release deed.
ramalakshmi died on 25th april 1938 during the lifetime of the widow.
none of her children survived her.
it was averred in the plaint that ramalakshmi obtained a vested interest in the suit properties under the will of her father and plaintiff was thus entitled to maintain the suit.
in view of this finding he granted the plaintiff a declaratory decree to the effect that the first defendant had only an estate for life in the suit properties and that the alienations made by her would not endure beyond her lifetime.
the unsuccessful defendants preferred an appeal against this decree to the high court of judicature at madras.
it was not contested before us that a hindu can by will create a life estate or successive life estates or any other estate for a limited term provided the donee or the persons taking under it are capable of taking under a deed or will.
the decision of the appeal thus turns upon the question whether the testator s intention was to give to his widow ail ordinary life estate or an estate analogous to that of a hindu widow.
at one time it was a moot point whether a hindu widow s estate could be created by will it being an estate created by law but it is now settled that a hindu can confer by means of a will oil his widow the same estate which she would get by inheritance.
considering the will in the light of these principles it seems to us that lakshminarayan iyer intended by his will to direct that his entire properties should be enjoyed by his widow during her lifetime but her interest in these properties should come to an end on her death that all these properties in their entirety should thereafter be enjoyed as absolute owners by his daughter and her heirs with powers of alienation gift exchange and sale from generation to generation.
he wished to make his daughter a fresh stock of descent so that her issue male or female may have the benefit of his property.
in express terms he conferred on his daughter powers of alienation byway of gift exchange sale but in sharp contrast to this on his widow he conferred no such powers.
and these shall thereafter pass to her daughters.
if the testator had before his mind s eye his daughter and her heirs as the ultimate beneficiaries of his bounty that intention could only be achieved by giving to the widow a limited estate because by conferring a full hindu widow s estate on her the daughter will only have a mere spes successions under the hindu law which may or may not mature and under the will her interest would only be a contingent one in what was left indisposed of by the widow.
just as the widow was directed to enjoy tile entire properties mentioned in the schedule during her lifetime in like manner the daughter and her heirs were also directed to enjoy the same properties with absolute rights from generation to generation.
they could not enjoy the same properties in the manner directed if the widow had a full hindu widow s estate and had the power for any purpose to dispose of them and did so.
if that was the intention the testator would clearly have said that the daughter would only take the properties remaining after the death of the widow.
it was argued that such a power was implicit within the acts she was authorized to do that is to say when she was directed to pay the debts and settle the maintenance of ramalakshmi it was implicit within these directions that for these purposes if necessity arose she could alienate the properties.
indeed we find that within four years of the death of the testator the widow was able to pay a lump sum of rs 3350 in cash to the daughter in law without alienating any part of the immovable properties and presumably by this time she had discharged all the debts.
by this transaction she substituted one property by another.
for the purpose of her maintenance for payment of debts etc and for settling the claim of the daughter in law she does not appear to have felt any necessity to make any alienation of any part of the estate mentioned in the schedule and the testator in all likelihood knew that she could fulfil these obligations without having recourse to alienations and hence he did not give her any power to do so.
in this situation the inference that the testator must have of necessity intended to confer on the widow power of alienation for those limited purposes can not be raised.
in our opinion even if that suggestion is accepted that for the limited purposes mentioned in the will the widow could alienate this power would fall far short of the powers that a hindu widow enjoys under hindu law.
it can not be said that a hindu widow can only alienate her husband s estate for payment of debts to meet maintenance charges and for her own maintenance.
we therefore hold that the estate conferred on ranganayaki ammal was more like the limited estate in the english sense of the term than like a full hindu widow s estate in spite of the directions above mentioned.
and she thus got an interest in it on the testator s death.
according to jarman jarman on wills the law leans in favour of vesting of estates and the property disposed of belongs to the object of the gift when the will takes effect and we think the daughter got under this will a vested interest in the testator s properties on his death.
however out of respect for learned counsel on both sides who adopted the same method of approach we proceed to examine some of the important cases referred to by them.
mr krishnaswami iyengar sought to derive the greatest support for his contention from the decision in ram bahadur v jager.
they will of course be entitled to enjoy the balance left after payment of rent.
it was remarked that in spite of an express restriction against alienation the estate taken by section the niece was an estate such as a woman ordinarily acquires by inheritance under the hindu law which she holds in a completely representative character but is unable to alienate except in case of legal necessity and that such a construction was in accordance with the ordinary notions that a hindu has in regard to devolution of his property.
but there were other indications in that will showing that a widow s estate had been given.
a suit was instituted by the son s daughter for the recovery of possession of her share in one item of property forming part of the estate which had been sold by section the question for decision in that case was whether section was at all entitled to sell anything more than her life interest even for purposes of meeting a necessity binding upon the estate.
varadachari j held that since in the will the gift over to the grand children was of the entire properties and not a mere gift by way of defeasance it had to be held that it indicated that the prior gift in favour of the widow was only of a limited interest.
assuming that it is possible to create a hindu woman s estate not with standing the addition of a gift over the question nevertheless whether that had been done in a given case must depend on the terms of the particular instrument under consideration.
2 m l j 562 were next cited as the will gave her the right to enjoy the income of the estate during her lifetime it was evidently contemplated that she should as provided by the hindu law in the case of a widow be in possession of the estate.
my self acquired properties shall on my death be enjoyed by my wife till her death and after her death they shall pass to my daughter.
it seems to us that he meant to give a daughter s estate rather than a life estate.
these remarks do not throw much light on the point before us.
in other words that she should take an estate very much like the ordinary estate of a hindu widow.
in construing the will of a hindu it is not improper to take into consideration what are known to be the ordinary notions and wishes of hindus with respect to the devolution of property.
in the first instance he placed reliance on a decision of the madras high court in ratna chetty v narayana swami chetty 19i4 26 m l j 616.
if the two could not agree and live together amicably my wife would pay rs 4000 and separate him.
this decision only decides that case and is not very relevant in this enquiry.
reference was also made to the decision of their lordships of the privy council in mst.
bhagwati devi v chowdry bholonath thakur 1874 75 2 i a 256.
chunderbutti his wife was in these terms the remaining milkiut and minhai estates together with the amount of ready money articles slaves and all household furniture i have placed in the possession of mst.
if she took the estate only of a hindu widow one consequence no doubt would be that she would be unable to alienate the profits or that at all events whatever she purchased out of them would be an increment to her husband s estate and the plaintiffs would be entitled to recover possession of all such property real and personal.
this will was couched in different language than the will in the present case.
the will there ran as follows.
when i die my wife named suraj is owner of that property.
appeal dismissed.
