premises.
dwarka nath died on the 16th march 1892 leaving him surviving his widow golap sundari and his two sons rajendra and jogendra.
41 and 401 grey street and appointed his brother jogendra the sole executor thereof.
41 grey street was allotted to the branch of rajendra and the remaining portion was allotted to jogendra absolutely and in consideration of a sum of rs 6500 to be paid to the plaintiffs jogendra was declared entitled absolutely to the premises.
41 grey street allotted to the branch of rajendra was subsequently numbered 41 a grey street.
disputes arose between bhupendra jnanendra and nagendra the sons of rajendra and one kedar nath ghosh was appointed arbitrator to settle those disputes.
the second mortgage was executed on the 4th june 1926 and the third mortgage on the 22nd february 1927.
on the 23rd february 1927 nagendra executed a deed of settlement of the said premises by which he appointed his wife labanyalata and his wife s brother samarendra nath mitter trustees to carry out the directions therein contained and in pursuance of the deed of settlement he gave up possession of the said premises in favour of the trustees.
a consent decree was passed in the said suit on the 9th september 1929.
hari pada.
dutt and durga charan dutt for a sum of rs 19000.
haripada dutt died on the 3rd june 1941 leaving him surviving his three sons pashupati nath dutt shambhunath dutt and kashinath dutt the appellants before us.
they thus became entitled to the whole of the premises which had been purchased at the auction sale held on the 9th december 1936.
on the 19th july 1948 the family idol of dwarka nath sree sree iswar sridhar jew by its next friend debabrata ghosh the son of nagendra filed the suit out of which the present appeal arises against the appellants as also against susilabala and the two sons of jogendra by her amongst others for a declaration that the premises nos.
41 a and 402 a grey street were its absolute properties and for possession thereof for a declaration that the consent decree dated the 24th november 1910 in suit No 969 of 1909 and the award dated the 12th october 1920 and the dealings made by the heirs of jogendra.
andor rajendra relating to the said premises or any of them purporting to affect its rights in the said premises were invalid and inoperative in law and not binding on it for an account of the dealings with the said premises for a scheme of management of the debutter properties and for its worship for discovery receiver injunction and costs.
written statements were filed by the appellants and by susilabala and the two sons of jogendra denying the claims of the idol and contending inter alia that there was no valid or absolute dedication of the suit properties i to the idol and that the said premises had been respectively acquired by them by adverse possession and that the title of the idol thereto had been extinguished.
the idol was declared entitled to possession of the said premises with mesne profits for three years prior to the institution of the suit till delivery of possession but was ordered to pay as a condition for recovery of possession of the said premises a sum of rs 19000 to the appellants with interest thereon at the rate of 6 per cent.
No 402 a grey street as in his opinion sushilabala as executrix to her husband s estate and her two sons had acquired title to the said premises by adverse possession and the title of the idol thereto had been extinguished.
a certificate article 1331 of theconstitution was granted on the 4th june 1951 and the high court admitted the appeal finally on the 6th august 1951.
the high court rejected the said application stating that there was no rule allowing cross objections in the supreme court.
by an order made by this court on the 24th may 1953 the petition of the idol for filing cross objections in this court was allowed to be treated as a petition for special leave to appeal against that part of the decree which was against it subject to any question as to limitation.
41 grey street made by dwarka nath under the terms of his will was a partial dedication and that his sons rajendra and jogendra and his widow golap sundari who were appointed sevayats of the idol were competent to deal with premises.
grey street after making the due provision for the idol as they purported to do by the terms of settlement dated the 24th november 1910.
it was further contended that nagendra by virtue of the award dated the 12th october 1920 claimed to be absolutely entitled to the premises.
3 of the said will provided with a view to provide a permanent habitation for the said deity i do by means of this will dedicate the aforesaid immovable property the said house.
with a view to provide for the expenses of his daily and periodical sheba and festivals etc.
grey street No 401.
on my demise none of my heirs and representatives shall ever be competent to take the income of the said land No 401 and spend the samefor household expenses.
the question whether the idol itself shall be considered the true beneficiary subject to a charge in favour of the heirs or specified relatives of the testator for their upkeep or that on the other hand these heirs shall be considered the true beneficiaries of the property subject to a charge for the upkeep worship and expenses of the idol is a question which can only be settled by a conspectus of the entire provisions of the will pande har narayan v surja kunwari 1921 l r 48 i a 143 145 146 1921 indlaw pc 56.
3 of the will is an absolute dedication of the premises.
of the deity.
this argument however can not avail the appellants.
41 grey street to the idol was an absolute dedication.
his two elder brothers jnanendra and bhupendra were declared to be the then sevayats but a right was reserved to nagendra to join with them as a sevayat on his attaining majority.
that he did act as such shebait and that his possession of the premises.
if nagendra was thus a sevayat of the idol it could not be urged that his possession could in any manner whatever be adverse to the idol and his dealings with the said premises in the manner he purported to do after the 12th october 1920 could not be evidence of any adverse possession against the idol.
true any heir or perhaps any descendant of the founder can bring a suit.
grey street by adverse possession.
appeal dismissed.
