act liii of 1961 hereinafter referred to as the act which in view of s 21 of the act is the law applicable even to women workers employed in plantations.
it appears that in october1967subbammal respondent no 2 herein who is a woman worker employed in mount stuart estate hereinafter referred to as the establishmentwhich is carrying on plantation industry was allowed leave of absence by the establishment on the basis of a notice given by her of her expected delivery which actually took place on december 161967 after her delivery the respondent was paid by her employers on account of maternity benefit an amount equivalent to what she would have earned on the basis of her average daily wage in 72 working days falling within twelve week s of the maternity period.
while calculating the aforesaid amount of maternity benefit the establishment admittedly excluded twelve sundays being wageless holidays which fell during the period of the respondent s actual absence immediately preceding and including the day of her delivery and the six weeks immediately following that day.
dissatisfied with this computation the respondent made a representation to her employers claiming maternity benefit for the entire period of twelve weeks under the act i e for 84 days on the plea that a week consisted of seven days.
as her demand did not evoke a favourable response the respondent applied to the labour court coimbatore under section 33c2 of the industrial disputes act for redress of her grievance.
by its order dated february 261969the labour court allowed the claim of the respondent.
contending that the claim made by the respondent was untenable as normally a worker works only for six days in a week and the maternity benefit had to be computed only for 72 days.
as against this the respondent pleaded that the computation had to be made not with reference to the actual number of working days but with reference to total number of days covered by twelve weeks i e 84 days.
aggrieved by this decision the respondent filed an appeal u cl 15 of the letters patent which as already stated was allowed by the letters patent bench of the high court observing that the maternity benefit which the respondent was entitled to receive was for the period of her absence before delivery including the day of delivery and also six weeks thereafter each week consisting of seven days including sundays.
dissatisfied with this decision the establishment has already stated come up in appeal to this court by special leave.
assailing the judgment and order under appeal mr pai has urged that since legislative intent as revealed from the scheme of s 51 of the act is to compensate the woman worker who expects delivery for the loss that her forced absence from work on account of pregnancy and confinement may entail the liability which has to be imposed on her employer can not exceed the amount that she would have earned if she had not been compelled to avail of the maternity leave and since sunday is a non working wageless day the employer can not be made to pay for that day.
he has further urged that since u s 5 1 of the act the maternity benefit has to be computed with reference to the period of the workers actual absence thereby meaning absence on days on which there was work excluding sundays and the term week in the context of sub ss 1 and 3 of s 5 of the act is to be under stood as a week of work consisting of six days and in the instant case respondent no 2 was working and earning wages for six days in a week the seventh day being a wageless holiday her claim can not be sustained.
in support of his contention.
i c 848  a i r 1975.
2 incentive bonus and 3 the money value of the concessional supply of food grains and other articles but does not include.
no woman shall work in any establishment during the six weeks immediately following the day of her delivery or miscarriage.
s 5 of the act which confers right to payment of maternity benefit on a woman worker provisions.
5 right to payment of maternity.
explanation.
no woman shall be entitled to maternity benefit unless she has actually worked in an establishment of the employer from whom she claims maternity benefit for a period of not less than one hundred and sixty days in the twelve months immediately preceding the date of her expected delivery.
provided that the qualifying period of one hundred and sixty days aforesaid shall not apply to a woman who has immigrated into the state of assam and was pregnant at the time of the immigration.
for the purpose of calculating under this sub section the days on which a woman has actually worked in the establishment the days for which she has been laid off during the period of twelve months immediately preceding the date of her expected delivery shall be taken into account.
provided that where a woman dies during this period the maternity benefit shall be payable only for the days up to and including the day of her death.
any woman employed in an establishment and entitled to maternity benefit under the provisions of this act may give notice in writing in such form as may be prescribed to her employer stating that her maternity benefit and any other amount to which she may be entitled under this act may be paid to her or to such person as she may nominate in the notice and that she will not work in any establishment during the period for which she receives maternity benefit.
3 any woman who has not given the notice when she was pregnant may give such notice as soon as possible after the delivery.
according to the explanation appended to s 51 of the act the average daily wage has to be computed taking into consideration the average of the woman s wager payable to her for the days on which she has worked during the period of three calendar months immediately preceding the date from which she absents herself on account of maternity or one rupee a day whichever is higher.
after thus finding out the average daily wage the liability of the employer in respect of the maternity benefit has to be calculated in terms of s 5 of the act for both ore natal and post natal period indicated above.
a week according to halsbury s laws of england.
bearing in mind the above mentioned dictionary or popular meaning of the term.
again the word period occurring in s 51 of the act is a strong word.
1 while absent from work on maternity leave in accordance with the provisions of art 3the woman shall be entitled to receive cash and medical benefits.
2 the rates of cash benefit shall be fixed by national laws or regulations so as to ensure benefit sufficient for the full and healthy maintenance of herself and her child in according with a suitable standard of living.
although costs have to be paid by appellant to respondent no 2 in terms of the court s order dated october 301975yet in view of the fact that the said respondent has not chosen to appear at the hearing of the case and mr k n bhat has assisted the court as amicus curiae we direct the appellant to pay rs 1000 to mr bhat as his fee.
appeal dismissed.
