act1953 bombay act.
no xxxix of 1954 declares that a particular jagir is a proprietary one a further inquiry under s 37 2 of the bombay land revenue code bombay act.
No v of 1879 with a view to determining whether the jagirdar had any rights to mines or mineral products in his jagir granted or recognised under any contract grant or law for the time being in force or by custom or usage is competent.
according to the respondent by these grants parvanas read together he was given full proprietary rights in the soil of the said villages that is to say it was a proprietary jagir that was granted to him by the then ruler.
admittedly on the coming into force of the bombay merged territories and areas jagirs abolition act1953 hereinafter referred to as the act i e with effect from respondent s daljitgarh jagir stood abolished and all his rights in the jagir villages save as expressly provided by or under the act were extinguished and the respondent became entitled to compensation under s 11 of the act.
it appears that for the purpose of implementing the provisions of the act the competent authority collector of district sabarkantha held an inquiry into the question whether the respondent s jigir was proprietary involving any right or interest in the soil or non proprietary involving mere assignment of land revenue or rent due to government under s 2 4 i of the act and having regard to the documentary and other evidence led before it the competent authority by its order dated september 81959held that the daljitgarh jagir of the respondent was a proprietary jagir.
it further appears that pursuant to an order dated november 241959passed by the mamlatdar idar an entry was made on june 181963in the relevant revenue records village form no 6 of one of the villages kapoda comprised in the jagir to the effect that the respondent s right to take out gravel and stones was recognised but the right relating to excavation of mica had been reserved and retained by the government this entry was only certified on march 301965 according to the respondent since the entries made in the revenue records in respect of his rights to mines and mineral products were not sufficient and proper and though the mamlatdar s order dated november 241959 was in respect of two villages namely kapoda and isarwada the relevant entry in respect of greval and stones had been made only in regard to village kapoda he by his application dated october 111968requested the collector sabarkantha to issue necessary orders to the mamlatdar idar to make appropriate entries regarding his rights in the minerals in village isarwada.
a similar application containing similar request was also made by the respondent to the mamlatdar taluka idar on october 41971 thereupon a notice under s 372 of the bombay land revenue code for the purpose of holding an inquiry into the rights of the respondent to mines and mineral products of the said villages claimed by the respondent wag served upon him but the respondent raised a preliminary objection that such inquiry wag misconceived and incompetent in view of the determination made under s 2 4 i of the act and having regard to the provisions of s 10 of the act his rights to mines and mineral products were expressly saved the collector of sabarkantha appellant no 2 overruled the preliminary objection and by order dated february 231973directed that the inquiry shall proceed and the respondent was directed to produce his evidence in support of his claim on a date that would be fixed and intimated to him.
aggrieved by this order passed by the collector on february 231973the respondent preferred a writ petition special civil application no 1224 of 1973 under art 227 of the constitution to the gujarat high court and writ of certiorari quashing the order dated february 231973 and a direction restraining the collector from further proceeding with the inquiry under s 372 of the land revenue code were sought.
accordingly the high court set aside the collector s order and further issued an injunction permanently restraining the state of gujarat and the collector from initiating any inquiry under s 372 in respect of the respondents rights to mines and mineral products in the said villages.
he urged that it would be for the collector acting under s 372 of the bombay land revenue code to decide the latter question in an inquiry initiated under that provision.
according to learned counsel the mere circumstance that the respondent s jagir was found under s 24.
i to be proprietary was not tantamount to the establishment by the respondent of his rights to mines and mineral products in the villages of his jagir for which there must be an actual grant or contract or law or custom or usage recognising such rights and this could only be determined by the collector by holding an inquiry under s 372 of the bombay land revenue code and therefore the high court was clearly in error in coming to the conclusion that the inquiry initiated by the second appellant under s 372 of the bombay land revenue code was incompetent or without jurisdiction.
he urged that having regard to such determination that was made by the competent authority under s 2 4 i of the act it would be clear that a further inquiry into the respondent s rights to mines and mineral products particularly gravel and stones under s 372 of the code would be misconceived and incompetent.
according to the learned counsel for the respondent unless a claim to property or rights over property was made either by the state against any person or by any person against the state there could be no occasion for the collector to held an inquiry contemplated by s 372 of the code.
he therefore urged that the high court was right in quashing the collector s order dated february 231973.
having regard to the rival contentions of the parties summarised above it will appear clear that really two questions one general and the other specific in the light of the facts obtaining in the instant case arise for our determination in this appeal.
dealing with the first question which is of a general character it is clear that the answer thereto depends upon the true scope and ambit of the inquiry under s 2 4 i of the act and to determine the same it will be necessary to consider the scheme and object of the act and in particular the purpose of the said inquiry.
s 2vii defines jagirdar as meaning a holder of a jagir village and includes his co sharer.
s 24though it forms part of a definition section contains a substantive provision which is material for our purposes and it runs thus 24.
if any question arises.
i whether a jagir is proprietary or non proprietary iiwhether any land is ghatked or jiwai or iiiwhetherany person is a permanent holder.
grant or law for the time being in force or by custom or usage.
in other words our answer to the general question raised above would be that even after the competent authority has declared a particular jagir to be a proprietary one under s 24.
i of the act a further inquiry under s 372 of the bombay land revenue code into the question whether a jagirdar had any subsisting rights to mines and mineral products in the jagir villages on the appointed date would be competent unless the grant of a right to mines and mineral products or the actual enjoyment thereof in keeping with the grant happens to be the basis of the determination under s 2 4 1 of the act.
admittedly by his previous order dated november 241959the mamlatdar of talukadar had declared that the respondent had been granted all the rights particularly the right to quarry and remove gravel and stones in isarwada and kapoda villages in the year 1947 by the idar stale and that thereafter in the years 1952 and 1953 the jagirdar had taken the produce of stone and that therefore the government could not stop him from taking out gravel and stones but that the rights to excavating mica had been retained by the state further pursuant to this order the appropriate entry had been made in the relevant village records form no 6 of village kapoda on june 181963recognising the respondents right to take out gravel and stones which entry was verified and confirmed on march 301965it was in this situation that the respondent made the aforesaid two applications one to the collector sabarkantha and the other to the mamladar taluka idar whereby relying upon the previous order of the mamlatdar dated november 241959he requested that appropriate entries pertaining to his right to gravel and stones should be similarly made in respect of village isarwada.
moreover having regard to the statement made by counsel for the respondent before us it would be unfair to subject the respondent to the further inquiry under s 372 of the code.
we may state that counsel for the respondent categorically stated before the court that his client was confining his right to excavating only one type of mineral product namely gravel and stones and that too from only two villages namely kapoda and isarwada comprised in his jagir in regard to which the mamlatdar s order dated november 241959was quite clear and therefore he urged that the further inquiry under s 372 of the code into that very right was misconceived and uncalled for.
we find considerable force in this contention.
besides while determining the proprietary nature of the grant under s 241 of the act the competent authority had on evidence led before it alluded among others to the respondent s right to excavate and sell gravel and stones and enjoyment thereof by the respondent.
appeal dismissed.
