it functions as a consulting organisation and a service industry and does not manufacture any product or carry on trade.
out of 665 employees at bombay the draftsmen and the administrative staff number 306 these workmen are members of the tata consultant employees union.
they served a charter of demands in july1974on the appellant and as their demands were not accepted and conciliation proceedings proved fruitless the state government made a reference of the dispute under s 101 dindustrial tribunal maharashtra for adjudication.
the claim of the union was resisted by the appellant who maintained that the existing wage scales were fair and reasonable on a region cum industry basis and that it would not be possible for the appellant to bear the additional financial burden if the demands of the union were accepted.
dearness allowance became payable at 10 of the basic wage subject to a minimum of rs 50 and house rent allowance at 30 of the basic salary.
in the absence of pertinent information concerning the strength of their labour force the extent of their business the financial position for some years the capital invested the precise nature of the business the position regarding reserves dividends declared and future prospects of the company the tribunal found that it was unable to rely on them as comparable concerns.
holding it impossible in the circumstances to apply the principle of industry cum region basis the tribunal turned to a consideration of the financial capacity of the company to bear an additional burden in this connection it proceeded on the footing that the appellant was a separate and independent division of tata sons limited and had no functional integrality with the other divisions.
having regard to the net profits earned by the appellant from 1968 to 1977 it found that the acceptance of the demands of the union would result in an increased burden of rs 7 crores a burden which would dry up the appellant s resources and would be impossible for it to bear.
nonetheless the tribunal observed there was every reason to expect that the appellant would be able to earn sound profits in the future and the instability in its business activities occasioned by the turbulent political situation in iran would be it was expected compensated by contracts secured in different developing countries.
for the purpose of determining the financial capacity of the appellant the tribunal followed unichem laboratories v their workmen 1972 indlaw sc 181 where it was held that the gross profits should be computed without making deductions on account of taxation development rebate and depreciation.
revising the figures on that basis it computed the annual gross profits for the years 1968 to 1977 and determined the annual average at rs 26 69 lakhs.
but it rejected the demand of the union for dearness allowance on the basis of a slab system because that would have imposed an unacceptable burden on the appellant s financial capacity and there was no reason why the existing scheme of dearness allowance should be disturbed when a substantial increase was being made in the level of the basic wage.
the tribunal also noted that after the salaries of the employees had been fixed in the respective scales senior employees would have to be given some more increments in the new scales according to their completed years of service.
taking all these factors into consideration it made an award dated 20th december1978 prescribing the following revision in the existing scales of wages.
two days after the award was made an application was made by the union stating in the said award your honour has observed at the end of para 22in view of the increase that is being allowed in the basic pay i do not propose to revise the existing scheme of dearness allowance.
further it appears that the tribunal intended to grant the increase of rs 150 to each draughtsman and rs 100 to all other workmen in their basic pay.
however this is not clearly mentioned anywhere in the award due to accidental slip or omission.
similarly the same words to each employee after the figure 100 were omitted.
sd k n wani industrial tribunal.
one is the retrospectivity attached to the revised wage scales and the other is the flat increase given to each employee of rs 150 in the category of draughtsmen and rs 100 in other categories resulting from the order dated 22nd december1978.
considering the appeal of tata consulting engineers first the contention of learned counsel for the appellant is that having regard to the financial capacity of the appellant the tribunal erred in making the wage scales retrospective and in any event in ranging the retrospectivity back to 1st january1976.
during all these years the appellant had continued to enjoy increasing profits nonetheless the emoluments received by the workmen did not receive the impress of the appellant s growing prosperity.
the charter of demands was presented by the union in july1974 and when conciliation proceedings failed the state government made the reference to the industrial tribunal in 1975 the tribunal has referred to various considerations which prevailed with it in giving retrospectivity to the revised pay scales.
they are considerations which can not be ignored.
accordingly the contention raised on behalf of the appellant against retrospectivity of the wage scales must be rejected.
it is only a clerical mistake or error which can be corrected and the clerical mistake or error must arise from an accidental slip or omission in the award.
is the instant case one where the amendment made by the tribunal in the original award can be said to correct a mere clerical mistake or error arising from an accidental slip or omission.
for the purpose of restructuring the pay scales the tribunal ruled on the paying capacity of the appellant both with reference to the profits of the preceding year as well as the prospects of the future.
a clear statement of its intention is found in paragraph 22 of the award where the tribunal stated i only propose to modify the existing structures of the scales with flat increases in each category.
and that is confirmed by what was stated in paragraph 23 of the award considering this outgoing the flat increase of rs 150 in the category of draughtsman and rs 100 in the case of the other categories would be fair.
it will be noted that the pay scales of different categories were being restructured and the flat increase envisaged there related to an increase in the general pay scales of different categories.
that the increase was pertinent to the general pay scales in the revised wage structure is patently clear from a comparison of the existing pay scales and the revised pay scales.
if as the tribunal has stated in the amendment order the increase in paragraph 23 was intended to apply to each individual workmen there is nothing in the body of the award to form the foundation on which the actual figures in the restructured pay scales can be made to rest.
considering the fitment of the workman in the revised scales it was stated in the award that a workman found drawing a salary less than the beginning of the grade would be stepped up to the beginning of the grade and if his pay fell between two steps in the reclassified pay scales the basic pay was to be fixed at the step higher in the revised scale.
conspicuous by its absence is any reference to a flat increase in the pay of an individual workmen.
even when considering the range of permissible retrospectivity the tribunal stated in the award in view of the revision of the wage scales there would be consequent increase in the dearness allowance and the house rent allowance.
january1976 this liability taken with the liability accruing on the need to increase the salaries of the other staff determined the tribunal s deliberations in regard to the several features of the award including the grant of increments related to completed periods of service the expansion of the span from 15 years to 20 years for earning increments and other benefits.
it can not be the case of the union that the figure of rs 5 lakhs mentioned in paragraph 33 of the award represented the result of adding a flat increase to the pay of each workman in addition to the benefits conferred by the revised pay scales and other awarded reliefs.
in its order of 22nd.
december1978the tribunal has referred to the statement exhibit c 51 filed by the appellant when called upon to indicate the increased financial burden apprehended by it.
in so construing the statement exhibit c 51the tribunal has grievously erred.
it seems from a perusal of the document exhibit c 51that it is a statement giving trial figures of the increased financial load on different bases.
none of the alternatives was actually adopted by the tribunal because when the award was made the tribunal proceeded instead to restructure the wage scales by the addition of rs 150 in the case of the category of draughtsmen and rs 100 in the case of other categories to the initial pay in the wage scales pertaining to those categories.
it seems that the tribunal was betrayed by a curious confusion in accepting the plea of the union that a flat increase to the pay of each workman was intended in the original wage and consequently it fell into the error of amending the award.
the evidence contained in the award throughout provides incontrovertible proof that this flat increase was never originally intended in the award.
it is wrong in principle it is said to provide a fixed dearness allowance.
reference was also made to bengal chemical pharmaceutical works limited v its workmen.
2 scr 113 1968 indlaw sc 183 now it is not a universal rule that the dearness allowance should in all cases be correlated with the cost of living index.
having regard to the not inconsiderable improvement in the level of the basic wage it observed that there would be a consequent increase in the dearness allowance and house rent allowance.
the award is a composite document in which the several elements of increased wage scales larger increments longer span of 20 years for earning increments dearness allowance at 10 of the basic wage besides several other benefits have been integrated into a balanced arrangement in keeping with what the tribunal has found to be the financial capacity of the appellant.
civil appeal no 2300 of 1979 is dismissed.
chinnappa reddy j we have had the advantage of perusing the judgment prepared by our learned brother pathak j we agree with him that civil appeal no 2300 of 1979 should be dismissed.
further it appears that the tribunal intended to grant the increase of rs 150 to each draughtsman and rs 100 to all other workmen in their basic pay.
even so we propose to examine whether the correction sought by the employees union was within the bounds of the authority of the tribunal or whether it was in effect a fresh award.
implicit and intrinsically connected with the question of revision of the wage scales were the questions of fitment of employees into the wage scales and flat or ad hoc increase of salaries of workmen wherever considered necessary.
in the present case the industrial tribunal on a consideration of the material placed before it came to the conclusion that the company was in an undoubted position to bear the additional financial burden.
at the end of paragraph 15 of the award the tribunal stated but there can be no doubt that the company can very well bear the additional burden.
c 27 indicates the important projects the company was handling in india and abroad and the amount of foreign exchange earned and repatriated.
after expressing himself in categoric terms about the capacity of the company to bear the additional financial burden the tribunal went on to say i only propose to modify the existing structure of the scales with flat increases in each category.
ii employees who have completed 4 years of service as on 1st january19762 increments.
all other employees with more than one year s service shall be given one increment.
a board court labour court tribunal or arbitrator may at any time suo moto or on an application made by any of the parties concerned may correct any clerical mistake or error arising from an accidental slip or omission in any proceedings report award or as the case may be decision.
we have already indicated that we agree with our brother pathak j that the appeal civil appeal no 2300 of 1979 filed by the workmen should also be dismissed.
