he made representation to the additional chief engineer for cancelling his transfer order on the ground that his mother aged 70 years was ailing and it would cause great inconvenience to him if he was required to join at ukai.
his representation was rejected and he was directed to join at ukai but he did not do so instead he filed a civil suit at baroda challenging validity of the order of transfer.
a learned single judge of the high court quashed the order of termination on the findings that the order of discharge was issued m violation of the basic principles of natural justice as no opportunity was afforded to the respondent before discharging him from services under regulation no 113.
the learned single judge granted a declaration in respondent s favour holding the order void and illegal but having regard to recalcitrant attitude of the appellant and his continued conduct of disobedience of the orders of his superior authorities he refused to grant consequential reliefs regarding reinstatement or payment of back wages.
a division bench of the high court dismissed the appeal preferred by the appellants but it allowed the respondent s appeal.
sh b k mehta advocate appearing for the appellants and sh.
after hearing learned counsel for the parties we were satisfied that the learned single judge as well as the division bench both had committed error in allowing the writ petition and granting relief to the respondent.
however in the interest of justice we permitted the respondent to file written submissions if any in support of his case.
in the instant case on the conclusion of the oral hearing we had expressed our opinion on 28 1 1988 in the open court that we were inclined to allow the appeal and set aside the order of the high court and dismiss the writ petition but taking a sympathetic view we requested sh.
the respondent s prayer is accordingly rejected and since oral hearing has already been completed and in spite of several adjournments respondent failed to appear before the court or to file the written submissions we proceed to decide the case on merits.
no government servant or employee of public undertaking has legal tight for being posted at any particular place.
if the order of transfer is not stayed modified or cancelled the concerned public servant must carry out the order of transfer.
in the absence of any stay of the transfer order a public servant has no justification to avoid or evade the transfer order merely on the ground of having made a representation or on the ground of his difficulty in moving from one place to the other.
the respondent lost his service as he refused to comply with the order of his transfer from one place to the other.
in fact during the tenure of his service in the board the respondent had been transferred from one place to another place several times.
the above rule provides that if an employee of the gujarat electricity board continues to remain absent from duty or overstays the period of sanctioned leave and in spite of warning he fails to return to duty he renders himself liable to be discharged summarily from service without complying with the procedure prescribed for taking disciplinary action under the gujarat electricity board conduct discipline and appeal procedure.
it is noteworthy that the validity of regulation 113 was not challenged before the high court and the parties proceeded on the assumption that regulation 113 was valid and applicable to the respondent s service.
the division bench of the high court held that no warning as contemplated by service regulation no 113 had been issued to the respondent nor he had been afforded any opportunity of showing cause before the impugned order of discharge was passed and consequently the order of discharge was null and void being contrary to service regulation no 113 itself.
on perusal of the material on record we are of the opinion that the view taken by the high court is not sustainable as there is sufficient material on record which shows that warning had been issued to the respondent before the order of discharge was issued.
on march 291974 the superintending engineer of the board issued the order transferring the respondent from surat to ukai on 30 3 1974 the respondent was relieved from surat and directed to join his duty at ukai but the respondent did not join his duty at the new place of posting.
instead he made a representation to the additional chief engineer on 8 4 1974 after the transfer order.
the transfer order was not stayed and as the respondent did not join his duties he continued to be absent without sanction of any leave.
in this situation the superintending engineer by his letter dated 18th april1974 directed the respondent to show cause as to why action should not be taken against him for disobeying the order of transfer and also for unauthorised absence from duty in breach of service regulation.
you have been relieved on 30 3 1974 a n on account of your transfer from surat to ukai but you have not reported to ukai till today and remained on unauthorised absence on relief which is breach of s r no 112 and 113 please submit your explanation as to why action should not be taken against you for disobeying order of superior and breach of s r no 112 and 113 within 7 days from receipt of this letter.
by that letter respondent stated that he was waiting for the decision of his representation made for reconsideration of his transfer from surat to ukai and therefore the question of his remaining on unauthorised leave was misconceived.
but even thereafter the respondent did not join his duties.
ultimately the chief engineer of the board took action against the respondent and discharged him from service with effect from 31 3 1974 by his letter dated may 271974.
in fact the superintending engineer had by his letter dated 18th april1974 clearly reminded the respondent that his unauthorised absence was in breach of service regulation no 113 and called upon to show cause why action should not be taken against him but in spite of these letters the respondent failed to join his duties.
the registered cover containing the letter dated 24 4 1974 was returned back by the postal authorities with an endorsement that the addressee refused to accept the same.
firstly even if the letter dated 24 4 1974 was not served on the respondent there is no dispute that the superintending engineer s letter dated 18th april1974 had been served on him.
by that letter warning as contemplated by regulation no 113 had been issued to the respondent.
no 113 the learned single judge as well as the division bench both erred in law in setting aside the order of discharge.
the respondent has been paid a sum of rs 104170 towards salary under the interim orders of this court.
