prevention act1987 hereinafter referred to as tada by the learned designated judge pune.
10 years ri and a fine of rs 5000 each for the offence under section 307149 ipc 2 years ri for the offence under section 324149 ipc and life imprisonment and fine of rs 5000 each for the offence under section 3 of tada in default of payment of fine on each of the counts the appellants were to undergo further ri for two years each.
one accused died during the pendency of the trial.
according to the prosecution case on 11th august1990 at about 3 00 p m anna shety band patte mukesh ramesh and prakash band patte had gone to the vrindavan video parlour for watching a movie.
there was an altercation between the accused and the complainant party when the leg of kaka dombe a 11 dashed against the leg of anna shety band patte.
pw both the prosecution witnesses as well as.
at about 4 00 p m the appellants and other accused persons allegedly armed with swords satturs and sticks arrived there in two auto rickshaws and one jeep.
appellants a 5a 10 and a 11 thereafter assaulted bajrang band patte pw 14 on his head in front of the hotel.
he ran away to conceal himself.
bajrang pw 14 was taken to the hospital by waman pw 15ramesh pw 11 and prakash pw 2whereas popat deceased who was seriously injured and had fallen down unconscious after receipt of the injuries was removed to the hospital by the police when it arrived at the spot a little later.
all the injured persons were admitted to the hospital.
police inspector joshi arrived at the hospital and baban karpe pw 9 narrated the occurrence to him which was reduced into writing.
bajrang pw 14 regained consciousness during the night intervening 11th and 12th august1990 and made a statement to the police in respect of the incident which took place in front of jagdamba hotel and on the basis of that statement cr no 10290 was registered.
an auto rickshaw bearing registration no mwq 5624 belonging to manik bhende gavali was found abandoned in a damaged condition with broken glasses.
a 10 also made a disclosure statement under section 27 of the evidence act to the effect that he had buried a sword behind yamai tukai temple and could get it recovered.
on the pointing out by a 10the said sword was also recovered and taken into possession through a panchnama.
during the investigation an identification parade was got conducted through the executive magistrate pw 32 when baban karpe pw 9 and other prosecution witnesses identified the assailants.
samples of blood of the accused were collected for ascertaining their blood groups and sent for chemical analysis.
the blood samples of bajrang pw 14 and baban karpe pw 9 were similarly collected.
after completion of the investigation two charge sheets arising out of crime no 10190 and crime no 10290 were filed before the designated court.
at the trial the prosecution alleged that the accused party with an intent to commit terror in the wadar community had committed the murder of popat and injured pw 9 and pw 14by using lethal weapons and had thereby committed terror in the wadar community and thus committed an offence under section 3 of tada besides the other offences as already noticed.
according to a 2a 3a 5a 6 and a 7 they had been identified by pw 9during the identification parade at the instance of the police.
a 4 alleged false implication at the instance of pw 15 waman while a 8 alleged false implication at the hands of the police with a view to pressurise him to withdraw a complaint concerning the murder of his brother and 5 others allegedly committed by the police.
according to pw 22the internal injuries on the deceased were a result of the following external injuries 1 incised wound transverse on left groin at centre medial to left public symphysis and left superior iliac crest all muscles vessels cut both femoral vessels vein artery cut dimension 4 x 2 x 5 cms.
3 verticle incised wound 5 x 1 x 1 cms.
bone deep at centre of vertex fracture of skull with laceration of brain.
pw 9 was examined by dr khiste pw 22 who noticed the following two injuries on his person 1 transverse superficial incised wound 10x12 cm on posterior of left knee in popliteal.
2 abraded contusion below right knee and front of right leg5 x 5 cm.
in view of the altercation the complainants left the video parlour and went towards jagdamba hotel.
some of the prosecution witnesses including the deceased pw9 and pw14 were already standing near the jagdamba hotel.
however according to the prosecution evidence itself during the assault none out of the four prosecution witnesses with whom the altercation had taken place at the video parlour was injured.
near the jagdamba hotel it was bajrang pw 14 who received the injuries at the hands of the accused.
the evidence of pw10pw 11 and pw 12 has received ample corroboration from the testimony of pw 9pw 13pw 14 and pw 15who deposed that while the witnesses were narrating the incident of the video parlour to waman band patte pw 15 and other witnesses present there the accused party arrived in a jeep and two auto rickshaws variously armed and opened an attack on the complainant party with a view to teach them a lesson for the altercation which had taken place earlier at the video parlour.
public prosecutor.
even from the evidence of the hostile witness pw 19 mohanlal it emerges that on the day of the incident there was an altercation at the video parlour though he has given the cause of the altercation to be somewhat different which explanation does not appeal to us.
even if for the sake of argument we were to ignore the evidence of pw19it would not materially affect the prosecution case in so faras the incident at the video parlour is concerned.
these are thus the stamped witnesses whose presence admits of no doubt and being themselves the victims they would not leave out the real assailants and substitute them with innocent persons.
from the testimony of pw9it stands established that while mukesh pw 12 was narrating the incident which had taken place at the video parlour the appellants alongwith 78 other persons arrived in a jeep and two auto rickshaws armed with swords satturs and sticks and opened the assault on the prosecution witnesses and that a 11 and his two associates assaulted pw 14 with swords.
his testimony receives ample corroboration from the testimony of pw10pw11pw14 and pw15 waman the proprietor of jagdamba hotel besides the medical evidence.
an identification parade had been held by shri shrikant chimanaji jahagirdar pw 32executive magistrate.
at the identification parade a 5 was identified by pw 9pw10pw 11pw 14 and pw 15 a 10 by pws 10 to 15 a 11 by pw 3 and pws 9 to 15 a 1 by pws 10 to 15 a 8 and a 9 by pw 3 and by pws 10 to 15.
we agree.
from our independent analytical appreciation of the evidence on the record we are of the opinion that the designated court rightly found the participation of a 1a 5a 8a 9 and a 11in the assault to have been positively established.
however so far as a 10 is concerned we find that there is merit in the submissions of the learned counsel for the appellant that his identify and participation in the assault has not been established beyond a reasonable doubt.
baban karpe pw 9himself an injured witness failed to identify a 10 at the time of the identification parade held by pw 32though he identified a 10 later on in the court during the trial.
even bajrang pw 14 who is an injured witness himself and deposed about the incident at jagdamba hotel with sufficient details appears to have exaggerated the version when he stated that he had been assaulted by a 10 also besides a 5 and a 11 auite contrary to his earlier statement.
there is only one injury which was received by pw 14 and according to the other prosecution witnesses that injury had been caused to him by a 11 the tendency to exaggerate the incident is not uncommon and that an innocent person may be roped in alongwith the guilty ones is a possibility which cannot in the facts and circumstances of this case be ruled out.
the prosecution has not been able to establish the case against a 10 beyond a reasonable doubt and is our opinion he is entitled to the benefit of the doubt.
besides the testimony of these prosecution witnesses has received ample corroboration from the medical evidence as well as the recoveries of the weapons of offence.
the victims it appears from the record belong to the wadar community.
in our opinion the designated court fell in error in holding that an offence under section 3 of tada had been committed by the accused appellants in the established facts and circumstances of this case.
can it be said that the accused had the intention to strike terror much less in a particular section of the society when they entered into an altercation at the video parlour or even when they went after the complainant party and opened an assault on then opposite jagdamba hotel or at the math.
none out of those who were present at the video parlour received any injury and there is no material on the record to show as to which community did they belong to either.
emphasis supplied.
before we part with the judgment we would also like to deal with a submission made on behalf of the appellants by their learned counsel that since the offence under section 3 of tada is not made out the criminal appeal filed in this court may be transferred to the high court for its disposal in exercise of our jurisdiction under article 142 of the constitution of india for the reason that a first appeal against conviction and sentence recorded for various offences under the indian penal code by the sessions court lies to the high court.
a bare perusal of the above section shows that an appeal against the judgment sentence or order of the designated court except an interlocutory order shall lie on facts and on law to the supreme court and that no appeal or revision shall lie to any other court.
