on april 241954sen.
by agreement dated december 291962sen raleigh and the respondents agreed that sen raleigh was registered user for further period up to 1976 sen raleigh was taken over by the government of india on september 81975 under the idr act and the government took over the management of sen raleigh limited.
an agreement dated december 201976 was entered into between the appellant as registered user and the respondent in respect of 12 trade marks for a period of 5 years.
on march 51982the respondent wrote a letter to the appellant that in the absence of a new agreement they were instructing their advocate to prevent the appellant by restraint proceedings to use the trade mark effective from april 11982.
a continuous period of 5 years or longer had passed and the trade mark had not been bona fide used by the respondent.
by proceedings dated june 131984the registrar of trade marks informed the appellant that the registered user s applications were abandoned since the appellant failed to comply with the statutory requirements.
after termination of the collaboration and user agreement between the appellant and the respondents it was likely to cause confusion and deception amongst the trade and public.
shri raju ramchandran learned senior counsel for the appellant raised three fold contentions.
it is his pivotal contention that undisputedly when the respondent was not in urge of trade mark as a registered proprietor or its agent sen raleigh as permitted user for a period of 5 years immediately preceding the date of the application u s 46 for removal of the trade mark from the register there was no bona fide user thereof in relation to those goods by the proprietor himself.
the appellant can not be said to be either the proprietor of the trade mark since 1976since the agreement lapsed or permitted user  the high court therefore was wrong in holding that 5 years period had not lapsed.
it is contended that the registered user must be understood to be the user by the proprietor or authorized user registered under section 48 the period of 5 years should be computed from that date of expiry of registered user.
he further contended that the special circumstances enumerated in sub s 3 of s 46 must be such that the respondents had intended to use the registered trade mark.
for over a long period the trade mark was not used by the respondents as its registered proprietor.
in the absence of such a findings the high court was wrong in law in refusing to rectify the trade mark and striking it off the register.
in normal circumstances when it is established that the trade mark was not used either by the registered proprietor or the permitted user the public interest of supply of the quality of the goods marketed by the appellant should be taken into factual consideration for removal of the trade mark from the register.
according to the learned counsel the respondents have collaboration agreement with sen raleigh which was taken over by the government under idr act and the appellant came to manufacture with the technical know how supplied by the respondents the raleigh bicycles under the trade mark registered by the respondents in the register of the registrar under the act.
admitted position is that the respondent being the registered proprietor until it is proved that its trade mark was not used to pass off the goods manufactured by the appellant and that the appellant had discontinued the user and 5 years lapsed thereafter the non use of the trade mark continues thereafter the rectification application u s 46 1b would be ordered.
in view of the prohibition to import bicycles the respondent was prevented to use the trade mark but by collaboration agreement it was continuing to use the trade mark by the permitted user.
the special circumstance is that the appellant filed an application for registration u s 481 and continued it till it was abandoned.
in view of the diverse contentions the question arises whether the high court was right in refusing to rectify and strike off the trade marks of the respondents from the register of trade marks.
s 461b reads as under.
46 removal from register and imposition of limitations on ground of non use  1.
it would thus be apparent that subject to section 46for a registered trade mark up to date within one month before the date of making application for rectification for a continuous period of 5 years or longer if registered trade mark had not been use during that period there was no bona fide user in relation to those goods by the proprietor thereof for the time being.
the trade mark should be taken off and struck out form the register of trade marks in respect of any goods in respect of which the trade mark is registered sub s 3 enables the registered proprietor to show special circumstances for the non use of the trade mark due to which circumstances in the trade he could not use the trade mark for the above period and not with any intention to abandon the use of trade mark or not to use the trade mark in relation to good to which the application for rectification relates.
it means the use of the trade mark by a registered user of the trade mark in relation to good with which he is connected in the course of trade and in respect of which the trade mark remains registered for the time being and for which he is registered as a registered user and which complies with any conditions or restrictions to which the registration of the trade marks is subjected to.
s 48 1 envisages that subject to the provisions of section 49a person other than the registered proprietor of a trade mark may be registered as a registered user thereof in respect of any or all of the goods in respect of which the trade mark is registered otherwise than as defensive trade mark.
it would therefore be clear that a permitted use of the trade mark should be done under sub s 1 of section 48 it.
it is not in dispute that till date of filing of the application the appellant used the trade mark in passing off the bicycles under the trade mark of the respondent.
it requires to be prevented and prohibited.
it is a question of fact in every case.
it appears that even an unregistered licensee so long as there is unbroken connection in the course of the trade between the licensor and the passing off lincesee s goods under the trade mark there would be sufficient connection in the course of the trade between the proprietor and bona fide user of the trade mark by unregistered user.
the appellant must be presumed by course of conduct that he is a bona fide user for the purpose of s 461b.
it is true that the burden flies on the registered proprietor of the trade mark to establish the exceptions provided under s 463 equally the applicant for rectification also prima facie shows non user for the relevant period.
though there was a ban on impart of the raleigh cycles manufactured outside india and passed off under the registered mark of the respondents as a registered proprietor the circumstances do not attracted sub section 3 of s 46 to relieve the respondents to establish non user but on the facts of this case we have the admitted position that sen raleigh admittedly was a registered user through which the appellant had bona fide used the registered trade mark of the registered proprietor there is no discontinuance or non use of the trade mark by the respondent to establish the special circumstances in this case.
it is also not necessary to go into the question whether the application filed by the appellant u s 481 and its pendency would be a special circumstance in favour of the respondent.
in these circumstances we are of the view that the high court has properly exercised its discretion and refused to rectify and strike off the trade mark from the register of trade marks of the registrar.
