the appellant sent a reminder to the government on 26 8 1995 for permission for starting the college for the academic year 1995 96 and ultimately the government refused permission by informing the appellant by a letter dated 16 8 1996 as follows.
in inviting your attention to the reference cited i am to inform you that government regret their inability to comply with your request.
the direction to pass a fresh order of affiliation was issued in view of the fact that the university contended before the learned single judge that unless the government granted approval permanent affiliation could not be granted.
against the said judgment of the learned single judge the commis sioner and secretary of the government higher education department filed writ appeal no 1024 of 1997 the division bench of the high court allowed the appeal and set aside the order of the government and dismissed the writ petition.
it is against the abovesaid judgment of the division bench that this appeal has been preferred.
sri t l vishwanatha.
in so far as institutions imparting technical education were concerned the university or the state government had no independent role to play except to the extent provided in the above said enactment in the present case the aicte had made inspections and was satisfied that the necessary infrastructure was available and that the appellant would be able to conform to the required standards of the education.
according to the learned senior counsel it was indeed not necessary for the appellant to have applied to the state government for any further sanction to establish the college.
it might be that under the relevant statutes of the university the university was required to obtain the views of the state government but that did not amount to requiring any approval of the state government and indeed if any such statute required the approval of the state government it would be void in view of what was stated by this court in state of tamil nadu.
another v adhiyaman educational research institute.
othersl995 4 scc 104 1995 indlaw sc 1631.
even though the appellant trust was not seeking aid from the government and even assuming that it was financially self sufficient it would not be in the interests of the students employment to permit new engineering colleges to be established.
if more approvals were granted it might lead to commercialisation of education.
the following points arise for consideration 1.
2 whether the orders of rejection passed by the state government were valid on merits and whether the university should have granted further orders to continue the affiliation solely on the basis of the aicte permission.
but in the context of s 10k regarding approval for starting a technical institution certain aspects of the judgment need to be highlighted.
before we refer to the abovesaid judgment it will be necessary to refer to certain provisions of the aicte act and the relevant regulations.
for the purposes of performing its functions under the act the council may a undertake survey in various fields of technical education collect data on all related matters and make forecast of the needed growth and development in technical education b coordinate the development of technical education in the country at all levels c allocate and disburse out of the fund of the council such grants on such terms and conditions as it may think fit to i technical institutions and ii universities imparting technical education in coordination with the commission d promote innovations research and development in established and new technologies generation adoption and adaptation of new technologies to meet developmental requirements and for overall improve ment of educational processes e formulate schemes for promoting technical education for women handicapped and weaker sections of the society f promote an effective link between technical education system and other relevant systems including research and development organisations industry and the community g evolve suitable performance appraisal systems for technical institutions and universities imparting technical education incorpo rating norms and mechanisms for enforcing accountability h formulate schemes for the initial and in service training of teachers and identify institutions or centres and set up new centres for offering staff development programmes including continuing education of teachers i lay down norms and standards for courses curricula physical and instructional facilities staff pattern staff qualifications quality instructions assessment and examinations j fix norms and guidelines for charging tuition and other fees.
the clause in s 101 which is important in the present case is subcl k of s 101 and it provides that the council might grant approval for starting new technical institutions and for introduction of new courses or programmes in consultation with the agencies concerned.
cl s to declare technical institutions as fit to receive grants cl t to advice for declaring institutions to be deemed as universities cl u to set up a national board of accreditation.
regulation 2 states that these regulations will be applicable to proposals relating to a grant of approval of the council for establishment of new technical institutions including universities or university depart ments and deemed universities and for technical institutions function ing on the date of commencement of these regulations at degree and diploma levels b grant of approval of the council for introduction of any course or programme in the technical institutions and technical departments or universities or deemed universities c grant of approval of the council for existing intake capacity of seats and for increase in the annual intake capacity of seats in courses and programmes.
reg 84.
i the state government concerned ii the affiliating university state board of technical education iii bureaus mpcd iv bureau bos v bureau ra vi the regional office.
on the recommendation of the central task force the council shall decide the question of grant of approval as sought for in the application.
as stated earlier the above provisions of the aicte act came up for consideration in state of tamil nadu v adhiyaman educational research institute1995 4 scc 104 1995 indlaw sc 1631.
at that time in 1984the aicte act was not on the statute book.
88 later on these permissions were withdrawn by the state after issuing show cause on 16 7 89 so did the university on 26 7 89 but by that date the aicte act1987 had come into force.
the tamil nadu act was of 1976 and the university act was of 1923 and were laws referable to the list.
iii whether.
they were preconstitutional or a post constitutional laws they would be repugnant to the aicte act passed by parliament under entry 66 of list.
i in the above case this court referred to the various provisions of the aicte act and on the question of repugnancy held as follows.
hence on the subjects covered by the statute the state could not make a law under entry 25 of list iii after the forty second amendment.
if there was any such existing law immediately before the commencement of the constitution within the meaning of art 372 of the constitution as the madras university act 1923 on the enactment of the present central act the provisions of the said law if repugnant to the provisions of the central act would stand impliedly repealed to the extent of repugnancy.
granting approval for starting new technical institution.
inspection of technical institution which are matters covered by the central act.
all that was necessary was that under the regulations the aicte council had to consult them.
the question is as to how far the judgment in the tamil nadu case is to be applied in the state of kerala.
learned additional solicitor general stated before us that there was no statute in the state of kerala corresponding to the tamil nadu act of 1976 nor any other law which specifically required the approval of the state government.
we have already pointed out under point 1 that in the tamil nadu case s 10k of the aicte act was referred to and the power of approval for establishing a technical institution was considered in our opinion even if there was a state law in the state of kerala which required the approval of the state government for establishing technical institutions such a law would have been repugnant to the aicte act and void to that extent as held in the tamil nadu case.
after considering the report of the commission and the report of the local inquiry if any and after making such further inquiry as it may deem necessary the syndicate shall decide after ascer taining the view of the government also whether the affiliation be granted or refused either in whole or part.
in case affiliation is granted the fact shall be reported to the senate at its next meet ing.
it will be noticed that cl 97 of the statute required that before the university took a decision on affiliationit had to ascertain the views of the state government.
as held in the tamil nadu case the central act of 1987 and in particular s 10k occupied the field relating the grant of approvals for establishing technical institutions and the provisions of the central act alone were to be complied with.
so far as the provisions of the mahatma gandhi university act or its statutes were concerned and in particular statute 97they merely required the university to obtain the views of the state government.
if indeed the university statute could be so inter preted such a provision requiring approval of the state government would be repugnant to the provisions of s 10k of the aicte act1987 and would again be void.
as pointed out in the tamil nadu case there were enough provisions in the central act for consultation by the council of the aicte with various agencies including the state governments and the universities concerned.
in case of difference of opinion as between the various consultees the aicte would have to go by the views of the central task force.
if the university statute required approvalit would have been repugnant to the aicte act.
point 2.
the aicte had granted condition approval and the conditions were specified in annexure.
the appellant had sent a reminder on 26 8 95 the state in its letter dated 16 8 96 to the appellant merely stated that government regret their inability to comply with your request.
no reasons were assigned in the said letter.
the all india council for technical education and the mahatma gandhi university have sought for the remarks of the state government.
we have already referred to these details.
as already stated in view of the judgment of this court in tamil nadu case it is obvious that there is no need to approach the state of kerala for its approval for starting the engineering colleges.
even on merits the reasons given by the state government in its counter are not tenable in law.
the secretary technical education of the state of kerala was also a member of that committee.
it is therefore not under standable how the director had given a contrary opinion to the state government.
in case there was difference between the state government university or the regional committee the central task force was to make a final recommen dation under regulation.
the letter of approval of the aicte dated 30 4 95 showed that the central task force had given its approval.
if the state government had any other valid objections its only remedy was to place its objections before the aicte council under the aicte act or before the committees e g state level committee etc.
decision of university in not granting further or fined affiliation wrong on merits.
the appeal is allowed and disposed of as stated above.
