a suit was filed in s c suit no 493 of 1986 in the bombay city civil court bombay by vicco laboratories appellant herein manufacturers of ayurvedic pharmaceutical products against defendant nos 1 to 4respondents herein for a declaration that the title and format of the suit serial yeh jo hai zindagi exclusively belonged to them and respondents nos 1 to 4 have no right thereto and for permanent injunction restraining the said respondents from making use of the title or episodes belonging to the petitioners or any episodes hereafter made.
the 2nd respondent is a director andor partner of the 1st respondent and has mainly dealt with the petitioners on behalf of the 1st respondent.
the petitioners had employed the respondent nos 1 to 4 as their advertising agents through the petitioners sister concern m s modern advertising agency and uta advertising agency and were dealing with the respondent no 1 mainly through the petitioners managing director g k pendharkar.
the petitioners are also pioneers in making use of doordarshan for advertising their products through the agency of the 1st respondent approached the 1st respondent to act as their agents for the purpose of producing a serial which would be shown as petitioners sponsored programme.
pursuant to the said arrangement the respondent nos 1 to 4 as the agents of the petitioners prepared at the costs and expenses of the petitioners a serial entitled yeh jo hai zindagi.
the petitioners claimed that as a result of the employment of the respondent nos 1 to 4 and the finances paid by them the petitioners are the owners of the said serial yeh jo hai zindagi and the title thereof.
further the said respondents had been recovering the cost of production well in advance of the serial episodes being actually produced.
01 january 1985 the petitioners though not required to do so made an ex gratia payment to respondent nos 1 to 4 of a portion of the royalty received by them from the said m s esquire distributing and servicing pvt.
1st and 2nd respondents had by their letter dated 14 december 1984 confirmed that the petitioners have all t v and video rights of the sponsored programme in hindi yeh jo hai zindagi and vest with the petitioners.
though original agreement was to have 27 episodes but having regard to the popularity of the programme the petitioners decided to increase the said serial to 52 episodes and by a letter dated 22 april 1985 the petitioners informed respondent nos 1 and 2 that in the title of the 27th and 28th episodes it has been stated that it is presented by oberoi films.
however the petitioners were not interested in the same as they wanted the serial to project their products only exclusively and did not agree to any other products being tied up with the said serial.
by their letter dated 02 january 1986 the petitioners informed the 1st and 2nd respondents that it was not possible to increase the costs of production for the episodes and that in the circumstances the production of the serial may stop.
it was also pointed out that the name yeh jo hai zindagi is associated with the vicco laboratories and that if they wanted to obtain another sponsor they could produce a new serial under a different name.
apart from raising the question of valuation of the suit and the pecuniary jurisdiction of the court to try the same they also raised question that the petitioners are not the owners of the copyright in the said serial within the meaning of s 17 of the copyright act1957 and the copyright in respect of the said serial belongs and vests with the respondent nos 1 to 4.
consistently with the said intention further the master cassette of the said serial at all relevant times remained exclusively with the respondents and not with the petitioners and the petitioners paid to the respondents 50 of the royalty received from m s esquire distributing and servicing pvt.
ltd under the agreement dated 1 januray 198504 march 1985 and 16 september 1985 the advertisements issued by the petitioners themselves in various newspapers to give wide publicity to the said serial would indicate that the serial mentioned these respondents are the owners of the copyright in respect of the said serial and the petitioners claim in that behalf is devoid of any substance.
in the course of his business the 2nd respondent has developed contacts and connections with important and renowned personalities artists technicians etc in the film industry.
in the year 1983the said proprietary firm was converted into a private limited company which is the 1st respondent in the present suit and the 2nd respondent constituted respondent nos 3 and 4 as his proprietary firm.
about 18 years ago before filing of the suit the respondents came into contact with the petitioners initially as clients in connection with the job of advertisement of their products on all india radio theatre and films and later on television.
in course of time the 2nd respondent and partners of the petitioners especially g k pendharkar came very close to each other and developed very intimate relations.
either at the end of 1983 or early part of 1984the 5th respondent through the said doorsarshan decided to introduce the production of films or serials especially for exhibitions on tv instead of exhibiting telecasting films produced by the professional film producers on payment of exorbitant royalty to them partly as an economy measure and partly to provide avenues to and exposure new talents.
as against the regular rates charge of rs 324000 for display of advertisements on tv of such advertisers for 120 seconds per telecast the relevant time at the rate of rs 35000 only for 120 seconds in addition to the royalty or consideration payable to the producers of such films or serials which invariably was far less than the difference between the usual rates and concession rates of advertisements.
after a number of meetings between the 2nd respondent and the concerned officers and the authorities of the respondents at delhi in connection with the said proposal approved a pilot i e the first episode as sample on 19 september 1984 to produce a tv serial comprising 52 episodes subject of course to the 5th respondent discretion to discontinue the same if the same proved a flop before the expiry of the stipulated period.
after finalizing the proposal by the tv authorities respondent no 2 asked the petitioners as to whether they were interested in the linking up their ads with the said serial.
petitioners agreed to link up their ads with 26 episodes of the said serial.
in these circumstances the respondents contended that by entering into the said agreement of sponsorship neither the petitioners nor the respondents created nor did they ever intend to create any relationship of employer and employee andor master and servant or principal and agent between the petitioners on the one hand and the respondents no 1 to 4 on the other.
the petitioners by their letter dated 02 january 1987 turned down the respondents demand and informed the respondents that they had no objection if the respondents went ahead with the production of the said serial and merely requested the respondents that the title of the said serial yeh jo hai zindagi may not be used by the respondents.
on these grounds the respondents contended that the suit of the petitioners is misconceived malicious and baseless and is liable to be dismissed.
3 do the plaintiffs prove that the entire serial rights including the excluding the exclusive right to use the title thereof belong to the plaintiffs as alleged.
4 are defendant nos 1 to 4 entitled to deny the ownership of the plaintiffs of the film.
7 does.
9 are.
11 to what relief if any are the plaintiffs entitled.
12 what order.
after examining the oral and documentary evidence on record it is disclosed that prior to letter sent on 11 july 1984 the petitioners were acquainted even with the format of the suit serial they did not have any connection with the suit serial till that date and relied upon the wording used therein to the effect that you and mr g k pendharkar are requested to join mr oberoi and his creative team when the format of the proposed half and hour sponsored programme shall be presented to you.
exhibit g 1 which is exhibit 27 a in the petitioners compilation is a letter written by shri s p agrawal controller of programmes of doordarshan to respondent no 1m s art commercia with reference to the format for the proposed serial of half and hour duration tentatively titled musibat hai serial sent to them on 13 july 1984 since the letter was addressed to m s art commercia in which the proposal was accepted for production of the serial and the first episode was to be sent for preview and approval which would be given only after seeing the recording of the first episode.
the trial court also relied on exhibit c 1 which indicated that the respondents were submitting a format for the serial which was to be registered on behalf of the client m s vicco laboratories.
the trial court ultimately came to the conclusion that the spade work on the production of the suit serial had already started before 11 july 1984 and on that day for the first time film was presented to the petitioners.
it was therefore found that there was no copy right attached to any idea but copy right is attached to the work and what is important is that not only the idea of producing the suit serial on tv came to the mind of respondent no 2 but he had already started working on it in advance and forwarded it to doordarshan for its approval.
the trial court examined in detail the letter dated 19 july 1984 exhibit f 1 written by shri g k pendharkar of the petitioners and concluded that averments made in the plaint stated that the original agreement was to have 27 episodes but having regard to the popularity of the serial programme the petitioners decided to increase the said serial to 52 episodes.
thus it was found that the first 26 episodes the amount per episode paid by the petitioners was rs 120000 and each bill contained the expression service charges which was stated by the appellants that the respondents acted as agents of the petitioners for production of suit serial.
2 the bills of cost of production.
4 contracts with doordarshan.
5 contractd with esquire distributing servicing pvt ltd.
2 that the petitioners had agreed to sponsor only 26 episodes whereas the respondents had agreed to produce 52 episodes and had given a firm commitment to that effect to doordarshan as is clear from the letter dated 12 july 1984 sent by the respondents to doordarshan.
4 that the courts below have refuted the claim of the petitioners that the bill dated 19 march 1984 establishes the fact that the production work had been started by the respondents at the behest of the petitioners.
