3 and 4 are diploma holders in civil engineering.
allegedly from their salary provident fund was being deducted.
a dispute arose as to whether all the appellants were employed for the purpose of the said project or the appellants in civil appeal no 337 of 2002 were appointed in the year 1991 by the authority for its own job.
an industrial dispute was raised by the appellants herein as their services were not being regularized by the respondent.
respondents had also mentioned in their claim that there was a proposal to hand over the colony of oda project to indore municipal corporation.
aggrieved by and dissatisfied with the said award the respondent authority herein filed a writ petition before the madhya pradesh high court indore bench which was marked as writ petition no 1188 of 1997.
by reason of the impugned judgment dated 26 4 2000 the said writ petition was allowed.
the high court accepted the contention of the respondent authority that the appellants were not appointed against the sanctioned posts and their services were taken on account of the said oda project which was implemented through the agency of the respondent authority.
as regard the application of the madhya pradesh industrial employment standing orders act 1961 for short the 1961 act and the rules framed there under known as m p industrial employment standing order rules 1963 for short the 1963 rules it was observed that although there was no specific pleadings raised in this behalf by the respondents therein nor any question having been referred to the labour court by the state government touching the said issue it committed an error in granting relief to them on the basis thereof on its own motion.
despite the same the high court went into the question of applicability of the said act and held that the 1961 act and the 1963 rules had no application.
before the high court various documents were produced by the appellants herein to show the nature of their employment but the same had not been taken on records by the high court.
as regard application of the doctrine of equal pay for equal work it was held to be not applicable as the appellants were not entitled to absorption or classification in terms of the 1961 act and the 1963 rules.
dr rajiv dhawan learned senior counsel appearing on behalf of the appellants in civil appeal no 337 of 2002 and mr m n rao learned senior counsel appearing on behalf of the appellants in civil appeal no 335 of 2002 took us through materials on records and contended that the appellants herein became permanent employees of the respondents having regard to the provisions contained in section 2 of the 1961 act and order 2i and 2vi of the standard standing orders as set out in the annexure appended to the 1963 rules defining permanent employees and the temporary employees.
the learned counsel would argue that the job was required to be performed for six months for which somebody else could have been appointed so as to attract the provisions of the 1961 act and the 1963 rules.
dr dhawan would furthermore contend that the findings of fact had been arrived at by the labour court that the appellants of civil appeal no 337 of 2002 were appointed by the authority and not only their work was being taken in the project but also in other works and thus mere posting of the appellants to the said project would not disentitle them from the benefit of the said act.
the learned counsel would submit that the sufficient materials were brought on records to show that vacancies were available and as the appellants worked for a period of more than six months they became permanent employees in terms of the act.
as regard the claim of equal pay for equal work the learned counsel would urge that the high court has failed to consider the same in its true perspective.
drawing our attention also to the pleadings as also the reliefs claimed for by the appellants before the labour court the learned counsel would contend that no contention was raised therein by the appellants as regard their entitlement of permanency in terms of the provisions of the 1961 act and the 1963 rules.
it was urged that there does not exist any controversy that oda was to continue before 30 6 1997 and as such the appellants could not have been absorbed by the respondent authority.
reads as follows nothing in this act shall apply to the employees in an undertaking to whom the fundamental and supplementary rules civil services classification control and appeal rules civil services temporary service rules revised leave rules civil service regulations or any other rules or regulations that may be notified in this behalf by the state government in the official gazette apply.
classification of employees.
i a permanent employee is one who has completed six months satisfactory service in a clear vacancy in one or more posts whether as a probationer or otherwise or a person whose name has been entered in the muster roll and who is given a ticket of permanent employee vi.
temporary employee means an employee who has been employed for work which is essentially of a temporary character or who is temporarily employed as an additional employee in connection with the temporary increase in the work of a permanent nature provided that in case such employee is required to work continuously for more than six months he shall be deemed to be a permanent employee within the meaning of cl.
the respondent authority is a state within the meaning of article.
12 of the constitution of india.
concededly the respondent authority before making any appointment neither intimated the employment exchange about the existing vacancies if any nor issued any advertisement in relation thereto.
indisputably the conditions precedent for appointment of the officers and servants of the authority as contained in the service rules had not been complied with.
regularisation can not be claimed as a matter of right.
a state before offering public service to a person must comply with the constitutional requirements of articles 14 and 16 of the constitution.
in hindustan shipyard ltd and others vs dr p sambasiva rao and others 1996 7 scc 499 1996 indlaw sc 3441 a division bench of this court observed.
having regard to the rules which have been made by the appellant corporation regular appointment on the post of medical officer can only be made after the duly constituted selection committee has found the person suitable for such appointment.
case law relied upon by the appellant.
it was in fact held that as the petitioners therein were not regularized in accordance with the prescribed rules and regulations for regular appointments their services had to be terminated and as such there had been neither any arbitrary nor illegal action on the part of the respondents nor any violation of the fundamental rights guaranteed under articles 14 and 16.
in hindustan shipyard ltd 1996 indlaw sc 3441 supra this court also distinguished the said decision.
it appears that there existed a scheme for regularization and some directions were issued in terms thereof.
the 1961 act was enacted to provide for rules defining with sufficient precision in certain matters the conditions of employment of employees in undertakings in the state of madhya pradesh.
by reason of the provisions of the said act application of standard standing orders to undertakings has been provided in terms whereof the matters to be provided in the standard standing orders have been specified.
it is furthermore not in dispute that adhiniyam came into force in 1973.
had the appointments of the appellants been made in terms of the provisions of the adhiniyam and rules framed thereunder the respondent authority was statutorily enjoined to make an offer of appointment in writing which was to be accepted by the appellants herein.
we have noticed hereinbefore that in the case of om prakash mondloi the ceo made an endorsement to the effect that he may be tried in daily wages and should be entrusted with the work of progress collection of oda work.
a ticket of permanent employee was thus required to be issued in terms of order 3 of the standard standing orders.
it is not the case of the appellants that they had been working as technical supervisors and clerks in respect of which service book may be maintained instead of issuance of a ticket.
in absence of any specific directions contained in the schedule appended to the standing orders the statute and the statutory rules applicable to the employees of the respondent shall prevail.
for the purpose of this matter we would proceed on the basis that the 1961 act is a special statute.
but in absence of any conflict in the provisions of the said act the conditions of service including those relating to recruitment as provided for in the 1973 act and the 1987 rules would apply.
if by reason of the latter the appointment is invalid the same can not be validated by taking recourse to regularization.
furthermore the labour court having derived its jurisdiction from the reference made by the state government it was bound to act within the four corners thereof.
dr dhawan is not correct in his submission that a separate ticket need not be issued and what was necessary was merely to show that the appellants had been recognized by the state as its employees having been provided with employment code.
for the purpose of obtaining a permanent status constitutional and statutory conditions precedent therefor must be fulfilled.
such a plea had expressly been rejected by this court in a umarani 2004 indlaw sc 606 supra.
if the appellants were appointed for the purpose of the project they would be deemed to have been appointed therefor and only because such appointments had been made by the respondent would by itself not entitle them to claim permanency.
the life of the project came to an end on 30 6 1997.
however it has been seen that even services of one of them had been requisitioned only for the project work.
the high court in our opinion was right in arriving at the conclusion that the appellants were not entitled to be regularized in service.
in absence of any pleadings the appellants could not have called for any document to show that the provisions of the 1961 act and 1963 rules would apply.
before the high court as also before us the appellants have produced a large number of documents which were not filed before the labour court.
an adverse inference need not necessarily be drawn only because it would be lawful to do so.
such a plea was not even raised before the high court.
recently in m p electricity board vs hariram etc.
2004 indlaw sc 829 this court observed in such a factual background in our opinion the industrial court or the high court could not have drawn an adverse inference for the non production of the muster rolls for the year 1990 to 1992 in the absence of specific pleading by the respondents applicants that at least during that period they had worked for 240 days continuously in a given year.
this is what this court had to say in that regard.
equal pay for equal work.
they were not appointed in terms of the provisions of the statute.
for the reasons aforementioned we do not find any merit in these appeals which are dismissed accordingly.
