act 1992 for short the act in misc.
application nos.
late harshad mehta were persons notified in terms of the act which was enacted to provide for the establishment of a special court for the trial of offences relating to transactions in securities and for matters connected therewith.
however out of the said 29 entitles only late harshad mehta and two of his younger brothers were cited as accused in various criminal cases filed against them.
before the learned special court the parties herein filed several applications which can be sub divided in three categories as would be noticed shortly hereinafter.
a chartered accountants firm was appointed by the learned special judge by an order dated 17 september 2003 to represent all notified entities in the family of late harshad mehta for the purpose of ascertaining their tax liabilities.
we may at this juncture notice the nature of the applications filed by the parties herein before the learned special court i on 26 april 1999 the custodian filed an application being misc.
application No 41 of 1999 seeking permission of the special court for sale of residential premises commonly known as madhuli of eight notified entities.
application being 4 of 2001 was filed by the custodian praying for the sale of commercial premises.
applications praying for lifting of attachment on their residential premises on the ground that the same had been purchased much prior to 1 april 1991 and the same had no nexus with any illegal transactions in securities.
alternatively it was prayed that since their asset base was greater than genuine liabilities the said residential premises should be released from attachment.
impugned judgment.
by reason of the impugned order dated 17 october 2003 the learned special judge allowed misc.
4 of 2001 and 41 of 1999.
the misc.
applications filed by the appellants herein for release of the residential flats as well as the commercial premises from attachment were dismissed.
contentions of the parties appellants 9.
there was no occasion for the custodian to club all the notified entities in one block so as to be termed as harshad mehta group andor to club their assets and liabilities jointly.
ii having regard to the fact that only three entitles out of eight were involved in the offences the liability of harshad mehta could not have been clubbed for the purpose of directing attachment and consequent sale of the properties which exclusively belong to them.
vi drawing our attention to a representative chart showing the discrepancies in the accounts of mrs deepika a mehta as shown in a affidavit by the custodian b books of accounts maintained by the appellants and c auditor s report it was submitted that the auditor s report could not have been relied upon.
a copy of the auditor s report having only been supplied during pendency of these appeals the learned special judge committed a serious error in passing the impugned judgment relying on or on the basis thereof.
mr ashok h desai learned senior counsel appearing on behalf of the custodian on the other hand would inter alia submit.
iin view of the decision of this court in l s synthetics ltd v fairgrowth financial services ltd and another 2004 11 scc 456 2004 indlaw sc 715 all properties belonging to the notified persons being subject to automatic attachment could be applied for discharge of the joint liabilities of the harshad mehta group in terms of section 11 of the act.
iithe applications for de notification filed by the appellants herein having been withdrawn the contention raised by the appellants that they are not liable in terms of the provisions of the act are not open to question particularly in view of the fact that no application for de notification could be filed subsequently as they had become barred by limitation.
civil appeal No 2795 of 2004 and the kedarnath jute mfg.
co ltd v the commissioner of income tax.
even in the case of dr pratima mehta wherein some excesses has been shown if the interest is calculated for the last over 13 years of the amount received the liabilities would exceed the assets.
vithe decretal amount against the harshad mehta group also would exceed rs 4339 crores and thus the assets held by the appellants are wholly insufficient to meet the liabilities.
the assets of the harshad mehta group are valued at rs 972 crores apart from the income tax dues whereas the aggregate amount of income tax dues exceed rs 13800 crores.
hitesh mehta and dr pratima mehta who are medical practitioners by profession having affirmed affidavits admitting that the share broking and investment businesses which were part of family businesses were undertaken and conducted by late harshad mehta and they had no knowledge thereabout nor were they involved therewith.
even before this court the sale of commercial properties had not been questioned.
a large number of commercial properties having already been sold and third party rights having been created this court should not interfere with the impugned judgment.
2 to deal with the situation and in particular to ensure speedy recovery of the huge amount involved to punish the guilty and restore confidence in and maintain the basic integrity and credibility of the banks and financial institutions the special court trial of offences relating to transactions in securities ordinance 1992 was promulgated on the 6th june 1992.
the ordinance provides for the establishment of a special court with a sitting judge of a high court for speedy trial of offences relating to transactions in securities and disposal of properties attached.
3 of section 3 contains a non obstante clause providing that on and from the date of notification under sub section 2 any property movable or immovable or both belonging to any person notified under that sub section shall stand attached simultaneously with the issue of the notification and such attached properties may be dealt with by the custodian in such manner as the special court may direct.
section 5 provides for establishment of the special court.
any prosecution in respect of any offence referred to in sub s 2 of section 3 pending in any court is required to be transferred to the special court.
section 9 a which was inserted by act 24 of 1994 with effect from 25th january 1994 confers all such jurisdiction powers and authority as were exercisable immediately before such commencement by any civil court in relation to the matter specified therein.
provisions.
but at the stage when liabilities are required to be discharged the notified person may inter alia raise a contention inter alia for the purpose of establishing that the properties held and possessed by them are sufficient to meet their liabilities.
indlaw sc 732 v custodian and others 1998 5 scc 1 wherein the following questions were framed what is meant by revenues taxes cesses and rates due.
at what point of time should the taxes have become due.
does the special court have any discretion relating to the extent of payments to be made under section 112a from out of the attached funds property.
as regard question No 1 it was held in the present case the words taxes due occur in a section dealing with distribution of property.
therefore the phrase taxes due can not refer merely to a liability created by the charging section to pay the tax under the relevant law.
in the context of section 112 therefore the taxes due refer to taxes as finally assessed.
such tax liability may be discharged either under the directions of the special court under section 112c or the taxing authority may recover the same from any subsequently acquired property of a notified person vide tejkumar balakrishna ruia v a k menon 1996 indlaw sc 2403 or in any other manner from the notified person in accordance with law.
the priority however which is given under section 112a to such tax liability only covers such liability for the period 1 4 1991 to 6 6 1992.
in respect of the question No 3 it was opined that the date of distribution arrives when the special court completes the examination of claims under section 9 a and if on that date any tax liability for the statutory period is legally assessed and the assessment is final and binding on a notified person that liability would be considered for payment section 111a.
he may not in these circumstances explain transactions before the income tax authorities in case his position is prejudicially affected in defending criminal charges.
but if the assessment is a best judgment assessment the special court may examine whether for example the income which is so assessed to tax bears comparison to the amounts attached by the custodian or whether the taxes so assessed are grossly disproportionate to the properties of the assessee in the hands of the custodian applying the wednesbury principle of proportionality.
in regard to question No 5 this court agreed with the finding of the special court that neither penalty nor interest can be considered as tax under section 112a of the act.
so far question No 6 is concerned it was held that the remedy of a notified person who is assessed to penalty or interest after the notified period would be entitled to move the appropriate authority under the taxing statute stating if it is open to him under the relevant taxing statute to contend that he was unable to pay his taxes on account of the attachment of all his properties under the special court act and that there is a valid reason why penalty or interest should not be imposed upon him after the date of notification the authorities concerned under the taxing statute can take notice of these circumstances in accordance with law for the purpose of deciding whether penalty or interest can be imposed on the notified person.
1992 3 bom cr 716 1992 indlaw mum 6066 wherein it was held if the person approaches the special court and makes out for example a case that the property which is attached has no nexus of any sort with the illegal dealings in securities belonging to banks and financial institutions during the relevant period andor that there are no claims or liabilities which have to be satisfied by attachment and sale of such property in our view the special court would have the power to direct the custodian to release such property from attachment.
the ratio of the said decision as regard applicability of the limitation act was further considered by a division bench of this court in fairgrowth investments ltd v custodian 2004 11 scc 472 2004 indlaw sc 868 wherein it was held that section 5 of the limitation act will have no application in relation to an application falling under sub s 2 of section 4 of the act stating it is enough for the purpose of this appeal to hold that section 292 of the limitation act 1963 does not apply to proceedings under section 42 of the special court trial of offences relating to transactions in securities act 1992.
since the appellant s petition of objection had been filed much beyond the period prescribed under that section the special court was right in rejecting the petition in limine.
the appellants herein are notified persons in terms of the provisions of the act.
therefore all the properties belonging to them stand attached.
such attachment being automatic no finding was required to be arrived at that the same had been acquired either during the notified period or the appellants were involved in offences in transactions in securities.
by reason thereof the property that belongs to a notified person stands attached simultaneously with the issue of the notification that makes him a notified party.
even to say that such interpretation would reduce a notified person to beggary would not be accurate because the alms that he received being his property would stand attached.
while a purposive interpretation is permissible where two interpretations are possible the purposive interpretation must be such as preserves the constitutionality of the provision.
before adverting to the questions raised herein we may notice that both the parties have raised several contentions before us which have not precisely been raised before the learned special judge.
the parties have also filed several charts before us showing individual assets and liabilities.
lucknow and others.
air 1968 all 246 1967 indlaw all 16 but as observed hereinbefore.
in l s synthetics ltd 2004 indlaw sc 715 supra this court observed a statute of limitation bars a remedy and not a right.
although a remedy is barred a defence can be raised.
a special statute providing for special or no period of limitation must receive a liberal and broader construction and not a rigid or a narrow one.
the intent and purport of parliament enacting the said act furthermore must be given its full effect.
although we do not intend to enter into the correctness or otherwise of the said contention of the appellants at this stage however there can not be any doubt whatsoever that they being notified persons all their properties would be deemed to be automatically attached as a consequent thereto.
however the contention of the appellants that the properties held by them otherwise are sufficient to meet their liabilities was required to be gone into as in our considered opinion there can not be a any dispute that the appellants have such a right.
lifting the corporate veil.
a transaction of benami indisputably can be a subject matter of a lies in terms of section 41 of the act as and when such a question is raised the same may have to be dealt with by the special court appropriately.
however nexus between several persons in dealing with the matter may be established by the custodian.
as the said question has not been gone into by the learned judge special court it is necessary that the same be considered and appropriately dealt with.
in para 14 of the sur rejoinder the appellants denied the asset and liability position as arrived at by the custodian.
this was not done.
no credit for rs 1227 crores released to revenue on interest are given by the custodian.
ii liabilities have been shown in relation to unperformed contracts.
the learned special court despite such a contention having been raised by the appellants in their affidavit in reply did not advert thereto.
even in the rejoinder filed by the custodian e g paragraphs 14 20 21 and 22 before the special court such contentions have been raised.
a sur rejoinder thereto was filed on 15 october 2003 and in paragraphs 1 to 6 thereof the said statements were denied and disputed.
our attention has also been drawn to a letter dated 7 october 2003 addressed by all the appellants to the office of the custodian wherein the attention of the custodian was drawn to the fact that all the documents relied upon by him had not been permitted to be inspected and he was requested to forward a report prepared by the chartered accountants in respect of the individual addressors of the letters.
the appellants herein contended that the custodian did not furnish the requisite particulars thereof and inspection was refused on the grounds stated therein.
v thus taking into consideration the total of the decretal amount and the income tax liability it is clear that the total assets of harshad mehta group would be far below the liabilities.
in arriving at the said finding no contention of the parties raised in their respective affidavits had been adverted to nor any material filed before it was analysed.
the custodian in terms of the directions issued by the learned special court had affirmed an affidavit putting on record the assets and liabilities of each of the members of the so called harshad mehta group on an individual basis.
allegedly therein it was shown that the individuals had received large loans advances credits from the harshad mehta group and there had been intermingling of the assets to the tune of crores of rupees.
before us mr desai had filed a chart for showing the same.
the said chart however shows that at least mrs deepika mehta held assets more than her liabilities.
if the liabilities of the individual entities are not treated as that of the group for one reason or the other indisputably liability of those who have nothing to do with the dealings of harshad mehta either in their individual capacities or as directors of some company or otherwise must be dealt with separately.
his death has also forced upon him bankruptcy.
on the other hand the contention of the custodian is that the appellants had not only taken huge loans or advances from harshad mehta in one capacity or the other but also even transactions and shares were made by harshad mehta on their behalf.
further contention of the custodian is that even dr hitesh mehta and dr pratima mehta have admitted that they had no knowledge about the transactions.
the learned judge proceeded on the basis that the assets and liabilities joint and collective of all those who are related with harshad mehta as also the corporate entities in which he was a director or had some other interest must be considered as a group.
even in this behalf it was necessary for the special judge to assign sufficient and cogent reasons.
a question may further arise as to whether the learned judge was correct in considering the individual liabilities of the notified parties as the liabilities of the group.
if those individuals who had no connection with harshad mehta could not have been proceeded against for meeting the liabilities of harshad mehta jointly or severally a clear finding was required to be arrived at.
furthermore the question as regard liability of the parties should have been determined at the stage of section 9 a of the act.
he has proceeded on the basis that even if the assets and liabilities of all individuals is taken on an individual basis the liabilities would exceed assets in the case of each individual and corporate entity.
tax liability.
this court therefore has laid down a law that mere filing of an appeal is not sufficient particularly when there is no order of stay on recovery has been granted and the demand is outstanding.
but in this case the orders of assessment have been set aside.
deepika mehta rs 120 crores even after deducting the amount set aside by itat.
late harshad mehta rs 11829 crores.
in any view of the matter the learned judge special court having not dealt with the question as regard the mode and manner of disbursements of the amount so far as the tax liabilities of the appellants are concerned elaborately the same requires fresh determination in the light of the decision of this court in harshad shantilal mehta.
1998 indlaw sc 732 supra.
in board of control for cricket in india and another v netaji cricket club and others 2005 4 scc 741 2005 indlaw sc 1243.
however the finalization shall be subject to the result of these appeals.
the said order however was modified and clarified by an order dated 5th may 2004 that the same shall not apply to the sale of commercial properties in view of the order of the learned judge special court dated 17th october 2003 wherein it was pointed out that the notified parties did not dispute the commercial properties being put to sale by the custodian.
in janak raj v gurdial singh and anr.
but for such protection the properties which are sold in court auctions would not fetch a proper price and the decree holder himself would suffer.
conclusion.
the question as to whether the appellants could have been considered to be part of harshad mehta group by the learned special court need not be determined by us as at present advised in view of the fact that appropriate applications in this behalf are pending consideration before the learned special court.
as regard the tax liabilities of the appellants herein we would request the learned judge special court to consider the matter afresh in the light of the observations made hereinbefore.
the appellants shall be entitled to take the help of a chartered or cost accountant and may make notes therefrom for their use in the pending proceeding.
the learned judge special court shall take up the matter relating to confirmation of the auction sale in respect of the commercial properties immediately and pass an appropriate order thereupon within four weeks from the date of receipt of copy of this order.
with the aforementioned observations and directions these appeals are allowed.
