act1974.
he allegedly misdeclared both the value and description of goods upon procuring fake and false bills through one prabhjot singh.
it was allegedly found that non alloy steel bars rods etc of value ranging from rs 15 to rs 17 per kg were exported in the guise of alloy steel forgings bars rods etc by declaring their value thereof from rs 110 to rs 150 per kg and the export proceeds over and above the actual price were being routed through hawala channel.
invoices with a higher value were presented before the indian customs authorities with a view to avail depb incentives but in fact invoices with a lower value were presented for clearance.
a letters patent appeal concededly which was not maintainable was filed thereagainst which was dismissed by reason of the impugned judgment.
although before the high court the principal ground urged on behalf of appellant in questioning the legality or validity of the order of detention was unexplained delay in passing the order of detention which did not find favour with the high court.
in the meantime admittedly the period of detention being over appellant had been set at large.
he was released from custody on 17 5 2006.
a report in relation to overseas inquiry was received on 12 5 2004 on 25 6 2004 proposal of detention was sent which was approved on 2 12 2004 on.
20 12 2004the authorities of the dri stated that transactions after 11 10 2003 were not under scrutiny.
furthermore the authorities of the dri by a letter dated 28 02 2005 requested the bank to defreeze the bank accounts of appellants.
but we fail to understand as to why despite the fact that the proposal for detention was made on 2 12 2004the order of detention was passed after four months.
we must also notice that in the meantime on 20 12 2004the authorities of the dri had clearly stated that transactions after 11 10 2003 were not under the scrutiny stating in our letter mentioned above your office was requested not to issue the depb scripts to m s girnar impex limited and m s siri amar exports only in respect of the pending application if any filed by these parties up to the date of action i e 11 10 2003 as the past exports were under scrutiny being doubtful as per the intelligence received in this office.
furthermore as noticed hereinbefore the authorities of the dri by a letter dated 28 02 2005 requested the bank to defreeze the bank accounts of appellant.
the said documents in our opinion were material.
however when there is undue and long delay between the prejudicial activities and the passing of detention order the court has to scrutinise whether the detaining authority has satisfactorily examined such a delay and afforded a tenable and reasonable explanation as to why such a delay has occasioned when called upon to answer and further the court has to investigate whether the causal connection has been broken in the circumstances of each case.
similarly when there is unsatisfactory and unexplained delay between the date of order of detention and the date of securing the arrest of the detenu such a delay would throw considerable doubt on the genuineness of the subjective satisfaction of the detaining authority leading to a legitimate inference that the detaining authority was not really and genuinely satisfied as regards the necessity for detaining the detenu with a view to preventing him from acting in a prejudicial manner.
delay as is well known at both stages has to be explained.
we may notice that in sk.
in abdul salam alias thiyyan s o thiyyan mohammad detenu no 962general prison trivandrum v union of india and others 1990 3 scc 15 1990 indlaw sc 994 whereupon the learned additional solicitor general has placed strong reliance this court found that there had been potentiality or likelihood of prejudicial activities and thus or mere delay as long as it is explained the court may not strike down the detention.
although learned additional solicitor general may be correct in his submissions that ordinarily we should not exercise our discretionary jurisdiction u art 136 of the constitution of india by allowing appellant to raise new grounds but in our opinion we may have to do so as an order of detention may have to be considered from a different angle.
in a case of this nature we do not think in view of the admitted facts that we would not permit appellant to raise the said questions.
so far as the question of non placement of material documents before the detaining authority is concerned we may notice the following dates i by a letter dated 5 7 2002the authorities of dri stated that appellant stood exonerated for earlier years after detailed examination.
by a letter dated 20 12 2004the authorities of dri stated that transactions after 11 10 2003 were not under scrutiny and by letters dated 28 2 2005 and 7 3 2005the bank accounts of appellant were defreezed.
by an order dated 18 11 2004the civil court issued contempt notice to the authorities of dri for non release of documents and the authorities of dri made a statement before the court that the documents are being returned.
we have noticed hereinbefore that learned additional solicitor general contended that appellant obstructed the proceedings by initiating various civil litigations.
why the documents pertaining to the proceedings of the civil court had not been placed before the detaining authority has not been explained.
the question has been considered by this court in rajinder arora 2006 indlaw sc 87 supra stating admittedly furthermore the status report called for from the customs department has not been taken into consideration by the competent authorities.
a division bench of this court in k s nagamuthu v state of tamil nadu ors 2005 9 scale 534 2005 indlaw sc 748 struck down an order of detention on the ground that the relevant material had been withheld from the detaining authority which in that case was a letter of the detenu retracting from confession made by him.
in p saravanan v state of t n and others 2001 10 scc 212it was stated when we went through the grounds of detention enumerated by the detaining authority we noticed that there is no escape from the conclusion that the subjective satisfaction arrived at by the detaining authority was the cumulative result of all the grounds mentioned therein.
the letter dated 19 4 1999 reached the sponsoring authority and reached well within time for it being placed before the detaining authority.
even the letter dated 23 4 1999 which reached the secretary concerned at 3 00 p m on 26 4 1999 was much before the formal detention order dated 28 4 1999 the secretary concerned was obliged to place the same before the detaining authority.
respondents contended that on first information report was registered against appellant as also one sepoy narender singh.
1991 1 scc 128 1990 indlaw sc 85 the said decision was rendered in a different fact situation.
it is not sufficient to say that the detenus were not supplied the copies of the documents in time on demand but it must further be shown that the non supply has impaired the detenu s right to make an effective and purposeful representation.
we are therefore of the opinion that the view taken by the bombay high court in this behalf is unassailable.
in this case the statements of appellant and prabhjot singh in our opinion were material.
if original of the said documents were not available xeroxed copies thereof could have been made available to him.
