appointments were made on 11 09 199722 11 1997 and 5 12 1997 a sample copy of the offer of appointment reads as under no 11497 com rev on the recommendation of d p c and under the directives issued by the honourable gauhati high court the following persons are hereby appointed as mandols on temporary basis in the scale of pay of rs 950 20 1150 eb 25 1400 per month with usual allowances against thereto existing clear vacancies of mandals under revenue department from the date of their joining on duties.
2 further they are posted at the places indicate against their names 3 the expenditure is debitable under appropriate heads of accounts of the departments offices concerned.
an inquiry was therefore made to find out the authority which had issued the said offers of appointments.
dated 6th january1998 regarding the alleged appointment of ad hoc regular appointment to the post of lambus mandols.
i therefore deny making of such appointments.
a r khan secretary revenue has made many appointments of mandols process servers zilladars in the recent months against which i have been complaining that the secretary revenue has no power or authority to make any appointments of field staff as per rules provided under m l r act1960 in this regard i have apprised the matter to the honourable minister revenue already and also informed the chief secretary manipur explaining that the secretary revenue can not make such appointments of field staffs even if he wanted to do so all the relevant files should have been routed through the undersigned so that the same may be brought to the notice of the honourable minister revenue his action has created lots of misunderstanding and confusion.
he has been making false and wrong allegations against the commissioner revenue and putting him false position.
it is for this reason i have been writing to all the deputy commissioners in the districts even by sending w t messages clarifying the actual position of making any appointment of revenue field staff.
i still deny that i have made any appointment of field staffs of revenue department during the recent months.
commissioner revenue.
in view of the aforementioned stand taken by the said shri tayeng the offers of appointment issued in favour of the respondents were cancelled by an order dated 17 02 1998 a corrigendum thereto was however issued on 21 02 1998 stating no 21593 comrev.
in civil appeal arising out of slp c no 19375 19376 of 2005the respondents were appointed on ad hoc basis for a period of six months.
i also issued appointment order under my signature.
after my retirement from service i have no access to such files.
as stated above i was transferred and posted to the manipur electronics development corporation during 1997.
4 that after my retirement some of the writ petitioners civil rule no 568 of 1998came to me and show copy of the writ petition and the counter affidavit of the respondent no 12 and 3 i have gone through the copy of the writ petition and the counter affidavit and annexures thereto.
the xerox copy of the cyclostyled appointment order bearing no 11497.
com rev dated 11 9 97 annexure a1 to the writ petition appointing 3 persons to the post of mandol and no 11497 com rev.
dated 11 9 97 annexure a2 to the writ petition appointing 4 persons to the post of mandol are perused by me minutely.
i submit that these appointment orders annexures a1 and a2 bear my signature initial and appear to have been issued under my signature.
it appears that the appointment orders were issued after complying the formalities prescribed there for which can be ascertained from the relevant official file.
however it was observed however it is further made clear that the state respondent are at liberty to initiate or take up any appropriate legal action in the matter pertaining to their alleged fake appointments in their respective posts in accordance with law and pass necessary order after affording reasonable opportunity of being heard to them.
the writ appeals preferred there against by the appellants herein were dismissed.
it was argued that the question as to whether appointments were made without the knowledge of the department or for that matter whether any record was available there for was of not much significance as in effect and substance they lead to the same inference and in that view of the matter the decision of this court in mohinder singh gill 1977 indlaw sc 53 supra was not attracted.
air 1958 sc 36 1957 indlaw sc 103murugayya udayar and another.
1991 supp 1 scc 331 1991 indlaw sc 904 and kumari shrilekha vidyarthi and others v state of u p and others 1991 1 scc 212 1990 indlaw sc 463.
the posts of field staffs of the revenue department of the state of manipur were thus required to be filled up having regard to the said constitutional scheme.
as noticed hereinbefore an inquiry had been made wherein the said shri tayeng the then commissioner of revenue stated that no such appointment had been made to his knowledge.
if the offers of appointments issued in favour of the respondents herein were forged documents the state could not have been compelled to pay salaries to them from the state exchequer.
any action which had not been taken by an authority competent therefor and in complete violation of the constitutional and legal framework would not be binding on the state.
in any event having regard to the fact that the said authority himself had denied to have issued a letter there was no reason for the state not to act pursuant thereto or in furtherance thereof.
moreover it was for the respondents who had filed the writ petitions to prove existence of legal right in their favour.
it was thus for them to establish existence of a legal right in their favour and a corresponding legal duty in the respondents to continue to be employed.
the respondents had not been validly appointed and in that view of the matter the question of their case being considered for promotion and or recruitment by the dpc did not and could not arise.
even assuming that dpc would mean selection committee there is noting on record to show who were its members and how and at whose instance it was constituted.
even the affidavit affirmed by shri tayeng before the high court in this behalf is silent.
he therefore was wholly incompetent to issue the appointment letters.
we as noticed hereinbefore do not know as to under what circumstances the orders of appointments were issued.
in kumari shrilekha vidyarthi 1990 indlaw sc 463 suprathis court was dealing with a question in regard to continuance of the law officers.
the question which arose herein was not raised.
it is for this reason that we base our decision on the ground that independent of any statutory right available to the appointees and assuming for the purpose of this case that the rights flow only from the contract of appointment the impugned circular issued in exercise of the executive power of the state must satisfy art 14 of the constitution and if it is shown to be arbitrary it must be struck down.
35 it is now too well settled that every state action in order to survive must not be susceptible to the vice of arbitrariness which is the crux of art 14 of the constitution and basic to the rule of law the system which governs us.
arbitrariness is the very negation of the rule of law.
their appointments are made through open competition from among those who are eligible for appointment and strictly on the basis of merit as evidenced by the particulars of their practice opinions of the district magistrate and the district judge and also after taking into consideration their character and conduct.
his work is also subject to strict supervision.
cl 2 protects government servants against being dismissed or removed or reduced in rank without being given a reasonable opportunity of showing cause against the action proposed to be taken in regard to them.
the words dismissed removed and reduced in rank have been used.
in kendriya vidyalaya sangathan 2002 indlaw sc 287 suprait was held it is clear that if after the termination of services of the said dr k c rakesh the orders of appointment are issued such orders are not valid.
it is necessary to emphasize that the state did not proceed on the basis that the amendment to the rules was not necessary.
