appasaheb son of sheshrao palaskar about two and half years prior to the date of incident which took place on 15 september 1991.
according to the case of prosecution a sum of rs 5000 and some gold ornaments had been given at the time of marriage of bhimabai.
for about six months bhimabai was treated well but thereafter the accused started asking her to bring rs 1000 1200 from her parents to meet the household expenses and also for purchasing manure.
whenever bhimabai went to her parental home she used to tell her parents that her husband and mother in law accused appellants were harassing her and used to occasionally beat her.
a few days before nag panchami festival bhimabai came to her parental home and complained that the accused were not giving her proper food clothing and even footwear.
there he saw that bhimabai was lying dead and froth was coming out of her mouth which indicated that she had consumed some poisonous substance.
after completion of investigation charge sheet was submitted against the appellants and in due course the case was committed to the court of sessions.
the appeal preferred by the appellants was dismissed by the high court by the judgment and order dated 23 february 2005.
we have heard learned counsel for the appellants learned counsel for the state of maharashtra and have perused the records.
the viscera were preserved for chemical analysis.
it is therefore necessary to briefly examine the evidence of the prosecution witnesses.
1 tukaram father of the deceased has given details of the prosecution version of the incident in his statement in court.
he has deposed that in the marriage he had given rs 20000 as dowry.
bhimabai had complained to him that she was not being given proper food clothings and even footwear and occasionally the appellant No 1 used to beat her.
he then went to village palshi along with other persons of his family where he reached after sun set.
in his cross examination he has admitted that his statement that he had given rs 20000 in dowry at the time of marriage was incorrect and in fact he had given rs 5000 as dowry and the total expenses incurred in the marriage was about rs 20000.
he has also deposed that it was after about 1 12 years of marriage that bhimabai first complained to him about the harassment being caused to her.
there used to be some bickering in the marital life of bhimabai and her husband on trifling matters.
he has admitted that it was appellant No 1 who had sent a person on motorcycle who had given information regarding bhimabai being unwell and that both the appellants were present at the time of her funeral.
pw 2 babaji is real brother of father in law of pw 1 tukaram.
he has deposed that on an earlier occasion he had gone along with pw 1 and some others to the house of appellant no 1 to persuade him not to harass bhimabai and to treat her well.
he also admitted that he had not gone to attend that funeral of bhimabai.
she replied that she did not know why there was no mention in the said statement that the cause for ill treatment was a demand for money and a consequent beating.
and that was the cause.
in the very next paragraph she stated as under it is not true to suggest that in my statement before the police i never said that ill treatment was as a result of demand for money from us and its fulfillment.
i can not assign any reason why police did not write about it in my statement.
3 sandu police patil of village palshi has deposed that at about 4 20 p m on 15 september 1991 narayan who is uncle of appellant no 1 appasaheb informed him that the wife of appasaheb had expired.
he then went to the house of the appellant and saw bhimabai lying with froth coming out of her mouth.
in his cross examination he admitted that he did not make detailed enquiries as to what was the cause of death and where the incident had taken place.
he has further deposed that bhimabai had come to his house about six months earlier and had said all was not well between her and her husband but she had not given any specific details.
accepting the statements of father and mother on their face value that utmost which can be held is that the appellant no 1 had asked his wife bhimabai to bring money for meeting domestic expenses and for purchasing manure.
definition of dowry in this act dowry means any property or valuable security given or agreed to be given either directly or indirectly a by one party to a marriage to the other party to the marriage or b by the parent of either party to a marriage or by any other person to either party to the marriage or to any other person at or before or any time after the marriage in connection with the marriage of the said parties but does not include dowry or mahr in the case of persons to whom the muslim personal law shariat applies.
in view of the aforesaid definition of the word dowry any property or valuable security should be given or agreed to be given either directly or indirectly at or before or any time after the marriage and in connection with the marriage of the said parties.
being a penal provision it has to be strictly construed.
dowry is a fairly well known social custom or practice in india.
sc 3509 1996 indlaw sc 2404 and chemicals and fibres of india v union of india air 1997.
he has submitted that the insecticide thimet is extensively used by the farmers for preservation of crop and is kept stored in their houses and it could be a case where thimet accidentally got mixed with some food item and was consumed by bhaimabai.
he shall be released forthwith unless wanted in some other case.
the appellant No 2 is on bail.
appeal allowed.
