in our view although the high court had set aside the concurrent findings of fact arrived at by the tribunals below under the karnataka land reforms.
act1974 in shortthe act in the exercise of its revisional jurisdiction under section 121a of the act even then this is not a fit case where this court in the exercise of its power u art 136 of the constitution would interfere with such an order of the high court.
the case of tenancy as made out by the appellants or their father was denied.
it was alleged by the respondent no 4 that since the respondent no 3 was a film actor and had settled in madras now chennaiwith the consent of the respondent no 3the scheduled land was given to the father of the appellants and the father of the appellants was cultivating the same from the year 1968 but not as a tenant.
accordingly they prayed for rejection of the application filed by the father of the appellants claiming occupancy rights under the act.
initially the land tribunal allowed the application of the father of the appellants and feeling aggrieved a writ petition was filed against the said order.
feeling aggrieved the respondent no 4 filed an appeal before the appellate authority which was also dismissed.
a revision petition thereafter was moved before the high court and the high court by the impugned judgment had set aside the concurrent findings of fact and rejected the application filed by the father since deceased of the appellants holding inter alia that the appellants or their father had failed to prove the tenancy in respect of the scheduled land.
a special leave petition was filed against the judgment of the high court setting aside the concurrent orders allowing the application in respect of which leave has already been granted.
while setting aside the findings of the tribunal the high court at paragraph 7 of the impugned judgment made the following findings it is an undisputed fact that the revision petitioner has mortgaged the land in dispute in favour of the 5th respondent rajashankar in the year 1968 and after the expiry of the mortgage period since the 5th respondent failed to deliver back the possession of the land in dispute to him he filed the suit for redemption and obtained a decree for redemption.
he has not produced any geni receipts or any lease agreement to show that the 5th respondent has leased out the land in dispute in his favour on crop share basis and that he paid the geni to the 5th respondent.
even in respect of the said claim he failed to produce any documentary evidence evidencing the said lease of land in dispute from gundu rao.
so the only question which arises for consideration is whether the said cultivation of the land in dispute by the father of the respondents 3 and 4 during the years 1968 to 1974 can be presumed to be that of a tenant under the provisions of s 4 of the karnataka land reforms act.
again the high court while setting aside the findings of fact also made the following findings but in the instant case since the respondents 3 and 4 failed to produce any evidence to show that their father was cultivating the land in dispute as a tenant under the 5th respondent mortgagee and even when the entries in the r t c extract produced do not support the claim of tenancy set up by the father of the respondents 3 and 4the question of drawing presumption of deemed tenancy in his favour under s 4 of the act does not arise.
in the present case also the respondents 3 and 4 failed to prove that their father was cultivating the land in dispute from the year 1968 as a tenant under the respondent no 5 and that after the death of their father they continued as tenants in respect of the land in dispute.
it is also significant to note that the respondent no 5who was alive when the enquiry was pending before the land tribunal has not given evidence in favour of the respondents 3 and 4 stating that he has leased out the land in dispute in favour of the respondents 3 and 4 except the interested testimony of respondents 3 and 4there is nothing else on record to show that their father was inducted as a tenant to cultivate the land in dispute by the 5th respondent after the land is dispute was taken on mortgage by him.
so it is not possible to presume that the father of the respondents 3 and 4 was inducted as a tenant by the mortgagee the 5th respondent in respect of the land in dispute.
since the respondents 3 and 4 failed to produce any documentary evidence to show that their father was put in possession of the land in dispute by the 5th respondent mortgagee as a tenant and that they are continuing as tenants in respect of the said land after the death of their father i find that they are not entitled to grant of occupational rights.
from a careful examination of the findings given by the high court as quoted hereinabove in upsetting the concurrent findings of fact arrived at by the tribunals below we are not in a position to hold that the high court was not justified in setting aside the concurrent orders of the tribunals below in the exercise of its revisional power under section 121a of the act.
as noted herein earlier since section 121a of the act clearly empowers the high court to look into the legality of the orders impugned therefore it would be open to the high court to consider the material evidence on record when it finds that such evidence was not at all considered by the tribunals below or when the conclusion arrived at by the tribunals below run contrary to the materials on record or when it finds that there is no evidence to support the conclusion of the tribunals below or that the reasons given by the tribunals below are absolutely perverse or a finding was such that no court would come to such a conclusion or that the decisions of the tribunals below were manifestly unjust.
keeping the aforesaid principles in mind as to when the high court would be justified in the exercise of its power under section 121a of the act to examine the legality of the orders of the tribunals below in an appropriate case let us now examine the findings of the high court while setting aside the concurrent findings of fact of the tribunals below.
mr raju the learned counsel appearing on behalf of the appellants however contended before us that it was not open to the high court in the exercise of its revisional jurisdiction under section 121a of the act to interfere with the concurrent findings of fact arrived at by the appellate authority and the land tribunal.
in that decision it has been made clear that the high court was entitled to interfere with the orders of the appellate authority only on question of law or irregularity in procedure and on no other aspect.
there is another aspect of this matter.
again in jai mangal oraon vs mira nayak smt ors 2000 5 scc 141.
finally in taherakhatoon d by lrs.
salambin mohammad 1992 2 scc 635 1992 indlaw sc 355this court at paragraph 20 has observed as follows in view of the above decisions even though we are now dealing with the appeal after grant of special leave we are not bound to go into merits and even if we do so and declare the law or point out the error.
in view of the aforesaid we are therefore of the view that this is not a fit case where this court shall interfere with the order passed by the high court under section 121a of the act 19 for the reasons aforesaid this appeal fails and is dismissed without any order as to costs.
