an fir was registered on 23 3 1996 on the statement of one prakashi devi.
that around 00 30 am the appellant again came into her house and touched her daughter in law sheela devi who woke up and raised an alarm and that the appellant immediately ran away.
on that basis the following charge was framed by the judicial magistrate first class karnal against the appellant that on 23 3 1996after having made preparation for causing hurt or assault you committed house trespass into the house of smt.
prakashi devi and thereby committed an offence punishable u s 452 ipc within my cognizance.
and i hereby direct that you be tried on the above said charge by this court.
emphasis supplied.
prakashi devi was examined as pw 1 she reiterated what was recorded in the fir that the appellant came into the house around 11 30 pm and broke the bulbs that he came again around 00 30 am and touched her daughter in law sheela devi and when her daughter in law woke up and raised an alarm the appellant ran away.
however when confronted with her statement recorded in the fir she admitted having stated that when the appellant had come first time at around 11 30 pm and broke the outside bulbs her son woke up and went out of the house.
her daughter in law sheela devi gave evidence as pw 2 and stated that she was married to one jaibir who worked in the military services that at 11 to 11 30 pm the accused scaled the door and broke the bulbs in the verandah of her house that when she identified the accused and raised an alarm the accused ran away that again he came around 00 30 am by scaling the door and caught her hand and that when she raised an alarm and when her mother in law woke up he ran away.
both pw1 and pw2 stated that the house of the accused was at a distance of 15 16 houses from the house of prakashi devi that the accused had never come into their house earlier that their family and the accused were not on visiting terms with each other even during functions marriages or death though they were on visiting terms with others in the village.
pc and sentenced him for rigorous imprisonment for six months and a fine of rs 1000 in default thereof simple imprisonment for one month.
he contended that as the charge levelled against him was not proved and as he was not required to defend himself against a charge that he assaulted and outraged the modesty of sheela devi he ought to have been acquitted.
this was negatived by the appellate court and high court holding that an accused can not take advantage of a technical defect in framing the charge.
it was held that mentioning the name of prakashi devi instead of the name of sheela devi in the charge was an error that did not prejudice the accused.
in willie william slaney vs state of madhya pradesh.
air 1956 sc 116 1955 indlaw sc 80 this court explained the concepts of prejudice to the accused and failure of justice thus 6 before we proceed to set out our answer and examine the provisions of the code we will pause to observe that the code is a code of procedure and like all procedural laws is designed to further the ends of justice and not to frustrate them by the introduction of endless technicalities.
if he does if he is tried by a competent court if he is told and clearly understands the nature of the offence for which he is being tried if the case against him is fully and fairly explained to him and he is afforded a full and fair opportunity of defending himself then provided there is substantial compliance with the outward forms of the law mere mistakes in procedure mere inconsequential errors and omissions in the trial are regarded as venal by the code and the trial is not vitiated unless the accused can show substantial prejudice.
disregard of a provision of that nature is fatal to the trial and at once invalidates the conviction.
this court then examined the question as to when a procedure adopted could be said to have worked actual injustice to the accused and held except where there is something so vital as to cut at the root of jurisdiction or so abhorrent to what one might term natural justice the matter resolves itself to a question of prejudice.
it hardly matters whether this is because prejudice is then patent or because it is so abhorrent to well established notions of natural justice that a trial of that kind is only a mockery of a trial and not of the kind envisaged by the laws of our land because either way they would be struck down at once.
it is the substance that we must seek.
courts have to administer justice and justice includes the punishment of guilt just as much as the protection of innocence.
every reasonable presumption must be made in favour of an accused person he must be given the benefit of every reasonable doubt.
if all these elements are there and no prejudice is shown the conviction must stand whatever the irregularities whether traceable to the charge or to a want of one.
in adjudging the question of prejudice the fact that the absence of a charge or a substantial mistake in it is a serious lacuna will naturally operate to the benefit of the accused and if there is any reasonable and substantial doubt about whether he was or was reasonably likely to have been misled in the circumstances of any particular case he is as much entitled to the benefit of it here as elsewhere but if on a careful consideration of all the facts prejudice or a reasonable and substantial likelihood of it is not disclosed the conviction must stand also it will always be material to consider whether objection to the nature of the charge or a total want of one was taken at an early stage.
but these are matters of fact which will be special to each different case and no conclusion on these questions of fact in any one case can ever be regarded as a precedent or a guide for a conclusion of fact in another because the facts can never be alike in any two cases however alike they may seem.
in shamnsaheb m multtani vs state of karnataka 2001 2 scc 577.
2001 indlaw sc 19904this court considered the meaning of the expression failure of justice occurring in s 464 of cr.
a conviction would be valid even if there is any omission or irregularity in the charge provided it did not occasion a failure of justice.
6 scc 554 1998 indlaw sc 1286dalbir singh v state of up 2004 5 scc 334 2004 indlaw sc 247dumpala chandra reddy vs nimakayala bali reddy 2008.
8 scc 339 2008 indlaw sc 1064 and sanichar sahni vs state of bihar 2009 7 scc 198 2009 indlaw sc 736.
where an accused is charged with having committed offence against one person but on the evidence led he is convicted for committing offence against another person without a charge being framed in respect of it the accused will be prejudiced resulting in a failure of justice.
but there will be no prejudice or failure of justice where there was an error in the charge and the accused was aware of the error.
in judging a question of prejudice as of guilt the courts must act with a broad vision and look to the substance and not to the technicalities and their main concern should be to see whether the accused had a fair trial whether he knew what he was being tried for whether the main facts sought to be established against him were explained to him fairly and clearly and whether he was given a full and fair chance to defend himself.
the respondent was chargesheeted for an offence u s 376 ipc and s 3 of the scheduled castes and scheduled tribes prevention of atrocities.
their evidence was that he touched caught the hand of sheela devi and when she raised an alarm he ran away.
the accused did not have any opportunity to meet or defend himself against the charge that he assaulted sheela devi and outraged her modesty.
one of the fundamental principles of justice is that an accused should know what is the charge against him so that he can build his defence in regard to that charge.
e a was charged with murdering haidar baksh on the 20th january1882and khoda baksh who tried to arrest him for that murder on the 21 st january1882 when charged for the murder of haidar baksh he was tried for the murder of khoda baksh.
appeal allowed.
