accused pathan hussain basha was married to pathan haseena begum now deceased on 23rd june2002 at guntur.
at the time of marriage it was promised that a dowry of rs 25000 besides other formalities would be paid by the side of the wife to the husband.
despite such pressure she was not able to get that money from her family.
the fir was registered under section 304b and section 498a of the indian penal code1860 for short the ipc thereafter investigation was conducted by one shri p devadass lw 17 he inspected the site from where he recovered and seized the saree that had been used for hanging.
thereupon the body was sent for postmortem examination through constable p venkateswara reddy lw 15 lw 17p devdass also took photographs of the scene 3 lw 13dr.
they faced the trial and were convicted by learned sixth additional munsif magistrate guntur for committing an offence under sections 498a and 304b ipc.
and further a 1 to a 3 are sentenced to undergo imprisonment for life for the offence u s 304 b ipc both the sentences shall run concurrently.
first and the foremost we must consider what is the evidence led by the prosecution to bring home the guilt of accused.
accused were charged with offences under sections 498a and 304b of the ipc the fir in the present case was lodged by lw 1who is the father of the deceased.
according to this witness on 23rd january2002the marriage of his daughter was solemnised with accused pathan hussain basha and he had accepted to give rs 25000 in marriage.
he had given only rs 15000 and had agreed to pay rs 10000 after four months.
he had called his son in law accused no 1to his house as per custom at that point the accused demanded a ceiling fan.
the accused asked for rs 1000 with a ring for the deceased.
subsequently the motherin law of the deceased again demanded the balance dowry amount of rs 10000 which he could not pay.
his daughter after the ramzan festival had informed him that the accused persons were harassing her and were even beating and abusing her.
the saree was removed she was taken to the hospital where she was reported to have brought dead.
the statement of this witness i e lw 1 is corroborated by lw 3 and lw 7.
according to this witness also in the beginning they were happy however after some time she used to hear some quarrel between the deceased and the accused persons.
after bringing the soaps she went to the house of the accused persons and found that the accused was absent and the deceased was hanging on one side of the room.
lw 4pathan inayatullah khan the grandson of lw 3went to the house of the parents of the deceased and informed them about the unfortunate incident.
he confirmed the fact that rs 15000 was given at the time of marriage and rs 10000 was to be given within some time which the father of the deceased failed to provide.
according to him the accused persons used to harass the deceased primarily for non payment of the amount of dowry as a result of which she was forced to commit suicide.
dr m madhusudana reddy lw 13 who was the associate professor in forensic medicine at guntur medical college performed the post mortem over the body of the deceased.
in the medical report lw13he noticed oblique ligature mark of 17 x 2 5 cm present over front and left sides of neck as well as noticed abrasion 1 5 x 1 cm present over lower part of middle of chin.
injuries were found to be antemortem in nature and the cause of death was stated to be asphyxia as a result of hanging.
from the above evidence it is clear that the dowry demands were being raised by the accused persons persistently from the family of the deceased and for that they even harassed the deceased by beating and abusing her.
they were married in the year 2002 and she committed suicide by hanging on 15th.
february2003 the witnesses including lw 1 have stated that for the first few months they were happy but thereafter there were quarrels between the accused and the deceased.
accused pathan hussain basha when he had gone to the parental house of the deceased demanded different items like fan ring and rs 1000 in cash and the balance of the agreed dowry amount.
at this stage it will be appropriate for us to examine as to what are the ingredients of an offence punishable under section 304b of the ipc.
1 the death of a woman should be caused by burns or fatal injury or otherwise than under normal circumstances 2 such death should have occurred within seven years of her marriage 3 she must have been subjected to cruelty or harassment by her husband or any relative of her husband and 4 such cruelty or harassment should be for or in connection with demand for dowry.
11 alongside insertion of section 304 b in ipc the legislature also introduced section 113 b of the evidence act which lays down when the question as to whether a person has committed the dowry death of a woman and it is shown that soon before her death such woman had been subjected by such person to cruelty or harassment for or in connection with any demand for dowry the court shall presume that such person had caused the dowry death.
113 b lays down that for the purpose of this sectiondowry death shall have the same meaning as in section 304 b of indian penal code.
13 if.
besides examining the ingredients of the provision it would also be necessary for us to examine the meaning and connotation of the expressions dowry deathsoon before her death and in connection with any demand for dowry as appearing in the said section.
amongst others lapse of time between the date of marriage and the date of death is also a relevant consideration for the court while examining whether the essential ingredients of the provision are satisfied or not in a given case.
12 the definition of dowry under s 2 of the act reads as under 2 definition of dowry.
in this actdowry means any property or valuable security given or agreed to be given either directly or indirectly a by one party to a marriage to the other party to the marriage or b by the parents of either party to a marriage or by any other person to either party to the marriage or to any other person at or before or any time after the marriage in connection with the marriage of the said parties but does not include dower or mahr in the case of persons to whom the muslim personal law shariat applies.
explanation ii  the expression valuable security has the same meaning as in s 30 of the penal code 45 of 1860.
all the expressions used under this section are of a very wide magnitude.
again in satvir singh v state of punjab20018 scc 633 2001 indlaw sc 224.
as already noticed we need not deliberate on this aspect as the accused before us has neither been charged nor punished for that offence.
further the interpretation given should be one which would avoid absurd results on the one hand and would further the object and cause of the law so enacted on the other.
16 scc 155 2008 indlaw sc 1962 held that the legislative object in providing such a radius of time by employing the words soon before her death is to emphasise the idea that her death should in all probabilities has been the aftermath of such cruelty or harassment.
in other words there should be a reasonable if not direct nexus between her death and the dowryrelated cruelty or harassment inflicted on her.
similar view was expressed by this court in yashoda v state of m p20043 scc 98 2004 indlaw sc 132 where this court stated that determination of the period would depend on the facts and circumstances of a given case.
for want of any specific period the concept of reasonable period would be applicable.
in other words the rule of law requires a person to be innocent till proved guilty.
the concept of deeming fiction is hardly applicable to the criminal jurisprudence.
applying these principles to the facts of the present case it is clear that the ingredients of section 304b read with section 498a ipc are completely satisfied in the present case.
denial can not be treated to be the discharge of onus.
consequently we award ten years rigorous imprisonment to the appellants.
appeals partly allowed.
