devendra choubey accused no 4 has filed criminal appeal no 822 of 2012 the appellant mahesh accused no 3 has filed criminal appeal no 867 of 2013 the appellant beenu.
chandra prakash accused no 2 has filed criminal appeal no 589 of 2014 the appellant smt.
bhavna was dead.
after registration of the crime inquest was conducted over the dead body of bhavna on 26 11 2003 post mortem was conducted by dr naresh tiwari and dr m deodhar who gave their report which is marked as exhibit p18 spot map was prepared by the inquiry officer io bloodstained cloth of accused shashi tripathi was taken into possession along with broken bangles bloodstained cement mortar and plain cement mortar were also taken into possession.
chandra prakash were arrested on 29 11 2003 a bloodstained knife was taken into possession.
the accused raju.
a test identification was conducted by the executive magistrate in the sub jail bemetara on 13 12 2003 a similar identification parade of raju.
a sealed packet containing hair found in the grip of the deceased and another sealed packet containing bloodstained cloth of the deceased were taken into possession vide exhibit p35.
after committal the trial court framed charges u s 302 read with ss 34 and 120b of the ipc the prosecution examined 32 witnesses.
according to the prosecution the accused shashi tripathi is the step mother in law of deceased bhavna tripathi.
bhavna was married to her step son jitendra kumar in july2003 shashi tripathi used to be annoyed with bhavna tripathi on account of some domestic dispute.
she engaged the other accused for murdering bhavna.
bhavna was murdered on 25 11 2003 at about 1830 hours in the house where she resided with shashi tripathi.
dr m deodhar who conducted the postmortem opined that cause of her death was neurogenic and hemorrhagic shock.
4 incised wound on lower costal region left of size.
3  cm x 2 cm x 1 cm 5 incised wound on lower costal region right side on right epigestic region of size 3  cm.
7 incised wound on right supra mammary region near middle of size 4 cm x 1 cm x 1  cm 8 incised wound on right supra mammary region lateral aspect of size 3 cm x 1  cm x 1  cm 9 incised wound on radial aspect of left forearm near wrist joint of size 2.
cm x cm x  cm 10 incised wound on forearm left hand radial side dorsal aspect on lower 23rd region 11 incised wound on left forearm middle l3rd region radial side and posterior aspect of size 2.
the deceased was carrying fetus of two months.
the sole eyewitness was a boy of 13 years of age anil kumar pw 21who worked as a servant with the family.
he participated in the identification parade which was held in sub jail bemetara and identified the accused persons in the court by touching them.
it is anil kumar pw 21who first informed the head of the family dr sharda prasad tripathi pw 1the complainant about the incident when he came home after closing his clinic.
he deposed before the court that shashi didi accused brought him to village jevra from bilaspur.
he lived in the house of shashi didi.
she resided with shashi didi.
his brother shivendra studies at calcutta.
he referred to bhavna as bhabhi.
he stated that shashi didi and bhavna sometimes used to quarrel.
about the assault he deposed that devendra caught bhavna and chandra prakash attacked her with knife 3 to 4 times and she fell down.
after the assault chandra prakash went to the tv room where shashi didi had kept some money in a rubber band on the table.
he further deposed that shashi didi took him upstairs to the terrace and asked him not to disclose the truth to anyone but to say that thieves came into the house and committed the crime.
devendra choubey accused no 4 by paying them money.
she also seems to have had a scuffle with bhavna which is apparent from the fact that her hair was found in the grip of the deceased during investigation.
the learned counsel submitted that the evidence of a child witness must be carefully scrutinized before acceptance since a child can be easy prey for tutoring and the court must insist on corroboration from other evidence.
the learned counsel for the appellants forcefully attacked the conviction of the other accused viz mahesh chandra prakash and devendra kumar who admittedly were not known to the child witness anil kumar.
it was submitted that the test identification parade were delayed and the identification of these accused by the witness in court was not reliable.
mahesh and chandra prakash were arrested on 29 11 2003their identification parade was conducted on 13 12 2003 within a fortnight or so.
in any case the period between the arrest and the identification parade was not large enough to constitute inordinate delay.
state of u p 1970 2 scc 128 1970 indlaw sc 136 where this court made the following observations 7 now facts which establish the identity of an accused person are relevant u s 9 of the indian evidence act.
as a general rule the substantive evidence of a witness is a statement made in court.
the evidence of mere identification of the accused person at the trial for the first time is from its very nature inherently of a weak character.
the purpose of a prior test identification therefore seems to be to test and strengthen the trustworthiness of that evidence.
they must therefore take intelligent interest in the proceedings bearing in mind two considerations i that the life and liberty of an accused may depend on their vigilance and caution and ii that justice should be done in the identification.
generally speaking the magistrate must make a note of every objection raised by an accused at the time of identification and the steps taken by them to ensure fairness to the accused so that the court which is to judge the value of the identification evidence may take them into consideration in the appreciation of that evidence.
the identification to be of value should also be held without much delay.
in the present case the child witness has been found to be reliable.
he became the unfortunate witness of a gruesome murder and fearlessly identified the accused in court.
9 scc 696 2012 indlaw sc 343.
having regard to the role attributed to him and the absence of incriminating factors we find that it is not safe to convict mahesh of the offence of murder with the aid of ss 34 and 120b.
his bail bonds stand cancelled and sureties are discharged.
