Penalty for wrongful withholding of property 1 If any officer or employee of a company a wrongfully obtains possession of any property of a company or D b having any such property in his possession wrongfully withholds it or knowingly applies it to purposes other than those expressed or directed in the articles and authorised by this Act he shall on the complaint of the company or any creditor or contributory thereof be punishable with fine which may extend to one thousand rupees.
2 The Court trying the offence may also order such officer or employee to deliver up or refund within a time F to be fixed by the Court any such property wrongfully obtained or wrongfully withheld or knowingly misapplied or in default to suffer imprisonment for a term which may extend to two years.
 The only question involved in this special leave petition is as to the scope and effect of sub section.
1 of section 630 of the Act.
1 of section 630 of H 172 the Act the High Court of Calcutta in Amritlal Chum vs Devi Ranjan Jha  Anr held that it refers only to the existing officers and employees of a company.
1 of section 630 must be interpreted to mean not only the present officers and employees of a company but also to include past officers and employees of the company.
1 of section 630 which provide for the launching of a prosecution against an officer or employee of a company for wrongful possession of such property under cls.
a and b of sub section.
1 of section 630 and for the recovery of such property by the issue of process under sub section 2 also extends to past officers and employees of the company and whether the Court trying the offence has the power to issue a process under sub section.
2 against such officer or employee.
At the conclusion of the hearing we had by a short order dismissed the special leave petition and held that the view expressed by the learned Single Judge following the earlier decisions of the High Court in Harkishan Lakhimal Gidwani and reiterated in Govind T Jagtiani was to be preferred to the view to the contrary expressed by the High Court of Calcutta in Amritlal Chum.
Prior to that ie On September 26 1984 he addressed a letter requesting the company to permit him to continue to live in the company s premises during the period of his accumulated leave after his retirement ie for a period of six months undertaking to vacate the flat as early as possible.
a and although it primarily refers to the existing officers and employees it may also take in past officers and employees.
1 of section 630 of the Act.
a into cl.
a and b are separated by the word or  which must in the context in which it appears be read as and  and so construed must mean withholding of property wrongfully obtained by an existing officer or employee.
a as regards penal consequences squarely covering the case of a past employee or officer.
 In Govind T Jagtiani vs Sirajuddin section Kazi supra Kanade J fol lowed the critical analysis of section 630 made by Kotwal J as above and observed that the entitlement of an officer to the property of the company and the duration of such right would be co terminus with the terms of employment and the right would stand extinguished with the termination to the employment giving rise to an obligation to hand over the property back to the company and observed If the property is held back the retained possession would amount to wrongful withholding of the property of the company.
