Civil Appeal No 1377 of 1982.
From the Judgment and Order dated 17111980 of the Bombay High Court in Special Civil Appeal No 251 of 1977.
FR Nariman EK Jose PH Parekh and Miss Sunita Sharma for the Appellant.
This appeal by special leave arises from the judgment and order of the High Court of Bombay dated 17th of November 1980.
The main question involved in this appeal is whether the appellant was a licensee or a tenant and also incidentally the question whether the Court of Small Causes Bombay had jurisdiction to deal with the eviction petition in this case.
The agreement is described as an agreement of leave and licence  entered into between the respondent on the one hand and the appellant on the other wherein the respondent had been described as the licensor and the appellant had been described as the licensee  and the recitals therein recite that the licensor was seized and possessed of and was otherwise well entitled as the monthly tenant of the workshop premises situated at 231 Ripon Road Cooperative Building Bombay being the premises in dispute and whereas the licensee had approached the licensor to allow him to occupy and use the said premises for the purpose of carrying out his business of workshop for a period of five years and whereas the licensor had agreed to allow the licensee to use the premises under the said leave and licence of the licensor for a period of five years from 1st of September 1965 till 31st of August 1970 that agreement was being executed.
Clause 2 of the said agreement recites that the licensee had agreed to use the premises as above and merely for the purpose of workshop business.
Before the Judge Court of Small Causes the points of defences were filed in which the appellant had stated that the application was not maintainable and the plaintiff was himself occupying the premises under one Sugrabhai Mohammed Husain who himself had adopted ejectment proceedings against the respondent.
In order to go back to the findings of the learned Judge of the Court of Small Cause and the learned High Court Judge found that the appellant had failed to prove that he was a sub tenant of the respondent and the learned Judge found him to be a licensee.
In July 1967 the appellants 1064 filed an application for eviction under section 41 of the .
Clause 12 is significant which gave to the licensor the right to enter upon the premises and inspect the same at any time.
It was a possible view.
In any event this is a possible view that could be taken.
