The Act was enacted on 20th December 1955 with the object of regulating certain conditions of service of working journalists and other employees employed in the newspaper establishments.
Newspaper establishment is defined by section 2d of the Act as an establishment under the control of any person or body of persons whether incorporated or not for the production or publication of one or more newspapers or for conducting any news agency or syndicate.
The expression working journalist is defined by section 2f of the Act as a person whose principal avocation is that of a journalist and who is employed as such either whole time or part time in or in relation to one or more newspaper establishments and includes an editor a leader writer news editor sub editor feature writer copy tester reporter correspondent cartoonist news photographer and proof reader but does not include any such person who is employed mainly in a managerial or administrative capacity or being employed in a supervisory capacity performs either by the nature of the duties attached to his office or by reason of the powers vested in him functions mainly of a managerial nature.
A non journalist newspaper employee means any person employed to do any work in or in relation to any newspaper establishment but does not include any such person who is a working journalist or is employed mainly in a managerial or administrative capacity or being employed in a supervisory capacity performs either by the nature of the duties attached to his office or by reason of the powers vested in him functions mainly of a managerial nature as stated in section 2dd of the Act.
Chapter II of the Act deals with certain conditions of service of the working journalists.
Chapter IIA of the Act deals with similar conditions of service of non journalist newspaper employees.
Section 9 of the Act authorises the Central Government to appoint a Wage Board consisting of two persons representing employers in relation to newspaper establishments two persons representing working journalists and three independent persons one of whom shall be a person who is or has been a Judge of a High Court or of the Supreme Court and who shall be appointed by that Government as the Chairman thereof for the purpose of making recommendations with regard to fixation or revision of wages of working journalists.
Section 13AA which was inserted by Act 6 of 1979 provides for the constitution of a Tribunal for fixing or revising rates of wages in respect of working journalists where the Central Government is of opinion that the Board constituted under section 9 for the purpose of fixing or revising rates of wages in respect of working journalists under the Act has not been able to function effectively.
Similarly section 13DD of the Act empowers the Central Government to constitute a Tribunal where it is of opinion that the Board constituted under section 13C of the Act has not been able to function effectively.
Again on 18th November 1982 the Deputy Labour Commissioner Nagpur wrote a letter to the Manager of the 1st respondent informing him that the 1st respondent was liable to implement the order of the Central Government made on the recommendations of the Palekar Tribunal in respect of its employees since the Ist respondent was a newspaper establishment.
It was urged before the High Court on behalf of the Ist respondent All India Reporter Limited that the law reports publised by it were not newspapers as defined in the Act and therefore the order made by the Central Government on the basis of the recommendations of Justice Palekar were not applicable to its establishment.
Aggrieved by the decision of the High Court the appellants have filed this appeal by special leave.
Any other class of printed periodical work as may from time to time be notified in this behalf by the Central Government in the Official Gazette may also be a newspaper.
 Newspapers and books are no doubt shown as separate items but the distinction between them sometimes becomes very thin or totally vanishes.
In this connection it is necessary to reproduce a passage from the Report of the Royal Commission on the Press 1947 49 appointed by the British Government and presided over by Sir William David Ross.
Article 141 of the Constitution provides that the law declared by Supreme Court shall be binding on all courts within the territory of India.
At any rate lawyers and others connected with courts and judicial proceedings who constitute a substantial section of the public are interested in knowing the contents and the effect of the decisions.
784 Strong reliance was placed on behalf of the Ist respondent on the decision of the High Court of Orissa in PSV Iyer vs Commissioner of Sales Tax Orissa AIR 1960 Orissa 221 in which the question that arose for consideration was whether a law journal Cuttack Law Times which was a non official monthly journal containing the decisions of the Orissa High Court the Orissa Board of Revenue and also of the Supreme Court was a newspaper and if it was a newspaper whether it was competent for the Legislature of the State of Orissa to levy sales tax on the sale of the said journal.
 After referring to the definition of the expression newspaper  in the Press and Registration of Books Act 1867 the Indian Post Offices Act 1898 the Parliamentary Proceedings Protection of Publication Act 1956 the Delivery of Books and Newspapers Act 1956 the  etc.
Accordingly the High Court of Orissa held that the sale of Cuttack Law Times which according to it was not a newspaper could be taxed by the State Legislature under Entry 54 of List II of the Seventh Schedule to the Constitution of India.
 It is seen that the editor of the law report containing the above decision has appended an editorial comment on this stating that this decision is wrong and that the Orissa High Court s decision was right.
 It is significant that the expression newspaper  as defined in the Act includes not merely public news  but also comments on public news .
