the property may be given out and out to the idol or it may be subjected to a charge in favour of the idol.
41 grey street was allotted to the branch of rajendra and the remaining portion was allotted to jogendra absolutely and in consideration of a sum of rs 6500 to be paid to the plaintiffs jogendra was declared entitled absolutely to the premises.
dwarka nath died on the 16th march 1892 leaving him surviving his widow golap sundari and his two sons rajendra and jogendra.
on the 10th june 1891 he made and published his last will and testament whereby he dedicated to this family idol.
the shebait for the time being is the only person competent to safeguard the interests of the idol his possession of the dedicated property is the possession of the idol whose sevait he is and no dealing of his with the property dedicated to the idol could afford the basis of a claim by him for adverse possession of the property against the idol.
the arbitrator made his award dated the 12th october 1920 whereby he allotted premises No 41 a grey street exclusively to nagendra as his share of the family properties.
the first contention of the appellants therefore fails and we hold that the dedication of the premises.
it was contended on behalf of the appellants that the dedication of the premises.
41 grey street made by dwarka nath under the terms of his will was a partial dedication and that his sons rajendra and jogendra and his widow golap sundari who were appointed sevayats of the idol were competent to deal with premises.
regards the second contention viz the adverse possession of nagendra it is to be noted that under the terms of cl 3 of the will of dwarka nath the representatives successors and heirs of his two sons rajendra and jogendra were successively to perform the seva in the manner therein mentioned and nagendra was one of the heirs and legal representatives of rajendra.
the only thing which was urged by shri n c chatterjee in support of his contention was that the right to reside in the premises was given to the sevayats and that according to him detracted from the absolute character of the dedication.
the learned judge however dismissed the suit of the idol in regard to the premises.
that he did act as such shebait and that his possession of the premises.
but such persons have no legal duty to protect the endowment and until the shebait is removed or controlled by the court he alone can act for the idol.
grey street to the idol as its permanent habitation with only the right given to the sevayats to reside in the said premises for the purposes of carrying on the daily and periodical seva and the festivals etc.
he died on the 31st january1900 and jogendra obtained on the 24th april 1900.
probate of his said will.
the said suit was compromised and on the 24th november 1910 a consent decree was passed whereby jogendra and golap sundari gave up their rights to the sevayatship and bhupendra jnanendra and nagendra became the sevaits of the idol a portion of the premises.
the appellants filed on the 18th august 1950 an appeal against this judgment being appeal No 118 of 1950.
the idol filed on the 20th november 1950 cross objections against the decree for rs 19000 and interest thereon as also the dismissal of the suit in regard to the premises.
if nagendra was thus a sevayat of the idol it could not be urged that his possession could in any manner whatever be adverse to the idol and his dealings with the said premises in the manner he purported to do after the 12th october 1920 could not be evidence of any adverse possession against the idol.
neither nagendra nor the appellants who derive their title from the auction sale held on the 9th december 1936 could therefore claim to have perfected their title to the premises.
No 41.
grey street after making the due provision for the idol as they purported to do by the terms of settlement dated the 24th november 1910.
it was further contended that nagendra by virtue of the award dated the 12th october 1920 claimed to be absolutely entitled to the premises.
41 a and 402 a grey street were its absolute properties and for possession thereof for a declaration that the consent decree dated the 24th november 1910 in suit No 969 of 1909 and the award dated the 12th october 1920 and the dealings made by the heirs of jogendra.
a certificate article 1331 of theconstitution was granted on the 4th june 1951 and the high court admitted the appeal finally on the 6th august 1951.
on the 22nd november 1951 the idol applied to the high court for leave to file cross objections against that part of the judgment and decree of the high court which dismissed its claims with regard to the premises no 402 a grey street.
per annum from the 19th july 1945 till payment or till the said sum was deposited in court to the credit of the suit.
the petition for special leave was therefore allowed to be withdrawn and no objection now survives in regard to the decree passed by the trial court dismissing the idol 's claim to the premises No 402 a. the appeal is concerned only with the premises.
modifying on appeal the judgment and decree passed by mr justice bose on the original side of that court.
the high court rejected the said application stating that there was no rule allowing cross objections in the supreme court.
