nothing those facts the tribunal observed that compared with the increased paying capacity of the appellant an inference drawn from the prosperity enjoyed by the appellant over the years there was definite need for revising the wage scales.
the charter of demands was presented by the union in july1974 and when conciliation proceedings failed the state government made the reference to the industrial tribunal in 1975 the tribunal has referred to various considerations which prevailed with it in giving retrospectivity to the revised pay scales.
it would do well to recall that the claim of the union filed before the tribunal also centered on the need to revise the wage scales.
the primary and basic question considered by the industrial tribunal in making the award dated december 201978 was the question of revision of the wage scales.
it is needless to recapitulate all the basic facts which have been set out in the judgment of pathak j the award of the industrial tribunal was made on december 201978 on december 221978 that is to say two days after the award was made and when everything must have been fresh to the minds of the tribunal the respective parties and their advocates the employees union made an application under rule 31 of the industrial disputes bombay rules1957 seeking a correction of an error which it was claimed had crept into the award.
the order dated december 221978 of the tribunal also does not reveal that there was any opposition by the company to the application for correcting the award.
the tribunal has relied on this statement as evidence showing that the appellant knew that a flat increase of rs 150 and rs 100 was intended to each of the employees in the category of draughtsmen and the other categories.
we therefore see no ground for quashing the order dated december 221978 of the tribunal.
but it rejected the demand of the union for dearness allowance on the basis of a slab system because that would have imposed an unacceptable burden on the appellant 's financial capacity and there was no reason why the existing scheme of dearness allowance should be disturbed when a substantial increase was being made in the level of the basic wage.
it declared that the cumulative effect of an improved wage structure together with dearness allowance operating on a slab system would throw an impossible burden of about rs 1 crore on the financial capacity of the appellant.
immediately after the award was pronounced while the iron was still hot as it were the employees apparently realised that the employer might take advantage of the circumstance that it was not clearly mentioned in the award that all the employees were to get additional pay of rs 150 and rs 100 respectively and might contend that the tribunal had only revised the wage scales by increasing the salary on entry into the service and restructuring the scale of pay and never granted any ad hoc increase of salary to all employees.
we are not impressed with the submission of the learned counsel for the company that the corrigendum was in effect a fresh award.
we have been taken through some of the material on the record in the attempt to support the contention but after giving careful thought to the matter i think there is ample justification for what the tribunal did.
january1976 this liability taken with the liability accruing on the need to increase the salaries of the other staff determined the tribunal 's deliberations in regard to the several features of the award including the grant of increments related to completed periods of service the expansion of the span from 15 years to 20 years for earning increments and other benefits.
ii employees who have completed 4 years of service as on 1st january19762 increments.
it functions as a consulting organisation and a service industry and does not manufacture any product or carry on trade.
the tribunal also noted that after the salaries of the employees had been fixed in the respective scales senior employees would have to be given some more increments in the new scales according to their completed years of service.
while we find lot of force in the submission of shri v m tarkunde learned counsel for the workmen that dearness allowance linked to cost of living index is ordinarily the best and the most scientific method of computing dearness allowance it can not always be said that an illegality warranting interference under article 136 is committed if some other method is adopted.
this in our opinion is elementary and fundamental to the jurisdiction of the industrial tribunal in revising wage scales.
finally at the end of paragraph 21.
the tribunal said in view of this position the company can easily bear some burden that might fall as a result of the upward revision of the wage scales.
on the same date the tribunal disposed of the application by the following order there can be no doubt that a flat increase of rs 150 to each of the employees in the category of draftsmen and of rs 100 to each employee in the other categories has been granted under my award.
it seems that the tribunal was betrayed by a curious confusion in accepting the plea of the union that a flat increase to the pay of each workman was intended in the original wage and consequently it fell into the error of amending the award.
the amendment has resulted in the tribunal making as it were a supplementary award whereby a further relief is being granted beyond that granted in the original award.
thereafter the tribunal made an order on the same day in the following terms there can be no doubt that a flat increase of rs 150 to each of the employees in the category of draftsmen and of rs 100 to each employee in the other categories has been granted under my award.
even so we propose to examine whether the correction sought by the employees union was within the bounds of the authority of the tribunal or whether it was in effect a fresh award.
sd k n wani industrial tribunal.
individual workmen were not present to the mind of the tribunal.
the tribunal has given satisfactory reason for adopting a different mode and we are not disposed to interfere with the award of the tribunal.
dearness allowance became payable at 10 of the basic wage subject to a minimum of rs 50 and house rent allowance at 30 of the basic salary.
it also observed that the category of draughtsmen needed a special increase.
the question is to what extent the relief should be given to the employees.
having regard to the not inconsiderable improvement in the level of the basic wage it observed that there would be a consequent increase in the dearness allowance and house rent allowance.
two days after the award was made an application was made by the union stating in the said award your honour has observed at the end of para 22in view of the increase that is being allowed in the basic pay i do not propose to revise the existing scheme of dearness allowance.
in the said award your honour has observed at the end of para 22in view of the increase that is being allowed in the basic pay i do not propose to revise the existing scheme of dearness allowance.
reference was also made to bengal chemical pharmaceutical works limited v its workmen.
the question is what should be the extent of such burden.
i shall now consider civil appeal no 2300 of 1979 filed by the workmen.
having regard to the net profits earned by the appellant from 1968 to 1977 it found that the acceptance of the demands of the union would result in an increased burden of rs 7 crores a burden which would dry up the appellant 's resources and would be impossible for it to bear.
tata consultant engineers at its inception was a partnership firm but subsequently the partnership was dissolved and in 1974 the undertaking became one of the divisions of tata sons limited.
in the result civil appeal no 2299 of 1979 is allowed in part insofar that the order dated 22nd december1978 of the industrial tribunal maharashtra bombay is quashed to the extent that it modifies the original award dated 20th december1978and the corrigendum made consequent thereto is also quashed.
civil appeal no 2300 of 1979 is dismissed.
chinnappa reddy j we have had the advantage of perusing the judgment prepared by our learned brother pathak j we agree with him that civil appeal no 2300 of 1979 should be dismissed.
we have already indicated that we agree with our brother pathak j that the appeal civil appeal no 2300 of 1979 filed by the workmen should also be dismissed.
the appellant had introduced various pay scales in 1973 and some time later they were revised.
revising the figures on that basis it computed the annual gross profits for the years 1968 to 1977 and determined the annual average at rs 26 69 lakhs.
this is further borne out from the trading results of the company for the year 1968 69 to 1977 the profits have increased all along.
since there was to be a flat increase of rs 150 and rs 100 in the case of draftsmen and other workmen respectively the revised wage scale had necessarily to commence with figures rs 150 and rs 100 above the existing wage scales.
taking into account the circumstance that besides the staff of 306 workmen represented by the union there were several other employees who would also have to be paid the tribunal considered it fair in paragraph 23 of the award to give a flat increase of rs 150 in the category of draughtsmen and rs 100 in the case of other categories.
the revised pay scales of all categories except the category of draughtsmen shows an increase of rs 100 in the initial pay fixed in each scale the increase in the case of the category of draughtsmen being rs 150 there was only one increase contemplated in the award in paragraph 23 of award and it is more than plain that the increase was the one incorporated in the revised pay scales pertaining to different categories.
there will be no explanation why the initial start of the revised pay scales has been increased by rs 150 in the case of the category of draughtsmen and rs 100 in the case of other categories.
none of the alternatives was actually adopted by the tribunal because when the award was made the tribunal proceeded instead to restructure the wage scales by the addition of rs 150 in the case of the category of draughtsmen and rs 100 in the case of other categories to the initial pay in the wage scales pertaining to those categories.
it was clearly so intended by the tribunal as is evident from the reference to flat increase of rs 150 in the category of draftsmen and rs 100 in the case of the other categories.
it is urged that the amendment results in the inclusion of a flat increase of rs 150 to each workman in the case of draughtsman and rs 100 to each workman in the case of other categories a result wholly unwarranted it is said by the intent of the original award and therefore falling beyond the jurisdiction of the tribunal.
on the other hand the endorsement reads as if there was tacit agreement on the part of the company to the correction sought by the union.
the particular character of the appellant that it was a service industry and not a manufacturing concern was taken into account and it was observed that unlike a manufacturing business there was little scope for diversification in the case of an engineering consultancy.
the sufficiency of the existing pay scales was considered in detail and regard was had to their original structure and the accretions made subsequently by way of dearness allowance and house rent allowance.
