3 whatever moneys that may be required to be invested in our partnership are to be invested by the parties of the first second third fourth and seventh parts out of us and the interest at the rate of 712 per cent per annum has to be paid for the moneys that may be invested in this partnership.
therefore the first question that had to be decided by the appellate court being the court of small causes bombay and if a revision lay before the high court was whether there was any genuine partnership.
the appellant was to bring his asset being the tenancy of the premises in question for the user of the partnership.
but the question is from the three deeds itself which were examined in detail by the court of small causes and which were re examined by the high court could it be said unequivocally that there was no partnership.
it is further stated that he had filed a civil suit to dissolve the partnership and to take account and his suit was pending in city civil court.
the power to hear a revision is generally given to a superior court so that it may satisfy itself that a particular case is decided according to law.
the court of small causes considered these principles evaluated the evidence and held that there was in fact and in law a partnership.
it may be mentioned that the partnership deed exhibit 114 was executed by six persons and at that stage the appellant or his father were not partners in the firm.
it was in the second partnership deed that the appellant and his father joined the firm.
we must however guard ourselves against permitting in the guise of revision substitution of one view where two views are possible and the court of small causes has taken a particular view.
it was contended by mr mehta that there was no agency reading the partnership deeds as we have read that conclusion does not emanate from position appearing debiting the fixed amount payable to the appellant in the expenses account which also is not inconsistent with partnership.
he contended further that the suit premises was with him and the defendants nos 2 to 5 had not acquired any tenancy rights in the suit premises.
whether the appellant herein and his father had sublet the premises in question in or about 1960 in terms of section 131e of the bombay rents hotel and lodging house rates control act1947.
the power according to the learned judge was of the widest amplitude to pass such orders as the court thought fit in order to do complete justice.
there the learned judge relying on section 292 of the said act held that the revisional power with which the high court was vested under section 292 was not merely in the nature of jurisdictional control.
all these tests were borne in mind by the court of small causes bombay in the appeal from the decision of the learned trial judge.
the ambit and power of revision generally and in particular with respect to the provisions with which we are concerned have from time to time come up for consideration by this court.
1961 indlaw sc 157 supra bhagwati j observed that the ambit of section 351 of the delhi ajmer rent control act which fell for consideration in hari shanker 's case 1961 indlaw sc 157 supra was the same as section 293 of the bombay rent act and therefore he expressed the opinion that the high court could interfere only if there was miscarriage of justice due to mistake of law.
the amending provision therefore only related to procedure and not to any rights of the parties.
in order to decide this question it is necessary to decide the scope and ambit of section 292 of the rent act.
if that was so there was nothing that could be clone about such a view within the ambit and scope of the power of section 292 of the rent act.
in the light of the aforesaid principles and the facts that have emerged we are of the opinion that the high court exceeded its jurisdiction under section 292 of the rent act.
whether there was a partnership or not may in certain cases be a mixed question of law and fact in the sense that whether the ingredients of partnership as embodied in the law of partnership were there in a particular case or not must be judged in the light of the principles applicable to partnership.
in the eye of law such a clause is really non sequitur or neutral proving neither the existence nor non existence of a genuine firm.
this court in the case of bhai chand ratanshi v laxmishanker tribhavan1982 1 rent control journal 2421981.
indlaw sc 244 observed that where lower courts applied their minds properly in deciding a matter under section 132 of the bombay rent act the high court could not substitute its own finding for the one reached by the courts below on a reappraisal of evidence under section 292 of the act as substituted by the gujarat act 18 of 1965 this court reiterated that although the high court had wider power than that which could be exercised under section 115 of c p c yet its revisional power could only be exercised for a limited purpose with a view to satisfying itself that the decision was according to law.
the question is can the high court do so in law.
it was observed that under section 392 of the said act the high court could interfere in second appeal only if there was a substantial question of law.
this court emphasised that the distinction between an appeal and revision is a real one.
a right to appeal carries with it right of re heating on law as well as fact.
it is true that since after 4th of october1960 the partnership firm was carrying on business in the premises in question.
the high court on a reappraisal of these very evidence came to the conclusion that the partnerships were camouflages and were not acted upon and in fact and in reality the partnership firm was a sub tenant of the appellant herein.
supp 2 s c r 906 1962 indlaw sc 455.
this principle was reiterated in krishnawati v hans raj1974 2 s c r 524 1973 indlaw sc 208 which was dealing with section 392 of the delhi rent control act1958 in second appeal.
we must take note of a decision in the case of m s kasturbhai ramchand panchal brothers and others v firm of mohanlal nathubhai and others air 1969 gujarat 110 1967 indlaw guj 57upon which the high court had placed great reliance in the judgment under appeal.
1966the gujarat high court after dealing with the gujarat amendment act xviii of 1965 observed that the legislature has not intended to equate the ambit of the power with the one exercised in an appeal.
it is clear from the evidence on record that the partnership firm had undergone metamorphosis from time to time and again ever since the year 1960 the firm bharat neon signs first originated on 4th of october1960 as many as six persons were named in the partnership firm on or about 4th of october1960 and they had executed a deed of partnership on 13th of october1960 which is exhibit 114 on the record.
he has stated further that the suit premises were to be used for business and he could use it for any business and he joined in partnership with defendants nos 2 to 5 somewhere in 1961 to prepare neon signs and the defendants nos 2 to 5 were his partners and doing business in the suit premises.
nos 24 and 5 in the name of respondent no 2m section bharat neon signs hereinafter referred to as respondent no 2.
we are concerned in this appeal with only one of the premises which was involved in suit no 553 of 1969 it is not in dispute and it never was that the premises was being used by bharat neon signs firm being the defendant no 2 in the original suit.
in the instant case the basic question is whether keeping in background the partnership deeds referred to hereinbefore and the facts that came to light was there partnership or not.
appeal allowed.
the appellate court had considered the partnership deeds.
there was an appeal filed from that decree and that appeal was also dismissed and disposed of affirming the decree for the dissolution of the partnership inter se between the parties being the partners of the said firm.
this was set aside in appeal.
the learned chief justice then was referred with approval the observations of hidayatullah j referred to hereinbefore in hari shankar 's case.
