70 for the purposes of this act the following shall be the duties and functions to be performed by the mamlatdar a to decide whether a person is an agriculturist b to decide whether a person is a tenant or a protected tenant or a permanent tenant c to decide such other matters as may be referred to him by or under this 85 1 no civil court shall have jurisdiction to settle decide or deal with any question which is by or under this act required to be settled decided or dealt with by the mamlatdar or tribunal a manager the collector or the maharashtra revenue tribunal in appeal or revision or the state government in exercise of their powers of control.
secondly this court held that the appellant was not entitled to retain after redemption possession of the mortgage property by reason of his previous right to be in its possession as a tenant.
al act even if the plaintiff could obtain a decree for redemption of the suit properties which relief was sought in the suit.
question 2.
the argument which was strenuously advanced on behalf of the appellant plaintiff was that in a suit for redemption filed by the mortgagor in a civil court in respect of property notwithstanding the plea of the defendants claim that they were tenants of that property under the bt al act and under the provisions of that act the issue of tenancy had to be referred by the civil court to the mamlatdar for recording a finding thereon and the civil court can proceed to dispose 0.
the suit only on the basis of the finding received from the mamlatdar the civil court itself can record its finding on the issue of tenancy and if the finding to be recorded had to go against the claim of tenancy it would be permissible for the civil court to grant the decree for redemption sought by the plaintiff in the said suit.
the further plea taken in the written statement by the appellants was that as the question involved in the suit related to the possession of premises as between a landlord and his tenant the court of small causes bombay alone had jurisdiction to try the suit.
if that be so merger of lease hold estate in reversion can not arise inasmuch as there can not be any inconsistency or incompatibility in one person being the tenant and also the mortgagee of the same property for in that event instead of the tenant paying rent to the landlord he may adjust it against the amount claimable by him as a mortgagee from the landlord.
it was also claimed therein that they had become owners of the said properties when the plaintiff in the year 1962 sold those properties to defendant 1 by receiving a sum of rs 4400 as consideration for the sale.
when suit for redemption of the premises was filed by the respondent the appellant claimed that after redemption he was entitled to remain in possession of the premises because of the subsistence of his previous tenancy right.
this civil appeal by special leave is directed against the judgment and decree dated 29th november1977 rendered by a single judge of the gujarat high court in second appeal no 348 of 1973which arose out of regular civil suit no 921 of 1966 filed in the court of joint civil judge baroda civil court by the appellant herein as plaintiff against respondents 1 and 2 herein.
it proceeds on the basis that exclusive jurisdiction is conferred on certain courts to decide all questions or claims under the act as to parties between whom there is or was a relationship of landlord and tenant.
questions which arise for our consideration and decision in the light of the aforesaid arguments of learned counsel for the contesting parties admit of their formulations thus 1 does the lease hold of a tenant lessee in a property merge in mortgage security if the same property is given by the landlord lessor to the tenant lessee as a mortgage security under a mortgage by conditional sale as would debar the tenant from desisting the suit of the landlord mortgagor for recovery of possession of such property by obtaining a decree for redemption of the mortgage.
it was agreed under the terms of the mortgage deed that no interest need be paid by the respondent since the premises the possession of which was given to the tenant pursuant to the mortgage was to be enjoyed in lieu of interest payable on the mortgage.
the defence of the appellants defendants in substance was that the agreement on which reliance was placed by the respondents in their suit was a sham agreement and that the appellants in reality were the tenants of the shop and the relationship between the respondents and appellants was that of the landlord and tenant.
379 he therefore urged that the high court was not justified in upsetting the concurrent finding of the trial court and the appellate court that the defendants failed to prove their tenancy and remanding the case to the trial court directing it to refer the issue of tenancy to the mamlatdar and stay the suit till the receipt of the finding in that regard from the mamlatdar and then dispose of the suit.
this court held that the mortgage deed established beyond doubt that there was no subsistence or continuation of lease in that there was delivery of possession by the tenant to the landlord immediately before the mortgage and redelivery of possession to the tenant of the premises made by the landlord was pursuant to the mortgage as a mortgagee and not as a tenant.
consequently the learned single judge set aside the judgments and decrees of the trial court and the appellate court relating to the issue of tenancy raised by the defendants in the suit and remanded the case to the civil court trial court directing it to refer the issue of such tenancy to the mamlatdar baroda for his determination and to stay all further proceedings in the suit till he got the finding from the mamlatdar on that tenancy issue and thereafter to proceed to dispose of that suit in the light of that finding and the other findings recorded by the appellate court district judge.
thus we are constrained to answer the question in the negative by agreeing with the view expressed by the single judge of the high court in this regard in his judgment and order under appeal.
however the defendants questioned the judgments and decrees of the trial court and the appellate court by filing a second appeal against the same in the high court of gujarat.
the plaint averments were that appellant 1 defendant 1 had appointed the respondent as his commission agent for the sale of the appellants cloth in the shop in question.
al act as it stood before its amendment at the time of filing of the suit and as it stood after its amendment after the filing of the suit.
but if the provisions of the bt al act which bear on the question of matters to be decided by the mamlatdar are seen they give no room for one even to think that those matters could be decided by a civil court when a question is raised in that behalf even by a defendant in a suit.
question 1.
interests of the lessee and the lessor in the whole of the property become vested at the same time in one person in the same right because of section 11 ld of the t p act.
it does not invest those courts with exclusive power to try questions of title such as questions as between the rightful owner and a trespasser or a licensee for such questions do not arise under the act.
thus the provisions in the bt al act give no scope or room to think that the plea of tenancy if raised by the defendants in a suit in a civil court the same could be decided by the civil court.
according 10 him a mortgagee in possession being a person who can not be deemed to be a tenant under section 4 of the bt al act it was not open to the defendants to claim that they were the tenants of suit properties and if that be so question of raising issue of tenancy by the civil court in the suit before it did not arise at all nor was it necessary to refer such issue to the mamlatdar under section 85 a of the bt al act and stay the suit till receipt of the finding on such issue as was directed by the high court in its judgment under appeal.
section 70 of the bt al act to which we have adverted already imposes a duty on the mamlatdar to decide whether a person is an agriculturist or a tenant or a protected tenant or a permanent tenant when such person claims to be so under that act.
dealing with the matter this court referred to the general principle which covers the question of jurisdiction at the inception of suits which was not disputed thus the plaintiff chooses his forum and files his suit.
dealing with the question of non merger this court approved the ratio of the decision in shah mathuradas 1976 indlaw sc 400 supra thus in our view there can be no merger of a lease and a mortgage even where the two transactions are in respect of the same property.
consequently the judgment and order under appeal does not call for our interference.
in the result we dismiss this appeal with costs.
bombay had exclusive jurisdiction in dealing with the suit out of which the appeal had arisen.
appeal dismissed.
shah mathuradas case 1976 indlaw sc 400 supra was that where the respondent had executed a mortgage in favour of the appellant respecting a premises of which he was a tenant.
the only question which arose for decision in topandas case 1963 indlaw sc 379 supra was whether on a proper interpretation of section 28 of the bombay rents hotel and lodging house rates control.
him by the landlord lessor on a mortgage by conditional sale as would debar the tenant from desisting the suit of the landlord mortgagor for recovery of possession of such property by obtaining decree for redemption of the mortgage.
court it also made a preliminary decree in favour of the plaintiff for redemption of the suit properties.
agricultural lands at the time of execution of the deeds of mortgage by conditional sale in his favour because of the coming into existence of such mortgages there occurred merger of lease hold rights of defendant l in suit properties when he obtained those properties as mortgage security under the said mortgages and as a consequence he became a mortgagee in possession of those properties.
