learned counsel for the respondent state on the other hand supported the impugned judgment of the high court.
rule 18 provides that where such petitions are filed against orders of the tribunals or authorities specified in rule 18 of chapter xvii of the appellate side rules or against decrees or orders of courts specified in that rule they shall be heard and finally disposed of by a single judge.
learned counsel for the appellant submitted that the order of this court is very clear and the conclusions of the high court that merely limitation was waived is contrary to the clear terms of the earlier order of this court.
s 2 of the act reads as follows 21.
an appeal shall lie from a judgment or order passed by the one judge of the high court in exercise of original jurisdiction u art 226 of the constitution of india to a division bench comprising of two judges of the same high court.
after taking the aforesaid view one course open was to set aside the order of the division bench and to remand the matter for being disposed of on merits by the division bench of the high court.
to elaborate whether the learned single judge has exercised his jurisdiction u art 226 or u art 227 or both would depend upon various aspects and many a facet as has been emphasized in the afore quoted decisions of the apex court.
since the impugned order is passed by a learned single judge.
in the present case the division bench was clearly wrong in holding that the appeal was not maintainable against the order of the learned single judge.
consequently it could not be said that cl 15 of the letters patent was not attracted for preferring appeal against the judgment of the learned single judge.
phraseology used in exercise of original jurisdiction u art 226 of the constitution in s 2 of the act can not be given a restricted and constricted meaning because an order passed in a writ petition can tantamount to an order u art 226 or 227 of the constitution of india and it would depend upon the real nature of the order passed by the learned single judge.
the right of appeal against the judgment of a single judge is given by the letters patent which have been continued in force by art 225 of the constitution.
for determining the question of maintainability of an appeal against such a judgment of the single judge the division bench has to find out whether in substance the judgment has been passed by the learned single judge in exercise of the jurisdiction u art 226 of the constitution.
as we have seen above an intra court appeal against the judgment of a single judge in a petition u art 226 is not barred while cl 15 itself bars an intra court appeal against the judgment of a single judge in a petition u art 227.
in sushilabai laxminarayan mudliyar v nihalchand waghajibhai shaha 1993 supp 1 scc 11 1991 indlaw sc 718.
this court with reference to an unreported judgment in ratnagiri district central co operative bank ltd v. dinkar kashinath watve 1989 indlaw sc 421c a no 520 of 1989 decided on 27 1 1989 held as follows even when in the cause title of an application both art 226 and art 227 of the constitution have been mentioned the learned single judge is at liberty to decide according to facts of each particular case whether the said application ought to be dealt with only u art 226 of the constitution.
thus in the totality of the facts and circumstances of the case the pleadings of the parties in the writ petition and the judgment of the learned single judge leaves no manner of doubt that it was an order passed u art 226 of the constitution and in that view of the matter the letters patent appeal was maintainable before the high court.
jj considered the very same question in the light of cl 15 of the letters patent of the bombay high court.
as has been held in the case of surya devi rai supra a writ of certiorari can be issued u art 226 of the constitution against an order of a tribunal or an order passed by the sub ordinate court.
in exercise of supervisory jurisdiction the high court may not only quash or set aside the impugned proceedings judgment or order but it may also make such directions as the facts and circumstances of the case may warrant maybe by way of guiding the inferior court or tribunal as to the manner in which it would now proceed further or afresh as commended to or guided by the high court.
however taking in view the fact that this litigation is going on for nearly a decade and also the fact that even the learned single judge in his impugned order dated december 111987 had remanded the case to the rent controller we considered it proper in the interest of justice to hear the appeal on merits against the judgment of the learned single judge.
