apart from it on september 122005 after hearing both parties special leave was granted by this court.
in the backdrop of these peculiar facts in our view it is not appropriate to relegate the 17 appellant at this distance of time to challenge the impugned order passed by the ipab in writ petition before the high court.
the single judge of the madras high court passed an interim restraint order on february 12001 against the first respondent.
as regards class 9 he would submit that in view of the affidavit filed by the first respondent on july 142004 in the court of additional district judge delhi the first respondent ceases to be an aggrieved person on the date of consideration of the rectification application.
g whether the respondent has committed fraud while obtaining registration of the mark and.
in that suit an affidavit came to be filed by the first respondent wherein it was stated that the name of the company has been changed from jupiter infosys limited to jupiter international limited and a certificate to that effect has been issued by the registrar of companies kolkata under the companies act1956 and no dispute remains between the parties under the trade mark.
the relevant statement made in the affidavit dated july 142003 we were informed that the date of the affidavit is july 142004 reads as follows that in the meantime the defendant has already changed the trade mark namely jupiter international ltd in place of jupiter infosys ltd the copy of the incorporation on change of name which was issued by the registrar of the companies are being marked and annexed herewith as annexure a that now there is no dispute between the plaintiff and defendant under the trade mark.
in the affidavit filed by the first respondent on july 142004 before the court of additional district judge delhi an unequivocal and categorical statement has been made that now there is no dispute between the plaintiff appellant herein and defendant first respondent herein under the trade mark and that defendant has already changed the trade mark namely jupiter international ltd in place of jupiter infosys ltd in terms of section 461not only that the applicant has to show that he is an aggrieved person as his interest is being affected but the ipab must also be satisfied before it directs the removal of registered trade mark that the applicant is an aggrieved person before it invokes the power in directing the removal of the 26 registered trade mark.
on october 111996the appellant instituted a suit in the calcutta high court for perpetual injunction inter alia restraining the first respondent from infringing the appellant 's mark infosys by using the mark infosys by itself or in combination with other marks in course of its trade.
pertinently the notice was issued in the petitions for special leave to appeal to the respondents on november 12004 in response to the said notice the first respondent filed counter affidavit before this court on march 112005 wherein no specific objection about invocation of jurisdiction of this court directly has been taken.
the moot question which has been debated before us is whether or not the first respondent is an aggrieved person.
since the first respondent has also grievance in connection with the impugned order particularly with regard to non consideration of its case under section 56 of the 1958 act we refrain from going into the merits of the diverse contentions raised before us and leave the parties to agitate these contentions before the ipab.
according to him the ipab sought to rely upon computer programming which is a service enumerated in class 42without considering the distinction between a computer programme and computer programming and without noticing the entry computer under class 9 which falls within goods.
cwhether the mark registered in favour of the respondent is a service mark.
addisons application was one under section 46 and the test to determine whether the applicant was a person aggrieved within the meaning of that section should have been the one laid down by romer j in wright case and not the one propounded by the house of lords in the matter of powell 's trade mark.
the applications having been transferred to the ipab in terms of section 100 of the 1999 act the ipab examined the matter in light of the issues that were framed by the high court although in the written submissions before it the objection was raised that the first respondent has ceased to have locus standi in view of the subsequent events particularly change of the name of the first respondent from jupiter infosys ltd to jupiter international ltd the question is whether in these circumstances it was incumbent upon the ipab to consider and satisfy itself about the locus standi of the first respondent to be heard as a person aggrieved.
whether the application is under section 46 or under section 56 or a composite application under both sections it is a pre requisite that the applicant must be a person aggrieved.
learned counsel would submit that in examining the question of non use under section 461bthe ipab failed to consider that the requisite use must be in relation to goods under registration which is extensively defined under section 22b of the 1958 act.
the power to rectify the register conferred by this section shall include the power to remove a trade mark registered in part a of the register to part b of the register.
in our opinion the phrase person aggrieved for the purposes of removal on the ground of non use under section 46 has a different connotation from the phrase used in section 56 for cancelling or expunging or varying an entry wrongly made or remaining in the register.
b whether the respondent had a bonafide intention to use the mark applied for under section 18 of the trade and merchandise marks act.
ewhether the registered trade mark is disentitled for protection in a court of law under section 11e of the trade and merchandise marks act.
sections 46 and 56 read as follows s 46 removal from register and imposition of limitations on ground of non use 1 subject to the provisions of section.
three sections viz sections 4656 and 69 of the act contain the phrase.
but if the ground for rectification is merely based on non user i e under section 46 of the act that is not really on account of any public mischief by way of an incorrect entry.
secondly and more importantly during the pendency of the applications certain events had taken place which had some bearing on the question of locus standi of the first respondent insofar as invocation of section 46 1 of the 1958 act is concerned.
section 461 of the 1958 act enables any person aggrieved to apply for removal of registered trade mark from the register on the ground of non use as stated in clause a andor clause b to be an aggrieved person under section 46he must be one whose interest is affected in some possible way it must not be a fanciful suggestion of grievance.
the position that emerges from the above provisions is this.
private ltd v. m s eagle flask industries pvt.
in the case of hardie trading ltd 2003 indlaw sc 756 1this court approved the test applied by romer j in the royal baking powder company v wright crossley and co 1898.
the question then arises whether it is sufficient for the applicant to show that he is a person aggrieved when he makes his application or he must continue to remain a person aggrieved until such time as the rectification removal application is finally decided.
hardie trading ltd 2003 indlaw sc 756 1 has been followed by this court in a recent decision in the case of kabushiki kaisha toshiba 2008 10 scc 766 2008 indlaw sc 1395.
this court stated that section 46 speaks for private interest while section 56 speaks of a public interest.
the applications being tra nos 25 to 27 of 2003 op nos 764 to 766 of 2001 are restored to the file of intellectual property appellate board chennai for hearing and disposal afresh in accordance with law.
akhil sibal argued that the ipab committed grave error in relying upon the provisions of the 1999 act and the trade marks rules2002 when these provisions were not applicable as the applications were filed under the 1958 act.
ltd air 1993 bombay 185 1992 indlaw mum 6327 lever brothers port sunlight ld v. sunniwite products ld 1949 66 rpc 84.
the ritz hotel v charles of the ritz 1989.
rpc 333 and australian wine importers trade mark.
the ipab in the impugned order while dealing with the plea of limitation raised by the appellant held that the first respondent was the appropriate aggrieved party in the matter in view of the fresh cause of action having arisen to the first respondent on filing of civil suit no 71 of 2001 by the appellant before the madras high court.
lastly he submitted that although no cross objections or cross appeal has been filed the first respondent has some grievance with regard to the order of the ipab in not considering the case set up in the rectification removal applications particularly with regard to section 56 of the 1958 act.
the first respondent was incorporated and registered in september 1978 under the name of jupiter agencies pvt.
anr air 1978 mad 336 he submitted that appellant is primarily in service industry which is unregistrable under the 1958 act and since the appellant is not trading in the goods in respect of which it is registered it can not be said that the mark of the appellant is distinctive of its goods.
the 1958 act was repealed by the trade marks act1999 for shortthe 1999 act in terms of section 100 of the 1999 act the three petitions filed by the first respondent before the madras high court for rectification removal of registered trade mark nos 475269475267 and 484837 were transferred to the ipab.
that the first respondent filed composite applications under sections 46 and 56 of the 1958 act for rectification removal of the trade mark infosys registered in classes 79 and 16 is not in dispute.
in view of the above these appeals are allowed in part and the impugned order dated september 92004 is set aside.
appeals allowed.
in the circumstances we are satisfied that the applications made by the first respondent for rectification removal of the subject trade marks from the register need to be considered afresh by the ipab in accordance with law and the observations made above.
in our considered view it was.
the objection about maintainability of the appeals is accordingly overruled.
having regard to the order that we intend to make we are not persuaded to accept the objection raised on behalf of the first respondent that present appeal preferred directly before this court from the impugned order passed by the ipab is not maintainable and must be dismissed as such.
in any case learned counsel would submit that the expression infosys is not descriptive expression.
learned counsel thus submitted that the impugned order is unsustainable and liable to be set aside.
