one lakshminarayana iyer a hindu brahmin who owned considerable properties in the tirunelveli district died on 13th december 1924 leaving him surviving a widow ranganayaki and a married daughter ramalakshmi.
appeal dismissed.
ramalakshmi had married the plaintiff and had a number of children from him.
reference was also made to a decision of the bombay high court in lallu v jagmohan 1898 i l r 22 bom.
bhagwati devi v chowdry bholonath thakur 1874 75 2 i a 256.
the high court by its judgment under appeal affirmed the decision of the trial judge and maintained his view on the construction of the will.
reliance was next placed on the decision in pavani subbamma v ammala rama naidu 1937.
they were all alive in december 1924 when lakshminarayana died.
there was a clear prohibition forbidding the widow to make any transfers of the milkiuit estates and the slaves.
in the first instance he placed reliance on a decision of the madras high court in ratna chetty v narayana swami chetty 19i4 26 m l j 616.
what is given must be gathered from the language of the will in the light of the surrounding circumstances.
in construing the will of a hindu it is not improper to take into consideration what are known to be the ordinary notions and wishes of hindus with respect to the devolution of property.
it was averred in the plaint that ramalakshmi obtained a vested interest in the suit properties under the will of her father and plaintiff was thus entitled to maintain the suit.
the following remarks in the privy council decision in nathu ram mahajan v gangayabai 1938.
reliance was next placed on maharaja of kolhapur v sundaram iyer 1925 i l r 48 mad.
these observations have to a certain extent relevance to the present case but on the facts this case is also distinguishable.
mr krishnaswami iyengar sought to derive the greatest support for his contention from the decision in ram bahadur v jager.
after your lifetime ramalakshmi ammal our daughter and wife of rama ayyar avergal of melagaram village and her heirs shall enjoy them with absolute rights and powers of alienation such as gift exchange and sale from son to grandson and so on for generations.
the fact that the gift over was a contingent bequest was by itself taken as a sure indication that the preceding bequest was that of a widow 's estate.
1 m l j 268.
both the learned counsel eventually conceded that the language used in the will was consistent with the testator 's intention of conferring a life estate in the english sense as well as with the intention of conferring a hindu widow 's estate.
the extent of the grant so far as the properties mentioned in the schedule are concerned to the daughter and the widow is the same.
this will was couched in different language than the will in the present case.
the question in every case can not be determined merely on the theory that every hindu thinks only about a hindu widow 's estate and no more.
ranganayaki entered into possession of the properties on the death of her husband.
in vasantharao ammannamma v venkata kodanda rao pantalu 1939.
considering the will in the light of these principles it seems to us that lakshminarayan iyer intended by his will to direct that his entire properties should be enjoyed by his widow during her lifetime but her interest in these properties should come to an end on her death that all these properties in their entirety should thereafter be enjoyed as absolute owners by his daughter and her heirs with powers of alienation gift exchange and sale from generation to generation.
this decision therefore goes against the contention of the learned counsel but he placed reliance on the observations made in the judgment when the learned judge proceeded to say in deference to the view taken in maharaja of kolhapur v sundaram iyer 1925 i l r 48 mad 1 it may be possible to create an interest analogous to a woman 's estate in hindu law notwithstanding the addition of a gift over and that the estate taken by section need not necessarily be only a life estate in the english law sense of the term.
mr krisbnaswami lyengar on the other hand contended that the absence of any words in the will restricting her powers of alienation and putting a restraint on them suggested a contrary intention and that the daughter 's estate was described as coming into being after the estate of the widow and was not conferred on her simultaneously with the widow and this connoted according to the notions of hindus a full hindu widow 's estate.
in view of this finding he granted the plaintiff a declaratory decree to the effect that the first defendant had only an estate for life in the suit properties and that the alienations made by her would not endure beyond her lifetime.
if she took the estate only of a hindu widow one consequence no doubt would be that she would be unable to alienate the profits or that at all events whatever she purchased out of them would be an increment to her husband 's estate and the plaintiffs would be entitled to recover possession of all such property real and personal.
this will was construed as conveying an absolute estate to the son and the daughter of the niece.
and my wife has powers to do in the same way as i have absolute powers to do when i am present and in case of my wife 's death my daughter mahalaxmi is owner of the said property after that.
the restraint against alienation was repugnant to both a life estate and a widow estate and was not therefore taken into account.
if it was the daughter 's estate that was intended to be conferred there can be no question that the estate taken by the grandsons is not a vested interest.
it was however urged by mr rajah iyer that as no express or implied power of alienation for purposes of all legal necessities was conferred on the widow that circumstance negatived the view that the testator intended to confer upon his widow a hindu widow 's estate as she would get in case of intestacy.
the last decision referred to was the decision of the privy council in mahomed shumsool v shewukram 1874 indlaw pc 12 1874 75 2 i a 7 there a hindu inhabitant of bihar by a document of a testamentary character declared his daughter who had two daughters as his heir and after her two daughters together with their children were declared heirs and malik.
it would also follow that she would completely represent the estate and under certain circumstances the statute of limitations might run against the heirs to the estate whoever they might be.
the gift to mst.
she certainly would have the power of selling her own estate and it would further follow that girdhari would not be possessed in any sense of a vested remainder but merely of a contingent one.
the subordinate judge held that chunderbutti got an estate for life with the power to appropriate profits and girdhari got a vested remainder on her death.
on the 19th september 1945 an ad interim injunction was issued by the high court restraining the widow from alienating the properties in her possession and forming part of her husband 's estate inspite of this injunction on the 27th september 1945 she executed two deeds of settlement in favour of the other defendants comprising a number of properties.
on the 18th september 1945 the suit out of which this appeal arises was instituted by the plaintiff the husband and the sole heir of ramalakshmi for a declaration that the said sale would not be binding on him beyond the lifetime of the widow.
he also on the analogy of other wills and the decisions given on their terms wanted a decision on the construction of this will in his favour.
the question as to the validity of the alienations was left undetermined.
the substantial question to decide in the appeal is whether the estate granted by the testator to his widow was a fall woman 's estate under hindu law or merely a limited life estate in the english sense of that expression.
if both of them would live together amicably muthu arunachala chetty himself would enjoy the properties which remain after the death of the widow.