this appeal with special leave is directed against the judgment and order of the labour appellate tribunal of india in a dispute regarding the workers claim for bonus.
appeal allowed.
during the year 1948 the appellant made a profit of rs 1197648 11 9.
vide dhakeswari cotton mills ltd v commissioner of income tax west bengal 1954 indlaw sc 213.
this has been clearly recognised even in the various decisions of the labour appellate tribunal e g nizam sugar factory ltd hyderabad v their workmen 1952.
this contention can be shortly answered by referring to our decision in bharat bank ltd delhi v employees of the bharat bank ltd delhi 1950 s c r 459 1950 indlaw sc 48 where we held that the industrial tribunals were tribunals within the meaning of article 136 and further that article 136 has vested in this court exceptional and overriding power to interfere where it reaches the conclusion that a person has been dealt with arbitrarily or that a court or tribunal within the territory of india has not given a fair deal to a litigant.
and also in great western garment co ltd v minister of national revenue 1948.
the principles for the grant of bonus were discussed and a formula was evolved by the full bench of the labour appellate tribunal in millowners association bombay v rashtreeya mill mazdoor sangh bombay 1950.
considerations of social justice can not be disregarded altogether in relations between capital and labour.
this position was recognised in sutton v attorney general 1923.
the basic wages were increased from the 1st december 1948 by order of the government of uttar pradesh and the total wages paid were therefore higher than those in the previous year.
dividend on ordinary shares being the maximum that could be paid under the public companies limitation of dividend ordinance of 1948 and also paid to the workers their full share of bonus at annas 4 in a rupee of their basic earnings.
this formula was reiterated in textile mills m p their workmen 1952 2 l l j 625 and famous cine laboratory v their workmen 1953 1 l l j 466 and in the latter case it deprecated the idea of adjudicators importing considerations of social justice which were not comprised in that formula and what is social justice.
the workers not being members of the company would also not have any right title and interest in the reserves or the undistributed profits which would form part of the assets of the company.
i l l j 386 textile mills madhya pradesh v their workmen 1952 2 l l j 625and famous cine laboratory v their workmen 1953.
d l r 25 233.
a sum of rs 250000 being the excess reserve for taxation was written back and a sum of rs 1001871 13 5 being the amount of reserve transferred from the investment account was also brought in.
it paid 24 3 per cent.
on an appeal taken by the appellant to the industrial court textiles and hosiery kanpur the industrial court accepted the contention of the appellant allowed the appeal and set aside the award.
it has also got to be remembered that the labour force employed in an industrial concern is a fluctuating body and it can not be predicated of the labour force in a particular year that it represents the past and the present workers so that it can claim to demand bonus out of the reserves or undistributed profits of the previous years.
the considerations of social justice imported by the labour appellate tribunal in arriving at the decision in favour of the respondent were not only irrelevant but untenable.
because if that theory was accepted a company would not declare any dividends but accumulate the profits build up reserves and distribute those profits in the shape of bonus shares or reduce the capital in which event the workers would not be entitled to claim anything as and by way of bonus.
2 l l j 247as.
the labour appellate tribunal also overlooked the fact that but for the public companies limitation of dividend.
ordinance of 1948 the whole of the profits of 1948 could have been distributed after paying the workers bonus in that year of four annas in the rupee.
i do not see why this does not fall within the definition of trade dispute just as much as a dispute as to the rate of wages or salary.
the ratio which applies in the case of the shareholders who acquire the right title and interest of their predecessorsin interest does not apply to the labour force and the fact that the shareholders get a dividend by transfer of funds from the reserves and undistributed profits of the previous years would not entitle the workers to demand bonus out of those funds if the working of the industrial concern during the particular year has resulted in a trading loss.
but second the meaning of the word bonus is not given to it by the objection.
if in any particular year the working of the industrial concern has resulted in loss there is no basis nor justification for a demand for bonus.
further the management were unable to secure cotton which resulted in the curtailment of the working hours.
the employees would in no event be entitled to any share or interest in the assets and the capital of the company.
it is also significant to note that even while importing considerations of social justice the labour appellate tribunal was oblivious of the fact that it was by their own acts of indiscipline and strike that the workers of the appellant company themselves contributed to the trading losses incurred by the appellant and it hardly lay in their mouth then to contend that they were none the less entitled to a payment of bonus commensurate with the dividend paid to the shareholders out of the undistributed profits of the previous years.
both the industrial court as well as the labour appellate tribunal found as a fact that there was a trading loss of rs 502563 1 10 during the year 1949 and also.
the appellant also paid ex gratia to the workmen bonus at the rate of annas 2 per rupee of their basic earnings making it clear by their notification dated the 7th april 1950 that the directors had sanctioned the payment at that rate in spite of the appellant having suffered a trading loss for the year that it was being paid entirely at the discretion of the appellant and was not related to or connected with any contract of employment of any worker.
a transfer of moneys from these reserves or the undistributed profits would therefore not enure for the benefit of the workers.
as a result of all these circumstances the appellant suffered a trading loss of rs 502563 1 10.
the word bonus has however acquired a secondary meaning in the sphere of industrial relations.
social justice is a very vague and indeterminate expression and no clear cut definition can be laid down which will cover all the situations.
on the 4th may 1950 the secretary of the respondent union petitioned to the provincial conciliation officer textile that there was more production in 1949 than in 1948 that there was no reason to hold that the profit in 1949 was less than in the previous year and that the rate of bonus was wrongly reduced and asked that bonus for 1949 should also be paid at the rate of annas 4 per rupee.
linking of bonus to dividend would obviously create difficulties.
it is therefore clear that the claim for bonus can be made by the employees only if as a result of the joint contribution of capital and labour the industrial concern has earned profits.
during the year 1949 the selling rates for cloth and yarn were controlled by the government and were approximately 4 per cent.
the result therefore is that the decision of the labour appellate tribunal appealed against must be reversed and that of the industrial court textiles and hosiery kanpur restored.