appeal dismissed.
this appeal is by special leave against the judgment of the high court of punjab and haryana confirming the conviction of the accused under section 51c of the prevention of corruption act 1947 as also the sentence awarded by the sessions judge of one year 's rigorous imprisonment and a fine of rs 2500 in default six months rigorous imprisonment.
the facts of the case in brief are that in view of the chinese invasion air field at sirsa required to be extended for which purpose the ministry of defence govt.
of india took steps to acquire some lands of agriculturists pursuant to which a notification dated november 27 1962 was issued under section 4 of the land acquisition act 1894 for acquiring 51 79 acres of land situated in the state of ahmedpur.
on the next day another notification was issued under section 6 of the land acquisition act on november 28 1962 and in view of the emergency action under section 17 was taken for obtaining possession of the land with a view to its development.
the case of jaswant singh v the state of puniab.
of india does not cover the trial of the charge under section 51c of the prevention of corruption act.
we do not think in these circumstances there is any justification whatever for interfering with the concurrent findings of the trial court and the high court that the appellant is guilty of an offence under section 51c read with section 52 of the prevention of corruption act and consequently the appeal is dismissed.
under that clause sanction has to be given to a prosecution for the contravention of any of the provision of the order.
in support of this contention three decisions have been cited before us namely bhagat ram v state of punjab 1954 indlaw sc 188 madan mohan singh v state of u p privy council 82.
if it is intended to contradict the witness by the writing the attention of the witness should be called before the writing can be proved to those parts of it which are to be used for the purpose of contradicting him.
a chargesheet was filed against the appellant under section 5 1 c and 5 1 d read with 5 2 of the prevention of corruption act on 5 8 1966 after obtaining sanction from the govt.
before the land was actually acquired the appellant who was a major in the military engineering service was working as a garrison engineer and was inching of the extension.
if this is not done the evidence of the witnesses can not be assailed in respect of those statements by merely proving that the witness had signed the document.
the fact that otwithstanding overwhelming evidence particularly of his own admission at the time he denies that there were ever any crops when delivery of possession of the land acquired was taken by him further reinforces the conclusion that he allowed the crops to be cut away with dishonest or fraudulent motive.
before we consider these contentions it is necessary to determine another submission of the learned advocate for the appellant which goes to the root of the jurisdiction of the court to try the offence under section 51c.
and gokulchand dwarkadas mordrka v the king 1948 indlaw pc 39.
the facts disclose the commission of the offence of criminal misconduct as defined in section 51d read with section 52 of the prevention of corruption act 1947 by major som nath accused.
they can at best be used to contradict in the cross examination of such a witness when he gives evidence at the trial court of the accused in the manner provided under section 145 of the evidence act.
in the present case there is nothing on the face of the sanction and no extraneous evidence to show that the sanctioning authority knew the facts alleged to constitute a breach of the order and the sanction is invalid.
nor in their lordships view is a sanction given without reference to the facts constituting the offence a compliance with the actual terms of cl.
the special judge acquitted the appellant of the second charge namely that being a public servant he had by corrupt or illegal means or by otherwise abusing his position as a public servant obtained for himself a sum of rs 2500 from moti ram of sirsa for cutting the crops and thereby committed offence under section 51d punishable under section 52.
both these related to possession of the acquired land not being given to him.
on a careful consideration of the evidence both oral and documentary it is established that the appellant who was in charge of the expansion work on the air strip was given possession of the land acquired for that purpose on 13 2 63 that there was standing thereon a bumper crop of sarson gram and lusan on that day that he was therefore entrusted with this crop that he postponed giving delivery of the land to the contractor till at any rate after the 23rd march 1963 and before the 6th april 1963 and that he allowed the crop to be cut and taken away without in any way accounting for it which shows that it was done dishonestly and raudulently.
treasury converted it to his own use and whereas the said acts of major som nath constituted offences punishable under section 52 of the prevention of corruption act read with section 5 1 c and d act No 11 of 1947 of the said act and section 409 of the i p c and whereas the central govt.
when the witnesses are contradicted by their previous statements in the manner aforesaid then that part of the statements which has been put to the witness will be considered along with the evidence to assess the worth of the witness in determining his veracity.
there is therefore no basis for sanction for a charge under section 51c.
in the examination of the accused under section 342 the special judge in our view did put all the circumstances against the accused which formed the basis of the conviction.
he was asked about the symbolic delivery of possession the handing over of the actual possession of the land on 13 2 63 and the existence of crops on the date when possession was delivered on 16 2 63.
for instance it is said that gamkhar military estate officer was not produced to prove the receipt exhibit p 24.
it can not therefore be said that circumstances appearing against the accused which have formed the basis of the conviction had not been put to him.
it is also incorrect because the contractor did not work on the acquired land since 1 2 63 that position is reflected in the review report initiated by the a g e on 9 2 63 vide exhibit dq.
even if it were so the sanction can not be held to be had on that account.
it may be mentioned that though a complaint was made in the application for a certificate for leave to appeal to this court that the learned single judge of the high court should have acquitted the appellant on the sole ground that there was no proper sanction for the prosecution of the appellant under section 51 c of the prevention of the corruption act this question does not seem to have been urged before the high court.
now therefore the central govt both hereby accord sanction under section 197 code of criminal procedure act No 5 of 1898 and section 61a of the prevention of corruption act 1947 act ii of 1947 for the prosecution of maj.
on the other hand he emphatically asserted that at the time when the possession was delivered to him on 13 2 63 there was also no crops standing on the acquired land.
this again does not specifically refer to the land which is being acquired.
after the completion of the first phase the second phase was to start on 10th october 1963 and completed by 9th may 1964.
the nonexamination of other witnesses without anything more can not be treated as defect in the prosecution.
in our view there is no justification for holding that the conviction under section 51c read with 52 is bad for want of the requisite sanction.
the extension of the airstrip would mean that the existing airstrip is being extended so that the initial work can be started and continued on the existing airstrip.