appeal dismissed.
this appeal is by special leave against the judgment and decree of the high court of kerala which dismissed an appeal against the judgment and decree of the subordinate court of havelikkara.
the appellant had filed a suit on october 24 1942 for the recovery of rs 2 lakhs and interest thereon from the date of suit and for costs originally against the state of travancore now the state of kerala the respondent and three others who however were not made parties in the appeal before the high court.
it has alleged in the plaint that the plaintiff appellant was wrongfully dispossessed from 160 acres of land along with the improvements which had been effected by him and as the state had appropriated those improvements without any right or title thereto he claimed the value of those improvements.
the case of vallabdas narainji v development officer bandra a i r 1929.
in the bona fide belief that the lands belonged to the illom.
need be given under section 9 of the act and therefore no compensation or damages were payable in respect thereof.
while this dispute was pending it appears the appellant applied to the conservator of forests for registration of the lands in his name but the application was rejected on june 14 1919 stating that the land applied for can not be registered ext.
in the view we have taken the appeal has no substance and is accordingly dismissed with no order as to costs but the court fee will be recovered from the appellant.
in these circumstances he can not be said to be a bona fide trespasser particularly after he had applied to the government for obtaining a.
the high court accepted the finding of the trial court on issue.
this view of ours is supported by the case of clark and another v gaskarth 8 taunt 431.
in this view it held that compensation for trees which are to be dealt with under the general law can not be decreed in favour of a mere trespasser who had no rights therein.
this practice it seems was also current in respect of lands belonging to the government before the travancore land conservancy act 4 of 1091 24 7 1916 hereinafter called the act.
it is the case of the appellant that even after the act was passed unauthorised occupants of land belonging to the government who had made improvements therein had under the rules made both under the act and the land assignment act a preferential claim over others for getting kuthakapattom or assignment of the property in their possession.
upon such land including a portion in the possession of the appellant they proceeded to erect buildings without the necessary notification under section 6 of the land acquisition act which was not served until november 4 1920.
a while the application for registration was pending the dispute between the illom and the state of travancore had reached a stage when the illom had to institute a suit o section No.
the learned advocate for the appellant has reiterated the submissions made before the trial court and the high court and contends that there is no order forfeiting the improvements as required under section 9 of the act and if section 9 does not apply and there is no right of forfeiture as contemplated under section 9 then the appellant is entitled to compensation under the general law.
in the circumstances the question that had to be considered was whether without an order of forfeiture being passed the respondent could forfeit the improvements.
it appears that the government had resolved to acquire the land in question and other lands and by arrangement with certain of the sutidars it took possession of such land including a portion which was in the occupation of the appellant.
we have already agreed with the trial court and the high court that the appellant was not a bona fide trespasser.
the same dictionary gives the meaning of the word product as follows product with reference to property proceeds.
the contention of the appellant that the trees which are the subject matter of the appeal should have been forfeited by an order passed under section 9 of the act and in the absence of such.
it is however urged before us that the high court was in error in thinking that the appellant did not occupy the lands as a trespasser with a bona fide claim of title because it was his case that he trespassed upon the land with a bona fide intention to improve the land and as such he can still be considered as a bona fide trespasser entitled to improvements under the general law.
it was conceded before the trial court and no attempt was made to establish anything to the contrary before the high court that no notice of forfeiture as required under section 9 was given to the appellant.
the words raised on the land qualify both the crop and other product so the words other product have to be read in the context of the word crop which precedes it.
that was a case in which the government had taken possession of the lands and had erected certain building on the land before a decision under section 6 of the land acquisition act was made as to the appellant 's property arid it was contended that the appellant should be allowed the value of the land in the state in which it then was i e with buildings on it.
this case does not support the contention that a mere trespasser who has deliberately and wrongfully contrary to the provisions of section 5 of the act entered upon another 's land which makes such an act even punishable under section 6 thereof is entitled to compensation for the trees planted by him on the land.
it may be mentioned that in respect of the 160 acres of land of the illom which were occupied by the appellant 's father and the appellant there was a dispute between the illom and the travancore state from about 1848.
the appellant pursuant to this order was dispossessed from the lands and possession of these lands was given to the second defendant nair service society ltd in august 1939.
112 of 1100 m e and the appellant was therefore not entitled to claim any value for improvements as it was his duty to remove any building before he was evicted.
no authority has been cited for this novel proposition and if accepted it would give validity to a dangerous principle which will condone all acts of deliberate and wrongful trespass because any person desparate enough to trespass on other mans land without any claim of title can always plead that he had a bona fide intention of improving the land whether the owner of that land wants that improvement or not.
it was also of the view that the claim for compensation for trees which has to be dealt with under the general law under which a mere trespasser would have no rights to the payment of compensation nor could be.
an appeal against it was dismissed on september 27 1943.
but the meaning to be ascribed to that word is that it connotes in its larger signification products of the soil that are grown and raised yearly and are gathered during a single season.
it is stated before us that at the time when the appellant was evicted the transfer of property act was not in force.
the board however agreed with what was apparently the view of both courts in india that under the circumstances of this case as already set forth by the law of india which they appear to have correctly interpreted the government officials were in possession not as mere trespassers but under such a colour of title that the buildings erected by them on the land ought not to be included in the valuation as having become the property of the landowner.
in it has been held that the appellant was not a mere trespasser and had deliberately entered upon the lands knowing full well that he had no right claim or title to the lands or had in any manner a right to enter the land and has been rightly evicted as a trespasser he can not now be permitted to raise this contention before us.
the appellant 's claim after he was evicted can not on the same parity of reasoning be held to be valid.
registration in his name on the basis that it was government land.
in this sense the term includes fructus industrials and having regard to the etymology of the word it has been held to mean only products after they have been severed from the soil.
the appellant 's father and the appellant had occupied these lands made improvement thereon by planting coconut trees arecanut palms peppervines rubber trees jack trees other trees and by constructing bungalow huts wells etc.
112 of 11 00 m e an order was passed for dispossessing the appellant on july 24 1939 ext.