the tribunal has given satisfactory reason for adopting a different mode and we are not disposed to interfere with the award of the tribunal.
the order of the court was as follows.
in the present case the industrial tribunal on a consideration of the material placed before it came to the conclusion that the company was in an undoubted position to bear the additional financial burden.
the application before the tribunal was filed under rule 31 of the bombay industrial disputes rules 1957which is as follows.
while we find lot of force in the submission of shri v m tarkunde learned counsel for the workmen that dearness allowance linked to cost of living index is ordinarily the best and the most scientific method of computing dearness allowance it can not always be said that an illegality warranting interference under article 136 is committed if some other method is adopted.
this in our opinion is elementary and fundamental to the jurisdiction of the industrial tribunal in revising wage scales.
the result of the foregoing discussion is that civil appeal no 2299 of 1979 has to be dismissed in its entirety.
nor can it be doubted that fitment into the revised pay scales is certainly a part of the revision of pay scales.
the annexures from the company to the director general posts telegraphs delhi ex.
that was why the industrial tribunal thought that an all round flat increase of rs 150 in the case of draftsmen and rs 100 in the case of other workmen was called for.
the omission of the words to each employee first after the figure rs 150 and again after the figure rs 100 was clearly an accidental slip or omission which the tribunal was entitled to correct.
therefore they filed an application before the tribunal for correcting the award so as to bring out what was intended.
if the pay of an employee does not coincide with any step in the revised pay scale and falls between two steps in the reclassified pay scales the basic pay of that employee shall be fixed at the step higher in the revised scale.
immediately after the award was pronounced while the iron was still hot as it were the employees apparently realised that the employer might take advantage of the circumstance that it was not clearly mentioned in the award that all the employees were to get additional pay of rs 150 and rs 100 respectively and might contend that the tribunal had only revised the wage scales by increasing the salary on entry into the service and restructuring the scale of pay and never granted any ad hoc increase of salary to all employees.
the tribunal then considered the question whether draftsmen should get a higher flat increase and the question whether the existing scheme of dearness allowance should be revised.
reference was also made to bengal chemical pharmaceutical works limited v its workmen.
in the result both the appeals are dismissed without any order as to costs.
in the case of several senior employees the revised scale would yield but a very small and almost a token increase in the size of the pay packet whereas the junior employees would get a large benefit.
it was clearly so intended by the tribunal as is evident from the reference to flat increase of rs 150 in the category of draftsmen and rs 100 in the case of the other categories.
now if without any flat or ad hoc increase of salary the workmen were to be fitted into the revised scales of pay it would obviously result in serious anomalous situations.
since there was to be a flat increase of rs 150 and rs 100 in the case of draftsmen and other workmen respectively the revised wage scale had necessarily to commence with figures rs 150 and rs 100 above the existing wage scales.
as it has now turned out what the employees apparently suspected the employer might contend is precisely what the employer is not contending though the employer did not choose to so contend before the industrial tribunal itself when the employees filed the application for rectification.
we have already indicated that we agree with our brother pathak j that the appeal civil appeal no 2300 of 1979 filed by the workmen should also be dismissed.
in view of the opinion of the majority both the appeals are dismissed and there is no order as to costs.
thereafter various other matters were considered and finally the tribunal revised the wage scales in the manner already mentioned by my brother pathak j the question of fitment was then considered in the following manner fitment if as on 1st january1976an employee is drawing a salary less than the beginning of the respective grade he should be first stepped up to the beginning of the grade.
at the end of paragraph 15 of the award the tribunal stated but there can be no doubt that the company can very well bear the additional burden.
we are not impressed with the submission of the learned counsel for the company that the corrigendum was in effect a fresh award.
after expressing himself in categoric terms about the capacity of the company to bear the additional financial burden the tribunal went on to say i only propose to modify the existing structure of the scales with flat increases in each category.
it can not possibly be doubted that an industrial tribunal deciding upon the wage scales of the employees of an establishment would have full liberty to propose ad hoc increase of salaries as part of the revision of wages.
c 27 indicates the important projects the company was handling in india and abroad and the amount of foreign exchange earned and repatriated.
the question is to what extent the relief should be given to the employees.
we therefore see no ground for quashing the order dated december 221978 of the tribunal.
while workmen raising industrial disputes for revision of wage scales are certainly minded about their future prospects in the matter of wages they surely would be more concerned with the immediate benefits according to them.
i will therefore proceed on the ground that the present company can bear the additional financial burden.
implicit and intrinsically connected with the question of revision of the wage scales were the questions of fitment of employees into the wage scales and flat or ad hoc increase of salaries of workmen wherever considered necessary.
the tribunal then observed the flat increase of rs 150 in the category of draftsmen and rs 100 in the case of the other categories would be fair.
after fixing the salary of the employees in the scales as above the employees should be given increments in the new scales as noted below i employees who have completed 5 years or more as on 1st january19763 increments.
a board court labour court tribunal or arbitrator may at any time suo moto or on an application made by any of the parties concerned may correct any clerical mistake or error arising from an accidental slip or omission in any proceedings report award or as the case may be decision.
this is further borne out from the trading results of the company for the year 1968 69 to 1977 the profits have increased all along.
ii employees who have completed 4 years of service as on 1st january19762 increments.
the order dated december 221978 of the tribunal also does not reveal that there was any opposition by the company to the application for correcting the award.
finally at the end of paragraph 21.
it is not possible to maintain one part of the award and supersede another.
the primary and basic question considered by the industrial tribunal in making the award dated december 201978 was the question of revision of the wage scales.
the question is what should be the extent of such burden.
accordingly the appeal filed by the workmen must fail.
reliance was placed on the hindustan times ltd new delhi v their workmen 1964 1 scr 234 1962 indlaw sc 436247 where it was observed by this court that dearness allowance should not remain fixed at any figure but should be on a sliding scale in order to neutralise a portion of the increase in the cost of living.
on the other hand the endorsement reads as if there was tacit agreement on the part of the company to the correction sought by the union.
the endorsement made on the application by the advocate for the company does not indicate that the company had any objection to the award being corrected as sought by the employees union.
at the end of paragraph 18 of the award the tribunal said a mere reading of exhibit u 15 will immediately dispel the misgivings about the future of the present company.
the union therefore prays the honourable tribunal to clarify the position and correct the award accordingly.
even so we propose to examine whether the correction sought by the employees union was within the bounds of the authority of the tribunal or whether it was in effect a fresh award.
it is needless to recapitulate all the basic facts which have been set out in the judgment of pathak j the award of the industrial tribunal was made on december 201978 on december 221978 that is to say two days after the award was made and when everything must have been fresh to the minds of the tribunal the respective parties and their advocates the employees union made an application under rule 31 of the industrial disputes bombay rules1957 seeking a correction of an error which it was claimed had crept into the award.
the tribunal said in view of this position the company can easily bear some burden that might fall as a result of the upward revision of the wage scales.
for some years to come this is likely to be one of the few consulting engineers who will be securing major contracts.
again in paragraph 19 it was said i have no doubt that the present company would be able to bear the additional burden for the years to come.
civil appeal no 2300 of 1979 is dismissed.
thereafter the tribunal made an order on the same day in the following terms there can be no doubt that a flat increase of rs 150 to each of the employees in the category of draftsmen and of rs 100 to each employee in the other categories has been granted under my award.
all other employees with more than one year 's service shall be given one increment.
the copy of the letter dated july 231973alongwith.
in the result civil appeal no 2299 of 1979 is allowed in part insofar that the order dated 22nd december1978 of the industrial tribunal maharashtra bombay is quashed to the extent that it modifies the original award dated 20th december1978and the corrigendum made consequent thereto is also quashed.
further it appears that the tribunal intended to grant the increase of rs 150 to each draughtsman and rs 100 to all other workmen in their basic pay.
the award is a composite document in which the several elements of increased wage scales larger increments longer span of 20 years for earning increments dearness allowance at 10 of the basic wage besides several other benefits have been integrated into a balanced arrangement in keeping with what the tribunal has found to be the financial capacity of the appellant.
we are unable to see how it can be held to be otherwise.
in view of the increase so secured the tribunal rejected the suggestion that a slab system should be introduced in the dearness allowance or that there should be any other modification of the principle on which dearness allowance was being presently granted.
the application was as follows in the above reference your honour was pleased to pass an award on 20th december1978.