order accordingly.
on the question of the scope of a review the learned counsel for the respondents invited our attention to vrajlal manilal co v union of india anr 1964 7 scr 97 1964 indlaw sc 194 shivaji nathubhai v union of india ors 1960 2 scr 775 1960 indlaw sc 430 maneka gandhi 1978 2 scr 621 1978 indlaw sc 212 swadeshi cotton mills 1981 2 scr 533 1981 indlaw sc 349 and liberty oil mills.
the union of india is entitled to the costs of the appeal and the writ petition in the high court.
in vrajlal manilal co v union of india anr 1964 indlaw sc 194 supra the court held that the union of india when disposing of an application for review under rule 59 of the mines concession rules functioned as a quasi judicial authority and was bound to observe the principles of natural justice.
in shivaii nathubhai v union of india ors 1960 indlaw sc 430 supra it was decided by the court that the power of review granted to the central government under rule 54 of the mineral concession rules required the authority to act judicially and its decision would be a quasi judicial act and the fact that rule 54 gave power to the central government to pass such order as it may deem just and proper did not negative the duty to act judicially.
we think that in matter of this nature where prices of essential commodities are fixed in order to maintain or increase supply of the commodities or for securing the equitable distribution and availability at fair prices of the commodity it is not right that the court should make any interim order staying the implementation of the notification fixing the prices.
8 excluded the application of the principles of natural justice.
in liberty oil mills v union of india 1984 indlaw sc 326 supra the question arose whether clause 8b of the import control order which empowered the central government or the chief controller to keep in abeyance applications for licences or allotment of imported goods where any investigation is pending into an imported goods where any investigation is pending into an allegation mentioned in cl.
though we see considerable force in the submission of shri diwan we think that the circumstances of the instant cases do justify the exercise of our discretion to condone the delay.
it was just the other day that our brothers ranganath misra and m m dutt jj had to give directions in a case vincent panikurbangara v union of india where a public spirited litigant had complained about the unscrupulous exploitation of the indian drug and pharmaceutical market by multinational corporations by putting in circulation low quality and even deleterious drugs.
however we think that it is necessary to give a direction to the government to dispose of the review applications after giving a notice of hearing to the manufacturer.
the decision rendered without disclosing the report of the state government and without affording reasonable opportunity to the appellants to present their case was contrary to natural justice was therefore void.
on the conclusions arrived at by us we have no doubt that the appeal must be allowed and the writ petition in the high court dismissed.
we are of the view that the undertakings given by the parties in the present cases were intended to and do continue to subsist.
the manufacturer may also require to be informed the elements which were taken into account and those which were excluded in assessing the free reserves entering into the calculation of net worth.
but as we perceive the public interest it is necessary that the price of formulation should be fixed close on the heels of the fixation of bulk drug price.
another submission of shri diwan was that there was considerable delay in the disposal of the review applications by the government and that even now no orders had been passed in several cases.
accordingly to the learned counsel the very delay in the disposal of review applications was sufficient to vitiate the entire proceeding and scheme of price fixation.
in matters of fixation of price it is the interest of the consumer public that must come first and any interim order must take care of that interest.
these are not matters for investigation in a petition under article 226 of the constitution or under article 32 of the constitution.
it is no adaptation of the rule to meet the situational urgency.
we notice that in all these matters the high court granted stay of implementation of the notifications fixing the maximum prices of bulk drugs and the retail prices of formulations.
we think that it is the necessary duty of the government to proceed to fix the retail price of a formulation as soon as the price of the parent bulk drug is fixed.
we consider that such orders are against the public interest and ought not to be made by a court unless the court is satisfied that no public interest is going to be served.
1984 3 scr 676 1984 indlaw sc 326.
the court pointed out that it would be impermissible to interpret a statutory instrument to exclude natural justice unless the language of the instrument left no option to the court.
we are afraid none of these cases is of any assistance to the correspondence since the court was not concerned in any of those cases with a review of subordinate legislation by the subordinate legislating body.
the terms of the said order that is on the undertaking given on behalf of the petitioners to maintain status quo on the prices prevailing prior to the issue of the impugned notification the petitioners through their counsel further given an undertaking to this court that in case the petition is dismissed and the rule is discharged the petitioners shall within eight weeks of the dismissal of the petition by this court deposit in this court the difference in the prices of the formulations in question for being equalization account.
we are satisfied that the procedure followed by the government in furnishing the requisite particulars at the time of the hearing of the review applications is sufficient compliance with the demands of fair play in the case of the class of persons claiming to be affected by the fixation of maximum price under the drugs prices control order.
order belong to a class of persons who are well and fully informed of every intricate detail and particular which is required to be taken into account in determining the price.
we think that if there is any grievance on that score the proper thing for the manufacturers to do is bring it to the notice of the government in their applications for review.
if review applications are not disposed of expeditiously the notifications fixing the prices must be struck down as having become obsolete.
it is true that the price of a bulk drug is dependent on innumerable variables.
but it does not follow that the notification fixing the maximum price must necessarily be struck down as obsolete by the mere passage of time.
all that the government may do is to dispose of the review application with the utmost expedition.
we do not think that there was any doubt in anyone 's mind that the matter would be taken up in appeal to the supreme court whichever way the writ petitions were decided.
in cases like the present where parties have acted on the assumption that no appeals had been filed against them and have proceeded to arrange their affairs accordingly it would be unjust to condone the delay in filing the appeals at the instance of the government.
any information sought by the manufacturer may be given to him at the hearing in terms of what we have said in the judgment.
if necessary it is always open to the manufacturers to seek a short adjournment of the hearing of the review application to enable them to muster more facts and figures on their side.
we therefore condone the delay grant special leave in all the petitions for special leave and direct the appeals to be listed for hearing on may 1 1987.
he submitted that the price of a formulation was dependant on the price of the bulk drug and it was therefore not right to fix the price of formulation when the price of bulk drug was in question in the review application and there was a prospect of the price of the bulk drug being increased.
it appears that although several writ petitions filed by different manufacturers were disposed of by the high court by a common judgment the union of india filed an appeal within the prescribed period of limitation against one of the manufacturers cynamide india limited only.
he said that obsolete quantitative usages had been taken into consideration proximate cost data had been ignored and the data relating to the year ending november 1976 had been adopted as the basis.
the affidavits filed on behalf of the union of india show that the procedure which is adopted in hearing the review applications is to discuss across the table the various items that have been taken into account.
we think that the question has to be decided with reference to the definition of free reserve in paragraph 2g of the control order and not on any assumed principle of accountancy.
all that the court may do is to direct the government to dispose of the review application expeditiously according to a time bound programme.
the other is that it is a matter of serious concern to the public interest.
from the legislative nature of the activity of the government it is clear that the government is under no obligation to make any disclosure of any information received and considered by it in making the order but in order to render effective the right to seek a review given to an aggrieved person we think that the government if so requested by the aggrieved manufacturer is under an obligation to disclose any relevant information which may reasonably be disclosed pertaining to the average cost of production of the bulk drug manufactured by an efficient manufacturer and the reasonable return on net worth.
as already stated by us manufacturers of bulk drugs who claim to be affected by the drugs prices control.
as these petitions were filed beyond the prescribed period of limitation petitions for condoning the delay in filing the petitions for special leave to appeal had to be and were filed.
apart from the fact that an appeal is ordinarily considered to be a continuation of the original proceeding in the present case we notice that further orders of the supreme court were also in contemplation and such further orders could only be if appeals were preferred to the supreme court.
referring to the proforma attached to form No 1 of the fourth schedule in which are set out several items which have to be taken into account in assessing the cost of production the learned counsel attacks the notes at the end of item No 14 which mentions the various items of expenses to be excluded in ascertaining the cost.
as we pointed out earlier these are all matters which should legitimately be raised in the review application if there is any substance in them.
but whatever procedure is adopted it must be a procedure tuned to the situation.
however the interests of the manufacturers are not to be ignored.
in the present case on ex parte interim order was made on april 20 1981 in the following terms in the meanwhile on the petitioners giving an undertakings to maintain prices both for bulk and formulation as were prevailing prior to the impugned notification we stay implementation of the impugned bulk drug prices as well as formulation prices.
he learned counsel argued that there were several patent errors which came to light during the course of the hearing in the high court.
that we think is the nature and scope of the review contemplated by paragraph 27 in relation to orders made under paragraphs 3 12 and 13.
we mentioned that the price fixed by the government may be questioned on the ground that the considerations stipulated by the order as relevant were not taken into account.
we do not consider that there is anything unfair in the procedure adopted by the government.
there was no justification for the grievance that particulars were not furnished.
it is contended that the government is a well verse litigant as compared with private litigants and even if there is justification of adopting a liberal approach in condoning delay in the case of private litigants there was no need to adopt such approach in the case of the government.
we therefore confirm till further orders the interim order made by us on april 20 1981.
it was submitted that there were errors in totalling errors in the calculation of prices of utilities errors in the calculation of net worth and many other similar errors.
it is impossible to conceive that they can not sit across the table and discuss item by item with the reviewing authority unless they are furnished in advance full details and particulars.
it may be questioned on the ground of a denial of the right guaranteed by article 14 if it is arbitrary that is if either the guidelines prescribed for the determination are arbitrary or if even though the guidelines are not arbitrary the guidelines are worked in an arbitrary fashion.