this appeal by special leave is from the judgment and order of the high court of andhra pradesh dated 15th april1986.
appeal dismissed.
on or about th of april 1948 sail nawaz jung the then ruler of mukkalla state south yeman in arabia settled some of the properties with which the appeal is concerned by a registered tamleeknama in favour of his son sultan awaz and his grandson galib bin awaz.
who are the persons who have interest in the land had to be decided in accordance with the law and the evidence.
by the scheme of the central act compensation was payable to persons who had interest in the land acquired.
reference may be made to the decision in the case of archi appalareddi and another v special tahsildar land acquisition visakhapatnam municipality and mother1979 andhra weekly reporter vol 1 p 101where the court observed in the context of the land acquisition act that a tenant was a person interested as defined in clause b of s 3 of the land acquisition act.
the high court further modified a portion of the order in view of the decision of this court in bhag singh v union territory of chandigarh.
aggrieved by the aforesaid award the appellant claiming as one of the owners of the property filed a statutory appeal to the high court.
in the background of the totality of circumstances as manifest in the different orders it appeared to the arbitrator and the court that the entry which was made in favour of abdul khader as the protected tenant was of doubtful validity.
in another context the high court of andhra pradesh enunciated the position that it was necessary to determine the interest of the persons claiming compensation.
s 2r states that the expression protected means a person who is deemed to be a protected tenant under the provisions of the said act.
that in any event what was the interest of abdul khader had to be determined in determining the question of payment of compensation to him and in so determining the facts and circumstances and the proceedings before the revenue authorities and entries and subsequent deletions had to be taken into consideration by the arbitrator.
determination by the revenue authorities and non determination is not conclusive or decisive.
the high court was of the view that the arbitrator was to decide that question and the arbitrator was not in error in deciding the issue in the manner it did.
it was the observation of the revenue authorities that it was spurious.
he has a right to object to the acquisition andor the quantum of compensation.
in determining the amount of compensation payable to abdul khader under the central act his interests in the property had to be determined.
for this reliance was placed on s 102 of the andhra pradesh act which lays down that the act will not apply to lands leased granted alienated or acquired in favour of or by the central government or the state government etc and on s 99 of the act which bars the jurisdiction of civil courts to deal with any question which is under the andhra pradesh act required to be settled to be decided or dealt with by the tahsildar tribunal or collector.
he had jurisdiction to do so.
the high court shall decide the question of jurisdiction referred to above in light of the submissions to be made by both the parties.
the high court has so held.
the arbitrator therefore exceeded his jurisdiction and the high court was in error.
it is clear that s 102 of the andhra pradesh act mentions that after acquisition the act was not to apply in respect of certain land.
we may mention that in the two orders of this court dated 30th of january1975 and 19th of august1985 referred to herein before this court had left it open to the high court and to the arbitrator to decide whether he is a protected tenant or not the arbitrator has decided that question and the high court found over whelming evidence in support of it.
furthermore under s 99 of the andhra pradesh act the bar was not against the arbitrator but against a civil court.
on or about 3rd february1970 the collector issued notice for acquisition of the property u s 71 of the requisitioning and acquisition of immovable property act1952 being act 30 of 1952.
despite the objection exercising the jurisdiction of the arbitrator to go into the question of protected tenant the arbitrator held that abdul khader was a protected tenant.
the land acquisition officer or the court as the case may be had to ascertain the value of a claimant 's right in the property acquired and compensate him in that behalf.
shri a k sen on behalf of the respondents on the other hand contended that the compensation payable in respect of the requisitioning and acquisition must be determined under the central act and the arbitrator was the authority to decide that question.
the high court thereafter discussed the facts mentioned hereinbefore about the order of the district revenue officer and the orders of this court referred to hereinbefore.
the order was passed by the district revenue officer who held that abdul khader was not a protected tenant.
according to the appellant inasmuch as whether abdul khader was a protected tenant had not to be settled by the collector or the tribunal the arbitrator and the high court were in error in going to that question.
the question of abdul khader 's right to compensation had to be decided in accordance with law.
hereinafter called the central act the gazette notification for the acquisition was issued on 12th march1970 the controversy in this case relates to the question whether abdul khader was a protected tenant under the andhra pradesh telangana area.
on behalf of the appellant it was submitted that there was a complete bar for any civil court to go into the question whether abdul khader was a protected tenant and as such the arbitrator and the high court had no jurisdiction to decide this question.
the high court was of the view that there was surfeit of evidence prior to the commencement of the andhra pradesh act that shaik hussain was a tenant of the land.
he held further that khasra pahani which is the basic record of occupancy period after spot inspections does not find the name of abdul khader and further held that all entries except this entry in the protected tenancy register prepared under section 37a of the andhra pradesh act was supported by an enquiry.
aggrieved by the aforesaid decision the appellants being the successor of the owner of the land in question is in appeal before us.
the high court dealt with the value of the land.
there being no such finding by the revenue officer on the other hand there being a finding mat abdul khader was not a protected tenant by the revenue authorities it was not open to the arbitrator to decide the question of protected tenancy.
sub s 2 of s 40 of the said act indicates who are the heirs who would be entitled to hold the tenancy on the death of the protected tenant and on what terms.
the arbitrator has done so.
section 37a was enacted on 12th of march1956 the high court was however of the view that it can not be said that it was for the revenue authorities alone to decide the issue because the arbitrator was ordered to decide the issue by the high court on 19th august1974 and by this court on 30th of january1975 the high court also referred to the directions of this court dated 19th august1985 mentioned hereinbefore.
we are of the opinion that the high court was not in error in so holding.
claim petition was filed by the appellant before the arbitrator claim petition was also filed by abdul khader claiming 60 of compensation as a protected tenant.
s 35 of the said act deals with decision on claims and stipulates by sub s 1 of s 35 of the said act that if any question arises whether any person and if so what person is deemed under s 34 to be a protected tenant in respect of any land the landholder or any person claiming to be so deemed may within one year from the commencement of the act apply in the prescribed form to the tahsildar for the decision of the question and the tahsildar shall after enquiring into the claim or claims in the manner prescribed declare what person is entitled to be deemed to be protected tenant or as the case may be that no person is so entitled.
chapter iv of the andhra pradesh act deals with protected tenants and s 34 of the said act provides who is to be considered as a protected tenant and uses the expression that a person shall subject to the provisions of sub ss 2 and 3be deemed to be a protected tenant in respect of the land if he has fulfilled the conditions mentioned in clauses a and b of sub s 1 of s 34 of the said act.
it was in those circumstances held by him that the entry was a spurious one.
in 1954there was wakfnama by the said sail nawaz jung.
a i r 1985 s c 1576 1985 indlaw sc 246 on the question of solarium and interest on the amount awarded.
there was an award by the arbitrator holding that as this court had left it open to decide whether abdul khader was a protected tenant.
under these circumstances the c r p is dismissed with a direction that the entry made in the final record of tenancies that the petitioner was the protected tenant for the lands in question which is spurious as found by both the revenue divisional officer and the district revenue officer should be deleted.
the high court noticed the position that under the said andhra pradesh act it was for the revenue authorities to order whether a tenant is a protected tenant under section 34s 37 and section 37a of the said act.