appeal allowed.
whether the appellant herein and his father had sublet the premises in question in or about 1960 in terms of section 131e of the bombay rents hotel and lodging house rates control act1947.
hereinafter called the rent act is the question involved in this appeal by special leave from the judgment and order of the high court of gujarat dated 21st of august1979.
appeal allowed.
in order to decide this question it is necessary to decide the scope and ambit of section 292 of the rent act.
we may mention that in gundalapalli rangamannar chetty v desu rangiah and others a i r 1954.
this view was reiterated by chief justice beaumont in chimanram motilal and another v jayantilal chhaganlal and another a i r 1939 bombay 410 1939 indlaw mum 155 ramaswami j in mohammed musa sahib dead and others v n k mohammed ghouse sahib and another a i r 1959.
this court in the case of bhai chand ratanshi v laxmishanker tribhavan1982 1 rent control journal 2421981.
in the case of punamchandra revashankar joshi v ramjibhai maganlal gujarat law reporter.
this view had also been expressed in the decision of this court in puranchand v motilal1963.
if that was so there was nothing that could be clone about such a view within the ambit and scope of the power of section 292 of the rent act.
the appellant herein is entitled to the costs throughout.
in the instant case judged by the aforesaid principles it is possible to hold that there was a partnership of which the appellant was a partner.
supp 2 s c r 906 1962 indlaw sc 455.
for this proposition see the decision of the gujarat high court in the case of mehta jagjivan vanechand v doshi vanechand harakhchand and others.
the authority vested in the high court under the amendment still remained only in the domain of the jurisdiction and power of revision and no further.
the amending provision therefore only related to procedure and not to any rights of the parties.
the court of small causes considered these principles evaluated the evidence and held that there was in fact and in law a partnership.
it may be mentioned that by the time the revision petition came to be decided by the high court the suit had been decreed in his favour directing a dissolution of the said partnership and directing taking of the accounts.
this court in hari shankar v rao girdhari lal chowdhury1962 1 suppl.
he also referred to section 4 of the partnership act about the principles of partnership namely1 there must be agreement entered into by all the persons concerned 2 the agreement must be to share the profits of a business and 3 the business must be carried on by all or any of the persons concerned acting for all.
the high court could not substitute its own finding for the one reached by the courts below on a reappraisal of evidence.
the clause of the partnership deed provided that there should be a fixed percentage of profit to be given to the partner appellant no 1 the appellant was not to share the losses.
in the instant case the basic question is whether keeping in background the partnership deeds referred to hereinbefore and the facts that came to light was there partnership or not.
it is well settled that if there was such a partnership firm of which the appellant was a partner as a tenant the same would not amount to subletting leading to the forfeiture of the tenancy.
such a view was not an impossible one or a perverse one.
in phiroze bamanji desai v chandrakant m patel ors 1974 3 scr 267 1974 indlaw sc 282 the question involved was whether there was reasonable and bona fide requirement of premises for personal use and occupation as also the question of greater hardship under the bombay rent act and the ambit and scope of the power of section 293 of the said act with which we are concerned came up for consideration.
the expression according to law in section 35 of the said act referred to the decision as a whole and was not to be equated to errors of law or of fact simpliciter.
the power of the high court to revise the order is contained in section 292 of the bombay rent act as applicable at the relevant time to gujarat the said provision reads as follows 292.
this view is now concluded by the decision of this court in madras bangalore transport co west v inder singh and others1986 3 s c c 62 1986.
in the light of the aforesaid principles and the facts that have emerged we are of the opinion that the high court exceeded its jurisdiction under section 292 of the rent act.
the suit for possession is accordingly dismissed.
indlaw sc 244 observed that where lower courts applied their minds properly in deciding a matter under section 132 of the bombay rent act the high court could not substitute its own finding for the one reached by the courts below on a reappraisal of evidence under section 292 of the act as substituted by the gujarat act 18 of 1965 this court reiterated that although the high court had wider power than that which could be exercised under section 115 of c p c yet its revisional power could only be exercised for a limited purpose with a view to satisfying itself that the decision was according to law.
the mere fact that another is allowed to use the premises while the lessee retains the legal possession is not enough to create a sub lease.
madras 379 1958 indlaw mad 820 observed that whether the relation of partnership between two or more persons does or does not exit must depend on the real intention and contract of the parties and not merely on their expressed intention.
it is true that in the partnership deeds the bank accounts were not to be operated by the appellant and further that irrespective of the profit.
1966the gujarat high court after dealing with the gujarat amendment act xviii of 1965 observed that the legislature has not intended to equate the ambit of the power with the one exercised in an appeal.
the respondent had alleged in the two suits that the appellant was his tenant in the suit premises which were leased out to him and before him his father for conducting the business in the name of ahmedabad fine.
we are further of the opinion that the court of small causes was right in the view it took.
there was an appeal filed from that decree and that appeal was also dismissed and disposed of affirming the decree for the dissolution of the partnership inter se between the parties being the partners of the said firm.
this is also not inconsistent with treating the rent of the firm in the context of the total expenditure of the firm.
at the time of the institution of the suit the defendants nos 2 to 5 were admittedly the partners.
there was nothing intrinsically wrong in law in constituting a partnership in the manner it was done.
he dealt with the human problem under section 132 of bombay rent act considering the relative hardships of the landlord and the tenant and to arrive at a just solution he was of the opinion that the court should have such wide field.
we must take note of a decision in the case of m s kasturbhai ramchand panchal brothers and others v firm of mohanlal nathubhai and others air 1969 gujarat 110 1967 indlaw guj 57upon which the high court had placed great reliance in the judgment under appeal.
if a possible view has been taken the high court would be exceeding its jurisdiction to substitute its own view with that the courts below because it considers it to be a better view.
judged by that standard we are of the opinion that the high court in this case had exceeded its jurisdiction.
the appellate court had considered the partnership deeds.
this principle was reiterated in krishnawati v hans raj1974 2 s c r 524 1973 indlaw sc 208 which was dealing with section 392 of the delhi rent control act1958 in second appeal.
the partnership deeds were there the appellant was not to share in the losses.
as we read the power the high court must ensure that the principles of law have been correctly borne in mind.
and it was a possible view to take.
the appellant was to bring his asset being the tenancy of the premises in question for the user of the partnership.