prevention act1987 hereinafter referred to as tada by the learned designated judge pune.
out of the said twelve accused6 accused were acquitted of all the charges while the five appellants herein namely bonkya alias bharat shivaji mane a 5mandu baliba dombe a 8ashok baloba dombe a 9ranjar bhausaheb dombe a 10 and kaka alias pandurang baloba dombe a 11 were convicted for offences under section 302307149 ipc and section 3 of tada and sentenced to suffer life imprisonment and to pay a fine of rs 5000 each for the offence under section 302149 ipc.
twelve accused persons were tried for offences under section 302307149324147148 and section 3 of terrorist and disruptive activites.
10 years ri and a fine of rs 5000 each for the offence under section 307149 ipc 2 years ri for the offence under section 324149 ipc and life imprisonment and fine of rs 5000 each for the offence under section 3 of tada in default of payment of fine on each of the counts the appellants were to undergo further ri for two years each.
the substantive sentences of imprisonment were however directed to run concurrently.
the argument is fallacious and runs in the teeth of the express provisions of section 19 of tada.
the transfer of the appeal to the high court after hearing the appeal on merits and finding that section 3 of tada on the basis of the evidence led by the prosecution was not made out is neither desirable nor proper nor permissible let alone justified.
in hitendra vishnu thakur and others vs.
the amplitude of powers available to this court under article 142 of the constitution of india is normally speaking not conditioned by any statutory provision but it can not be lost sight of that this court exercises jurisdiction under article 142 of the constitution with a view to do justice between the parties but not in disregard of the relevant statutory provisions.
learned counsel submitted that the appellants should not be denied the opportunity to get the first hearing in the high court because in the event of their failure in the high court they still have a chance to approach this court under article 136 of the constitution of india.
in a case where the designated court finds that no offence under tada is made out it is open to the said court to transfer the case to the regular criminal court under section 18 tada but once the charge is framed and the case is tried by the designated court an appeal against conviction sentence or acquittal lies only to the supreme court and to no other court.
the designated court therefore rightly found the said appellants guilty of the offences under section 302149307149 and section 324149.
in the face of this express provision there is no scope to urge that the appeal may be transferred to the high court because of the acquittal of the appellants for the offence punishable under section 3 tada by us.
19 appeal 1 notwithstanding anything contained in the code an appeal shall lie as a matter of right from any judgment sentence or order not being an interlocutory order of a designated court to the supreme court both on facts and on law.
likewise if it is only as a consequence of the criminal act that fear terror or and panic is caused but the intention of committing the particular crime can not be said to be the one strictly envisaged by section 31it would be impermissible to try or convict and punish an accused under tada the commission of the crime with the intention to achieve the result as envisaged by the section and not merely where the consequence of the crime committed by the accused create that result would attract the provisions of section 31 of tada.
under section 12 of tada the designated court has the jurisdiction not only to try the cases under tada but also to try offences under the indian penal code if the offence under tada is connected with such other offences.
through this appeal under section 19 of tada the appellants have called in question their conviction and sentence.
the conviction and sentence of appellants no 123 and 5 for the offence under section 3 tada is also set aside but their conviction and sentence for the other offences as recorded by the designated court is upheld and to that extent their appeals fail.
before we part with the judgment we would also like to deal with a submission made on behalf of the appellants by their learned counsel that since the offence under section 3 of tada is not made out the criminal appeal filed in this court may be transferred to the high court for its disposal in exercise of our jurisdiction under article 142 of the constitution of india for the reason that a first appeal against conviction and sentence recorded for various offences under the indian penal code by the sessions court lies to the high court.
there can not be piece meal hearing of an appeal on merits first by this court to determine if an offence under tada is made out or not and then by the high court.
in our opinion the designated court fell in error in holding that an offence under section 3 of tada had been committed by the accused appellants in the established facts and circumstances of this case.
section 19 1 and 2 of tada read as follows.
one accused died during the pendency of the trial.
the conviction and sentence of the appellants for the offence under section 3 tada can not therefore be sustained and is hereby set aside.
the learned trial court appears to have ignored to take into consideration the essential requirements for establishing an offence under section 3 of tada.
thus unless the act complained of falls strictly within the letter and spirit of section 31 of tada and is committed with the intention as envisaged by that section by means of the weapons etc as are enumerated therein with the motive as postulated thereby an accused can not be tried or convicted for an offence under section 31 of tada.
state of maharashtra.
supp scale 1 1994 indlaw sc 525 and hitendra vishnu thakur 's case 1994 indlaw sc 1706 supra no offence under section 3 of tada could be said to have been committed by the appellants.
merely because the deceased and the two injured witnesses belong to wadar community no inference could be drawn that the attack by the appellants on them was intended to strike terror in a section of the society namely the wadar community.
2 except as aforesaid no appeal or revision shall lie to any court from any judgment sentence or order including an interlocutory order of a designated court.
5 a 11 had alongwith the deceased accused a 1 and some others about whose identity there has been some doubt formed an unlawful assembly and in furtherance of the common object of that assembly committed the murder of popat deceased besides causing injuries to pw9 and pw14.
he is given the benefit of doubt and acquitted of all the charges against him.
and others 1994 4 scc602.
the designated court as already noticed found all of them guilty and convicted them for the offences under section 3 tada302149307149 and 323149 ipc.
ipc the conviction and sentence of appellants no 1 a 52 a 83 a 9 and 5 a 11 for the said offences as recorded by the learned designated court are well merited and calls for no interference.
the designated court after considering the evidence of the first incident and the manner of assault on the deceased and pw 9 and pw 14came to the conclusion that the appellants alongwith some others had intended to create terror in a section of the people wadar community and with that intention had assaulted pw 14the deceased and pw9 by lethal weapons and were therefore guilty of committing an offence under section 3 tada.
it was not proper for the designated court to draw an inference of intention from the mere consequence i e the victims belonging to the particular community.
prosecution has led no evidence nor brought any circumstances on the record from which any inference may be drawn that the appellants intended to strike terror amongst the wadar community.
thus keeping in view the background in which the occurrence took place namely the altercation at the video parlour which has a great relevance to determine the applicability of section 3 tada we are of the opinion that the finding of the designated court that the appellants have committed an offence punishable under section 3 tada is clearly erroneous.
at the trial the prosecution alleged that the accused party with an intent to commit terror in the wadar community had committed the murder of popat and injured pw 9 and pw 14by using lethal weapons and had thereby committed terror in the wadar community and thus committed an offence under section 3 of tada besides the other offences as already noticed.
that takes us now to consider the nature of the offence committed by a 5a 8a 9 and a 11.