municipal corporation of delhi aggrieved against the judgment and final order dated 26 03 2004 passed by the high court delhi in criminal revision petition no 185 of 2004 by which order the high court gave the benefit of probation under section 4 of the probation of offenders act1958.
herein after referred to as pob act to the second respondent gurcharan singh but maintained the conviction preferred the above appeal.
appeal allowed.
the brief facts leading to the filing of the above appeal are as under.
at the time of arguments the advocate for the accused submitted before the high court that the accused did not wish to challenge the conviction on merits and stated it a fit case of accused to be admitted to the benefit of pob act on the ground that the accused faced trial for 12 years in the lower courts and remained in jail for three days.
while extending benefit of this case the discretion of the court has to be exercised having regard to the circumstances in which the crime was committed the age character and antecedents of the offender.
aggrieved by that order the second respondent accused filed an appeal before the sessions court delhi.
he further submitted that the high court while passing the impugned order and judgment did not take into consideration that the accused respondent had been convicted in another criminal case no 202 of 1997 by the court of metropolitan magistrate patiala house new delhi.
in the case of ram singh and ors v.
the word shall in sub section 2 of section 4 is mandatory and the consideration of the report of the probationer officer is a condition precedent to the release of the accused as reported in the case of state v naguesh g shet govenkar and anr air 1970.
he further contended that the trial court has committed serious error in exercising jurisdiction while not granting the benefit of probation to the answering respondent and the order of the trial court was therefore rightly and justifiable modified by the high court.
in the instant case non production of the order and even non mentioning of the conviction and sentence in the criminal case no 202 of 1997 tantamounts to playing fraud on the court.
we have no hesitation to say that a person whose case is based on falsehood has no right to approach the court and he can be summarily thrown out at any stage of the litigation.
in the said case the accused respondent was convicted under section 332461 of the dmc act and sentenced to six months simple imprisonment with a fine of rs 5000.
held the requirement of s 41 was not fulfilled and therefore the case remanded.
it was therefore submitted that the sentence imprisonment awarded by the metropolitan magistrate has been suspended under section 389 of the criminal procedure code by the court of additional sessions judge delhi in view of the pendency of the appeal against the order of conviction is a continuation of proceedings and therefore there is no conviction against the answering respondent so long as the same is not decided by the court of sessions.
such a previous convict can not be released in view of section 4 of the pob act.
the trial court after the conclusion of the trial convicted the second respondent under sections 332 and 461 of the dmc act and sentenced him to six months simple imprisonment and imposed a fine of rs 5000 annexure p 1.
it was therefore submitted that the high court passed the said order in the presence of the counsel of all the parties.
these facts are of primary importance before the court can pass an order under the probation of offenders act.
the high court while passing the impugned order and judgment did not take into consideration that the accused respondent has been convicted in another criminal case no 202 of 1997 by the court of metropolitan magistrate patiala house new delhi.
the high court vide its order dated 26 3 2004 held that the accused suffered the agony of trial lasting for 12 years.
it was further contended that the respondent has not contested the revision in the high court on merits and confined his submission to the benefit of section 4 of the pob act being extended to him.
the said court by an order and judgment dated 23 3 2004 dismissed the appeal by holding that there was no infirmity in the order passed by the trial court annexure p 2.
the appeal is accordingly allowed with costs of rs 10000 to be paid by the second respondent to the appellant as indicated in paragraph supra.
but if for one reason or the other such a report is not forthcoming the court has to decide the matter on other materials available to it.
the appellant would have filed the orders passed by the criminal courts convicting the respondent herein had an opportunity been given to the appellant.
it was further submitted that the high court should not have waived off the payment of fine amount by the accused respondent and that the high court ought to have taken into consideration that the respondent has been in jail for only three days and had not put in substantial period in custody.
since the high court has disposed of the criminal revision without giving an opportunity of filing counter affidavit to the counsel for the mcd and that the respondent did not disclose the fact in the criminal revision filed before the high court that he has also been convicted in another criminal case no 202 of 1997the judgment impugned in this appeal can not be allowed to stand.
the high court also observed that there is no allegation that the petitioner accused is a previous convict and it further held that the accused deserved the benefit of probation under section 4 of the pob act and while maintaining the conviction of the respondent accused the sentence of imprisonment and fine as awarded to him was set aside.
the only limitation imposed by section 6 is that in the first instance an offender under twenty one years of age will not be sentenced to imprisonment.
such exercise of discretion needs a sense of responsibility.
learned senior counsel appearing for the contesting respondent submitted that the order of the high court does not require any reconsideration by this court and that the high court while extending the benefit of pob act had clearly recorded in the order that the counsel for the state of delhi is not averse to the grant of benefit of probation to the answering respondent and therefore the requirement under section 42 of the pob act has been waived off by the state and that the high court took into consideration the fact that the answering respondent has faced the agony of trial for over 12 years and has also undergone some period in custody and while maintaining the conviction of the answering respondent the benefit of probation was extended to him.
the second respondent in our opinion was not justified in suppressing the material fact that he was convicted by the magistrate on an earlier occasion.
sections 4 and 6 of the act indicate the procedure requiring the court to call for a report from the probation officer and consideration of the report and any other information available relating to the character and physical and mental condition of the offender.