appeals allowed.
these appeals are directed against a judgment and order dated 17 october 2003 passed by the special court constituted under the special courts trial of offences relating to transactions in securities.
act 1992 for short the act in misc.
application nos.
the said decision has been affirmed by this court in gurjoginder singh v jaswant kaur.
in janak raj v gurdial singh and anr.
see bombay dyeing manufacturing co ltd v the state of bombay and others air 1958 sc 338 savitra khandu beradi v nagar agricultural sale and purchase co operative society ltd ahmednagar and others.
see zain ul abdin khan v muhammad asghar ali khan 15 ia 12 1887 indlaw pc 13.
smt and another 1994 2 scc 368 1994 indlaw sc 1613.
iin view of the decision of this court in l s synthetics ltd v fairgrowth financial services ltd and another 2004 11 scc 456 2004 indlaw sc 715 all properties belonging to the notified persons being subject to automatic attachment could be applied for discharge of the joint liabilities of the harshad mehta group in terms of section 11 of the act.
air 1957 bom 178 1957 indlaw mum 110 and hari raj singh v sanchalak panchayat.
1967 2 scr 77 1966 indlaw sc 120.
in regard to question No 5 this court agreed with the finding of the special court that neither penalty nor interest can be considered as tax under section 112a of the act.
the learned judge special court may therefore proceed to pass an appropriate order as regard confirmation of the sale of such properties.
in the former event even if such a decree is set aside the interest of the bona fide purchaser in an auction sale is saved.
we may further notice that the learned special court relied upon a decision in custodian v union of india and ors.
co ltd 1971 indlaw sc 841 supra this court has held although that liability can not be enforced till the quantification is effected by assessment proceedings the liability for payment of tax is independent of the assessment.
in board of control for cricket in india and another v netaji cricket club and others 2005 4 scc 741 2005 indlaw sc 1243.
iwhether the appellants being not involved in offences in transactions in securities could have been proceeded against in terms of the provisions of the act.
petition No 64 of 1998 disposed of on 17th august 2000 wherein allegedly a dichotomy between sale and distribution was sought to be resolved in terms of the decision of this court in harshad shantilal mehta.
the same consideration does not apply when the decree holder is himself the purchaser and the decree in his favour is set aside.
but the said observation was held to be not laying down a law by a 3 judge bench of this court in l s synthetics ltd v fairgrowth financial services ltd and another 2004 11 scc 456 2004 indlaw sc 715 holding i.
sale of commercial properties has never been seriously contested by the appellants.
this court therefore has laid down a law that mere filing of an appeal is not sufficient particularly when there is no order of stay on recovery has been granted and the demand is outstanding.
in any event ordinarily a bona fide purchaser for value in an action sale is treated differently than a decree holder purchasing such properties.
so long such orders of assessment are not passed by the competent assessing authorities it can not be said that the appellants are liable to pay a huge amount by way of income tax dues on the basis of such orders of assessment which have since been set aside.
if those individuals who had no connection with harshad mehta could not have been proceeded against for meeting the liabilities of harshad mehta jointly or severally a clear finding was required to be arrived at.
v thus taking into consideration the total of the decretal amount and the income tax liability it is clear that the total assets of harshad mehta group would be far below the liabilities.
in fact one of the contentions raised on behalf of the appellants had been that if commercial properties are sold there would be no need to sale the residential properties.
it is no doubt true that the law of limitation bars a remedy but not a right.
it is significant that in the present case the liability had even been quantified and a demand had been created in the sum of rs 149776 by means of the notice dated november 21 1957 during the pendency of the assessment proceedings before the income tax officer and before the finalisation of the assessment.
by an order dated 30th january 2004 while admitting the appeals this court directed the learned counsel for the custodian brings on record the result of the bids and the order of the special court dated 17 december 2003 and 20 january 2004.
in para 14 of the sur rejoinder the appellants denied the asset and liability position as arrived at by the custodian.
the contention of the appellants to the effect that their properties should have been attached only towards the liabilities incurred by the parties in respect of the transactions made during the statutory period can not be accepted as all the appellants being notified the attachment of the assets would be automatic.
on the other hand the contention of the custodian is that the appellants had not only taken huge loans or advances from harshad mehta in one capacity or the other but also even transactions and shares were made by harshad mehta on their behalf.
the special court may in these cases scale down the tax liability to be paid out of the funds in the hands of the custodian.
this court confirmed a sale in favour of the appellant therein who was a stranger to the suit being the auction purchaser of the judgment debtor 's immovable property in execution of an ex parte money decree in terms of order xxxi rule 92 civil procedure code.
in terms of the provisions of the act along with late harshad mehta the custodian had notified 29 entities in terms of section 3 of the act comprising three of his younger brothers wife of late harshad mehta wives of two of his younger brothers and other corporate entities a partnership firm and three hufs.
although we do not intend to enter into the correctness or otherwise of the said contention of the appellants at this stage however there can not be any doubt whatsoever that they being notified persons all their properties would be deemed to be automatically attached as a consequent thereto.
the appellants have contended that the custodian had taken contradictory or inconsistent stand inasmuch as the liabilities of all the entities were treated to be joint liabilities of harshad mehta group.
the contention of the appellant to the effect that the income tax dues should have been considered at the point of time when they become recoverable can not be accepted having regard to the 3 judge bench decision of this court in b c dalal 2005 indlaw sc 1826 supra wherein this court categorically held that in absence of any order of stay granted by the higher court the liabilities would remain.
in that view of the matter evidently creation of any third party interest is no longer in dispute nor the same is subject to any order of this court.
the act confers wide power upon the custodian and the learned special court and in that view of the matter having regard to the principles of natural justice the judgment and order of the learned judge special court should have furthermore been supported by sufficient and cogent reasons.
for the said purpose it is not necessary that they should be accused of commission of an offence as such.
furthermore the question as regard liability of the parties should have been determined at the stage of section 9 a of the act.
the right of a person notified to file an application or to raise a defence that he is not liable in terms of the provisions of the act or in any event the properties attached should not be sold in discharge of the liabilities can be taken at the initial stage by filing an application in terms of sub s 2 of section 4 of the act.
if the orders of assessment have been set aside the liabilities of the appellants have to be worked out on the basis of the new orders of assessment.
we direct the custodian to permit the appellants to have inspection of all the documents in his power or possession in the premises of the special court in the presence of an officer of the court.
it is not in dispute that the tax liabilities of the appellants individually were assessed on the basis of best judgment assessment.
we therefore do not interfere with that part of the order whereby and wherewith the auction sale as regard commercial properties had been directed by the learned judge special court.
in the context of section 112 therefore the taxes due refer to taxes as finally assessed.
if the liabilities of the individual entities are not treated as that of the group for one reason or the other indisputably liability of those who have nothing to do with the dealings of harshad mehta either in their individual capacities or as directors of some company or otherwise must be dealt with separately.
co ltd v the commissioner of income tax.
the ratio of the said decision as regard applicability of the limitation act was further considered by a division bench of this court in fairgrowth investments ltd v custodian 2004 11 scc 472 2004 indlaw sc 868 wherein it was held that section 5 of the limitation act will have no application in relation to an application falling under sub s 2 of section 4 of the act stating it is enough for the purpose of this appeal to hold that section 292 of the limitation act 1963 does not apply to proceedings under section 42 of the special court trial of offences relating to transactions in securities act 1992.
in padanathil ruqmini amma v p k abdulla 1996 7 scc 668 1996 indlaw sc 3096 this court making a distinction between decree holder auction purchaser himself and a third party bona fide purchaser in an auction sale observed the ratio behind this distinction between a sale to a decree holder and a sale to a stranger is that the court as a matter of policy will protect honest outsider purchasers at sales held in the execution of its decrees although the sales may be subsequently set aside when such purchasers are not parties to the suit.
they at this stage can not be permitted to turn round and contend that they have nothing to do with the liabilities of late harshad mehta.
ixthe sale of commercial property had never been seriously contested by the appellants and in fact the contention of the appellants herein before the special court was that if the commercial properties were sold there would be no need to sell the residential properties.
iiwhether individual liabilities of the appellants ought to have been separately considered by the special court as not a part of harshad mehta group.
the appellants herein and the said.
a transaction of benami indisputably can be a subject matter of a lies in terms of section 41 of the act as and when such a question is raised the same may have to be dealt with by the special court appropriately.
according to the appellants the custodian has under estimated the assets and exaggerated and overstated their liabilities.
despite the fact that ordinarily a sale can be set aside only under rules 89 90 and 91 of order xxxi it was opined that the court is bound to confirm the sale and direct the grant of a certificate vesting the title in the purchaser as from the date of sale when no application in term of rule 92 was made or when such application was made and disallowed and in support thereof zain ul abdin khan 1887 indlaw pc 13 supra and various other decisions were referred to.
it was thus necessary for the learned special court to arrive at a firm conclusion as regard the involvement of the individuals with harshad mehta if any and the extent of his liability as such.
this may be so but then the effect of the rival contentions was required to be gone into by the learned special court.
in terms of the provisions of the act the special court had been conferred a very wide power.
he furthermore wanted to treat the liabilities of the notified entities also as their separate liabilities.
the custodian in terms of the directions issued by the learned special court had affirmed an affidavit putting on record the assets and liabilities of each of the members of the so called harshad mehta group on an individual basis.
it is not in dispute that the learned special court on or about 3 august 1993 issued directions in various proceedings before it appointing auditors to prepare and audit the books of accounts of all notified persons for the period 1 april 1990 and 8 june 1992 i e the date of the notification.
the special court has full discretion under section 112c to decide whether such claim for penalty or interest should be paid out of any surplus funds in the hands of the custodian.
so far question No 6 is concerned it was held that the remedy of a notified person who is assessed to penalty or interest after the notified period would be entitled to move the appropriate authority under the taxing statute stating if it is open to him under the relevant taxing statute to contend that he was unable to pay his taxes on account of the attachment of all his properties under the special court act and that there is a valid reason why penalty or interest should not be imposed upon him after the date of notification the authorities concerned under the taxing statute can take notice of these circumstances in accordance with law for the purpose of deciding whether penalty or interest can be imposed on the notified person.
in the light of the directions issued herein it would be for the purchasers of the said flats to wait till a final decision is made or take back the amount deposited by them subject to any other or further order s that may be passed by the learned special judge.
this is because the tax liability of a notified person having priority under section 112a is only tax liability pertaining to the statutory period.
the flats have been sold on the basis of the joint liabilities of the appellants together with harshad mehta and other companies as a group.
the process of finalizing the bids according to law may be proceeded ahead by the special court.
this court also in its order dated 5th may 2004 clarified that the interim order dated 30th january 2004 shall not be applicable as regard sale of commercial properties as even before this court the same had not been questioned.
in these appeals we are concerned with sale of eight residential flats in a building known as madhuli.
the statement annexed to the affidavit of the custodian showed individual break up and in that view of the matter the net asset picture of each individual of the appellants herein on individual basis and the effect thereof in our opinion should have received serious consideration at the hands of the learned special court.
the principle of lifting the corporate veil however ipso facto would not apply to the individuals.
he is a party to the litigation and is very much aware of the vicissitudes of litigation and needs no protection.
in any view of the matter the learned judge special court having not dealt with the question as regard the mode and manner of disbursements of the amount so far as the tax liabilities of the appellants are concerned elaborately the same requires fresh determination in the light of the decision of this court in harshad shantilal mehta.
we therefore are of the opinion in the interest of justice that it is necessary to give another opportunity of hearing to the appellants.
even in this behalf it was necessary for the special judge to assign sufficient and cogent reasons.
the special court is required to consider this question only from the point of view of distributing any part of the surplus assets in the hands of the custodian after the discharge of liabilities sections 112a and 112b.
taxes which are not legally assessed or assessments which have not become final and binding on the assessee are not covered under section 112a because unless it is an ascertained and quantified liability disbursement can not be made.
thus the total value of the assets as per the affidavit filed on behalf of the custodian of harshad mehta group is rs 9727332166 94.
what would be the effect of the jurisdictional question as regard maintainability of the said application being barred by limitation would indisputably fall for consideration before the special court.