the state of manipur is in appeal before us questioning the judgment and order dated 29 07 2005 passed by a division bench of the guwahati high court in wa nos 61787995 and 100 of 1999 upholding a judgment and order of a learned single judge of the said court dated 19 02 1999 in c r nos 32410125681022 and 1023 of 1998.
one shri a j tayeng was the revenue commissioner of government of manipur.
appeal allowed.
the state of manipur had not framed any recruitment rules for appointment inter alia in the revenue department and in particular the field staff thereof.
in m c mehta v union of india and others 1999 6 scc 237 1999 indlaw sc 1396this court developed the useless formality theory stating more recently lord bingham has deprecated the useless formality theory in r v.
in bar council of india v high court of kerala 2004 6 scc 311 2004 indlaw sc 340it was stated principles of natural justice however cannot be stretched too far.
the same can not be supplemented by fresh reasons in the shape of affidavit or otherwise.
it has been said in jayanti prasad v state of uttar pradesh 1951 indlaw all 27 that these are technical words used in cases in which a persons services are terminated by way of punishment.
the action of a statutory authority as is well known must be judged on the basis of the norms set up by it and on the basis of the reasons assigned therefor.
in r s garg v state of u p and others 2006 6 scc 430 2006 indlaw sc 801it was stated a discretionary power as is well known can not be exercised in an arbitrary manner.
we may also state that there is yet another line of cases as in state bank of patiala v s k sharma rajendra singh v state of m p 1994 indlaw mp 48 that even in relation to statutory provisions requiring notice a distinction is to be made between cases where the provision is intended for individual benefit and where a provision is intended to protect public interest.
strong reliance in this behalf has been placed on kendriya vidyalaya sangathan and others v ajay kumar das and others 2002 4 scc 503 2002 indlaw sc 287.
we may on the other hand notice that kumari shrilekha vidyarthi 1990 indlaw sc 463 supra has been distinguished by this court in state of u p and others v u p state law officers association and others 1994 2 scc 204 1994 indlaw sc 1289 stating the reliance placed by the respondents in this behalf on shrilekha vidyarthi v state of u p 1990 indlaw sc 463 is misplaced for the obvious reason that the decision relates to the appointment of the district government counsel and the additional assistant district government counsel who are the law officers appointed by the state government to conduct civil criminal and revenue cases in any court other than the high court.
this distinction between the state and a private individual in the field of contract has to be borne in the mind.
it is necessary to emphasize that the state did not proceed on the basis that the amendment to the rules was not necessary.
in the former case it can be waived while in the case of the latter it can not be waived.
the respondents herein filed writ petitions before the high court on 4 06 1998 questioning the said order of cancellation of their appointments.
1991 supp 1 scc 331 1991 indlaw sc 904 and kumari shrilekha vidyarthi and others v state of u p and others 1991 1 scc 212 1990 indlaw sc 463.
the latter are not appointed as a part of the spoils system.
no costs.
the commissioner of revenue department was conferred with a power of being the cadre controlling authority for non ministerial post of the revenue department.
any action which had not been taken by an authority competent therefor and in complete violation of the constitutional and legal framework would not be binding on the state.
the said decision is not an authority for the proposition that the principles of natural justice are required to be complied with in all situations.
we in the facts and circumstances of this case do not see any arbitrariness on the part of the state in its action directing cancellation of appointments.
those expressions it is urged have been taken from the service rules where they were used to denote the three major punishments and it is submitted that those expressions should be read and understood in the same sense and treated as words of article in dhirender singh and others v state of haryana and others 1997 2 scc 712 1996 indlaw sc 1725termination of an order of promotion in favour of the appellant was not interfered with by this court as the same had not been approved by the dig being the competent authority.
for the reasons aforementioned the impugned judgments can not be sustained.
having been selected on merit and for no other consideration they are entitled to continue in their office for the period of the contract of their engagement and they can be removed only for valid reasons.
the commissioner allegedly made certain appointments in the posts of mandols process servers and zilladars which was not within the knowledge of the state.
if such appointment orders are a nullity the question of observance of principles of natural justice would not arise.
he was only a cadre controlling authority.
arbitrariness is the very negation of the rule of law.
it was held 34 in our opinion the wide sweep of art 14 undoubtedly takes within its fold the impugned circular issued by the state of u p in exercise of its executive power irrespective of the precise nature of appointment of the government counsel in the districts and the other rights contractual or statutory which the appointees may have.
he was also to be the chairman of the departmental promotion committee for non ministerial post of the revenue department.
the shortcomings in the work are required to be brought to the notice of the legal remembrancer.
mr jaideep gupta learned senior counsel appearing on behalf of the appellants would submit that the high court went wrong in passing the impugned judgment insofar as it failed to take into consideration that in a case of this nature it was not necessary to comply with the principles of natural justice.
their application may be subject to the provisions of a statute or statutory rule.
it is in these circumstances that this court held that the wholesale termination of their services was arbitrary and violative of art 14 of the constitution.
cl 2 protects government servants against being dismissed or removed or reduced in rank without being given a reasonable opportunity of showing cause against the action proposed to be taken in regard to them.
the respondents therefore in our opinion were not entitled to hold the posts.
in kumari shrilekha vidyarthi 1990 indlaw sc 463 suprathis court was dealing with a question in regard to continuance of the law officers.
in a case of this nature where the facts are admitted the principles of natural justice were not required to be complied with particularly when the same would result in futility.
the renewal of their further term again depends upon the quality of work and conduct capacity as a lawyer professional conduct public reputation in general and character and integrity as certified by the district magistrate and the district judge.