appellants were engaged in the manufacture of biscuits classifiable under sub heading 1905 11 of the central excise tariff.
aggrieved by the decision of customs excise and gold control appellate tribunal cegat dated 11 4 2000the appellants assessee have come by way of civil appeals under section 35l of the central excise act1944.
the biscuits were sold under the brand name meghraj.
appeals dismissed.
before concluding we may refer to the judgment of this court in the case of commissioner of central excise mumbai v bigen industries ltd 2006 197.
under show cause notices it was alleged that the appellants herein assessee have sold the biscuits under the brand name meghrajwhich was a registered trade mark of kay aar biscuits p ltd who was using the said trade mark on manufacture of biscuits themselves and therefore the appellants were not eligible to the benefit of ssi notification no 193 ce dated 28 2 1993 as amended by notification no 5994 ce dated 1 3 1994.
this question has been decided by the bombay high court in the case of sunder parmanand lalwani and others v caltex india ltd air 1969 bombay 24 1965 indlaw mum 1419 in which it has been held vide paras 32 and 38 as follows a proprietary right in a mark can be obtained in a number of ways.
in the case of consolidated foods corporation v brandon and co.
in the circumstances the judgment of this court in the case of bigen industries 2006 indlaw sc 546 supra has no application.
in the case of commissioner of central excise chandigarh v bhalla enterprises 2004.
for instance under s 23 of the trade marks act registration is to be prima facie evidence of the validity of the trade mark.
applying the principle of deemed equivalence we may clarify that if the ssi unit wrongly affixes a trade mark of another person be it registered or not or if it uses the trade mark of an ineligible person then such default would not be eliminated by the above principle of deemed equivalence embodied in s 28 of the trade marks act1999 as that principle is based on a deeming fiction which fiction is confined only to the provisions of the trade marks act.
this court has held that the object of the exemption notification was neither to protect the owners of the trade mark nor the consumers from being misled.
on reading the above quoted paragraphs from the above judgment with which we agree it is clear that the effect of making the registration certificate applicable from retrospective date is based on the principle of deemed equivalence to public user of such mark.
the above show cause notices were issued by the department demanding differential duty for the period april 1994 to june 1994 amounting to rs 374948 plus short paid duty for the period april 1995 to may 1995 amounting to rs 92992 the said demand was based on an agreement detected by the department.
in the present case there is no deed or assignment from m s ltd to the m s meghraj biscuits industries ltd appellants herein as stated above there is no proof of acquisition on payment or consideration by the appellants to m s kay aar biscuits p ltd in the present case there is no evidence of assignment or licence from m s ltd to the appellants.
the object of the exemption notification no 193 ce was to grant benefits to those industries which do not have the advantage of a brand name.
commissioner of central excise delhi 2005 189.
rich food products p ltd would not be sufficient to prove that m s kay aar biscuits p ltd was the lawful owner of the brand name.
ltd had put up a unit for manufacture of wafers in noida which it sought to manufacture under the brand name meghraj.
abandonment of the trade mark has to be proved by the appellants in the present case.
the question before us is what is the effect of issuance of registration certificate with retrospective effect.
this deeming fiction can not be extended to the excise law.
the object of the notification is to grant benefits only to those industries which otherwise do not have the advantage of a brand name.
obviously therefore on the label as it stood it could not be said that the respondent company was the proprietor of the mark monarch nor could it be said that the mark was used by the respondent company as proprietor thereof.
in para 19 of the show cause notice the authority accepted the existence of a deed of assignment.
even so far as this country is concerned the trade marks act of 1940 does not seem to have made any change in the legal rights of the owner of a trade mark as established by the courts of chancery in england.
it is confined to the provisions of the trade marks act.
the latter type of mark would evidently refer to a distinctive mark a mark which does not directly describe the nature or quality of the goods to which it is attached.
registration itself does not create a trade mark.
however the show cause notice denied the exemption on the ground that notification no 14083 ce did not make any distinction between a brand name owned by a person in india or abroad.
since the appellants herein had used the trade name meghraj on their products which trade name was owned by m s ltd the appellants were not entitled to the benefit of exemption under notification no 193 ce as amended.
unquestionably the applicant 's user was not large but that fact makes no difference because so far as this country is concerned the mark was a new mark in respect of the class of goods in respect of which the applicant used it.
the trade mark exists independently of the registration which merely affords further protection under the statute.
at this stage it may be noted that the appellants herein claim to have started manufacture of biscuits in 1991 the biscuits were sold in wrapper mentioning the name of the appellantsm s.
under para 4 of the said notification the benefit of exemption was not available for excisable goods bearing brand name or trade name registered or not of another person.
aggrieved by the decision of the adjudicating authority the assessee preferred appeals to the commissioner a the said appeals were rejected on the ground that the appellants were using the brand name meghraj of another manufacturer m s kay aar biscuits p ltd on their products biscuits and therefore they were not entitled to the benefit of exemption under notification no 193 ce as amended.
u s 28 of the trade marks act1999registration gives to the registered proprietor of the trade mark the exclusive right to the use of the trade mark in relation to the goods in respect of which the trade mark is registered and to obtain relief in respect of infringement of the trade mark in the manner provided by the trade marks act.
gaw kan lye v saw kyone saing air 1939.
see observations of llyod jacob j in 1956 rpc 1 in the matter of vitamins ltd 's application for trade mark at p 12and.
applying the ratio of the above judgment to the present case it is clear that grant of registration certificate under the trade marks act will not automatically provide benefit of exemption to the ssi unit.
accordingly the commissioner a dismissed the appeals.
now once again turning to the provisions of s 18 sub section iit is clear that only a person claiming to be the proprietor of a trade mark used by him or proposed to be used by him could make an application to the registrar for the registration thereof.
it is correct to say that the registrar trade marks can issue registration certificate u s 28 of the trade marks act with retrospective effect.
the trade marks act1999 has been enacted to amend and consolidate the law relating to trade marks to provide for registration and better protection of trade marks and for prevention of the use of fraudulent marks.
there is no deed of assignment from m s kay aar biscuits p ltd in favour of the appellants herein.
he could do the latter after complying with the other requirements of the act including the filing of a declaration of his intention to use such mark.
the object of the notification therefore was to help the ssi units and thereby increased industrial production.
according to the commissioner athe appellants used the trade name meghraj in the form of a logo which was printed on the wrapper.
in a given case like the present case where there is evidence with the department of the trade mark being owned by m s ltd and where there is evidence of the appellants trading on the reputation of m s ltd which is not rebutted by the appellants assesseeissuance of registration certificate with retrospective effect can not confer the benefit of exemption notification to the assessee.
one more fact needs to be mentioned that on 30 6 2000 the registrar of trade marks appears to have issued registration certificate on 30 6 2000 registering the trade mark meghraj in favour of the appellants with effect form 30 9 91 it appears that issuance of this certificate was mentioned before the cegat which rejected the rectification application on 8 12 2000.
this argument was rejected by the commissioner a saying that the appellants were using the brand name meghraj on their products.
in the case of pahwa chemicals pvt.
in the circumstances the department was right in rejecting the above contention.
ltd to use its trade mark for the manufacture of wafers alone.
the effect of the relevant provision of the english acts was that registration of a trade mark would be deemed to be equivalent to public user of such mark.
we therefore hold that the applicant is the proprietor of that mark.
instead of compelling the holder of a trade mark in every case to prove his proprietary right before he could ask the court to grant him an injunction the trade marks act provides a procedure whereby by registering his trade mark the owner gets certain facilities in the mode of proving his title.
in this connection reliance was placed by the commissioner a on the said agreement dated 22 11 89 before the commissioner a the appellants herein contended that they had used the name m s meghraj biscuits industries ltd on the wrapper and not on the product.
he came to the conclusion vide his orders that the trade name meghraj was in the form of a logo printed on the wrapper of the biscuits and therefore the appellants were not entitled to the benefit of notification no 193 ce dated 28 2 93 as amended by notification no 5994 dated 1 3 94 consequently the adjudicating authority called upon the appellants to pay differential duty for the period april 1994 to june 1994 amounting to rs 374948 plus short paid duty for the period april 1995 to may 1995 amounting to rs 92992.
discontinuation of business in respect of a product does not necessarily amount to abandonment.
305 2006 indlaw sc 546 in that matter a show cause notice was issued calling upon the assessee to show cause why the exemption be not denied to the assessee.
the trader who adopts such a mark is entitled to protection directly the article having assumed a vendible character is launched upon the market.
it was urged that a mere agreement between two parties can not constitute ownership of the trade mark in favour of m s it was urged that in any event m s kay aar biscuits p ltd had stopped its production in 1993 that the company had become defunct that the appellants herein had applied to the registrar of trade marks for registration of the mark meghraj and vide registration certificate dated 30 6 2000 the registrar has recognized the appellants as owner of the trade mark with effect from 30 9 91 in the circumstances the appellants submitted that the demand for differential duty was unwarranted.
in in re century spinning and manufacturing co ltd.
the burden is on the appellants particularly when the department is relying upon the agreement dated 23 11 89 between m s lastly we are required to examine the retrospective effect of the registration certificate dated 30 6 2000 with effect from 30 9 91 at the outset we may reiterate that the object of the exemption notification was neither to protect the owners of the trade mark nor the consumers from being misled.