appeal allowed.
an fir was registered on 23 3 1996 on the statement of one prakashi devi.
she stated that on the night of 2223 3 1996while.
in shamnsaheb m multtani vs state of karnataka 2001 2 scc 577.
the respondent relied upon the decision of this court in state of himachal pradesh v geeta ram 2000 7 scc 452 2000 indlaw sc 408 in that case.
therefore we are of the view that there should be a new trial after charging him with the offence of outraging the modesty of sheela devi.
8 scc 339 2008 indlaw sc 1064 and sanichar sahni vs state of bihar 2009 7 scc 198 2009 indlaw sc 736.
in willie william slaney vs state of madhya pradesh.
sessions judge on 20 2 2002 the criminal revision filed by the appellant was disposed of by the high court on 16 3 2010 upholding the conviction but reducing the sentence from six to four months rigorous imprisonment.
the police investigated into the said complaint and submitted a report u s 173 of the code of criminal procedure for short the code.
broad vision is required a nice balancing of the rights of the state and the protection of society in general against protection from harassment to the individual and the risks of unjust conviction.
the above principles are reiterated in several decisions of this court including state of west bengal vs laisal haque air 1989 sc 129 1988 indlaw sc 706state of a p vs.
these go to the foundations of natural justice and would be struck down as illegal forthwith.
courts have to administer justice and justice includes the punishment of guilt just as much as the protection of innocence.
this was negatived by the appellate court and high court holding that an accused can not take advantage of a technical defect in framing the charge.
in gurbachan singh v state of punjab air 1957 sc 623 1957 indlaw sc 181 following willie slaney this court held in judging a question of prejudice as of guilt courts must act with a broad vision and look to the substance and not to technicalities and their main concern should be to see whether the accused had a fair trial whether he knew what he was being tried for whether the main facts sought to be established against him were explained to him fairly and clearly and whether he was given a full and fair chance to defend himself.
she and her daughter in law sheela devi were sleeping in her house around 11 30 pm the appellant jumped over the front wall of her house and broke the bulbs and ran away that at that time no male member was present in the house except the children.
on that basis the following charge was framed by the judicial magistrate first class karnal against the appellant that on 23 3 1996after having made preparation for causing hurt or assault you committed house trespass into the house of smt.
there was a material error in the charge as it violated the requirement of sub s 1 of s 212 of the code that the charge shall contain particulars as to the person against whom the offence was committed.
s 211 of the code relates to the contents of the charge.
the accused was thus clearly misled by the error in the charge which caused prejudiced to the accused thereby occasioning failure of justice.
6 scc 554 1998 indlaw sc 1286dalbir singh v state of up 2004 5 scc 334 2004 indlaw sc 247dumpala chandra reddy vs nimakayala bali reddy 2008.
the illustrations under a provision of a statute offer relevant and valuable indications as to meaning and object of the provision and are helpful in the working and application of the provision.
he did not attempt to meet the case made out in the trial that the offence was against sheela devi.
the learned magistrate by judgment dated 2 2 2001held the accused guilty of offences u ss 452 and 354 cr.
the appeal is therefore allowed the conviction of the accused is set aside and the matter is remitted to the trial court with a direction for a new trial after framing a charge by substituting the words her daughter in law sheela devi for the words abovenamed prakashi deviin the second part of the charge.
in view of the specific charge the accused concentrated on showing that the charge was false.
s 464 of the code relates to effect of omission to frame or absence of or error in charge.
some violations of the code will be so obvious that they will speak for themselves as for example a refusal to give the accused a hearing a refusal to allow him to defend himself a refusal to explain the nature of the charge to him and so forth.
an accused can not be punished for committing an offence against y when he is charged with having committed the offence against x and the entire defence of the accused was with reference to charge of having committed offence against x.
this court reversed the decision of the high court on the ground that a special court under the act being a sessions court it continued to have jurisdiction to try the case for the offence u s 376.
in still another class of case the matter may be so near the border line that very slight evidence of a reasonable possibility of prejudice would swing the balance in favour of the accused.
prakashi devi and thereby committed an offence punishable u s 452 ipc within my cognizance.
every reasonable presumption must be made in favour of an accused person he must be given the benefit of every reasonable doubt.
it was elicited in her cross examination that the accused did not go towards her mother in law nor say anything to her mother in law that she used to come to the village where her in laws were residing only when her husband came home and that the house of her father in law was surrounded by the houses of his brothers and their sons.
secondly on the same date time and place you assaulted and used criminal force against abovenamed prakashi devi with intent to outrage her modesty and thereby committed an offence punishable u s 354 ipc and within my cognizance.
the appeal filed by the accused was dismissed by the addl.
some of these matters are dealt with by the code and wherever that is the case full effect must be given to its provisions.
disregard of a provision of that nature is fatal to the trial and at once invalidates the conviction.
on the other hand if two persons were present in the house at the time of the incident namely prakashi devi and sheela devi and the accused is charged with trespassing into the house of prakashi devi and assaulting and outraging the modesty of the said prakashi devi and the witnesses refer only to the assault and outraging the modesty of sheela devi the court will have to infer that the accused was prejudiced if the accused had solely concentrated and focused his defence and entire cross examination to show that he did not commit the offences against prakashi devi.
2001 indlaw sc 19904this court considered the meaning of the expression failure of justice occurring in s 464 of cr.
however if the aspect is of such a nature that non explanation of it has contributed to penalizing an individual the court should say that since he was not given the opportunity to explain that aspect there was failure of justice on account of non compliance with the principle of natural justice.
there were two women present at the house at the time of the alleged incident namely prakashi devi and her daughter in law sheela devi.