leave granted.
appeals allowed.
the valuable right of the appellants under section 5a of the act can not flatten and steamrolled on the ipsi dixit of the executive authority.
the appellants challenge the acquisition of their agricultural lands by the state of uttar pradesh for the construction of the district jail of shahjahanpur.
being aggrieved by the aforesaid notifications the appellants moved a writ petition before the high court u art 226 of the constitution of india.
these appeals have been preferred from the judgment and order of the high court dated 25 11 2009 in writ petitions civil no 464572009.
in dlf qutab enclave complex educational charitable trust vs state of haryana and ors 2003 5 scc 622 2003 indlaw sc 124this court construed the statute on town planning law and held expropriatory statute as is well known must be strictly construed.
january2005the said committee recommended to the state government the shifting of the district jails from congested areas to outside the city limits within the district.
for the reasons aforesaid we hold that the state government was not justified in the facts of this case to invoke the emergency provision of s 174 of the act.
the same principle has been reiterated subsequently by a three judge bench of this court in state of maharashtra and anr vs.
as early as in 1964this court in nandeshwar prasad and ors vs.
in the background of the aforesaid discussion this court proceeds to examine the scope of a person 's right under section 5a of the act.
prisons in the districts of lucknow moradabad were added to the list.
the importance and scheme of section 5a was construed by this court in several cases.
thereafter the state government constituted a committee under the chairmanship of chief secretary government of u p vide office memorandum dated 12 9 2007 to evaluate and consider the shifting of prisons identified to be shifted in the first phase.
the high court also approved the invoking of emergency provisions u s 17 of the act as per the guidelines given in essco fabs private limited and another vs state of haryana and another.
the high court in its decision dated 25 11 2009 refused to interfere with the selection of the site for the construction of the jail premises on the ground that it was not required to do so unless it found the selection of the site was wholly arbitrary.
the concept even though sought to be defined u s 3f of the act is not capable of any precise definition.
thus the state government issued notifications u ss 41 and 17 on 21 08 2008.
the state government explained that this was done in view of the pressing urgency in the matter of construction of the jails.
a of the act.
however the provisions of section 5a inquiry were dispensed with.
in hindustan petroleum corporation limited vs darius shahpur chennai and ors.
the government case is that the district jail is located in a densely populated area of the city and is overcrowded housing as many as 1869 prisoners while having a capacity of only 511.
the state of uttar pradesh vide its office memorandum dated 25 10 2004 constituted a committee under the chairmanship of the honourable minister of revenue to suggest its recommendations for transfer of prisons situated in the congested areas of various districts.
in this context we reiterate the principle laid down by this court in authorised officer thanjavur and another vs s naganatha.
before this court the appellants broadly raised the following arguments 1 whether or not the state government was justified in acquiring the said pieces of fertile agricultural land when there were alternative sites of unfertile banjar land available.
the concept of public purpose can not remain static for all time to come.
these principles again found support in the decision of this court in chairman indore vikas pradhikaran vs pure industrial coke and chemicals.
2005 7 scc 627 2005 indlaw sc 578this court held that the right which is conferred under section 5a has to be read considering the provisions of article 300 a of the constitution and so construed the right under section 5a should be interpreted as being akin to a fundamental right.
in connection with land acquisition proceeding whenever the provision of s 17 and its various sub sections including s 174 is used in the name of taking urgent or emergent action and the right of hearing of the land holder under section 5a is dispensed with the court is called upon to consider a few fundamentals in the exercise of such powers.
in the facts of this case such acquisition can not be made by invoking emergency provisions of s 17 if so advised government can initiate acquisition proceeding by following the provision of section 5a of the act and in accordance with law.
even though right to property is no longer fundamental and was never a natural right and is acquired on a concession by the state it has to be accepted that without right to some property other rights become illusory.
but such acquisition can be made only by strictly following the mandate of the said act.
thereafter over a period of 9 months the state government deposited 10 of compensation payable to the landowners along with 10 of acquisition expenses and 70 of cost of acquisition was deposited and the proposal for issuance of s 6 declaration was sent to the director land acquisition on 19th of june2009 the director in turn forwarded all these to the state government on 17th july2009and the state government finally issued the s 6 declaration on 10th of august2009 this declaration was published in the local dailies on 17th of august2009.
the same view has been reiterated by another three judge bench decision of this court in munshi singh and ors.
the existing district jail of shahjahanpur constructed in 1870was one of the oldest and required shifting to new premises.
this court also held that in view of the ratio in union of india vs mukesh hans2004 8 scc 14 2004 indlaw sc 1413sub s 4 of s 17 can not be pressed into service by officers who are negligent and lethargic in initiating acquisition proceedings.
admittedly the land acquisition act a pre constitutional legislation of colonial vintage is a drastic law being expropriatory in nature as it confers on the state a power which affects person 's property right.
these recommendations were accepted by the state government vide the approval of the cabinet dated 7 12 2007 following this decision the director general of prisons administration and reformsuttar pradesh vide letter dated 04 06 2008requested the district magistrate shahjahanpur to send all the relevant records to the state government for publication of notification u ss 41 and 17 of the land acquisition act1894 hereinafter the act the land suggested for such acquisition by the divisional land utility committee was.
it was urged that it was clear from the counter of the respondent that the contemplation of a new prison was under consideration of the state government for several years.
in its meeting dated 10 10 2007 the committee recommended that a detailed project report dpr be prepared by the rajkiya nirman nigam and that acquisition of lands for shifting of the prisons be done on a priority basis.
even though the concept of public purpose was introduced by pre constitutional legislation its application must be consistent with the constitutional ethos and especially the chapter under fundamental rights and also the directive principles.