Appeal from the Judgment and order dated October 10, 1958, of the Bombay High Court in Income tax Reference No. 22 of 1 958.
H. N. Sanyal,, Additional Solicitor General of India, N. D. Karkhanis and R. N. Sachthey, for the appellant.
The question referred was answered in the negative and against the Commissioner of Income tax who is the appellant in these appeals, the respondents being the heirs and legal representatives of one Amarchand N. Shroff deceased.
Thereafter the partnership was carried on by Mangaldas and Hiralal up to November 30, 1949, and on December 1, 1949, Ramesh son of Amarchand who had by then qualified as a solicitor joined the firm as the third partner.
After the death of Amarchand the arrangement between the various partners in regard to the realisations of the old outstandings was that in respect of the work done up to the death of Amarchand the realisations were to be divided amongst Amarchand, Mangaldas and Hiralal, in respect of the work between July 8, 1949, and November 30, 1919, the realisations were to be divided between Mangaldas and Hiralal 'and in respect of work done after December 1, 1949, the realisations were to be divided amongst Mangaldas, Hiralal and Ramesh.
The firm kept its accounts on cash basis.
(2) Where a person dies before the publication of the notice referred to in sub section (1) of section 22 or before he is served with a notice under sub section (2) of section 22 or section 34, as the case may be, his executor, administrator or other legal representative shall, on the serving of the notice under sub section (2) of section 22 or under section 34, as the case may be, comply therewith and the Income tax Officer may proceed to assess the total income of the deceased person as if such executor, ad ministrator or other legal representative were the assessee.
(3) Where a person dies, without having furnished a return which he has been required to furnish under the provisions of section 22, or having furnished a return which the Income tax Officer has reason to believe to be incorrect or incomplete, the Income tax Officer may make an assessment of the total income of such person and determine the tax payable by him on the basis of such assessment, and for this purpose may by the issue of the,, appropriate notice which would have had to be served upon the deceased person had he survived require any accounts, documents or other evidence which he might under the provisions of sections 22 and 23 have required from the deceased person.
