Appeals by special leave from the judgment and order dated May 2, 1960 of the Kerala High Court in Income tax Referred case No. 98 of 1955(M).
The facts have to be stated at some length but before we do that we think it would be profitable to set out the statutory provisions concerned.
Obviously, the succession indicated must have been after April 1, 1939, as we have earlier stated, for a person carrying on a business on that date can only be succeeded in that business by another person on a date later than it.
On January 2, 1934, the remaining four partners executed an instrument varying some of the terms of the agreement of December 6, 1918.
Then we get two instruments both dated May 30, 1939, each described as an agreement of partnership.
Briefly it may be stated here that the appellant contends that these agreements did not really create new partnerships dissolving the existing one.
We next have an instrument of October 30, 1943, also "Styled an agreement of partnership, to which Narayanjee, Maneklal, Jayanand, Leeladhar and Prabhulal were parties.
One of the ,contentions of the respondent is that even if it was not right in its view of the instruments of May 30, 1939, this instrument of October 30, 1943 clearly evidenced a dissolution of the partnership then existing and the creation of an entirely ,new partnership to which the business of the old firm was transferred.
(4) of section 25 and, therefore, the later succession, if any, by the transfer of Febru 100 ary 7, 1948 could not provide the basis for relief under section 25 (4).
The last instrument to which we have to refer is the agreement of February 7, 1948 between Maneklal, Jayanand, Leeladhar and Prabhulal as partners of the appellant firm and a limited company formed to take over the business.
By this instrument the parties agreed that the business of the firm would be transferred to the company with effect from November 13, 1947, the transfer to be completed on February 13, 1948 by payment of the consi deration of Rs. 4 lacs by the vendee and delivery of posses sion of the assets of the business by the vendor.
We now turn to annexures C 1 and C 11 dated May 30, 1939.
(4) The business of the Firm shall consist mainly in the manufacture and sale of soaps and umbrellas and such allied products and such other articles as all the partners or the majority of them may agree.
hereinafter called the Partners witnesseth as follows: Whereas under the Agreement of Partnership dated the 6th day of December 1918 (1) Purushotham (2) Nagjee.
(2) The Agreement of Partnership dated the 6th day of December 1918 is hereby revoked and the affairs of the Firm shall be regulated and governed by the Regulations agreed upon orally and reduced into writing in this Deed and the terms and conditions of the revoked deed shall not in future apply to the 'Firm ' except such as have been repeated in this Deed.
There is no warrant for the view for which the appellant contended, that only the terms on which the business under the document of December 6, 1918 was carried were revoked and not the head agreement to do business in partnership.
Indeed the instrument of October 30, 1943 which brought the transferor firm, the appellant before us, into existence, expressly states that "The Agreements of Partnerships dated 30th May 1939.
On the principle stated in Annamalai ' Chettiar 's case,(1) there could not in such a case be a suc cession of the business from one to another.
In the deed of 1918, it was stated that this firm carried on business in Calicut, having branches at Madras and Bombay and though Manecklal was included as a new partner, the firm was to carry on and continue the existing partnership business under the same name and style.
It may be pointed out that the words "Sha" and "Sait" mean the same thing, and the names were not different.
On May 30, 1939, two 110 deeds were executed.
"The business of the Firm shall be carried on by Partner No. 4 Hemchand Virjee Sait according to the directions of Partners 1 to 3 and the said Hemchand Virjee Sait is to manage work and assist the business of the firm and he shall be called hereinafter the Workinh Partner;" 14.
"The working Partner Hemchand Virjee Sait may draw on the First of each month the monthly sum of Rs. 400 only from out of the Firm 's account on account of the share of his 111 profits for the current year, but if on taking the annual account it shall appear that the monthly sums drawn out by him exceed his share of profits he shall forthwith refund the excess." Partner No. 1 shall have 3 annas 8 pies in the Rupee; Partner No. 2 shall have 3 annas 8 pies in the Rupee; Partner No. 3 shall have 3 annas 8 pies in the Rupee; and Partner No. 4 shall have 5 annas in the Rupee.
The Agreement of Partnership dated the 6th day of December 1918 is hereby revoked and the affairs of the Firm shall be regulated and governed by the Regulations agreed upon orally and reduced into writing in this Deed and the terms and conditions of the revoked deed shall not in future apply to the "Firm" ' except such as have been repeated in this Deed.
And whereas it is thought advisable and prudent to reduce into writing the terms and conditions agreed upon orally by them the partners agree and have agreed to the following terms and conditions stipulated hereunder : The operative terms relevant to our purposes were the following: "The Agreements of Partnerships dated 30th May 1939 entered into by (1) Nagjee Amersee Sait, (2) The first sub section lays down how the business is to be assessed when it is discontinued in any year and sub section 2 provides that any person discontinuing business must give a notice on pain of a penalty.
Sub section (3) "Where any business, profession or vocation on which tax was at any time charged under the provisions of the Indian Income tax Act, 1918 (VII of 1918), is discontinued, then unless there has been a succession by virtue of which the provisions of sub section (4) have been rendered applicable no tax shall be payable in respect of the income, profits and gains of the period between the end of the previous year and the date of such discontinuance, and the assessee may further claim that the income, profits and gains of the previous year shall be deemed to have been the income, profits and gains of the said period.
Where any such claim is made, an assessment shall be made on the basis of the income, profits and gains of the said period, and if an amount of tax has already been paid in respect of the income, profits and gains of the previous year exceeding the amount payable on the basis of such assessment, a refund shall be given of the difference. " Where any such claim is made, an assessment shall be made on the basis of the income, profits and gains of the said period, and, if an amount of tax has already been paid in respect of the income, profits and gains of the previous year exceeding the amount payable on the basis of such assessment, a ref und shall be given of the difference: Provided. . . .
Sub section (4) was inserted by the Indian Income tax (Amendment) Act, 1939 (VII of 1939), which also introduced the words underlined in sub section Sub section (4) and the amendment to sub section (3) were to come into force from April 1, 1939 by virtue of notification No. 7 of the Central Government dated March 18, 1939.
In this case, the claim to the benefit of sub section (4) was made by the company on the basis of a succession either on November 13, 1947 or on February 13, 1948.
