section K. Kapur and B. R. G. K. Achar, for the appellant 'in allthe appeals).
R. P. Modi and R. K. Garg, for the respondents (in C.A. No. 887/1962).
The Judgment of the Court was delivered by WANCHOO, J. These four appeals arise out of four certi ficates granted by the High Court of Rajasthan and raise a common question.
The suit out 'of which appeal No. 887 has arisen was filed by the respondent against the State of Rajasthan.
The respondent was a resident of the former Dholpur State and the dispute which led to the suit related to a time before the merger of former Dholpur State into the Matsya Union.
It was also the practice in that State that when permits for export were issued, export duties had to be paid in advance, though the actual export was made later.
His case further was that though he asked the State for refund of this advance duty, the State did not pay back the same to him.
By May 15, 1949, the United State of Rajasthan was formed including the Matsya Union into which the former State of Dholpur had merged on March 17, 1948.
The United State of Rajasthan eventually became the Part B State of Rajasthan on January 26, 1950 when the Constitution came into force.
The suits were resisted by the State of Rajasthan on various grounds; but we are concerned now only with one ground which alone has been urged before us, namely, that the State of Rajasthan was not bound by any liability which might have arisen against the former State of Dholpur.
It was a new sovereign and was not bound by any obligation against the old sovereign of the former State of Dholpur unless it chose to recognise the obligation.
In reply to this contention of the State, the respondent relied on article 295(2) of the Constitution and other provisions made during the period when mergers were taking place after August 15, 1947 and contended that in view of article 295(2) of the Constitution the State of Rajasthan was bound by the obligation of the former State of Dholpur.
Before we refer to the decisions of the courts below with regard to this controversy it would be convenient to clear the ground by indicating the admitted position, which resulted in the inclusion of the former Dholpur State into the Part B State of Rajasthan, which came into existence on January 26, 1950 and which would be bound by article 295(2) of the Constitution.
The former Dholpur State remained a separate entity till March 17, 1948, though it had acceded to the Dominion of India after August 15, 1947 with respect to three subjects, namely, communications, defence and external affairs.
It is not in dispute that on this merger, provision was made for the continuance of the laws in the covenanting State till such time as they were modified by the new State.
Provision was also made in the Covenant that all the assets and liabilities of the covenanting States shall be the assets and liabilities of the new State of Matsya.
