Appeal by special leave from the judgment and order dated March 20, 1957, of the Patna High Court in Civil Revision 2/2/ per day, and in pursuance of the said award, the management of the appellant had entered into an agreement with the respondents that effect would be given to the wage structure, prescribed by the said award.
The respondents contended before the payment of wages authority that the refusal of the appellant to pay to them wages at the rate awarded, in substance, amounted to an illegal deduction from their wages and on that basis, they asked for an order from the authority directing the appellant to pay to the respondents the said prescribed wages.
The appellant raised two pleas against the respondents ' claim.
The appellant challenged the correctness of the conclusion of the authority that the applications made by the res pondents were competent under section 15 of the Act before the Patna High Court by filing a petition under article 226 of the Constitution.
On that view, the writ petition filed by the appellant was dismissed.
It is this order which the appellant seeks to challenge before us by its present appeal by special leave.
That, in brief, is the substance of the argument raised by the appellant.
M. C. Setalvad, and R. C. Prasad, for the appellants.
The respondent did not appear.
The subsequent amendment expressly provides by section 2(vi) (a) that any remuneration payable under any award or settlement between the parties or order of a Court, would be included in the main definition under section 2(vi).
It is common ground that between the appellant, Sasamusa Sugar Works Ltd., and its workmen, the respondents, an award had been made by an Industrial Tribunal fixing the pay of the employees at Rs.
This agreement was subsequently published in the Bihar Gazette as a part of the award.
421 The authority has found that section 2(vi) includes wages prescribed by the Industrial Tribunal, and so, it has rejected the appellants ' contention that the applications made by the respondents were incompetent under section 15 of the Act.
The High Court has affirmed the finding of the authority and held that section 15 was applicable to the case, because the wages prescribed by the award did amount to wages as defined by section 2(vi) of the Act.
Section 2(vi) as it stood at the relevant time, provides, inter alia, that wages means all remuneration, capable of being expressed in terms of money, which would, if the terms of the ,contract of employment, express or implied, were fulfilled, be payable.
