Appeal by special leave from the Award dated December 1961 of the Maharashtra Industrial Tribunal in Reference (I.T.) 425 M. C. Setalvad, N. V. Phadke, J. B. Dadachanji, O. C. Mathur and Ravinder Narain, for the respondent No. 1.
The Tribunal has directed that the age of retirement should be 58 but the Company may in its discretion and with the express or implied consent of the employee concerned continue an employee after he attains that age.
It is against this decision that the present appeal has been filed by the workmen.
As the Pay Commission Report pointed out: "This is particularly remarkable, considering that the countries differ widely in demographic constitution, levels of economic development, and climatic and social condition; and it indicates a virtual unanimity of competent opinion that balancing the various factors physiological, economic and social that are relevant, the normal working life should continue up to the age of 60, and may well go on up to 65 years.
It is undoubtedly more useful, however, and indeed essential for our present purpose to examine the trends in this matter in our own country and specially in the region in which the present dispute has arisen.
In the delicate task of adjust ing needs of the employees to the interests of the employers and what is even more important to the general interests of the country at large, industrial adjudication has to pay special attention to the prevailing practice in the industrial region concerned.
If in any particular region employees have been successful in their claim for fixing the age of retirement at 60 this very success is bound to raise in others in the region similar expectations.
In support of their demand for fixing the age of retirement at 60 the workmen tried to show that in recent years at least the tendency in comparable concerns in Bombay region has been to fix the retirement age at 60.
The Chart which is marked exhibit U 5 mentions 50 concerns in which the age of retirement is 60.
