It is sufficient to say that the respondents made applications under section 33 C(2) of the Industrial Disputes Act, No. 14 of 1947, praying for determination and computation of the benefit to which they were entitled under the Desai award as they were not satisfied with the fixation of their pay by the appellant bank under para 5.356.
In the present appeals we are concerned with workmen who entered service before January 1, 1959, and the fitment of these workmen was dealt with in para.
We may at this stage mention that a similar question of fit ment was considered by the Sastry award in para.
Thereafter each succeeding year 's annual increment shall take effect as and from 1st April of that year.
Thus the bank 's case was that once the maximum arrived at by point to point adjustment as on January 1, 1962, was reached under cl.
In this connection it is brought to our notice that in para.
5.356 of the Desai award it was stated that the award was giving directions similar to those provided under the Sastry award as modified subject to certain changes which were considered necessary having regard to the lapse of time after coming into force of the provisions of the Sastry award as modified.
It is urged on behalf of the appellant that the Desai award made certain changes and therefore need not be interpreted in the same way as was done in Prakash Chand Mehra 's case(1).
(iv) a workman will be placed in the Sastry award as modified by placing him at the stage in the Sastry award scale equal to or next above his basic pay as on January 1, 1959, in the scale then in force in the bank concerned.
(i) the actual basic pay as on January 1, 1959, is more than what point to point adjustment will give under cl.
(b) and (c) cannot exceed the adjusted basic pay as arrived at by point to point adjustment in the Sastry award as modified or the maximum of that scale or the actual basic pay as on 1st January 1959, as the case may be.
(i) and the basic pay to be fixed on January 1, 1959, has to be fixed by reading sub cls.
The appellant bank 's contention is that two further annual increments allowed under sub cl.
(ii) as interpreted by the appellant.
(ii) the adjusted basic pay has to be fixed as on January 1, 1959, sub cl.
It is however urged on behalf of the appellant that sub cl.
(ii) has to be worked out as on January 1, 1959, the two increments provided by sub cl.
(d) of cl.
(d) provides for a period after the date up to which el. (ii) works.
But it may happen that increments provided in sub cl.
(c) may in some cases be not available where the actual pay as on January 1, 1959 which will not be reduced under el.
His basic pay as on January 1,1959 was Rs. 106.
Point to point adjustment as on January 1, 1959, would give him Rs. 106 in the Sastry award scale as modified.
(a) of cl.
(iv) he would be fixed at Rs. 100 as on January 1, 1959, and would be entitled to increments under sub cl.
M. K. Ramamurthi, for the respondents.
It is unnecessary to set out the facts of the two appeals at this stage.
The Desai award dealt with the method of adjustment in the scales of pay fixed by it from para 5.329 onwards.
It divided the employees of the banks with which it was concerned in two groups.
Examples of how this would be done were given in para.
5.348 of the Desai award.
Paragraph 5.356 then went on to provide how these workmen would be fitted in the Sastry award.
5.356 of the Desai award, and it is this paragraph which calls for interpretation in the present appeals.
(1) As the words of para 292 of the Sastry award as modified by the Labour Appellate Decision are almost the same as the words of para.
3.In the matter of adjustment all efficiency bars, whether in the previously existing or in the scales fixed by us should be ignored.
(b) To the basic pay into which he is fitted under cl.
