Appeal by special leave from the judgment and order dated September 13, 1963 of the Madras High Court in Writ Appeal P. Ram Reddy and A. V. Rangam, for the appellant.
IX of 1939), hereinafter called the 'Act ', can be made liable for arrears of sales tax due from the dealer in respect of transactions of sale which took place before the, transfer of the business under Rule 21 A of the Rules framed in exercise of the powers conferred on the State Government by section 19 of the Act.
The respondent purchased, by a registered instrument dated October 5, 1956, the business carried on by one Purushottam Raju under the name All India Trading Company.
The respondent thereafter moved the Madras High Court under article 226 of the Constitution for the issue of a writ in the nature of certiorari to quash the orders of the Commercial Tax Officer and the Board of Revenue.
Rule 21 A was framed by the State Government under the rule making power granted to it under section 19(1) and (2) of the Act.
The trans feree shall also be liable to pay tax under the Act on the sales of goods effected by him with effect from the date of such transfer and shall within thirty days of the transfer apply for registration or licence, as the case may be, unless he already holds a certificate of registration or licence, as the case may be. " (1) The State Government may make rules to carry out the purposes of this Act.
On behalf of the appellants Mr. Ram Reddy suggested that the State Government has power under section 19(1) and 19(2) (c) of the Act to frame the impugned rule.
We also consider that the State Government has no authority under section 19(2)(c) of the Act to enact the rule.
It follows therefore that Rule 21 A is beyond the rule making power of the State Government either under section 19(1) or section 19(2)(c) of the Act.
(1) The tax assessed under this Act shall be paid in such manner and in such instalments, if any, and within such time, as may be specified in the notice of assessment, not being less than fifteen days from the date of service of the notice.
If default is made in paying according to the notice of assessment, the whole of the amount outstanding on the date of default shall become immediately due and shall be a charge on the properties of the person or persons liable to pay the tax under this Act. " Section 10 of the Act as it stood before the Madras General Sales tax (3rd amendment) Act, 1956 (Act No. XV of 1956) read as follows "The tax assessed under this Act shall be paid in such manner and in such instalments, if any, and within such time, as may be specified in the notice of assessment, not being less than fifteen days from the date of service of the notice.
In default of such payment, the whole of the amount then remaining due may be recovered as if it were an arrear of land revenue. " If default is made in paying according to the notice of assessment, the whole of the amount outstanding on the date of default shall become immediately due and shall be a charge on the properties of the person or persons liable to pay the tax under this Act. . .
In the present case, the Act is not expressed to come into operation on any particular date, but as it was published in the Madras Gazette on October 8, 1956, the Act came into operation on that date and not before.
In the present case, the registered instrument by which the business was transferred to the respondent is dated October 5, 1956 and the amending Act has therefore no application.
It was next argued on behalf of the appellants that upon a true construction of the registered instrument dated October 5, 1956 the respondent undertook to pay not only Sch.
