Appeals by special leave from the judgment and order dated ' March 6, 1967 of the Orissa High Court in O.J.C. Nos.
495 and 496 of 1966, and 3, 4, 27 and 28 of 1967 respectively.
C.K. Daphtary, Attorney General, N.S. Bindra, G. Rath and R.N. Sachthey, for the appellant (in all the appeals).
No. 627 of 1967).
The Judgment of the Court was delivered by Hegde, J. These cases are the outcome of an unfortunate conflict between the High Court and the government of Orissa.
It consists of eight district and sessions judges, two additional district and sessions judges, secretary to government in law department, superintendent and legal remembrancer, law department, deputy secretary to government in the law department, member administrative tribunal and the Registrar of the Orissa High Court, in all 15 in number.
All these officers are the members of the Orissa '"Judicial Service" within the meaning of that expression in article 236(b) of the Constitution.
In view of article 229 of the Constitution.
The power to appoint the secretaries to the government is that of the Governor.
Under the Government of India Act 1935, the power to transfer a district judge from one post to another was that of the Governor though that power was always exercised in consultation with the High Court and by and large on the recommendation of the High Court.
Obviously when the Governor promulgated the Orissa Superior Judicial Service Rules 1963, he proceeded on the basis that the power to transfer the district judges and addl.
It appears that for some time past there were differences between the High Court and the government about the posting of some of the judicial officers.
The High Court was repeatedly requesting the government to send back judicial officers working in administrative posts as district judges or as addl.
In February 1965, the High Court took a policy decision to the effect that as a general rule, judicial officers working in special posts whether cadre or non cadre, outside their regular line, should be recalled to the regular line after the completion of three years.
in the interest of the service as well as the officers, so that "Officers may not deteriorate by remaining out of touch from regular judicial work for continuously long periods and the service will not suffer by being deprived of the services of senior and experienced officers in manning the posts in the regular judicial line.
policy decision was duly communicated to the government.
The government by its letter of April 2, 1965, intimated that it had no objection to adhere to the principle of three years service in an appointment at a particular station against a special post.
Every time the High Court requested the government to release the three officers mentioned above for 'being posted as district and sessions judges or addl.
district and sessions judges as the case may be, the government turned down those requests on one ground or the other.
We do not think that it was proper for the government to do so.
On September 21 1966, this Court rendered its decision in Ranga Mahammad 's(1) case.
Therein this Court held that power to transfer judges presiding over courts vested with the High Court under article 235 of the Constitution.
Soon after that decision was rendered and without any further dialogue with government in the ' light of that decision, the High Court took the precipitate step of transferring the aforementioned officers to other posts and in their place posted officers who were doing judicial work till then.
By its order dated October 10, 1966, the High Court ordered the following transfers: (a) Shri K.B. Panda who was attached to the commission of enquiry in connection with students ' (1) ; 158 agitation, as law secretary to the government of Orissa, (b) Shri B.K. Patro, the then law secretary as district and sessions judge of Ganjam Boudh, (c) Shri T. Misra, district and sessions judge, Ganjam Boudh, as superintendent and legal remembrance and ex officio additional law secretary to the government of Orissa, (d) But the government refused to accept them.
Those officers acted in accordance with the orders of the government.
It is at this stage the petitions which have given rise to those appeals were filed by some of the advocates practising in one or the other of the sessions divisions mentioned above, praying for a writ of mandamus against the government as well as the concerned officers to implement the transfers ordered by the High Court on October 10, 1966 and also a writ of quo warranto against Shri B.K. Patro, Shri K.K. Bose and Shri P.C. Dey requiring them to show cause under what authority they were holding the posts of the law secretary the superintendent and legal remembrancer and member sales tax tribunal, respectively.
In every one of those petitions, rule nisi was issued.
The government as well as the concerned officers in the returns made by them justified the action taken by the government.
It directed the government to imple 159 ment its orders forthwith.
