Appeals under article 132 (1) of the Constitution from the judgment and order dated 28th August, 1951, of the High Court of Judicature at Calcutta (Harries C.J., Chakravarthi, Das, Banerjee and S.R. Das Gupta JJ.) M.C. Setalvad, Attorney General for India (B. Sen, with him) for the appellant in Case No. 297.
Jitendra Nath Ghose (R. P. Bagchi, with him) for the respondent in Case No. 297.
V. Rajaram Iyer, Advocate General of Hyderabad (R. Ganapathy Iyer, with him) for the State of Hyderabad.
A.R. Sornanatha Iyer, Advocate General of Mysore (K. Ramaseshayya Choudhry, with him) for the State of Mysore.
B. Sen, for the appellant in Case No. 298.
N.C. January 11.
This is an appeal by the State of West Bengal from a judgment of a Full Bench of the High Court of Judicature at Calcutta quashing the conviction of the respondent by the Special Court established under sec tion 3 of the West Bengal Special Courts Ordinance, 1949, (Ordinance No. 3 of 1949) which was replaced in March, 1950, by the West Bengal Special Courts Act, 1950, (West Bengal Act X of 1950) (hereinafter referred to as "the Act").
Section 3 empowers the State Government by notification in the official gazette to constitute Special Courts, and section 4 provides for the appointment of spe cial judges to preside over such courts.
A Special Court shall try such offences or classes of cases, as the classes of offences or cases State Government may by general or special order in writing, direct.
concurred, applied the test of what may be called "reasonable classification" and held that, although the need for a speedier trial than what is possible under the procedure prescribed 291 by the Code of Criminal Procedure might form the basis of a reasonable classification and section 5 (1) could not be regarded as discriminatory in so far as it authorises the State Government to direct that certain offences or classes of offences or classes of cases should be tried by a special court, the provision was discriminatory and violative of article 14 of the Constitution in so far as it purported to vest in the State Government an absolute and arbitrary power to refer to a special court for trial "any cases ", which must include an individual case, "whether the duration of such a case is likely to be long or not ".
292 purports to provide for the matters to be tried by a special court and does not, in form, seek to define the kind or class of offences or cases which the State Government is empowered under the Act to assign to such a court for trial.
As the very object of the Act was to provide for speedier trials by instituting a system of special courts with a simplified and shortened procedure, it is reasonable to conclude that, so far as the legislature was concerned, its intention was that courts constituted under the Act and applying such procedure should deal only with cases requiring speedier trial and that, accordingly, the State Government should refer to such courts only cases of that description.
The discretion vested in the State Government in selecting cases for reference to a special court may not be subject to judicial review and may, in that sense, be abso lute, but that is very different from saying that it was intended to be arbitrary.
In other words, section 5 (1) must, in my opinion, be read as empowering the State Government to direct a special court to try such offences or classes of offences or cases or classes of cases as, in its judgment, require speedier trial.
The question next arises as to whether the provision, thus understood, violates the prohibition under article 14 of the Constitution.
This trilogy of arti cles thus ensures non discrimination in State action both in the legislative and the administrative spheres in the demo cratic republic of India.
As pointed out in Chiranjit Lal 's case(2) and in numerous American decisions dealing with the equal pro tection clause of the 14th Amendment, the State in the exercise of its governmental power must of necessity make laws operating differently on different groups or classes of persons within its territory to attain particular ends in giving effect to its policies, and it must possess for that purpose large powers of distinguishing and classifying persons or things to be subjected to such laws.
"It seems like a contradiction to say that a law having equality of operation may yet give equality of protection.
Government is not a simple thing.
Thus, the general language of article 14, as of its American counterpart, has been greatly qualified by the recognition of the State 's regulative power to make laws operating differently on different classes of persons in the governance of its subjects, with the result that the princi ple of equality of civil rights and of equal protection of the laws is only given effect to as a safeguard against arbitrary State action.
An affirmative finding on the point may not, howev er, be decisive of the issue.
If the impugned legislation is a special law applicable only to a certain class of persons, the court must further enquire whether the classi fication is founded on a reasonable basis having regard to the object to be attained, or is arbitrary.
It is interesting to find that the trend of recent decisions in America has been to lean strongly toward sus taining State action both in the legislative and in the administrative spheres against attacks based on hostile discrimination.
A Louisiana pilotage law authorised the appoint ment of State pilots only upon certification by a State Board of river pilot commissioners who were themselves State Pilots.
Among the prescribed qualifications was apprentice ship under a State pilot for a certain period.
By admitting only their relatives and friends (1) ; (4) ; (2) ; (5) ; , (3) 297 to apprenticeship, the members of the board made it impossi ble, with occasional exceptions, for others to be appointed as State pilots.
Upholding the constitutionality of the law as well as the manner in which it was administered, the Court said: "The constitutional command for a State to afford equal protection of the laws sets a goal not attain able by the invention and application of a precise formula.
These decisions seem, to my mind, to reveal a change of approach marked by an increasing respect for the State 's regulatory power in dealing with equal protection claims and underline the futility of wordy formulation of so called "tests" in solving problems presented by concrete cases.
But it is to be noted that the minority, which included Holmes and Brandeis JJ., expressed the opinion that it was within the power of the State to make such differentiation and the law was perfectly consti tutional.
Dealing with these facts the court observed: "Though the law itself be fair on its face and impartial in appearance, yet if it is applied and administered by public authority with an evil eye and an unequal hand so as to practically make unjust and illegal discrimination between persons in similar circum stances, material to their rights, the denial of equal justice is still within the prohibition of the Constitution." But the nature and extent of the remedy, if any, for a breach of duty on his part, we think it unnecessary to consider; for the power of the state to make the pursuit of a calling dependent upon obtaining a licence is well established where safety seems to require it." (3) ; (2) ; 300 provision, Day J. observed after referring to certain prior decisions : "These cases leave in no doubt the proposition that the conferring of discretionary power upon administrative boards to grant or withhold permission to carry on a trade or business which is the proper subject of regulation within the police power of the state is not violative of rights secured by the 14th Amendment.
Indeed, it does not by its own force make the special procedure provided in the Act applicable to the trial of any offence or classes of offences or classes of cases; for, it is the State Government 's notification under the section that attracts the application of the procedure.
Nor is that procedure, as I have endeavoured to show, calculated to impair the chances of a fair trial of the cases to which it may be made applicable, and no discriminatory intent or design is discernible on its face, unless every departure from the normal procedure is to be regarded as involving a hostile discrimination.
If the discretion given to the State Government should be exercised improperly or arbitrarily, the administrative action may be challenged as discriminatory, but it cannot affect the constitutionality of the law.
In Romesh Thapar 's case the constitu tionality of a provincial enactment purporting to authorise the Provincial Government to regulate the circulation of a news sheet in the Province of Madras for the purpose of "securing the public safety or the maintenance of public order" was challenged as being inconsistent with the peti tioner 's fundamental right to freedom of speech and expres sion conferred by article 19(1)(a) of the Constitution.
But the only relevant constitutional limitation on freedom of speech was that the State could make a law directed against the undermining of the security of the State or the over throw of it, and as the impugned enactment covered a wider ground by authorising curtailment of that freedom for the purpose of securing the public safety or the maintenance of public order, this Court held it to be wholly unconstitu tional and void, observing : "Where a law purports to authorise the imposition of restrictions on a fundamental right in language wide enough to cover restrictions both within and without the limits of constitutionally permissible legislative action affecting such right, it is not possible to uphold it even so far as it may be applied within the constitutional limits, as it is not severable.
So long as the possibility of its being applied for purposes not sanctioned by the Constitution cannot be ruled out, it must be held to be wholly unconsti tutional and void.
In other words, clause (2) of article 19 having allowed the imposition of restrictions on the freedom of speech and expression only in cases where danger to the State is involved, an enactment, which is capable of being applied to cases where no such danger could arise, cannot be held to be constitutional and valid to any extent. " The important distinction is that in Romesh Thapar 's case, the impugned enactment, having been passed before the commencement of the Constitution, did contemplate the use to which it was actually put, but such use was outside the permissible constitutional restrictions on the freedom of speech, that is to say, the Act was not condemned on the ground of the possibility of its being abused but on the ground that even the contemplated and authorised use was outside the limits of constitutionally permissible restric tions.
