An industrial dispute between these workmen and the management of Orient Paper Mills Ltd. (hereinafter referred to as "the Company") was referred by the State Government under section 10(1) (d) of the Industrial Disputes Act (hereinafter referred to as "the Act") for adjudication by the Tribunal enumerating 30 different items of dispute.
The second matter in the appeal related to bonus covered by item No. 2 of that Schedule.
The first and the main point argued with regard to wages was that the Tribunal, after holding that there was no identical industry in this region comparable with the Company, came to.
the view that there were other industries in the region in which minimum wages were higher than the minimum wages paid by the Company, but failed to fix the minimum wages in the award in accordance with the minimum wages being paid in those industries.
Instead, what the Tribunal did was to work out the minimum wages, which should be paid, on an entirely different basis.
It was also urged in the alternative that, even in adopting the latter course, the Tribunal committed an error inasmuch as, in making the calculation, the Tribunal only tried to neutralise about 36 per cent of the cost of living 9n the basis of the rise in Price Index instead 669 of permitting neutralisation to the extent of at least 90%, which could have been done when fixing the minimum wages for the owest, class of workmen.
In applying that principle, industrial courts have to compare wage scales prevailing in sinular concerns in the region with which it is dealing, and generally speaking similar concerns would be those in the same line of business as the concern with respect to which the dispute is under consideration.
The Tribunal found that there are only two other paper mills in the region.
No. 3 situated at Chaudwar, and the J.K. Paper Mills at Rayagada.
On this finding, it is clear that the region cure industry principle laid down in the ease of French Motor Car Co. Ltd. (1) could not have been applied by the Tribunal when fixing the wages in the Company.
This Court in the same case of the French Motor Car Co. (x) further indicated what principles should be adopted in such a situation where there is no concern in the same industry in the region comparable with the concern in which wages have to be fixed.
Though, therefore, in a case where a particular concern is already paying the highest wages in its own line of business, the industrial courts would be justified in looking at wages paid in that region in other lines of business, it should take care to see that the concerns from other lines of business taken into account are such as are as nearly similar as possible, to the line of business carried on by the concern before it.
It should also take care to see that such concerns are not so disproportionately large as to afford no proper basis for comparison. " In the light of these views which were brought to the notice of the Tribunal, the Tribunal proceeded to consider the minimum wages paid by three Collieries, Orient Colliery, Ibe Colliery and Himgiri Rampur Colliery, the Rourkela Steel Plant, the Cement Factory at Rajgangpur and the Indian Aluminum Company, Hirakud which the Tribunal found were situated not very far away from the place where the Company had its factory.
The Tribunal mentioned that, according to the Coal Award, the minimum wage in the Collieries at the then existing Price Index was Rs. 93 7 0; in the Cement Factory Rs. 96.88; in the Steel Plant Rs. 95.00 and in the Aluminium Company Rs. 97.84 nP. The Tribunal then also took into account the minimum wages being paid by other Paper Mills situated outside the region and thereafter recorded its own decision in the following words : "The conclusion that flows from these figures is that the lowest paid worker in the Paper Mill at Brajrajnagar gets more than what is paid as minimum wage in the other two Paper Mills of Orissa, but it is less than what is paid to the lowest paid worker in some of the Paper Mills outside the State.
On the basis of this finding of fact, the Tribunal held that, if the minimum wage in the Company is to be fixed more on the basis of the minimum wage prevailing in other industries in that region which, in its opinion, would be appropriate under the circumstances of the case, then, a revision was really necessary.
We think that the criticism of learned counsel for the workmen that the Tribunal committed an error at this stage in merely holding that the facts found by it justified a revision and in not proceeding to fix minimum wages on the basis of the other industries in the region, is fully justified.
The workmen in their written statement had relied on the wage structure in these concerns obviously on the basis that they were comparable.
In fact, the Tribunal also accepted them as being comparable 'and that is why, in its conclusion, the Tribunal held that, in its opinion, it would be appropriate under the circumstances of the case to fix the minimum wage in the Company on the basis of the minimum wage prevailing in other industries in that region.
Having come to this view, it is clear that, to give full effect to the principle laid down by this Court the case of French Motor Car Co.(1), the Tribunal should have proceeded to fix the minimum wage in the Company on the basis of the average minimum wage prevailing in these concerns.
In this connection, we may take notice of the fact that, in the written statement of the workmen, the minimum wages prevailing in these concerns were (1) [1963] Supp.
The Tribunal considered the minimum wages in these concerns on the basis of the prevailing Price Index of 441 a ' Sambalpur taking 100 as the basic Price Index for the year 1939 Even when fixing the minimum wage ,for the Company on the basis of the alternative calculation made by the Tribunal, the Tribunal has proceeded on the assumption that the minimum wage is being fixed for the Price Index No. 441 prevailing at the time of the award taking 100 as the basic index for the year 1939 In these circumstances, we think that the minimum wage in the Company should have been fixed by the Tribunalmensera, following the principle laid down by this Court in the case of French Motor Car Co.(1).
The Tribunal should not have proceeded to make the alternative calculation on some other basis so as to arrive at a lower figure of Rs. 73 p.m. as the wage covering the basic wage and the dearness allowance, in addition to Rs.
