Petition under article 32 of the Constitution of India for enforcement of fundamental rights.
M. C. Setalvad, P. Ramachandra, Rao, Advocate General, Andhra Pradesh, A. Raghubir and A. V. Rangam, for respondent No. 1.
M. C. Setalvad and R. N. Sachthey, for respondent No. 2.
Sardar Ali Khan, P. N. Duda and J. B. Dadachanji, for res pondent No. 46.
The petitioners are persons employed in the ministerial services of the Andhra Pradesh Government.
On January 19, 1969, leaders, of all political parties in the Legislature of the Andhra Pradesh State appeared to have met and reached the decision that to Implement what are called Telengana Safeguards ', the following measures should be taken : "All non domicile persons, who have been appointed either directly, by promotion or by transfer to posts reserved under the Andhra Pradesh Public Employment (Requirement as to Residence) Rules, 1959 for domiciles of Telengana region will be immediately relieved from service.
All non domicile employees so relieved shall be provided employment in the Andhra region without break in service and by creating supernumerary posts, if necessary. " 117 The Government of Andhra Pradesh then passed an order (G.O.Ms.
Names of such incumbents were to be shown in a proforma and they were to be employed in the Andhra region without break in service by creating supernumerary posts, if necessary.
(3) of article 16 of the Constitution making special provision for requirement as to residence and brought into force on March 21, 1959.
(1)The Central Government may, by notification in the Official Gazette, make rules prescribing, in regard to appointments to (a)any subordinate service or post under the State Government of Andhra Pradesh, or any requirement as to residence within the Telengana area or the said Union territory as the case may be, prior to such appointment.
Under section 4, the Rules had to be laid before each House of Parliament for a period of not less than 30 d s and Parliament could make such alterations as it liked.
