M. C. Chagla and B. R. Agarwala, for the appellant.
An "accommodation" advance is a neutral expression : it may be of the nature of a loan advanced in the ordinary course of business by a money lender; it may be an advance the money lending or other business of the assessee but not in the nature of a loan; or it may be wholly unrelated to the business of the tax payer.
The Judgment of the Court was delivered 'by] Hegde, J. The appellant firm (which will hereinafter be referred to as the "assessee") carried on business in drugs, chemicals, mercury, camphor and art silk yam as also in money lending, over a number of years.
The assessee had dealings for several years with a firm known as "Bhojaji Sobhachand" (to be hereinafter referred to as the Bombay firm).
Hence by its order dated April 7, 1970, this Court directed the tribunal to submit a further statement.
section T. Desai, R. N. Sachthey and B. D. Sharma, for the respondent.
C. J. M/s Amarchand Sobhachand 'a firm registered under the Indian Income tax Act, 1922, carried on business at Madras in drugs, chemicals, mercury, camphor and silk yam and as money lenders.
There were two partners of the firm Mohanlal Sagmal and Seshmal Sobhachand, and Ramniklal and Lakshmichand minors were admitted to the benefits of the partnership, each with 7/32 share in the profits.
Sobhachand, one of the partners of Bhojaji Sobhachand with 16% share in the profit and loss is the father of Seshmal, Ramniklal and Lakshmichand, partners of the appellants.
In the books of account of the appellants which were main tained according to the mercantile, system there was a current sarafi account in respect of their transactions with the Bombay firm in which were credited the funds transmitted from Bombay in respect of their business transactions.
2,68,385/ due from the Bombay firm at the foot of their running account as a bad debt written off as irrecoverable.
The Income tax Officer disallowed their claim holding that : "these transactions were mere accommodations which can have no bearing to the regular business carried on by the assessee. " The Appellate Assistant Commissioner agreed with the Income tax Officer.
He held that the debt .
did not arise, in the course of the appellants ' business as chemists and druggists nor in the course of their money lending business.
The Income tax Appellate Tribunal accordingly confirmed the order of the Appellate Assistant Commissioner.
