Applications by respondent No. 1 for revocation of the certificate granted by the Madras High Court on 15th October, 1968 under article 133(1)(a) & (b) of the Constitution of India.
V.P. Raman, D.N. Mishra, and J.B. Dadachanji, for the appellant.
M.K. Ramamurthi, Shyamala Pappu and Vineet Kumar, for respondent No. 1.
Rameshwar Nath and Mahinder Narain, for respondent No. 2.
Ramamurthi, J., by order dated April 12, 1968, granted an interim injunction restraining encashment of the letters of credit pending disposal of the suit.
Against the orders passed in the two appeals, the plaintiffs applied for certificate under Arts.133(1)(a) and 133(1)(b) of the Constitution.
By our order dated October 28, 1968, we ordered that the certificate granted by the High Court do stand revoked.
The suit filed by the plaintiffs is a civil proceeding, and the suit involves some claim or question respecting property of not less than twenty thousand rupees.
The expression "judgment" in article 133 ( 1 ) in the context in which it occurs means a final adjudication by the Court of the rights of the parties, 'and that an interlocutory judgment even if it decides an issue or issues without finally determining the rights and liabilities of the parties is not a judgment, however cardinal the issue may be.
The expression "final order" it has been held by a long course of authorities, occurring in section 205 of the Government of India Act, 1935, section 109 of the Code of Civil Procedure and article 133(1) of the Constitution means a final decision on the rights of the parties in dispute in a suit or proceeding; if the rights of the parties in dispute in the suit or proceeding remain to be tried, after the order, the order is not final.
In Abdul Rahman 's case(1) a suit was instituted by D.K. Cassim and Sons claiming damages against the appellant Abdul Rahman.
Soon after the suit was instituted the plaintiff firm was adjudicated insolvent and the official assignee was impleaded as an additional plaintiff.
In Sardar Syedna Taher Saifuddin Saheb vs The State of Bombay(4) a suit was filed for a declaration that the order of ex (1) L.R. 60LA.
76 (2) (3) (4) 703 communication passed by the appellant religious head of a community was invalid.
The trial court decided the issue against the appellant and the order was confirmed in appeal by the High Court of Bombay.
