Appeal by special leave from the judgment and order dated January 17, 1967 of the Patna High Court in C.W.J.C. M. C. Chagla, N. D. Karkhanis, section P. Chowdhury, Bhuvanesh Kumari, for the appellant.
The Judgment of the Court was delivered by Hegde, J. This is an assessee 's, appeal by special leave against the judgment of the High Court of Patna dismissing in limini its writ petition under Arts 226 and 227 of the Constitution of India.
The assessee is having construction contracts under the Railways as well as the Government.
On June 3, 1966, the 1st respondent (Income tax Officer Ward 'A ',, Muzaffarpur) issued to the assessee a notice under section 148 of the Indian Income tax Act, 1961.
The notice is being issued after obtaining the necessary satisfaction of the Commissioner of IncomeTax, Bihar and Orissa, Patna.
The assessee challenged the validity of that notice as well as proceedings taken on the strength of that notice on various grounds.
In this case the notice was issued after four years but before eight years of the date of the original assessment.
(2) The Income tax Officer shall, before issuing any notice under this section, record his reasons for doing so. " When the appeal was taken up for hearing on the 18th January 1971, only the report submitted by the Income tax Officer to the Commissioner and the order of the Commissioner was produced.
No. 303 C. 1.1.
Yes it is a fit case for the issue of notice under Sd/ K. Narain section 148.
Whether the Board is satisfied that it is aSecretary, Board of Revenue.fit case for the issue of notice under section 148.
A/P/ Misc.(5)D.I./63 64/5623 dated 13 8 65, forwarded to this office under C.I.T. Bihar and Orissa, Patna 's letter The material that he had before him for issuing notice under section 148 is not mentioned in the report.
He appears to have had only a vague feeling that they may be bogus transactions.
That is not the same thing as saying that there are reasons to issue, notice under section 148.
Before issuing a notice under section 148, the Income tax Officer must have either reasons to believe that by reason of the omission or failure on the part of these assessee to, make a return under section 139 for any assessment year to the Income tax Officer or to disclose fully and truly all material facts necessary for his assessment for that year, income chargeable to tax has escaped assessment for that year or alternatively not withstanding that there has been no omission or failure as mentioned above on the part of the assessee, the Income tax Officer has in consequence of information in his possession reason to believe that income chargeable to tax has escaped assessment for any assessment year.
