It arises out of a complaint filed against the 1st respondent company and its directors for failure to Me with the Registrar of Companies on or before 30 10 1967 the balance sheet and profit and loss account of the company as required under section 220(1) of the , which is punishable under sub section (3) of that section.
We may now refer to some of the earlier decisions on this Point.
We may now set out the reasoning which weighed with the Andhra Pradesh High Court in the decision under appeal : "The reference to Section 210 by the use of the word aforesaid" and the emphasis indicated by the words "were so laid" make the filing of copies of those balance sheets and the profit and loss accounts which are laid before the general body meeting an essential prerequisite.
414 and profit and loss account can be filed even though the default may be wilful.
In this state of difference of opinion among the various High Courts and the absence of a decision of this Court on section 134 this appeal has been filed.
Solicitor General who appeared for the State of Andhra Pradesh and the learned Solicitor General who appeared for the Advocate General of Andhra Pradesh fairly placed before this Court all the decisions for and against, which we have already referred to, and also placed before us all the relevant considerations.
Section 32 relates to the preparation of a list of members of the company and of persons who have ceased to be members as well as a summary, and also provides that it shall be completed within 21 days after the day of the first or only ordinary general meeting in the year.
But section 134 lays down that after balance sheet and profit and loss account or the income and expenditure account, as the case may be, have been laid before the company at the general meeting three copies thereof shall be filed with the registrar, and a failure to do so is made punishable under sub section (4) of that section.
This observation may provide no defence to a prosecution under section 133 but it might well do so in a prosecution under section 134.
In our Act various stages have to be gone through before we reach the stage of a copy of the balance sheet and the profit and loss account being filed with the Registrar and the failure to reach any one of the stages within the time prescribed is made penal by the 'Act.
What he says is, I may have committed an offence, but the offence that I have committed is not the one with which I am charged.
Admittedly no general body meeting had been held and, therefore, the balance sheet and profit and loss account had not been laid before a general body meeting nor could it be so laid.
The Full Bench speaking through Jaganmohan Reddy, C.J., as our learned brother then was, held that if no balance sheet is laid before a general body, there can be no question of that balance sheet not being adopted nor of complying with the requirements of section 220 and though wilful omission to call a general body meeting and to lay the balance sheet and profit and loss account before it may expose the person responsible to punishment under other provisions of the Act, it certainly does not make him liable under the provisions of section 134(4) of the Companies Act, 1913 or section 220 of the .
view that a person charged with an offence cannot rely on his default as an answer to the charge and so, if he was responsible for not calling the general meeting, he cannot be heard to say in defence to the charges brought against him that because the general meeting had not been called, the balance sheet and profit and loss account could not be laid before it.
[1875] L. R. 10 Q. B. 329.
(3) (1875) 45 Law J. Rep. M. C. 41.
(6) have also taken a similar view.
