488 N. N. Goswamy and Arvind Minocha, for the appellant.
The Judgment of the Court was delivered by MATHEW, J. This is an appeal by special leave against a decree passed by the High Court of Punjab and Haryana holding that the appeal filed by the plaintiff appellant has abated and dismissing his suit.
The appellant brought the suit on the allegation that there was one Shiromani Nirankari Dera at Patiala, that this institution had two branches one at Landeke in Moga Tehsil and the other at Nanga Kheri in the erstwhile Patiala State, and that he, as mahant in charge of the Shiromani Dera at Patiala had the right to manage the properties attached to the Dera at Landeke.
Against that decree, an appeal was preferred by the appellant to the High Court.
No application was made by the appellant to bring on record his legal representatives within the period prescribed.
The appellant had raised an alternative contention before the High Court that there was no abatement of the appeal even if Som Dass was not impleaded within the period prescribed as he claimed to represent the dera as its duly elected Chela.
The High Court held that after the death of Som Dass, Shiam Dass, as his Chela "inherited the sum total of the rights which earlier vested in Som Dass and when a controversy is raised about such rights, then the appellant was bound to bring on record the legal representatives of the deceased within the time prescribed by law. " The suit was filed on the basis that the appellant as the lawfully appointed mahant was entitled to manage the properties of the Dera at Landeke, that the defendant was unlawfully claiming to be the mahant of the Dera and entitled to manage the properties of the Dera, and that the appellant was entitled to be in possession of the properties.
As already stated the contention of the defendant was that though the properties belonged to the Dera, he was its lawfully appointed mahant and that the appellant had no right to recover possession of the property of the Dera.
In such a case the successor to the head of the mutt or to the manager of the temple may be substituted as a party under this rule.
In other words, the suit was for possession and management of the Dera and the properties appertaining to it by the appellant purporting to be the de jure mahant against Som Dass as de facto mahant.
Kapil Sibbal and D. Probir Mitra, for respondents.
The prayer in the plaint was for recovery of possession of the Dera and the properties attached to it.
Som Dass, the defendant, contended that the Dera at Landeke was an independent Dera and that he was in possession of the properties of the Dera as its lawfully appointed mahant.
The trial court decreed the suit.
The correctness of the date of death of Som Dass was contested by Shiam Dass.
The High Court referred the question to the trial Court for enquiry and decision.
489 We do not think that the view of the High Court was correct.
