Appeal by Special Leave from the Award of the Industrial Tribunal, Gujarat in Reference (II) No. 30 of 1974, pub lished in the Gujarat Govt.
Gazette Part I L dated 15 4 76.
Speaking broadly, the dispute in both cases related to the workmen 's demand for 10 days sick leave, with retrospective effect, and ,its accumulation over a period of three years i.e. upto 30 days.
The Company also contended that there was no practice of giving any such sick leave in the industries in Baroda or in the State of Gujarat.
It was also pointed out that the benefit of sick.leave of 7 days per year was initially given to the workmen under an award dated August 29, 1958 which contained a specific direction that it would be automatically discon tinued when the benefits of the Employees ' State Insurance scheme would become available to the workmen, and also that the reasonableness of the demand could not be examined by the Tribunal.
The Company applied for and obtained special leave to appeal as aforesaid, with the further direction that the appeal may be heard along with the identical matter (in the Alembic Glass Industries case).
It is unnec essary to mention here the several provisions in the Act; viz., Sections 47, 48 and 49 which deal 'with the eligibility of workmen for sickness .benefit and the extent of the benefit that may be granted.
The reason is that the first proviso to section 49 of the Employees ' State (1) It is apparent that the Employees ' State Insurance Scheme does not cover all contingencies of sickness and in any event the first two waiting days are not covered.
It has to be appreciated that a workman is prevented from earning the normal daily wages during the period of his illness and there is no justification for the argument that the rate of benefit at about half his wage, under the Act, should be considered sufficient so as to deny him the bene fit of sick leave on full emoluments for a period of 7 days when he is certified by a competent medical officer to be ill for that or a longer period.
It has not been disputed before us that the "region cure industry" basis is suitable in cases like the present for examining any controversy regarding the work man 's demand for additional benefits, but it has been argued by the learned counsel for the appellants that the award of the benefit of sick leave to the workers of the two Compa nies could not be justified on that basis.
As has been stated, the Act came into force in the region concerned on December 14, 1969, and it has not been disputed before us that till then it was the practice in the glass industries to grant sick leave with wages for periods varying from 6 to 10 days.
The benefit of sick leave was therefore lost when the Act was made applicable to the region from December 14, 1969.
That was obviously under a mistaken impression of the sickness benefit which the Act allowed for, as has been shown, it does not deal with all aspects of the demand for sickness benefit and does not, at any rate, provide for the grant of leave on full emoluments during the period of the workman 's physical incapacity to earn his normal wages because of his sickness.
The appellants have filed a statement (exhibit 7) containing information regarding the companies which have provided the benefit of sick leave to its workmen in the region.
