R. B. Datar for the Appellant.
On November 6 , 1962 Hirabai filed special civil suit No. 26 of 1963 in the court of the Joint Civil Judge, Senior Division, Sangli for partition and separate possession of a 7/24th share in two houses, a land, two shops avoid movables on the basis that these properties belonged to the joint family consisting of her husband, herself and their two sons.
If a partition were to take place during Khandappa 's lifetime between himself and his two sons, the plaintiff would have got 1/4th share in the joint family properties, the other three getting 1/4th share each.
Khandappa 's 1/4th share would devolve upon his death on six sharers, the plaintiff and her five children, each having a 1/24th share therein.
Adding 1/4th and 1/24th, the plaintiff claims a 7/24th share in the joint family properties.
That, in short, is the plaintiffs case.
Defendants 2 to 5 admitted the plaintiff 's claim, the suit having H been contested by defendant 1, Gurupad, only.
Defendant I has filed this appeal against the High Court 's judgment by special leave.
Two things become necessary to determine for the purpose of giving relief to the plaintiff.
The plaintiff 's share, by the application of the proviso, has to be determined according to the terms of the testamentary instrument, if any, made by the deceased and since there is none in the instant case, by the application of the rules of intestate succession contained in sections 8, 9 and 10 of the Hindu Succession Act.
Thus, whatever be the share of the deceased in the coparcenary property, since there are six sharers in that property each having an equal share, the plaintiff 's share therein will be 1/6th.
The next step, equally important though not equally easy to work out, is to find out the share which the deceased had in the coparcenary property because after all, the plaintiff has a 1/6th interest in that share.
One must, therefore, imagine a state of affairs in which a little prior to Khandappa 's death, a partition of the coparcenary property was effected between him and other members of the coparcenary.
Though the plaintiff, not being a coparcener, was not entitled to demand partition yet, if a partition were to take place between her husband and his two sons, she would be entitled to receive a share equal to that of a son.
In a partition between Khandappa and his two sons, there would be four sharers in the coparcenary property, the fourth being Khandappa 's wife, the plaintiff.
Khandappa would have therefore got a 1/4th share in the coparcenary property on the hypothesis of a partition between himself and, his sons Two things are thus clears : One, that in a partition of the coparcenary property Khandappa would have obtained a 1/4th share and 767 two, that the share of the plaintiff in the 1/4th share is 1/6th, that is to say, 1/24th.
The question which poses a somewhat difficult problem is whether the plaintiff 's share in the coparcenary property is only 1/24th, or whether it is 1/4th plus 1/24th, that is to say, 7/24th.
We see no justification for limiting the plaintiff 's share to 1/24th by ignoring the 1/4th share which she would have obtained had there been a partition during her husband 's life time between him and his two sons.
We think that in overlooking that 1/4th share, one unwittingly permits one 's imagination to boggle under the oppression of the reality that there was in fact no partition between the plaintiff 's husband and his sons.
Whether a partition had actually taken place between the plaintiff 's husband and his sons is beside the point for the purposes of Explanation 1.
If b), namely, the issuance of a notice under section 22 and the failure to comply with that notice.
These latter assumptions in regard to the issuance of the notice under section 22 and its non compliance bad to be, made for the purpose of giving due and full effect to the fiction created by section 18A(9) (b).
He said if you are bidden to treat an imaginary state of affairs as real, you must also imagine as real the consequences and (1) 1 S.C.R. 394 (2) 768 incidents which, if the putative state of affairs had in fact existed, must inevitably have flowed from or accompanied it; and if the statute says that you must imagine a certain state of affairs, it cannot be interpreted to mean that having done so, you must cause or permit your imagination to boggle when it comes to the inevitable corollaries of that state of affairs.
the learned trial judge limited that share to 1/24th, refusing to add 1/4th and 1/24th together.
Another Division Bench of the Bombay High Court in Rangubai Lalji vs Laxman Lalji(2) had already reconsidered and dissented from earlier Division Bench judgment in Shiramabai Bhimgonda(1) In these two cases, the judgment of the Bench was delivered by the same learned Judge, Patel J. On further consideration the learned Judge felt that Shiramabai(1) was not fully argued and was incorrectly decided and that on a true view of law, the widow 's share must be ascertained by adding the share to which she is entitled at a notional partition during her husband 's life time and the share which she would get in her husband 's interest upon his death.
In the judgment under appeal, the High Court has based itself on the judgment in Rangubai Lalji(2) endorsing indirectly the view that Shiramabai(1) was incorrectly decided.
Since the view of the High.
That section reads thus "6.
When a male Hindu dies after the commencement of this Act, having at the time of his death an interest in a Mitakshara coparcenary property, his interest in the property (1)(1963)66Bom.
Nothing contained in the proviso to this section shall be construed as enabling a person who has separated himself from the coparcenary before the death of the deceased or any of his heirs to claim on intestacy a share in the interest referred to therein. " One, her share in her husband 's share and two, her husband 's own share in the coparcenary property.
The deceased Khandappa died leaving behind him two sons, three daughters and a widow.
As between them the two sons, the three daughters and the widow will take equally, each having one share in the deceased 's property under section 10 read with Rules 1 and 2 of that section.
(see Mulla 's Hindu Law, Fourteenth Edition, page 403, para 315).
So far there is no difficulty.
The learned trial Judge, relying upon the decision in Shiramabai which was later overruled by the Bombay High Court, accepted the former contention while the High Court accepted the latter.
Teja Singh(1).
In an important aspect, the case before us is stronger in the matter of working out the fiction because in Teja Singh 's case, a missing step had to be supplied which was not provided for by section 18A(9) [1959] Stipp.
For, by doing that alone can one determine the extent of the claimant 's share.
That assumption, once made, is irrevocable.
In other words, the assumption having been made once for the purpose of ascertaining the share of the deceased in the coparcenary property, one cannot go back on that assumption and ascertain the share of the heirs without reference to it.
To make the assumption at the initial stage for the limited purpose of ascertaining the share of the deceased and then to ignore it for calculating the quantum of the share of the heirs is truly to permit one 's imagination to boggle.
It has to be treated and accepted as a concrete reality, something that cannot be recalled just as a share allotted to a coparcener in an actual partition cannot generally be recalled.
The Hindu Succession provides by section 14(1) that any property possessed by a female Hindu, whether acquired before or after the commencement of the Act, shall be held by her as a full owner thereof and not as a limited owner.
The Full Bench of the Bombay High ,Court in Sushilabai (supra) has considered exhaustively the various decisions bearing on the point and we endorse the analysis contained in the judgment of Kantawala C. J., who has spoken for the Bench.
V. N. Ganpule and (Mrs.) V. D. Khanna for the respondent.
There was, therefore, no question of a fresh partition.
