Appeal by Special Leave from the Judgment and order dated 20 10 75 of the Bombay High Court in Criminal Application No. 1 379/75.
77 M. C. Bhandare, A. N. Karkhanis, Miss Malini Panduval and Mrs. section Bhandare for the Appellant.
G. L. Sanghi and A. K. Verma for Respondent No. 1.
M. N. Shroff for Respondent No. 2.
The Constitution is a pervasive omnipresence brooding over the meaning and transforming the values of every measure.
The Brief Facts The respondent (husband) married the appellant (wife) as a second wife, way back in 1956, and a few years later had a son by her.
The respondent divorced the appellant around July 1962.
For instance, it recited that this respondent had transferred the suit premises, namely, a flat in Bombay, to the appellant and also the shares of the Cooperative Housing Society which built the flat concerned.
There was a reference to mehar money (Rs. 5,000/ and 'iddat ' money, Rs. 180/ ) which was also stated to have been adjusted by the compromise terms.
There was a clause in the compromise: G "The plaintiff declares that she has now no claim or right whatsoever against the defendant or against the estate and the properties of the defendant. " And another term in the settlement was that the appellant had by virtue of the compromise become the absolute owner of the flat and various deposits in respect of the said flat made with the cooperative housing society.
The Magistrate who tried the petition for maintenance held that the appellant was a subsisting wife and awarded monthly maintenance of Rs. 400/ for the mother for their subsistence, taking due note of the fact that the cost of living in Bombay, where the parties lived, was high, and that the respondent had provided residential accommodation to the appellant.
On this foundation, he urged that accepting the contention of the respondent that the appellant was a divorcee? No construction which leads to frustration of the statutory project can secure validation if the court is to pay true homage to the Constitution.
N: 125.
So, section 125 and sister clauses must receive a compassionate expansion of sense that the words used permit.
15 The initial warmth vanished and the jealousies of a triangular situation erupted, marring mutual affection.
78 For some time there was flickering improvement in the relations between the quondum husband and the quondum wife and they lived together.
Thereafter, again they separated, became entranged.
300/ for the son and Rs.
This order was challenged before the sessions Judge by the aggrieved husband, who on a strange view of the law that the court, under section 125, had no jurisdication to consider whether the applicant was a wife, dismissed the petition in allowance of the appeal.
or has obtained a divorce from, her husband and has not remarried.
his client was still entitled to an allowance.
This is obviously beyond dispute or.
We hold that every divorce otherwise eligible, is entitled to the benefit of maintenance allowance and the dissolution of the marriage makes no difference to this right under the current Code.
In the normal course, an order for maintenance must follow, the quantum having been determined by the learned Magistrate at the trial level.
79 He first argued that section 125(4) would apply in the absence of proof that the lady was not living separately by mutual consent.
(ii) in any other case, from the date of expiry of the period, if any, for which maintenance has been actually paid by the husband to the woman; We must state, however, that there was no specific plea, based upon the latter provision, set up anywhere in the courts below or urged before us.
But if one were to locate a legal ground to raise The contention That the liability to pay maintenance had ceased on account of the payment of mehar, it is section 127(3) of the Code.
So we must deal with the dual sub heads of the third ground.
The meaning of meanings is! derived from values in a given society and its legal system.
Art.15(3) has compelling, compassionate relevance in the context of section 125 and the benefit of doubt.
If any in statutory interpretation belongs to the ill used wife and the derelict divorcee.
This social perspective granted, the resolution of all the disputes projected is easy.
Protection against moral and material abandonment manifest in article 39 is part of social and economic justice, specificated in article 38, fulfilment of which is fundamental to the governance of the country (Art.37).
From this coign of vantage we must view the printed text of the particular Code.
80 section 125 requires, as a sine qua non for its application, neglect by husband or father.
The magistrate 's order proceeds on neglect to maintain; the sessions judge has spoken nothing to the contrary; and The High Court has not spoken at all.
Moreover, the husband has not examined himself to prove that he has been giving allowances to the divorced wife.
His plea is his right to ignore.
So the basic condition of neglect to maintain is satisfied.
In this generous jurisdiction, a broader perception and appreciation of the facts and their bearing must govern the verdict not chopping little logic or tinkering with burden of proof.
The next submission is that the absence of mutual consent to live separately must be made out if the hurdle of section 125(4) is to be over come.
We see hardly any force in this plea.
Do divorcees have to 1) prove mutual consent to live apart? Divorce painfully implies that the husband orders her out of the conjugal home.
