No. 628/73.
R. Nagarathnam for the Appellant.
The acquittal was reversed by the High Court of Andhra Pradesh and the appellant was convicted under Section 302 Indian Penal Code and sentenced to suffer imprisonment for life.
The deceased Subhadramma was the wife of the appellant.
In the Committing Court the accused was content with a bare denial but in the Court of Sessions he stated that he went to the house of his mother in law at about 10 p.m. On 18th December, 1972.
He referred to the evidence of me Doctor who stated that the injury found on the deceased could have been caused even if she was standing.
In this appeal the learned Counsel for the appellant argued that the accused had no motive to kill his wife and that his version was more probable than the version of the prosecution.
We are unable to find any substance in the submissions made by the, learned Counsel for the appellant.
The High Court was well justified in commenting that the discrepancies on the basis of which the Trial Court rejected the evidence of P. Ws. 1, 2 and 3 were of a minor character and that they have been unduly magnified by the learned Sessions Judge.
Merely because the Medical Officer stated that the victim could have received the injury if she was standing, it did not follow that the injury could have been received in the circumstances mentioned by the accused.
We may also refer here to the comment of the learned Counsel for the appellant that realizing that the motive would assume considerable importance if the case was one based on circumstantial evidence, the prosecution tried to make P. W. 3 depose as if she had witnessed occurrence.
P.W. 3, an old woman of 69 years, stated in her evidence that she saw the accused who was sitting by the side of the deceased on the cot make a gesture as if he was stabbing the deceased and that the deceased cried out 'Amma. ' In cross examination she stated that she did not remember if she had told the Police that the accused made a gesture as if he was stabbing the deceased.
The Inspector of Police P. W. 15, however, stated that P. W. 3 did not state before him that she saw the accused making a gesture as if he was stabbing the deceased.
We do not think that we will be justified in rejecting the evidence of all the prosecution witnesses on the basis of this statement of P. W. 3.
At the worst the so called improvement made by her may be rejected but no more.
v The State of A.P.(2), Bhim Singh Rup Singh vs State of Maharashtra(3) it has been said that to the principles laid down in Sanwat Singh 's case may be added the further principle that "if two reasonable conclusions can be reached on the basis of the evidence on record, the Appellate Court should not disturb the finding of the Trial Court".
It is, therefore, essential that any view of the evidence in favour of the accused must be reasonable even as any doubt, the benefit of which an accused person may claim, must be reasonable.
"A reasonable doubt", it has been remarked, "does not mean some light, airy, insubstantial doubt that may flit through the minds of any of us about almost anything at some time or other, it does not mean a doubt begotten by sympathy out of reluctance to convict; it means a real doubt, a doubt founded upon reason"(4).
P. Parmeswara Rao and G. N. Rao for the Respondent.
This appeal has been filed under Section 2(a) of the .
The appellant was acquitted by the learned Additional Sessions judge, Chittoor of an offence under Section 302, Indian Penal Code.
365 They were married about one and a half years before the occurrence.
About three months before the occurrence the deceased gave birth to a female child in the house of the accused at Cherlopalle.
After the ninth day the mother and child, according to customary practice, were taken by the mother of the deceased to her house at Krishna Kalva.
Cherlopalle is about 25 miles from Krishna Kalva.
The accused used to visit his wife and often used to stay in the house of the deceased 's mother.
After about one and a half months the, accused asked his mother in law and brother in law to send his wife to his place.
