R. P. Bhatt and Sri Narain for the Appellant (In CA 1617/79).
G. L. Sahu and Miss Maya Ra for the Appellant (In CA 1640A/79) an R. 54 in CA 1617/79.
It was also notified that claims or objections which had not been preferred as required under the Rules within the prescribed period would be rejected.
Thereafter the calendar of events was published on November 25, 1978 notifying that the poll, if necessary would take place on December 31, 1978 in all the 44 constituencies: Six petitioners including the appellants herein presented a petition under Article 226 of the Constitution before the High Court of Madhya Pradesh at Jabalpur on December 28, 1978 requesting the Court to make an order quashing the electoral roll and the calendar of events issued for the purpose of the said election and directing the respondents to refrain from conducting the poll on December 31, 1978.
On December 30, 1978, the learned Single Judge before whom the case came up for orders directed the issue of notice of the petition and the stay application to the respondents and issued an interim order directing the respondents not to notify the results of the election under Rule 46 of the Rules pending disposal of the petition.
On December 31, 1978, the poll was held and 44 persons were declared elected.
Aggrieved by the order passed by the High Court, Ashok Kumar Mishra and Bhagwat Singh Thakur (Petitioners No. 1 and 5 respectively in the 494 petition before the High Court) filed a petition for special leave to appeal to this Court and Purshottam Lal Sharma (petitioner No. 6 before the High Court) filed another petition.
One of the grounds on which the appellants challenged the validity of the electoral roll, the calendar of events and the declaration of results of election was that the entire election process had become vitiated on account of the defect in the notice issued under Rule (1) of the Rules notifying that claims and objections should be preferred within a period of 20 days from the date of the publication of that notice when sub rule (3) of Rule 4 of the Rules prescribed that such claims and objections could be preferred within 30 days from the date of publication of that notice.
It was alleged that by reason of a shorter period being fixed for entertaining claims and objections, a large number or people who could have filed claims and objections were prevented from preferring them within 30 days from the date of publication or the notice which was the prescribed period.
No. 5 had filed a claim to include his name in the electoral roll on October 19, 1978 and that was rejected by the Deputy Collector without following the procedure prescribed for the purpose.
It was also alleged that on October 20, 1978, 34 persons mentioned in Annexure P 7 approached the Deputy Collector to entertain their claim for inclusion in the electoral roll and he refused to receive their applications.
It was contended that on account of noncompliance with Rule 4(3) of the Rules, which was mandatory, the entire election process held on the basis of the defective electoral roll '. became a nullity and that therefore, the declaration of results of all the 44 successful candidates was liable to be quashed.
On behalf of the respondents, it was pleaded that while it was true that the period of 20 days had been mentioned in the notice issued under Rule 4(1) of the Rules, it was open to all the persons who were interested in preferring claims or objections to file them within 30 days from the date of publication of the notice under Rule 4(1).
It was pleaded that pursuant to the notice published under Rule 4(1) of the Rules only four claims including that of petitioner No. 5 was rejected as no evidence in support of his claim was produced before the Deputy Collector.
