G. B. Pai, Manick K. Gagrat, J. B. Dadachanji, O. C. Mathur and K. J. John for the Appellants in CA No. 2299 and Respondents in CA 2300/79.
They served a Charter of Demands in July, 1974, on the appellant, and as their demands were not accepted and conciliation proceedings proved fruitless, the State Government made a reference of the dispute under section 10(1) (d), Industrial Tribunal, Maharashtra for adjudication.
The Union filed a statement before the Tribunal claiming an upward revision of the wage scales and dearness allowance and an increase from fifteen years to twenty years in the span for earning annual increments.
The claim of the Union was resisted by the appellant, who maintained that the existing wage scales were fair and reasonable on a region cum industry basis and that it would not be possible for the appellant to bear the additional financial burden if the demands of the Union were accepted.
Reference was made to the political uncertainty in Iran which had placed an appreciable part of the appellant 's business in jeopardy and to various other factors, peculiar to an engineering consultancy business, beyond the appellant 's control.
Nothing those facts, the Tribunal observed that compared with the increased paying capacity of the appellant, an inference drawn from the prosperity enjoyed by the appellant over the years, there was definite need for revising the wage scales.
It was pointed out that the dearness allowance and house rent allowance granted by the appellant made little impact in neutralising the cost of living.
The need for revising the wage scales was not disputed by the appellant.
In proceeding to revise the wage structure the Tribunal took into account the two principles involved in the process, the financial capacity of the industry to bear the burden of an increased wage bill, and the prevailing wage structure on an industry cum region basis.
Wage scale statements were filed by the parties before the Tribunal pertaining to several engineering consultancy organisations but in the absence of pertinent information concerning the strength of their labour force, the extent of their business, the financial position for some years, the capital invested, the precise nature of the business, the position regarding reserves, dividends declared and future prospects of the company, the Tribunal found that it was unable to rely on them as comparable concerns.
Holding it impossible in the circumstances to apply the principle of industry cum region basis, the Tribunal turned to a consideration of the financial capacity of the company to bear an additional burden.
171 in this connection, it proceeded on the footing that the appellant was a separate and independent division of Tata Sons Limited and had no "functional integrality" with the other divisions.
Nonetheless, the Tribunal observed, there was every reason to expect that the appellant would be able to earn sound profits in the future, and the instability in its business activities occasioned by the turbulent political situation in Iran, would be, it was expected, compensated by contracts secured in different developing countries.
The Tribunal took note of the elaborate scales of wages already existing in the wage structure of the appellant and decided "to modify the existing structure of the scales with flat increases in each category. " But it rejected the demand of the Union for dearness allowance on the basis of a slab system, because that would have imposed an unacceptable burden on the appellant 's financial capacity and there was no reason why the existing scheme of dearness allowance should be disturbed when a substantial increase was being made in the level of the basic wage.
It also laid down the principle enabling the actual fitment of the workmen in their respective wage scales as on that date and also provided for the number of increments to which they would be entitled having regard to the period of completed service.
The Union prayed that the position may be clarified and the award corrected accordingly.
The same has been made clear in paragraph No. 23, but it appears that the words "to each employee" after the figure "Rs. 150/ " were omitted.
It may be mentioned that only from that point of view viz.
In this appeal, the learned counsel for the appellant had covered a wide field, but in the end he states that the appellant is aggrieved by two matters only.
The workmen have filed an appeal by special leave, Civil Appeal No. 2300 of 1979, in which they have challenged the rejection by the Tribunal of their claim in respect of dearness allowance which, they contend, should be pegged to the cost of living index and should not be a fixed amount.
During all these years, the appellant had continued to enjoy increasing profits; nonetheless the emoluments received by the workmen did not receive the impress of the appellant 's growing prosperity.
Accordingly, the contention raised on behalf of the appellant against retrospectivity of the wage scales must be rejected.
The Labour Court, Tribunal or Arbitrator may correct any clerical mistake or error arising from an accidental slip or omission in any award it or he issues.
To answer the question, it is necessary to examine the basis of the award and the intent which flows from that basis.
The terms of reference in the State Government 's order required the Tribunal to revise the scales of pay and dearness allowance, and there was no mention of giving any ad hoc increase in the basic pay of individual workman.
It would do well to recall that the claim of the Union filed before the Tribunal also centered on the need to revise the wage scales.
And that is confirmed by what was stated in paragraph 23 of the award: "Considering this outgoing the flat increase of Rs.
150/ in the category of Draughtsman and Rs.
If, as the Tribunal has stated in the amendment order, the increase in paragraph 23 was intended to apply to each individual workmen, there is nothing in the body of the award to form the foundation on which the actual figures in the restructured pay scales can be made to rest.
Considering the fitment of the workman in the revised scales, it was stated in the award that a workman found drawing a salary less than the beginning of the grade would be stepped up to the beginning of the grade and if his pay fell between two steps in the reclassified pay scales the basic pay was to be fixed at the step higher in the revised scale.
Even when considering the range of permissible retrospectivity the Tribunal stated in the award: "In view of the revision of the wage scales, there would be consequent increase in the dearness allowance and the house rent allowance. " 177 And the clinching circumstances of all is that the award was made on the basis that the overall financial load according to paragraph 33 of the award would be to the tune of about Rs. 5 lakhs.
In its order of 22nd December, 1978, the Tribunal has referred to the statement (Exhibit C 51) filed by the appellant when called upon to indicate the increased financial burden apprehended by it.
The Tribunal has relied on this statement as evidence showing that the appellant knew that a flat increase of Rs.
On the basis that a sum of Rs.
Finally, on the basis that the individual Draughtsman would be given an increase of Rs.
It will be noted that the statement, Exhibit C 51, was prepared on the basis of the employees ' strength as in December, 1971.
A similar statement was prepared on the basis of the employees ' strength as in September, 1978.
These statements cannot be regarded as evidence 178 that the appellant was cognizant of the intention of the Tribunal to provide a flat increase to the pay of each workman.
The statement afforded an indication merely of what the additional financial load would be if a flat increase was given to the individual workman on the alternative basis set forth therein.
Our attention has been drawn to what purports to be an endorsement by counsel for the appellant on the application dated 22nd December, 1978 filed by the Union before the Tribunal to the effect that the appellant would submit to whatever the Tribunal decided, and it is urged that the appellant is bound by the order made on the application.
The second contention of the appellant is entitled to succeed.
It noted that dearness allowance was being granted by the appellant at 10% of the salary subject to a minimum of Rs. 50/ and house rent allowance at 30% of the basic salary.
It declared that the cumulative effect of an improved wage structure together with dearness allowance operating on a slab system would throw an impossible burden of about Rs. 1 crore on the financial capacity of the appellant.
If the dearness allowance is linked with the cost of living index the whole award will have to be reopened and the entire basis on which it has been made will have to be reconsidered.
The award is a composite document in which the several elements of increased wage scales, larger increments, longer span of 20 years for earning increments, dearness allowance at 10% of the basic wage, besides several other benefits, have been integrated into a balanced arrangement in keeping with what the Tribunal has found to be the financial capacity of the appellant.
Accordingly, the appeal filed by the workmen must fail.
We do not propose to give our reasons to the extent we are in agreement with Pathak, J. and we propose to state our reasons for the disagreement only.
The order dated December 22, 1978 of the Tribunal also does not reveal that there was any opposition by the company to the application for correcting the award.
The copy of the letter dated July 23, 1973, alongwith the Annexures from the Company to the Director General, Posts & Telegraphs, Delhi (exhibit C 27) indicates the important projects the Company was handling in India and abroad, and the amount of foreign exchange earned and repatriated.
Therefore, they filed an application before the Tribunal for correcting the award so as to bring out what was intended.
