Ltd. section K. Gambhir for the applicant intervener State of M.P. No. 213 of 1979 filed by the Bharat Aluminium Company Ltd. arises out of Misc.
No. 555 of 1977 filed by it in the High Court of Madhya Pradesh under Article 226 of the Constitution.
Respondent 1 is the Special Area Development Authority, Korba, District Bilaspur, M.P., respondent 2 is its Chairman and respondent 3 is the State of Madhya Pradesh.
The appellant, Bharat Aluminium Company Ltd., is a Government Company incorporated under the , the entire share capital being owned by the Government of India.
Section 64 empowers the State Government to declare any area as a special area by issuing a notification.
Section 55 provides that for every Special Area there shall be a Special Area Development Authority consisting of a Chairman and such other members as the Government may determine from time to time.
The Chairman and the members of the Development Authority are appointed by the Government.
Since there was no Municipal Corporation or Municipal Council in the Korba Special Area prior to the constitution of the Development Authority, the Government was required under sub clause (b) above to direct whether the Madhya Pradesh Municipal Corporation Act, 1956, or the Madhya Pradesh Municipalities Act, 1961, shall apply to the Korba Special Area for the purposes of clauses (v) and (vi) of section 68 and clauses (c) and (d) of section 69.
Such a direction was first issued by Notification dated January 28, 1976 published in the Government Gazette, dated February 27, 1976 by which the Development Authority, Korba, was directed to exercise the powers and perform the functions of a Class I Municipality constituted under the Madhya Pradesh Municipality Act, 1961.
This Notification became effective from February 27,1976 from which date Ordinance No. 26 of 1975 was made effective.
By another Notification, dated March 15, 1977, published in Government Gazette, dated July 15, 1977, the Development Authority, Korba, was directed under the aforesaid clauses of sections 68 and 69 to exercise the powers and perform the functions under the Madhya Pradesh Municipal Corporation Act, 1956.
It says that "the Corporation shall impose a tax payable by the owners of buildings or lands situated within the city with reference to the gross annual letting value of the building or land called the property tax".
In 1964, the Madhya Pradesh State Legislature had enacted the Madhya Pradesh Nagariya Sthawar Sampatti Kar Adhiniyam, which was made applicable to the whole State, including the urban areas.
Towards the beginning of 1976, the Government decided to abolish octroi tax and to impose in its place a 'tax on the entry of goods '.
To compensate the municipal councils and the municipal corporations for the loss arising from the abolition of the octroi tax, the Government decided to confer powers on these bodies for levying property tax.
Both of these Ordinances were published in the Madhya Pradesh Gazette, dated April 30, 1976 from which date they came into force.
The property tax levied under sub section (1) shall not be leviable in respect of the following properties, namely: 10 (a) building and lands owned by or vesting in (i) the Union Government; (ii) the State Government; (iii)the Council. " While the Company was pursuing that matter with the State Government, contending that it was not liable to pay the entry tax by reason of the aforesaid agreement, on January 4, 1977 respondent 1 made a further demand of Rs.
That amount not having been paid as provided in the agreement, respondent 1 terminated the agreement by its letter dated February 4, 1977.
The appellant Company disputed its liability to pay the aforesaid amounts on the grounds, principally, that no tax was leviable on its property since the Company was owned wholly by the Government of India and that respondent 1 was estopped from levying the property tax by reason of the agreement of 1976.
Having failed to persuade respondent 1 to accept its point of view, the Company filed o Writ Petition in the Madhya Pradesh High Court asking that the demands be quashed.
In the other two appeals (Nos. 1025 and 1026 of 1978), the appellant, Western Coalfields Ltd., is also a hundred per cent undertaking of the Government of India.
In Special Leave Petition No. 10688 of 1979 filed against the judgment, the question raised is whether the property of a public corporation owned wholly by the State Government and the Union Government is exempt from taxes by reason of articles 285 and 289 of the Constitution.
That is because the legislature, which adopts by incorporation the existing provisions of another law, cannot be assumed to intend to bind itself to all future amendments or modifications which may be made in the earlier law.
The third contention of the Attorney General flows from the provisions of article 285(1) of the Constitution which says that the property of the Union shall, save in so far as Parliament may by law otherwise provide, be exempt from all taxes imposed by a State or by any authority within a State.
Relying on these provisions, it is contended by the Attorney General that since the appellant companies are wholly owned by the Government of India, the lands 16 and buildings owned by the companies cannot be subjected to property tax.
The short answer to this contention is that even though the entire share capital of the appellant companies has been subscribed by the Government of India, it cannot be predicated that the companies themselves are owned by the Government of India.
The companies, which are incorporated under the , have a corporate personality of their own, distinct from that of the Government of India.
The lands and buildings are vested in and owned by the companies: the Government of India only owns the share capital.
It was therefore a Government Company under section 617 of the .
The mere fact that the entire share capital of the respondent company was contributed by the Central Government and the fact that all its shares were held by the President and certain officers of the Central Government did not make any difference to that position.
In that case, the Andhra Pradesh Road 17 Transport Corporation claimed exemption from taxation under article 289 of the Constitution by which, the property and income of a State is exempt from union taxation.
This Court, while rejecting the Corporation 's claim, held that though it was wholly controlled by the State Government it had a separate entity and its income was not the income of the State Government.
It is, of course, a public authority and its purposes, no doubt, are public purposes, but it is not a government department nor do its powers fall within the province of government".
In Pennington 's Company Law, 4th Edition, pages 50 51, it is stated that there are only two decided cases where the court has disregarded the separate legal entity of a company and that was done because the company was formed or used to facilitate the evasion of legal obligations.
The appellant companies were incorporated under the for a lawful purpose.
Under section 5(1) of the Coal Mines (Nationalisation) Act, 26 of 1973, which applies in the instant case, the right title and interest of a nationalised coal mine vest, by direction of the Central Government, in the Government company.
If the lands and building on which respondent 1 has imposed the 18 property tax cannot be regarded as the property of the Central Government for several other purposes like attachment and sale, there is no reason why, for taxing purposes, the property can be treated as belonging to that Government as distinct from the company which has a juristic personality.
The learned Attorney General resisted the taxation on the lands by contending that they belong to the Madhya Pradesh State Government and were taken on lease for a period of 30 years by the appellant companies.
It is urged that if at all the lands can be subjected to property tax, it is the State Government and not the appellant companies who can be called upon to pay that tax.
No documents seem to have been filed before it to bear out facts which are sought to be placed before us nor indeed have we evidence before us to show that the lands belong to the State Government.
(4) The taxing power of the State legislature must be construed as limited in its scope so as not to come in conflict with the power and function of the Union to regulate and develop the mines as envisaged by the Nationalisation Act.
Though, therefore, on account of that declaration, the legislative field covered by Entry 23, List II may pass on to the Parliament by virtue of Entry 54, List I, the competence of the State Government to enact laws for municipal administration will remain unaffected by that declaration.
The power to impose tax on lands and buildings is derived by the State Legislature from Entry 49 of List II: "Taxes on lands and buildings".
The power of the municipalities to levy tax on lands and buildings has been conferred by the State Legis 21 lature on the Special Area Development Authorities.
It was further held by the Court that the land cess was not a tax on mineral rights but was in truth and substance a "tax on lands" within the meaning of Entry 49 of the State List.
The power conferred by the State Legislature on Special Area Development Authorities to impose the property tax on lands and buildings is therefore not in conflict with the power conferred by the Coal Mines Nationalisation Act on the Union Government to regulate and develop the Coal mines so as to ensure rational and scientific utilisation of coal resources.
In that case, the Bihar Government demanded dead rent, royalty and surface rent from the appellant contrary to the terms of his lease on the strength of the amended section 10(2) of the Bihar Land Reforms Act, 1950, and the amended Rule 20 of the Bihar Rules.
The Haryana State Legislature passed the Haryana Minerals (Vesting of Rights) Act, 1973, under which two notifications were issued for acquisition of right to saltpeter, a minor mineral, and for auctioning certain saltpeter bearing areas.
In that case, 12 sugar undertakings stood transferred to and were vested in a Government undertaking under the U.P. Sugar Undertakings (Acquisition) Ordinance, 1971, which later became an Act.
It was contended on behalf of 23 the sugar undertakings that since sugar is a declared industry under the Industries (Development and Regulation) Act, 1951, Parliament alone was competent to pass a law on the subject and the State Legislature had no competence to pass the impugned Act by reason of Entry 52, List I read with Entry 24, List II.
The majority, speaking through one of us, Desai J., held that the legislative power of the State under Entry 24, List II, was eroded only to the extent to which control was assumed by the Union Government pursuant to the declaration made by the Parliament in respect of a declared industry and that the field occupied by such enactment was the measure of the erosion of the legislative competence of the State legislature.
Justice Pathak and Justice Koshal, who gave a separate judgment concurring with the conclusion of the majority, preferred to rest their decision on the circumstance that the impugned legislation fell within Entry 42, List III 'Acquisition and requisition of property ' and was therefore within the competence of the State Legislature.
These are the main points argued by the learned Attorney General on behalf of the appellant Companies.
In the High Court, an additional point was taken, based upon the agreement dated June 24, 1976, which was entered into between the appellant Companies and respondent 1.
We adopt, particularly, the reasoning of the High Court that in the meeting of January 29, 1976, respondent 1 had decided to give up its right to impose the Octroi tax only.
The Chairman of respondent 1, therefore, acted beyond the scope of his authority in entering into the agreement with the appellant Companies, under which respondent 1 bound itself not to impose any tax whatsoever.
Petition Nos. 61 and 62/78 respectively.
L.N. Sinha, Attorney General, R. B. Datar and Miss A. Subhashini for the Appellants.
Y.S. Chitale, Suresh Sethi and section K. Bhattacharya for the applicant intervener Municipal Corpn. of Delhi.
Industrial Corpn.
Petition  Section 69, by clauses (c) and (d), confers upon the Development Authority powers for the purpose of municipal administration and for the purpose of taxation.
8 Clauses (a) and (b) above are sub clauses of clause (d).
(They should better have not been so numbered alphabetically since the main clauses themselves are similarly numbered).
Section 127(1)(i) of the Madhya Pradesh Municipalities Act, 1961 empowers a municipal council to impose, in the whole or any part of the municipality, "a tax payable by the owners of houses, buildings or lands situated within the limits of Municipality with reference to annual letting value of the house, building or land called property tax".
9 Section 127A which was inserted in the Municipalities Act for imposition of property tax reads as follows, in so far as relevant: "127A. (1) Notwithstanding anything contained in this chapter, as and from the financial year 1976 77, there shall be charged, levied and paid for each financial year a tax on the lands or buildings or both situate in a municipality other than class IV municipality at the rate specified in the table below: (i) where the annual letting 6 per centum value exceeds Rs.
