Sikri for the Appellant.
The Service was constituted for providing doctors for manning the medical, public health and medical research and teaching posts in the Central Government hospitals, dispensaries scientific research institutions and institutions of higher education.
By a notification dated January 1, 1965 the initial appointments were notified.
R.8(3) provides for 50% of the vacancies in Supertime Grade II to be filled by promotion of General Duty Officers Grade I and Specialists ' Grade Officers in the ratio of 2 : 3 on the basis of merit and seniority and the remaining 50% of the vacancies are to be filled by direct recruitment in the manner specified in the Second Schedule.
This new grade may be called Specialists ' Grade I and the existing Specialists ' Grade may be called Specialists ' Grade II.
We notice that at present out of 27 clinical specialities only a few have posts in Supertime Grade II.
The proportion of hospital specialists ' posts in the new grade should not exceed 20% of the number of hospital specialists ' posts in the lower grade (Specialists Grade II) and additional number of posts as may be necessary to make up the 20% may be created.
It is common ground that the appellant has the requisite essential qualifications for appointment as a Professor or an Associate Professor of Radiology.
After obtaining his M.B.B.S. degree from Calcutta University in the year 1955, the appellant went for further studies to the United Kingdom.
The State Government of West Bengal were pleased to depute him for the task and he apparently performed and fulfilled his duties to the entire satisfaction of the authorities.
By Letter dated April 6, 1965, the Delhi Administration informed the Principal, Maulana Azad Medical College in answer to a communication made by him, that consequent upon the appointment of the appellant in Category `C ' of the Central Health Service, the Administration had no objection to designating him as Associate Professor of Radiology (ex officio) in the Maulana Azad Medical 25 College provided it was not detrimental to his normal duties as a Radiologist and no financial implications were involved.
The appellant was listed at Sr.
No. 80 and the entry giving his name and designation reads: "80.
As a result of this, the appellant has continued to hold the post of Radiologist in the Irwin Hospital which is attached to the Maulana Azad Medical College and treated as an Associate Professor of Radiology (ex officio) both by the University of Delhi as well as by the Maulana Azad Medical College.
By the early 70s, the appellant had acquired the requisite teaching experience of an Associate Professor of Radiology as well as acquired higher academic qualification.
On August 19/20, 1968 the Principal, Maulana Azad Medical College addressed a letter to the appellant conveying that the Vice Chancellor of the Delhi University in exercise of his emergency powers, had granted him recognition as an Associate Professor of Radiology for teaching the post graduate and under graduate students for the D.M.R.T. and M.B.B.S. courses of studies.
In 1970, the appellant was conferred the degree of Doctor of Philosophy (Medicine) in Radiotherapy by the Calcutta University.
The Faculty of Medical Sciences, University of Delhi by its letter dated July 10, 1972 informed the appellant that the Board of Research Studies for Medical Sciences had at its meeting held on January 15, 1972 appointed him as a Supervisor for the post graduate students for the M.D. (Radiotherapy) course of study.
It would therefore appear that the appellant was not only holding the post of Radiologist in the Irwin Hospital, but was also actively associated with teaching the under graduate and post graduate students as an Associate Professor of Radiology of the Maulana Azad Medical College for the M.D., D.M.R.T. and M.B.B.S. courses of studies of the Delhi University.
It appears that subsequent to his substantive appointment by the President to Specialists ' Grade with effect from September 9, 1966, the appellant was called by the Banaras Hindu University for an interview on August 7, 1972 for the post of Professor of Radiotherapy but since the post of Associate Professor of Radiotherapy in Maulana Azad Medical College was falling vacant in 1973, he did not appear for the interview.
In 1973, the Government of India promoted and appointed Dr. K.P. Mittal, Lecturer in Radiology in the Maulana Azad Medical College as Associate Professor of Radiotherapy ignoring the claim of the appellant.
The appellant accordingly made a representation to the Government of India but the same was rejected.
The Ministry of Health was of the view that although the appellant had the essential qualification prescribed for teaching post the teaching experience gained by him while holding the post of Radiologist cum Associate Professor of Radiology (ex officio) in the Irwin Hospital since October 9, 1964 cannot be taken into consideration.
The appellant assailed the impugned order by filing a writ petition in the Delhi High Court on July 24, 1974 complaining that the action of the Government of India in the Ministry of Health disregarding his claim for appointment to the post of Associate Professor of Radiotherapy was in denial of equal opportunity in matters of employment and thus violative of articles 14 and 16 of the Constitution.
The respondents Nos. 1 and 2 filed a return reiterating the stand 27 taken by the Government of India in the Health Ministry that the experience gained by the appellant as an Associate Professor of Radiology (ex officio) by virtue of his holding the post of Radiologist in the Irwin Hospital cannot be taken into consideration for the purpose of determining the question of his eligibility for appointment as Associate Professor.
