Dr. YS Chitale, V. G. Shanker, KL Hathi, Ms. Sadhana, DK Chhaya, MK Arora and Mrs. H. Wahi for the appellant.
By the said Judgment and decree, the High Court of Andhra Pradesh had reversed the Judgment of the learned Subordinate Judge, Masulipatam dated 19th November, 1964 dismissing the suit of the plaintiffs respondents against the appellant.
No. 1 and father of the respondents No. 2 to 5 herein.
The respondents filed a suit in the Subordinate Court of Sub Judge being original suit No. 2 of 1964 on 10th January, 1964.
The deceased had issued two cheques for Rs. 300 and Rs. 220 respectively in favour of the appellant as first premium.
On 16th January, 1961, the widow of the deceased, respondent No. 1 herein, wrote to the appellant intimating the death of the deceased and demanded payment of Rs. 50,000.
On the 10th January, 1964, the plaintiffs filed the suit in the court of Subordinate Judge, Masulipatam.
It was alleged in the plaint after setting out the facts which have been set out hereinbefore, that the medical examination report was submitted to the appellant corporation by Dr. Sri C. Sambasiva Rao, Approved Medical practitioner of the appellant in regard to the medical examination of the deceased.
A report described as "All the Friend 's report" was duly sent to the appellant with regard to that proposal; and all the preliminaries were completed and it was further alleged that the deceased was assured and told by the local agent and the Field officer of the Corporation that the payment of the first premium would amount to the acceptance of the proposal and advised the deceased to pay the first premium in full.
It was, further, stated that the said two cheques were encashed and the appellant had duly appropriated the amount and credited in the accounts towards the premium payable by the deceased.
Therefore, it was stated that the deceased had fulfilled his part of the insurance contract and the appellant Corporation by its overt acts of encashing the cheques and crediting the amounts in its accounts accepted the proposal of the deceased.
In the premises it was said in the plaint that there was a concluded and valid insurance contract between the deceased and the appellant Corporation and that the insurance contracted commenced on 11th January, 1961 being the date of the receipt of the balance towards premium by the Corporation.
It was further stated in the plaint that the office of the Divisional Manager of Masulipatam was the concerned authority to settle the claim of the plaintiffs respondents and to pay the amount.
The contention of the Corporation that the proposal was not accepted and as such there was no concluded insurance contract between the deceased and the Corporation, was untenable, according to the plaintiffs.
It was alleged that with full knowledge of the completion of all the preliminaries, the Corporation had encashed the cheques issued towards the first premium and therefore it was the case of the plaintiffs respondents that the encashment of the cheques amounted in those circumstances in law to an acceptance of the proposal of the deceased.
It was further alleged that the appropriation of the amounts by the Corporation towards the first premium by the deceased was only consistent with the acceptance of the proposal.
In the premises, the plaintiffs claimed the said amount along with interest at six per cent per annum from the date of refusal of payment till the date of payment of the demand.
Written statement was filed on behalf of the appellant.
It was, further stated that the two cheques were not encashed and credited towards the premium account of the proposal but these were kept only in deposit in suspense account without any liability of the appellant.
It was further stated that the averments in the plaint that the defendant Corporation cashed the above two cheques and appropriated the amounts and credited these in the account towards premium payable for the proposal were false.
