On January 21, 1974 he was promoted as a Head Clerk on an ad hoc basis.
On April 1, 1975, the appellant was appointed as a Head Clerk.
Sections 35(1) of the Act empowers the State Government to place at the disposal of a Panchayat Samiti such of its servants as are required for the implementation of the schemes connected therewith and for such other duties and functions as may be assigned to them by the Panchayat Samiti from time to time.
Acting in pursuance of the provision of section 14(4) of the Amending Act, the Government of Haryana notified the absorption of the appellant as a clerk though, as stated earlier he was working as a head Clerk in the Loharu Panchayat Samiti.
Being aggrieved by his absorption on a lower post, he filed a writ petition in the High Court of Punjab and Haryana, asking that he should be absorbed as a Head Clerk.
The writ petition having been dismissed by the High Court, the appellant has filed this appeal by special leave.
He was, therefore, entitled to be absorbed in Government service as a clerk in any event.
The fact that the appellant was promoted as a Head Clerk on an ad hoc basis in January 1974, or the further fact that he was appointed as a Head Clerk on April 1, 1975, cannot improve his position for the simple reason that these appointments were made after June 13, 1973, being the date on which the Panchayat Samiti lost its power to make appointments to.
Even assuming for the purposes of argument that the right to be considered for promotion is a term and condition of service, what is relevant for our purpose is not whether the appellant was entitled to be considered for promotion but, whether the Panchayat Samiti had the right to appoint him to the post of Head Clerk on the date on which it purported to do so.
It could not, therefore, have appointed the appellant as a Head Clerk, as it purported to do, in January 1974 on an ad hoc basis or in April 1975 on a regular basis.
The appointment of the appellant to the post of a Head Clerk being without the authority of law, the Government was not bound to absorb him in the post of a Head Clerk.
any other law for the time being in force.
He was confirmed in that post in course of time.
A plain consequence of this deletion was that the Panchayat Samitis were divested of their power to make appointments to the Panchayats.
the Panchayat.
737 It is urged by Shri Jain who appears on behalf of the appellant that by reason of section 14(4) of the Amending Act, the appellant was entitled to continue in the service of the Panchayat on the same terms and conditions on which he was employed by the Panchayat Samiti until he was absorbed in Government service.
There is no substance in this contention.
There will be no order as to costs.
J.D. Jain & Mrs. Kawaljit Kocher for the Appellant.
Harbans Lal, I.S. Goel & R.N. Poddar for the Respondent.
