(Under Article 32 of the Constitution of India) AND Writ Petition Nos.
G.N. Rao for the State.
The Judgment of the Court was delivered by CHANDRACHUD, C. J. In the elections held to the Legislative Assembly of Andhra Pradesh in January 1983, a new political party called Telugu Desam was swept to power.
On February 8, 1983 an Order (G.O. Ms. No. 36) was issued by the Government of Andhra Pradesh stating that it had decided to reduce the age of superannuation of all Government employees, other than in the last Grade Service, from 58 to 58 years.
Two notifications issued in exercise of the power conferred 586 by the Proviso to Article 309 read with Article 313 of the Constitution was appended to that order.
By these notifications, every Government servant, whether ministerial or non ministerial but not belonging to the last Grade Service, who had already attained the age of 55 years was to retire from service with effect from February 28, 1983.
Speaking to the Government employees in the Secretariat premises the next day, the Chief Minister justified the reduction of the retirement age from 58 to 55 years on the ground that it had become necessary to provide greater employment opportunities to the youths.
Over 18,000 Government employees and 10,000 public sector employees were superannuated as a result of the order.
These writ petitions were filed by the Andhra Pradesh Government employees to challenge the aforesaid order and the notifications on the ground that they violate Articles 14, 16, 21 and 300A of the Constitution.
The case of the petitioners as laid in the writ petitions is that there was no basis at all for reducing the age of retirement from 58 to 55; that the age of retirement was increased from 55 to 58 by the Government of Andhra Pradesh by a notification dated October 29, 1979 and nothing had happened since then to justify reduction of the age of retirement again to 5 i; that providing employment opportunities to the youths h Is no relevance on the question of fixing the age of retirement; that the Government had exercised its power arbitrarily without having regard to factors which are relevant on the fixation of the age of retirement; that the Government had acted unreasonably in not giving any previous notice to the employees which would have enabled them to arrange their affairs on the eve of retirement; that the Government was estopped from reducing the age of retirement to 55, since the employees had acted on the representation made to them in 1979 by increasing the age of retirement from 55 to 58; that as a result of the increase in the age of retirement from 55 to 58 years in 1976, a vested right had accrued to the employees, which could be taken away, if at all, only from future entrants to the Government service; that retirement of experienced and mature persons from Government service will result in grave detriment to public services of the State; and that, the decision of the Government is bad for a total non application of mind to the relevant facts and circumstances bearing on the question of the age of retirement, like increased longevity.
The petitioners aver that the Government had not even considered the enormous delay which 587 would be caused in the payment of pensionary benefits to employees A who were retired from service without any pre thought.
A counter affidavit was filed on behalf of the State of Andhra Pradesh by Shri R. Parthasarathy, Joint Secretary in the Finance Department of the State, at the stage of admission of the writ petitions.
It is stated in that affidavit that the recommendation of the one Man Pay Commission appointed by the Government of Andhra Pradesh.
after which the age of retirement was increased to 58 in 1979, has no relevance to the present decision of the State to reduce the age of retirement; that the fact that the average expectation of life is about 70 years is not a ground for increasing the age of retirement of Government employees; that the general trend was for reducing the age of retirement; that the Government of Kerala and Karnataka had reduce the age of retirement of their employees to 55, though it was earlier increased from 55 to 58; that in some States in India the age of retirement is 55 and not 58; the present decision was taken by the Government in order to fulfill its commitment that it will take welfare measures in order to improve the lot of the common man, and.
particularly, in order to afford opportunities to qualified and talented unemployed youths whose number was increasing enormously due to expansion of educational facilities; that the Government employees was stagnated in the lower positions due to the increase in the age of retirement from 55 to 58: and that, the present measure was intended to have a salutary effect on the creation of incentives to the deserving employees The inconvenience alleged by the petitioners in the matter of payment of their pension and other retirement benefits was imaginary, since the Government was making extensive arrangements to disburse such benefits expeditiously.
By the counter affidavit, the Government of Andhra Pradesh denied that any of the provisions of the Constitution were violated by the impugned decision to reduce the age of retirement.
Another affidavit was filed on behalf of the Government of Andhra Pradesh, after the rule nisi was issued in the writ petitions.
The affidavit is sworn by Shri A.K. Sharma, Deputy Secretary to Government of Andhra Pradesh.
It is stated in that affidavit that the question of the age of superannuation was not referred to the one Man Pay Commission of Shri A. Krishnaswamy, which was appointed by the Andhra Pradesh Government on November 3, 1 977; that the recommendation made by the Pay Commission was casual and was not based on relevant criteria; that as many as 12,04,008 educated youths were left without employment on September 30, 1979 as a result of the unwarranted increase in the age of superannuation from 55 to 58; that the number of unemployed youths had grown to 17,84,699 by December 31, 1982; and that, the age of retirement was reduced because it is the duty of the State, within the limits of its economic capacity and development to make effective provision to solve the unemployment problem.
Rule Nisi was issued on the writ petitions by this Court on February 25, 1983.
On the very next day, that is, on April l0th Governor of Andhra Pradesh promulgated Ordinance No. 5 of 1983 called 'the Andhra Pradesh Public Employment (Regulation of Conditions of Service) Ordinance. ' The Ordinance was passed "to regulate the recruitment and conditions of service of persons appointed to Public Services and posts in connection with the affairs of the State of Andhra Pradesh and the officers and servants of the High Court of Andhra Pradesh".
Clause 10(1) of the Ordinance prescribes that every Government employee, not being a workman and not belonging to Last Grade Service shall retire from service on the afternoon of the last day of the month in which he attains the are of 55 years.
Clause 10(2) provides that every Government employee, not being a workman but belonging to the Last Grade Service, shall retire from service on the afternoon of the last day of the month in which he attains the age of 60 years.
By clause 15, All Rules and Regulations made under the proviso to Article 309 or continued under Article 3 l 3 of the Constitution or made under any other law for the time being in force, governing the recruitment and conditions of service of the Government employees, continue to be in force in so far as they are not inconsistent with the provisions of the Ordinance.
It provides further that all amendments made to the Fundamental Rules and particularly the amendments made by the notification dated February 8, 1983, shall be and shall be deemed always to have been made validly and shall have effect notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in the proviso to rule 2 of the Fundamental Rules as if the Ordinance was in force on February 8, 1983.
Clause 16 of the Ordinance declares that every amendment made before or after the commencement of the Ordinance to the Fundamental Rules and the Hyderabad Civil Services Rules, shall be and shall be always deemed to have applied to all Government employees whether appointed before or after the amendment.
whereas in the case of compulsory retirement a notice of three months is 590 required to be given by the Government under the relevant rules, in the case of superannuation of employees who had already attained the age of 55 on February 8, 1983; when the first Order was issued, the impugned law gives to the employees a notice of 20 days only since all such employees had to retire on February 28, 1983.
Shri A.T.M. Sampath laid stress on the lack of acceptable reasons to justify the issuance of the Ordinance Like some of the other learned counsel, he suspects the bona fides of the state Government in issuing the Order and the Ordinance.
It was suggested by the petitioners, though somewhat in passing, that the object of the State Government in reducing the age of retirement was to get rid of n senior members of Government service whose loyalty was thought to be not above suspicion.
As stated in 'The Supreme Court And The Judicial Function '(2): "Judicial self restraint is itself one of the factors to be added to the balancing process, carrying more or less weight as the circumstances seem to require".
State of Tamil Nadu; , (2) Edited by Philips B. Kurland, Oxford and IBH Publisning Co., Page 13.
Shri Venugopal, who led the argument on behalf of the petitioners, contends that the provisions of the Ordinance whereby the age of retirement is reduced from 58 to 55 are arbitrary and irrational and hence violative of Articles 14 and 16 of the Constitution for the following reasons: (a) The age of superannuation was increased from 55 to 58 years with effect from October 29, 1979 after an elaborate and scientific inquiry by a One Man Pay Commission; (b) The State Government issued the order reducing the age of retirement within one month of the assumption of office by it.
The reason given by the Government that promotional opportunities had deteriorated as a result of the increase in the retirement age from 55 to 58 is fanciful and non existent.
That result is indeed produced by the impugned action of the State Government In 1979, when the age of retirement was increased from 55 to 58 years, promotional opportunities were denied to the employees because, those who would have retired at the age of 55 got a fresh lease of life for another years.
The careful planning by the employees of their important affairs of life like the construction of a house, the marriage of a daughter or the repayment of loans, has been suddenly set at naught by the reduction in the age of retirement; (f) Two of the most relevant circumstances bearing upon the fixation of the age of retirement have been ignored by the State Government: increase in longevity and the prevailing age of retirement in public sector undertakings; and (g) No consideration was given to the plain and direct con sequence of the reduction in the age of retirement, namely, that the State exchequer would have to find and pay Rs.
70 crores on one single day by way of retirement benefits, for which no budgetary provision was made It would appear from these contentions as also from the contions advanced by the other learned counsel that the main plank of the petitioners ' case is that the decision to reduce the age of retirement from 58 to 55 is unconstitutional because it is arbitrary, irrational and unconnected with the object which it seeks to achieve.
In this connection, the first ground of challenge to the reduction of the age of retirement is that the One man Pay Revision Commission appointed by the Government of Andhra Pradesh had recommended that the age of retirement should be increased from 55 to 58, that the said recommendation was accepted by the State Government and consequently, the age of retirement was raised to 58 with effect from October 29, l 979.
The very foundation of this argument is fallacious By G.O. NO. 745 dated November 3,1977 the Government of Andhra Pradesh had appointed Shri A. Krishnaswamy, a retired member of the l. A.S. as One man Pay Revision Commission to review the structure of the different scales of pay, dearness allowance and other compensatory allowances of all categories of employees of State Government, local bodies, aided institutions, work charge establishments etc.
The terms of reference of the Commission were enlarged by the Government by an order dated January 28, 1978 SO as to require the Commission to review the existing retirement benefits available to all categories of employees referred to above and to examine the question of extension of retirement benefits to the work charged establishments.
Clause 10(2) provides that every Government employee, not being a workman but belonging to the Last Grade Service, shall retire from service on the afternoon of the last day of the of the Commission cover the review of the existing 'retirement benefits ', the reference "would naturally include the age of retirement. " As regards Shri Venugopal 's argument at (b) above, the fact that the decision to reduce the age of retirement from 58 to 55 was taken by she State Government within one month of the assumption of office by it cannot justify the conclusion that lt the decision is arbitrary because it is unscientific in the sense that it is not backed by due investigation or by compilation of relevant data on the subject.
Were this so, every decision taken by a new Government soon after assumption of office shall have to be regarded as arbitrary.
It is untenable to contend that a law is bad because it is passed immediately on the assumption of office by a new Government.
It must also be borne in mind that the question as to what should be the proper age of retirement is not a novel or unprecedented question which the State Legislative had to consider.
The State 596 Government had the relevant facts as also the reports of the various Central and State Pay Commissions before it, on the basis of which it had to take a reasonable decision.
The aid and assistance of a well trained bureaucracy which, notoriously, plays an important part not only in the implementation of policies but in their making, was also available to the Government.
The contentions of Shri Venugopal which arc set out in paragraphs (c) to (g) above and, partly in paragraph (b) itself, are by and large matters of legislative policy in the formulation of which the Government of the day must be allowed a free, though fair play.
Then again, though immutable considerations which are generally or universally true like increased life expectation are as much Jammu and Kashmir as for Tamil Nadu, that cannot justify the conclusion that fixation of the retirement age at 55 in Jammu and Kashmir is invalid since the State of Tamil Nadu has fixed it at 58.
Both can fall within the constraints of the Constitution and neither the one nor the other can be considered to be arbitrary or unreasonable.
Neither the American nor the English notions or norms for fixing retirement age can render invalid the basis which is widely accepted in our country as reasonable for that purpose.
Prior to 1917, the superannuation rule applicable to both ministerial and non ministerial staff was that a Government servant who had attained the age of 55 might be required to retire; but that, in order to avod depriving the State of the valuable experience of efficient officers and adding unnecessarily to the non effective charges, the rule should be applied with discretion and, whenever it was applied, reasons should be recorded.
In its general effect, here, the rule favoured the retention in Government service of officers who had attained the age of 55, and required inefficiency to be established as the condition of compulsory H 598 retirement.
Paragraph 5 of the Commission 's Report mentions that the Varadachariar Commission had recommended earlier that the age for compulsory retirement should be 58 years for all services pensionable and non pensionable with an option to the Government to retire an employee on the ground of loss of efficiency, at the age of 55.
Some of the reasons on which there was unanimity for increasing the age of retirement were; the continuing mental and physical efficiency of most of the Government servants at the age of 55; the increased expectation of life resulting from improved public health conditions; and, the national waste involved in sending men and women into enforced idleness while they were still capable of rendering efficient service.
The recommendation of the Second Central Pay Commission that the age of retirement should be raised from 55 to 58 years was not accepted by the Government initially because, it felt that raising the age of retirement would reduce employment opportunities in the immediate future.
the Government reviewed the position subsequently and raised the age of retirement to 58 years with effect from December 1, 1962.
etition Nos. 1073 1100, 1117 19 1229 95, 142 1554, 1746 2140, 2155 2271, 2396 2459.
L.N. Sinha, Attorney General, Anil B. Divan,B. Parthasarthi and K.R. Chaudhary for the Respondents.
Miss A. Subhashini for the Union.
588 Finance and Planning.
The rest of the averments i`1 this affidavit are on the same lines as in the affidavit of Shri R. Partbasarathy.
Clause 10(3) provides that every workman belonging to the Last Grade Service or employed on a monthly rate of pay in any service notified as Inferior, shall retire from service on the afternoon of the last day of the month in which he attains the age of 60 years.
Workmen belonging to Ministerial Service or any service other than the Last Grade Service notified as Inferior have to retire on the afternoon of the last day of the month in which they attain the age of 55 589 years.
Clause 18 of the Ordinance provides by sub clause (i) that the proviso to rule 2 of the Fundamental Rules shall be and shall be deemed always to have been omitted.
The age of retirement was previously governed by these two Rules.
The arguments advanced before us fall under distinct heads, learned counsel having shared their burden equitably.
Shri Venugopal challenged the Ordinance on the ground that it is unreasonable.
Shri Tarkunde challenged it on the ground that the superannuation of the employees by reduction of the age of retirement amounts, in the circumstances, to 'removal ' of the employees within the meaning of Article 311.
The challenge of Shri Siddhartha Shankar Ray is based on the ground of a total non application of mind.
Shri R.K. Garg, who appears in a group of three Transferred Cases, contends that the Ordinance is bad because it supersedes all industrial adjudications and overrules even settlements arrived at between the management and the employees.
Shri P.P. Rao contends that the Ordinance is bad because.
Shri P P. Rao also challenges the retrospective deletion of the proviso to Rule 2 of the Fundamental Rules as being arbitrary.
