J. B. Dadachanji and Rajinder Narain, for the appellant.
December 3.
On hearing this he wrote out 1088 a report, exhibit No. 4, and sent it to the Police Station at Udgir which is about six miles from the scene of the murder.
The First Information Report was recorded on the basis of this report at 10 o 'clock the next morning.
The Sub Inspector, who wrote out the first information report on the basis of this report, entered the following in it: "I am to submit that today a report dated 7 12 1950 from the Police Patel, Neemgaon village, has been received stating that (1) Tukaram, s/o Panda Sheolka, r/o Neemgaon village, came and stated He also says that "Tukaram, whose name is entered in column No. 2, is not the informant but is the complainant in this case.
L.R 52 I.A. 40, 52, 1094 fragile bones in that region and from the fact that two others who were lightly armed with what have been called "sticks" inflicted no injuries at all.
There was evidence that all three lived together and that one was a younger brother and the other a tenant of the appellant in question.
Therefore, even if that had been charged, no conviction could have followed on that basis.
N. C. Chakravarty, for the appellants.
(In Criminal Appeals Nos. 92 and 93 of 1954).
P. A. Mehta and P. G. Gokhale, for the respondent.
Each was convicted and each was 1085 sentenced to death under section 302 of the Indian Penal Code.
They differed.
The latter favoured an acquittal in all five cases.
The matter was accordingly referred to a third Judge, P. J. Reddy, J. He agreed with the first about the convictions and adjudged all five to be guilty under section 302.
It seems that the opinion of the third Judge was accepted as the decision of the Court and so the sentences suggested by him were maintained as well as the convictions.
The petition was heard by Ali Khan and Reddy, JJ.
Their petition was granted.
The other two have not appealed.
On 7 12 1950, about 3 o 'clock in the afternoon,, Ramchander Shelke (the deceased) went to his field known as "Bhavara" with his wife 's sister Rasika Bai (P.W.1) and his servant Subhana Rao (P.W.7).
Rasika Bai started to pick chillies in the field while Ramehander went to another field "Vaniya che seth" which is about a furlong away.
We gather that this field is near a river called 1086 Papana.
