The Appellate Tribunal observed that the judgment of the Orissa High Court was binding on it, and accordingly by a consolidated order dated April 3, 1972, it dismissed the appeals.
His financial activities during that period determine how his net wealth on a particular valuation date differs from his net wealth on the immediately preceding valuation date.
There is an obvious advantage in adopting as the valuation date the last day of a period which is also the relevant period under the Income Tax Act.
That being so, the conclusion is inescapable that even though the accounts of the assessee are maintained on cash basis interest due on accrual basis, though not realised, on the outstandings of the money lending business are liable to be included in the net wealth of the assessee.
Tax Reference Cases Nos.
In each of the assessments, the Wealth Tax Officer included a sum of Rs.
1,50,000 estimated as the accrued interest on the assessee 's money lending investments.
The assessee appealed to the Appellate Assistant Commissioner and urged that as it maintained its books of account in accordance with the cash system of accounting the accrued interest on the money lending investments could not be included in the wealth tax assessments.
The contention found favour with the Appellate Assistant Commissioner, and accordingly he deleted the additions of Rs.
1,50,000 representing accrued interest.
In doing so the Appellate Assistant Commissioner followed "Commissioner of Wealth tax Bihar and Orissa vs Vysyaraju Badreenarayana Moorthy Raju (Orissa)(1), The Wealth Tax Officer appealed to the Appellate Tribunal and contended that accrued interest was liable to be included in the wealth tax assessments of the assessee.
Under section 3 of the Wealth Tax Act, wealth tax is charged for every assessment year in respect of the net wealth of the assessee on the corresponding valuation date.
The expression "net wealth" is defined by cl.
(m) of s.2 of the Act as "the amount by which the aggregate value . .
Of all the assets, wherever located, belonging to the assessee on the valuation date.
is in excess of the aggregate value of all the debts owed by the assessee on the valuation date. " According to the scheme of the Wealth Tax Act, the net wealth of an assessee has to be determined as it obtains on a particular date.
That is the "valuation date".
310 The computation of the net wealth of an assessee calls for a determination of his assets and debts as on the valuation date.
The definition embodied in the substantive part of cl.
(q) of s.2 indicates that broadly Parliament has fixed upon the last day of the "previous year", as defined under the Income Tax Act, as the valuation date.
The figure of net wealth of the assessee at the end of the "previous year" takes into account the financial activities of the assessee during that "previous year".
The reasons for defining the valuation date in terms of the last day of the income tax "previous year" stop there.
The system of accounting, mercantile or cash or hybrid, is of no relevance for the purpose of determining the assets of the assessee.
That appears plainly from the definition or "net wealth" which speaks of "the aggregate value.
of all the assets" belonging to the assessee on the valuation date.
