These appeals raise common questions of law and may therefore, be disposed of by a common judgment.
In exercise of its powers under section 63(7) of the , the Central Government specified 50 as the number of 'All India Tourist Vehicle Permits ' which may be granted by the Karnataka State Transport Authority.
By the time the proviso came into force, 36 permits had been granted by the Karnataka State Transport Authority and 14 remained to be granted.
By an order dated February 1, 1984, the Supreme Court directed the Karnataka State Transport Authority to dispose of these applications.
The State Transport Authority, by its proceedings dated April 30, 1984, granted 11 out of the 14 permits to the Karnataka State Tourism Development Corporation, one permit to the Indian Tourism Development Corporation and two permits to the Karnataka State Road Transport Corporation.
A number of appeals were preferred to the Karnataka State Transport Appellate Tribunal.
It was on that ground that the grant of two permits to the Karnataka State Road Transport Corporation was set aside, though the Appellate Tribunal had no doubt regarding the resources and ability of that corporation to operate the tourist services.
It was on that ground again, it was so stated by the Tribunal, that some of the appellants 1012 before the Tribunal had to be denied the grant of permits though otherwise they would have been entitled to the grant of permits having regard to their expertise, experience and resources.
A large number of applicants filed writ petitions in the High Court.
The Karnataka State Road Transport Corporation, the Karnataka State Tourism Development Corporation and some other private operators have filed these appeals by special leave of this Court under article 136 of the Constitution.
Shri C.S. Vaidyanathan, learned counsel for some of the preferred private operators urged that the view taken by the High Court and the State Transport Appellate Tribunal was correct and that the fourth sub clause of the proviso to section 63(7) did not offend article 14 of the Constitution.
We may now glance at some of the relevant provisions of the .
"Tourist vehicle" is defined by section 2(29 A) as "a contract carriage constructed or adapted and equipped and maintained in accordance with such specifications as the State Government may, by notification in the Official Gazette, specify in this behalf".
Section 47(1 A) enables the State Government to reserve a certain percentage of stage carriage permits for the Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes.
Section 47(1 C) enables the State Government to reserve a certain percentage of stage carriage permits to persons belonging to economically weaker sections of the community.
Section 47(1 H) prescribes that notwithstanding anything contained in the section, an application for stage carriage permit from a State Transport undertaking for operating in any inter State route shall be given preference overall other applications, provided, of course, the authority is satisfied that the State Transport Undertaking would be able to operate in the inter State route without detriment to its responsibility for providing efficient and adequate road transport services in any notified area or notified route.
Section 63(1) stipulates, broadly, that a permit granted by the Regional Transport Authority of any one region shall not be valid in any other region, unless the permit has been countersigned by the Regional Transport Authority of that other region, and a permit granted in any one State shall not be valid in any other State unless countersigned by the State Transport Authority of 1014 that other State or by the Regional Transport Authority concerned.
It is as follows: "(7) Notwithstanding anything contained in sub section(1) but subject to any rules that may be made under this Act, any State Transport Authority may, for the purpose of promoting tourism, grant permits valid for the whole or any part of India, in respect of such number of tourist vehicles as the Central Government may, in respect of that State, specify in this behalf, and the provisions of Sections 49, 50, 51, 57, 58, 59, 59 A, 60, 61 and 64 shall, as far as may be, apply in relation to such permits: Provided that preference shall be given to applications for permits from (i) the India Tourism Development Corporation; (ii) a State Tourism Development Corporation; (iii) a State Tourist Department; (iv) such operators of tourist cars, or such travel agents, as may be approved in this behalf by the Ministry of the Central Government dealing in tourism. " " Sections 68 C, 68 D and 68 E provide for the preparation and publication of schemes of road transport service to be provided by State Transport Undertakings, the procedure to be followed, etc. Section 68 F(1) prescribes that where, in pursuance of an approved scheme, a State Transport Undertaking applies for a stage carriage permit, a contract carriage permit or a public carrier 's permit in respect of a notified area or notified route, such permit shall be granted to the State Transport Undertaking by the State Transport Authority in a case where the said area or route lies in more than one region and the Regional Transport Authority in any other case.
Section 47(1 H) also enunciates a rules of preference and says that an application for stage carriage permit from State Transport Undertaking for operating in any inter State route shall be given preference overall other applications.
Section 47(1 H) does not say, for example, like section 68 F(1) that the permit shall be granted to the State Transport Undertaking.
