Judgment and Order dated 6.1.1971 of the Allahabad High Court in Wealth Tax Reference No. 285 of 1965 124 S.C. Manchanda and Ms. A. Subhashini for the Appellant.
1,50,000 in favour of his sons and grand sons by his letter dated 1.1. 1957? Ltd. was stated to be running an oil mill and carrying on business as grain tillers.
It was also stated to be carrying on business of advancing money and taking money on loan when necessary.
The respective donees were stated to have later on withdrawn amounts from the amounts so transferred to their accounts.
Such delivery may be made in the same way as goods sold may be delivered.
The firm in which the donor may have account may or may not have sufficient cash balance but it must have sufficient provision for overdraft with the bank on the basis it could honour in structions given by the assessee.
Such delivery may be in the same way as goods sold may be delivered.
The principal amounts credited were shown as 'deposits" in the balance sheets of the busi ness for some years and were thereafter referred to as "unsecured loans".
From the.
Respondent in person.
(Not present ) The questions involved before the Allahabad High Court in the reference under section 27(1) of the Act were as follows: (1) Whether, on the facts and in the circumstances of the case, the Tribunal right ly held that the assessee did not make valid gifts aggregating Rs.
1,50,000 on 1.1. 1957? (2) Whether, on the facts and in the circumstances of the case, the Tribunal right ly held that the assessee did not validly assign Rs.
(3) Whether, on the facts and in the circumstances of the case, the Tribunal tight ly held that the sum of Rs.
1,50,000 was properly included in the assessee 's net wealth? (4) Whether, on the facts and in the circumstances of the case, the Tribunal right ly held that the assessee did not make valid gifts aggregating Rs.67,560/ (5) Whether, on the facts and in the circumstances of the case, the Tribunal right ly held that the sum of Rs.67,560/12/ was rightly included in the net wealth of the assessee? The asses see, Dr. R.S. Gupta had maintained an account in the books of Messrs. Tika Ram and Sons Pvt.
On 1st January, 1957, the account showed a credit of Rs. 1,50,740.
On that day, the assessee had addressed a letter to the Company stating that he had decided to gift away for love and affection various sums to the following persons: 125 Ved Prakash Gupta .
Rs.25,000 Om Prakash Gupta .
Hari Prakash Gupta .
Rs.50,000 Pravin Kumar Gupta .
50,000 By that letter the assessee had directed the Company to debit his account to the extent of Rs.
1,50,000 and credit the respective amounts in the names of the aforesaid per sons.
It appears further that copies of this letter were sent to one Om Prakash Gupta and Ved Prakash Gupta.
There was no dispute that instructions of the assessee were car ried out by the Company and relevant debit and credit en tries were made in the respective accounts.
On the same day i.e. on ist January, 1957, Om Parkash Gupta wrote to the assessee, his father, thanking him for the gift of Rs.25,000 made in his favour and the gift of Rs.50,000 in favour of his son Pravin.
A similar letter was written by Ved Prakesh thanking the assessee, his father, for the gift of Rs.25,000 made to him and Rs.50,000 gifted to his son.
It must be mentioned, however, that the company i.e. Messrs Tika Ram and Sons.
contractors and brick kiln owners.
The assessee contended that a total sum of Rs.
1,50,000 was validly gifted by him to his sons and grand sons and hence the amounts had been wrongly included in his net wealth by the Income Tax Officer and the Appellate Assistant Commissioner.
The Tribunal held that they were not carrying on banking business.
The main question therefore that falls for consid eration is whether gifts in question made by transfer en tries in the books of debtor company were valid gifts even though the debtor company was not carrying on business of banking and had no cash in hand for the amount in question on that date.
Gift is defined in section 122 of the as transfer of certain existing mova ble or immovable property made voluntarily and without consideration by 126 one person, called the donor, to another, called the donee, and accepted by or on behalf of the donee.
The next contention was regarding the inclusion of net wealth a sum of Rs.67,560/12/ standing to the credit of the assessee in the books of M/s Pearls & Beads.
The Tribunal held that there was no valid gifts.
The High Court in view of the decision of the Division Bench of the Allahabad High Court in the case of Gopal Raj Swarup vs Commissioner of Wealth tax, Lucknow, answered the first question in the negative and so far as the second question is concerned, it declined to answer as it did not arise in view of the answer given to the first question and 3,4 and 5 were answered in the negative.
In case of entries in the books of ac count by credit and debit, the sums should be available on the date of gift in the account of the firm whose accounts are said to be credited or debited.
This question has been examined by the various High Courts.
It is possible in certain circumstances for a donor to make a valid gift by instructing a firm or a company or a H.U.F. in which the donor has an account to give effect to the gift by debiting his account and crediting the account in the name of the donee.
But in such cases 127 merely books entries would not suffice.
The circumstances must be such as to make it clear that there were sufficient funds at the disposal of the donor by reason of which he could make the gift by such book entries.
The assessee must also have sufficient credit balance to enable him to make the gift.
The position, however, might be different if such firms or companies or H.U.F. in whose accounts gifts are effected have overdraft facilities.
