237 From the Judgment and Order dated 4.8.1986 of the Cal cutta High Court in F.M.A.T. I No. 1, June 1984.
The white man does not seem to notice the air he breathes.
We may be brothers after all.
One thing we know, which the white man may one day discov er our God is the same God.
You may think now that you own Him as you wish to own our land; but you cannot.
Obviously, if the Government is alive to the various considerations requiring thought and deliberation and has arrived at a conscious decision after taking them into account, it may not be for this Court to interfere in the absence of mala fides.
On the other hand, if relevant considerations are not borne in mind and irrele vant considerations influence the decision, the Court may interfere in order to prevent a likelihood of prejudice to the public.
Whenever a problem of ecology is brought before the Court, the Court is bound to bear in mind article 48A of the Constitution, the Directive Principle which enjoins that "The State shall endeavour to protect and improve the envi ronment and to safeguard the forests and wild life of the country," and article 51A(g) which proclaims it to be the fundamental duty of every citizen of India "to protect and improve the natural environment including forests, lakes, rivers and wild life, and to have compassion for living creatures. " The least that the Court may do is to examine whether appropriate consideration are borne in mind and irrelevancies excluded.
The Court may always give necessary directions.
When the question involves the nice balancing of relevant considerations, the Court may feel justified in resigning itself to acceptance of the decision of the concerned authority.
We may now proceed to examine the facts of the present case.
It is this giving away of land, that was challenged before the High Court and is now challenged in this Court in this appeal by two citizens of Calcutta, one of them the Secretary of the Union of workmen of the zoological garden and the other a life 243 member of the zoo, both of whom claiming to be lovers of wild life and well wishers of the zoo.
In January 1979, the Director General of Tourism, Gov ernment of India, addressed a letter to the Chief Secretary, Government of West Bengal conveying the resolution of the Tourism Conference which was presided over by the Union Minister of Tourism and attended by several State Ministers and requesting that land in good locations may be made available for construction of hotels in a drive to encourage tourism.
On September 29, 1980 and November 29, 1980, there were two notes by the Secretary of the Metropol itan Development Department to the effect that the I.T.D.C. was interested in a property known as the Hastings House Property and that the Taj Group of Hotels who considered the Hastings House property unsuitable may be offered four acres out of the eight acres of Begumbari land.
On the same day the Taj Group of Hotels wrote to the Government of West Bengal stating that the proposed land could be seriously considerd for construction of a Hotel.
The note suggested that the Hastings House property may be offered to the I.T.D.C. and the Begumbari property may be offered to the Taj Group and that at a later stage a suitable Committee might be appointed to negotiate with the two groups of hotels.
It was suggested that the Hastings House Property may be leased to the I.T.D.C. Group and the Begumbari property to the Taj Group of Hotels.
It was stated that the Finance and Tourism Department had agreed to the proposal to lease the properties to the I.T.D.C. and the Taj Group respectively.
It was stated that though the Forest Department had suggest ed that Salt Lake was a better place for establishing a Five Star Hotel, there was no demand for a Five Star Hotel in that area and the request for a hotel in Salt Lake was confined to a Three Star Hotel.
On February 12, 1981, the Cabinet took a decision ap proving the proposal contained in the last paragraph of the Cabinet Memorandum, thus clearing the way for negotiations with the Taj Group.
Meanwhile, it appeared that the Public Undertakings Committee appointed by the West Bengal Legislative Assembly submitted a port on February 14, 1981 about the zoo in which they stated.
It was suggested that the Government may consider abandoning the proposal to set up a hotel on the Eastern side of the Zoo.
On March 19, the Taj Group submitted a proposal to the Government containing fairly detailed information about the tourism industry and its needs, the situation in Calcutta, the realities of hotel construction, the facts relating to what had been done in other cities, the benefits flowing out of the construction of hotels and their own proposals for constructing a hotel in the four acres of land in Belyedere Road.
The first alternative was the payment of annual rent on the basis of the valuation of the land, the second alternative was based on the concept of nett sales, nett sales being defined as sales after deducting all taxes and levies and service charges.
The Taj Group was invited to send the financial projection on the basis of the second alternative.
On June 5, 1981, a Committee of Secretaries was formally constituted.
In the meanwhile, WEBCON, a West Bengal Government Consultancy Undertaking, was asked to examine the proposals and to advise the Government.
On June 9, 1981, the Secretary of the Animal Husbandary and Veterinary Services Department complained to the Secre tary of the Metropolitan Development Department that they were not aware of the decision to lease the Begambari land.
While so, the Managing Committee of the Zoo, on June 11, 1981, passed a resolution expressing itself against the proposal to construct a hotel on land belonging to the Zoo.
He added that the Managing Committee 's resolution was not binding on the Government and suggested that the Director of the Zoo might be asked to allow the Taj Group to undertake soil testing etc.
so that work may proceed according to the time schedule.
If further facilities are necessary for the Zoo, the Government will provide them." In June 25, 1981, the Managing Committee of the Zoo met again and passed another Resolution by which they withdrew their earlier objections.
The Resolution stated.
"In view of the letter issued to the Zoologi cal Gardens, Alipore and the Cabinet decision regarding the land of Begumbari Compound and in consideration of the assurance conveyed through Shri Ashoka Bose, Chief Whip and Member that the State Government will give to the Garden adjacent lands and matching grants for the purposes of shifting of the Depart ments of the Zoo within the said compound, the members do not press their objections as contained in the resolution of the Managing Committee held on 11.6.81.
On June 29, 1981, the Director of the Zoo wrote to the Secretary of the Animal Husbandry and Veterinary Services Department stating his objections to the Proposal to lease the land for construction of a hotel.
It may be mentioned that this four acres of land proposed to be taken is the only area available there and it is presently covered by structures of hospital buildings, Research Laboratory, Operation Theatre, Segregation Wards, Quarantine areas, post mortem room, burial ground for dead animals.
It may also be stated in this connection that the Zoo cannot be run for a single day without these essential services, i.e. (i) burial ground for dead animals, a number of which die of infectious and commu nicable diseases, (2) quarantine area for keeping animals coming to the Zoo, at least for 15 days before being shifted to the Zoo proper, (3) isolation wards away from Zoo Hospital and quarantine area for treatment of animals suffering from infectious and conta gious diseases.
Note was taken of the suggestion of the Negotiation Committee that the overall development plan for the environmental beautification, widening of approach roads, landscaping of Tolley 's Nullah were responsibilities of the State Government and estimated to cost Rs. 2 crores but that it was expected to be of considerable public bene fit.
Reference was also made to the report of WEBCON and it was noted that the projected profitability of the ventur to the Government was expected to be high.
On September 28, 1981 the Government of West Bengal officially conveyed its acceptance of the proposal of the Taj Group of Hotels for the construction of a Five Star Hotel.
On January 7, 1982, there was a joint meeting of the Establishment and Finance sub committees of the Zoo and it was decided to recommend to the Committee of management that the demarcated area of four acres may be relinquished in favour of Animal Husbandry and Veterinary Services Department subject to the requirement that the Zoo will continue to get the services and facilities in the existing structures until they were reconstructed on the adjacent land.
On January 11, 1982 the Managing Committee endorsed the view of the sub committees and this was communicated to the Government.
On January 15, 1982, the Government of West Bengal wrote to the Land Acqui sition Officer, with 250 copies to the Taj Group of Hotels, directing the Land Acqui sition Officer to give possession of the land to the Taj Group of Hotels subject to their later executing a proper long term lease.
The India Hotels Co. Ltd. will find out in consultation with and with the concurrence of the Animal Husbandry and Veterinary Services Department of this Government and the authorities of the Alipore Zoological Garden the period of time required for reconstruction of the essential structures standing on the land proposed to be leased out to the said company.
It will also let this department have in consultation with and with the concurrence of the Animal Hus bandry and Veterinary Services Department of this Government and the Alipore Zoological Garden a plan and estimate for reconstruction of the aforesaid essential structures on the land adjacent to the land proposed to be leased out, so that all these points are incorporated in the deed of lease between the said company and the State Government in this Department for the said land measuring four acres.
"As agreed by the said company during the various meetings its representatives had with various departments of this Government, the company will either place the necessary fund in the hands of Animal Husbandry and Veterinary Services Department or the Zoo Garden authorities as the case may be, for reconstruction of the aforesaid essential structures or reconstruction the aforesaid essential structures under its own supervision to the satisfaction of the the Zoo Garden authorities or Animal Husbandry and Veterinary Services Department as the case may be, such funds will in either case be advanced or deemed to be advanced by the Company without interest to 251 be adjusted against dues of the State Govern ment in accordance with the terms and condi tions of the lease. " Ini tially the relief sought was primarily to restrain the Zoo authorities from giving effect to the two resolutions dated January 7, 1982 and January 11, 1982 to hand over the four acres to the Animal Husbandry Department of the Government.
Subsequent to the filing of the Writ Petition, a lease deed was executed by the Taj Group of Hotels in favour of the Government.
The original petitioners are now before us having obtained special leave under article 136 of the Constitution.
On April 23, 1982, Late Smt.
On August 30, 1982, Shri J.R.D. Tata wrote to the Prime Minister pointing out that their Hotel management had discussed the matter at length with represen tatives of the Wild Life fund who were satisfied that the proposed hotel would cause no disturbance to the birds.
He gave his reasons as follows: "The four acre plot assigned to the Hotel Company by the State Government is not within the boundaries of the area belonging to the Zoological Gardens but on the other side of Belvedere Road, an important thoroughfare parallel to the main boundary of the zoo and some 700 feet from the main part of the lake.
It forms part of an area belonging to the State Government which the Zoo authorities have upto now been allowed to use to look after sick animals of the Zoo and as labour quarters.
On September 1, 1982, Smt.
Indira Gandhi 254 wrote to Mr. Tata expressing her happiness that the Hotel was not going to upset the Zoo animals and welcoming his offer to help the State Government to improve the Zoo 's facilities.
These persons and institutions had made several points, none of which had been taken into account by the Government before it took the decision to lease the land.
The attention of the government was not focussed on these questions as evident from the fact that the Cabinet Memorandum hardly refers to any of the objections.
Shri Dipankar Gupta, learned counsel for the Taj Group of Hotels and Shri Gooptu learned counsel for the State of West Bengal argued that the former facilities available in the four arce plot of land were not displaced but were replaced and preserved by better facilities in the adjacent plot of land.
There was no occassion for the Government to invite tenders since the establishment of a Five Star hotel was not something which could practicably be undertaken by anyone in that fashion.
The terms of the lease were not to the financial disadvantage of the Government.
The matter had been considered at great length by the Committees of Secre taries appointed by the Government as well as by WEBCON and they had recommended the acceptance the nett sales arrange ment in preference to the arrangement of rent based on land cost.
If there was any decision on February 12, 1981 in regard to leasing the Begumbari land it could at best to characterised as purely tentative and it could not by any stretch of imagination be called an irrevocable or irrevers ible decision in the sense that the Government was powerless to revoke it or that it had created any rights in anyone so as to entitle that person to question any reversal of the tentative decision.
At that stage, the Government of West Bengal appeared to have been on the search for two suitable plots of land which could be offered, one to the I.T.D.C. and the other to the Taj Group of Hotels for the construction of Five Star Hotels.
The record 256 shows that these two chain hoteliers wer the only hoteliers and, they certainly were leading hoteliers of the country who had come forward to negotiate with the West Bengal Government regarding the construction of Five Star Hotels.
The city of Calcutta was noticeably lacking in the 'Five Star Hotel amenity ' to attract tourist, local and foreign, and the Government of West Bengal was anxious to do its best to promote the tourist industry which it was hoped, would provided direct and indirect employment, earn foreign exchange and confer other economic benefits to the people of the State.
It is immaterial whether the move come first from the Government or from the Taj Group.
The Government was anxious that more Five Star Hotels should be established at Calcutta and the Taj Group was willing to establish one.
It was the suggestion for the All India Tourism Conference presided over by the Union Minister for Tourism that State Government should make plots in good locations available at concession al rates for construction of hotels in order to promote the Tourist Industry.
It was in pursuance of this general all India policy and, in particular, to fulfill the feltneeds of Calcutta that the Government of West Bengal was looking out for a suitable plot in a good location.
After excluding Salt Lake and after considering some properties in Chowringhee, the Government felt that two properties, the Hastings House property and the Begumbari property could be thought of as meeting the requirements.
The Government was not unmindful of the interests and requirements of the Zoologi cal Garden though at that stage no detailed investigations had 257 apparently been made.
The decision of the Government was not one of those mysterious decisions taken in the shrouded secrecy of Ministerial Chambers.
They expressly refer to it in their report dated February 14, 1981 made two days after the Cabinet decision.
By Twen ty first February it was public knowledge and news of the proposal was published in the daily newspapers.
Fodder may be bought and brought from elsewhere.
The objections of the Managing Committee were first brought to the notice of the Minister for Metropolitan Development who submitted a note to the Chief Minister pointing out that even if four acres of land out of the eight acres of Begumbari land was given to the Taj Group, there would still remain sufficient land for accommodating the existing facilities.
The Chief Minis ter considered the objections and noted that if further facilities were necessary for the Zoo, Government would provide them.
We have earlier referred to the letter of the Director of the Zoo dated June 29, 1981 addressed to the Secretary, Animal Husbandary Department where he expressed his opposi tion to the proposal on the ground that the Zoo could not be run for a single day without the essential services which were being provided in the four acres of land proposed to be given for the hotel.
There were inter departmental notings which we presume must also have been brought to the notice of the Chief Minister.
We cannot do so in the face of the assurance of the Chief Minister that facilities would be provided for the Zoo and if, as the saying goes, the proof of the pudding is in the eating, the Chief Minister 's assurances are found reflected in the lease executed by the Taj Group of Hotels in favour of the Government of West Bengal.
The amount expended by the lessee towards the reconstruction of the structures was to be adjusted without interest against the dues of the lessee to the Government.
The Alipore Zoological Garden authorities were required to vacate the existing structure within a period of six months which was also the period stipulated for raising the new constructions.
We may add here that the Taj Group of Hotels have spent a sum of Rs. 30 lakhs towards the cost of the new constructions, but that they have waived their fight to claim reimbursement from the Government.
Thus we see that the contention of the appellants that the Government of West Bengal had no thought to spare for the facilities which were till then being provided in the Begumbari land is unsustainable.
The learned counsel for the appellants urged that the second Cabinet Memorandum dated September 9, 1981 on which date the Government took the final decision to grant the lease made no mention of the needs and interests of the Zoo or the facilities provided in the Begumbari land for the Zoo.
The Government had already in mind a proposal to start a subsidiary Zoo in an extent of about 200 acres of land in the outskirts of Calcutta.
We have no doubt that the Government was quite alive to the need for expan sion of the zoo when they decided to grant four acres of Begumbari land which was not used for the main purpose of the zoo for the construction of a Five Star hotel.
The next question is whether the Government was alive to the ecological considerations, particularly to the question of the migratory birds when they took the decision of lease the land to the Taj Group of Hotels.
Again sustenance to the argument of the learned counsel for the appellants is sought to be drawn from the circumstance that neither of the two Cabinet Memoranda dated January 7, 1981 and September 9, 1981 referred to the migratory birds.
It is wrong to think that everything that is not mentioned in the Cabinet Memo randa did not receive consideration by the Government.
The question of the migratory birds was first raised in the resolution of the Managing Committee dated June 11, 1981.
The learned counsel for the appellants drew our atten tion to a letter written by Dr. Biswas to the Statesman dated August 3, 1982 in which he disowned having made any statement to a press correspondent by name, Bachi J Karkaria that the hotel posed no threat at all to the migratory flight path.
We may also note here a point made by Dr. Biswas in his letter to the Statesman that there were possible health hazards in the re location of the Zoo hospital, quarantine area and post mortem room in the area adjacent to the staff quarters.
We are satisfied that the question of obstruction which may be caused to migratory birds did not go unnoticed by the Government before the deciSion to lease the land was taken and we are also satisfied that the building of the proposed hotel is not likely to cause any obstruction to the flight path of the migratory birds.
We may refer here to the resolution of the Wild Life Board to which a reference was made by the Prime Minister in her letter to the Chief Minister.
The proceedings of the Commit tee were recorded as follows: "Director, Geological Survey of India ex plained the whole matter and pointed out the utter impropriety of the decision of the Government of West Bengal to construct a FiveStar Hotel within the premises of Alipore Zoo in Calcutta.
The Committee agreed fully with this view and desired that this matter should be taken up immediately by the Central Government with the State Government." Later Mrs. Anne Wright appeared to be satisfied with what was finally done as evident from her letter dated November 19, 1983 to Mr. J.R.D. Tata, a copy of which has been placed before us.
We have already pointed out that relevant considerations were not ignored and, indeed, were taken into account by the Government of West Bengal.
This is a case where discussions have necessarily to stretch over a long period of time.
This is a case where the decision and the reasons for the decisions can only be gathered by looking at the entire course of events and circumstances stretching over the period from the initiation of the proposal to the taking of the final decision.
The Public Undertakings Committee in its report discussed the matter and invited the Government 's attention to various factors.
The Begumbari land was given to the Zoological Garden by the Government in 1880.
The entire file of the Government relating to the Begum bari land was produced before the Trial Court without any attempt at withholding any document.
The records were before the High Court and there are now before us two copies of a letter written on July 7, 1880 by the Assistant Secretary to the Government of Bengal in the Public Works Department to Mr. L. Schwandler, Honorary Secretary, Zoological Garden conveying to him the sanction of the Lt. Governor for the transfer of the land to the east of Belvedere Road, known as Begumbari land to the charge of the Committee of the Zoolog ical Garden on the terms agreed to by the Committee in their letter dated April 23rd.
That the land must be restored to the Government if hereafter required.
The Zoological Garden Committee being reimbursed for any expenditure they may have incurred in building there." We are satisfied that for the purposes of the present case, we will be justified in proceeding on the basis that the land which was undoubt edly Government land, to start with, was given to the Zoo logical Garden upon the terms set out in the two letters.
One of the terms was that the land should be restored to the Government whenever required.
The further submission of Dr. Singhvi was that whatever might have been the terms of the grant in favour of the Zoological Garden, the Bengal Parks Act, 1904, vested the land in favour of the Zoological Garden and there was no way by which the Government could divest the Zoological Garden of the land except by a procedure known to the law such as acquisition or requisition.
Section 4 enables the Government to make rules for the management, and preservation of any park, and for regulating the use thereof by the public.
In particular, the rules may regulate the admission into the park of persons, animals and vehicles, prohibit the causing of any manner of injury to the trees, plants, monuments, furniture etc. in the park, prohibit shooting, bird testing etc. prohibit or regulate fishing or boating, prohibit bathing, or the pollu tion of water by any other means, prohibit the grazing of horses or ponies, prohibit the teasing or annoying of ani mals or birds kept in the park, prohibit the commission of any nuisance, or the molestation or annoyance of any person resorting to the park etc.
Section 3 enables the State Government to extend by a notification, the boundaries of a park but that can only be for the pur poses of the Act and not for the purpose of vesting or creating any title in a property.
One of the arguments strenuously pressed by Dr. Singhvi was that, even if it was assumed that the Government had the power to transfer the land, the Government did not have the power to deal with the land in any manner that they liked.
The Bengal Land Manual prescribed the procedure to be followed in the matter of transferring land belonging to the Government.
Like similar volumes going by whatever name, pub lished by the Boards of Revenue of other States, the West Bengal Land Management Manual also is compendium of (1) statutes and rules framed either by the Government or by the Board of Revenue pursuant to a statutory power conferred on them; (2) Orders issued by the Government from time to time; and (3) Orders, circulars, instructions and memoranda issued by the Board of Revenue from time to time.
It does not mean that other orders, instructions, etc. may be departed from in an individual case, if applicable to the facts.
The Government or the Board may have the power the amend these orders and instruc tions, but nonetheless they must be obeyed so long as they are in force and are applicable.
These provisions of the Land Management Manual do not appear to have anything to do with the transfer and use of the land in the manner proposed, in which the State also has a vital stake apart from the mere raising of revenue for the State.
They generally deal with land which is at the disposal of the Government as waste or surplus land and are intended to secure the best revenue for the State.
In pursuing the socio economic objective is the State bound to 268 invite tenders or held a public auction? To answer this question, we may refer to the cases cited at the Bar.
In Rash Bihari Panda vs State of Orissa (supra) the Government offered the option to purchase kendu leaves to certain old contractors on the same terms as in the previous year.
Realising that the scheme of offering to renew con tracts with the old licences on the same terms was open to objection, the Government changed its policy and formulated a new scheme by which offers were invited from intending purchasers of Kendu leaves but the invitation was restricted to these individuals who had carried out the contracts in the previous year without default and to the satisfaction of the Government.
In the circumstances, particularly in the absence of any leading hoteliers coming forward, the Government of West Bengal was perfectly justified in entering into negotiations with the I.T.D.C. and the Taj Group of Hotels instead of inviting tenders.
Bhagwatti, J. speaking for the Court observed that the activities of the Government had a public element and if it entered into any contract, it must do so fairly without discrimination and without unfair procedure.
Whenever the Government dealt with the public, whether by way of giving jobs or entering into contracts or issuing quotas or li cences or granting other forms of larges, the Government could not act arbitrarily at its sweet will but must act in conformity with standards or norms without being arbitrary, irrational or irrelevant.
If 269 the Government departed from such standard or norm in any particular case or cases its action was liable to be struck down unless it could be shown that the departure was not arbitrary but was based on some valid principle which was not irrational, unreasonable or dicriminatory.
We have referred to those considerations only illustratively, for there may be an infinite variety of con siderations which may have to be taken into account by the Government in formulating its policies and it is on a total evaluation of various considerations which have weighed with the Government in taking a particular action, that the Court would have to decide whether the action of the Government is reasonable and in public interest.
The Court cannot lightly assume that the action taken by the Government is unreasonable or without public interest because, as we said above, there are a large number of policy considerations which must necessarily weigh with the Government in taking action and therefore the Court would not strike down governmental action as invalid on this ground, unless it is clearly satisfied that the action is unreasonable or not in public interest.
But where it is so satisfied, it would be the plainest duty of the Court under the Constitution to invalidate the governmental action. " This argument, plausible though it may seem is fallacious because it does not take into account the policy of the state not to allow export of resin outside its territories but to allot in only for use in factories set up within the State.
If the State were simply selling resin, there can be no doubt that the State must endeavour to obtain the highest price subject, of course, to any other over riding considerations of public interest and in that event, its action in giving resin to a private individual at a lesser price would be arbitrary and contrary to public interest.
But, where the State has, as a matter of policy, stopped selling resin to outsiders and decided to allot it only to industries set up within the State for the purpose of encouraging industrialisation, there can be no scope for 271 complaint that the State is giving resin at a lesser price than that which could be obtained in the open market.
The yardstick of price in the open market would be wholly inept, because in view of the State Policy, there would be no question of any resin being sold in the open market.
the object of the State in such a case is not to earn revenue from sale of resin, but to promote the setting up of industries within the State." And again, "If the State were giving tapping contract simpliciter there can be no doubt that the State would have to auction or invite tenders for securing the highest price, subject, of course, to any other relevant overriding considerations of public weal or interest.
but in a case like this where the State is allo cating resources such as water, power raw materials etc. for the purpose of encouraging setting up of industries within the State, we do not think the State is bound to advertise and tell the people that it wants a particular industry to be set up within the State and invite those interested to come up with pro posals for the purpose.
The State may choose to do so, if it thinks fit and in a given situation, it may even turn to be advantageous for the State to do so, but if any private party comes before the State and offers to set up an industry, the State would not be commit ting breach of any constitutional or legal obligation if it negotiates with such party and agrees to provide resources and other facilities for the purpose of setting up the industry. " Owner of private property may deal with it in any manner he likes without causing injury to any one else.
The marked difference lies in this that while the owner of private property may have a number of considerations which may permit him to dispose of his property for a song.
On the other hand, disposal of public property par takes the character of a trust in that in its disposal there should be nothing hanky panky and that it must be done at the best price so that larger revenue coming into the coffers of the State administration would serve public purpose viz.
the welfare State may be able to expand its beneficial activities by the avail ability of larger funds.
This is subject to one important limitation that socialist property may be disposed at the price lower than the market price or even for a token price to achieve some defined constitutionally recongnised public purpose, one such being to achieve the goals set out in Part IV of the Constitution.
But where disposal is for aug mentation of revenue and nothing else, the State is under an obligation to secure the best market price available in a market econo my.
Factors such as per sonal attachment, or affinity, kinship, empa thy, religious sentiment or limiting the choice to whom he may be willing to sell, may permit him to sell the property at a song and without demure.
A welfare State as the owner of the public property has no such freedom while disposing of the public property.
A welfare State exists for the largest good of the largest number more so when it proclaims to be a socialist State dedicated to eradica tion of poverty.
Financial con straint may weaken the tempo of activities.
On a consideration of the relevant cases cited at the bar the following propositions may be taken as well estab lished.
State owned or public owned property is not to be dealt with at the absolute discretion of the executive.
There may be situations where there are compelling reasons necessitating departure from the rule but then the reasons for the depar ture must be rational and should not be suggestive of dis crimination.
Applying these tests, we find it impossible to hold that the Government of West Bengal, did not act with probity in not inviting tenders or in not holding a public auction but negotiating straightaway at arm 's length with the Taj Group of Hotels. , The last and final submission of the learned counsel for the appellants relates to the commercial and financial aspects of the lease.
According to the learned counsel, the 'nett sales ' method of calculating the compensation payable to the Government for the lease of the land had totally sacrificed the State 's interests.
He submits that if the market value of the land had been fairly determined and the rent had been stipulated at a percentage of that value, the return to the Government would have been much higher.
We do not think that there is any 274 basis for any genuine criticism.
This was what was recommended by WEBCON, the consulting agency of the West Bengal Government which sub mitted a detailed report on the subject.
It is profit oriented and appears to be in the best interests of the Government of West Bengal.
On a consideration of all the facts and circumstances of the case, we are satisfied that the Government of West Bengal acted perfectly bona fide in granting the lease of Begumbari land to the Taj Group of Hotels for the construc tion of a Five Star hotel in Calcutta.
The Government of West Bengal did not fail to take into account any relevant consideration.
