From the Judgment and Order dated 17.8.1985 of the Allahabad High Court in C.M. Writ The question involved in these appeals by special leave which are filed against the judgment dated August 17, 1985 of the High Court of Allahabad in Civil Miscellaneous Writ As it came to the notice of the Government that the Indian life insur ers, with a few exceptions, were virtually controlled by few individuals who were utilising the funds of those companies to the detriment of the industry and the policyholders, the Government decided to nationalise the life insurance busi ness.
Ordi nance, 1956 on January 19, 1956 providing for the vesting of the management of the life insurance business (which was called the controlled business under the Ordinance) which was being carried on by any insurer in India on that day in the Central Government and providing for its management.
On the passing of the said Ordinance the management of the controlled business of all the insurers in India thus vested in the Central Government and pending the appointment of the custodians for the controlled business of any insurer the person in charge of the management of such business immedi ately before the passing of the Ordinance was required to be in charge of the management of the business for and on behalf of the Central Government.
The Act provided for the establishment and incorporation of the Corporation.
Under the Act the expression 'appointed day ' is de fined as the date on which the Corporation is established.
By virtue of section 7 of the Act on the appointed day all the assets and liabilities appertaining to the controlled business of all insurers, the management of which it had been taken over earlier by the Central Govern ment, stood transferred to and vested in the Corporation.
When the Corporation thus came into existence it had no employees of its own to carry on the vast business of the large number of insurers which had been taken over by it.
It, therefore, became necessary to transfer the services of the existing employees of the insurers to the Corporation because without the services of those employees it was almost impossible for the Corporation to run the life insur ance business in India which involved management of the various offices situated in different parts of India, serv icing of lakhs of insurance policies, the administration of the assets taken over from the insurers and several other activities connected with the life insurance business.
The nature of the work of the Corporation was such that it required the services of the employees with sufficient experience and expertise in running the life insurance business.
Transfer of service of existing employees of insurers to the Corporation (1) Every whole time employee of an insurer whose controlled business has been transferred to and vested in the Corporation and who was employed by the insurer wholly or mainly in connection with his controlled business immediately before the appointed day shall, on and from the appointed day, become an employee of the Corporation, and shall hold his office therein by the same tenure, at the same remuneration and upon the same terms and conditions and with the same rights and privi leges as to pen 190 sion and gratuity and other matters as he would have held the same on the appointed day if this Act had not been passed, and shall continue to do so unless and until his employ ment in the Corporation is terminated or until his remuneration, terms and conditions are duly altered by the Corporation: Provided that nothing contained in this sub section shall apply to any such employee who has, by notice in writing given to the Central Government prior to the ap pointed day, intimated his intention of not becoming an employee of the Corporation.
(2) Notwithstanding anything con tained in sub section (1) or in any contract of service, the Central Government may, for the purposes of rationalising the pay scales of employees of insurers whose controlled business has been transferred to and vested in it or for the purpose of reducing the remuner ation payable to employees in cases where in the interest of the Corporation and its policyhold ers a reduction is called for, alter the terms of service of the employees as to their remuneration in such manner as it thinks fit; and if the alteration is not acceptable to any employee the Corporation may terminate his employment on giving him compensation equivalent to three months ' remuner ation unless the contract of service with such employee provides for a shorter notice of termination.
(3) If any question arises as to whether any person was a whole time employee of an insurer or as to whether any employee was employed wholly or mainly in connection with the controlled business of an insurer immediately before the appointed day the question shall be referred to the Central Government whose decision shall be final.
(4) Notwithstanding anything contained in the (14 of 1947), or in any other 191 law for the time being in force, the transfer of the serv ices of any employee of an insurer to the Corporation shall not entitle any such employee to any compensation under that Act or other law, and no such claim shall be entertained by any Court, tribunal or other authority.
Sub section (1) of section 11 of the Act provided that every whole time employee of an insurer whose controlled business had been transferred to and vested in the Corpora tion and who was employed by the insurer wholly or mainly in connection with the controlled business immediately before the appointed day, i.e., September 1, 1956, would on and from the appointed day become an employee of the Corpora tion, and would hold his office therein by the same tenure, at the same remuneration and upon the same terms and condi tions and with the same rights and privileges as to pension and gratuity and other matters as he would have held the same on the appointed day if the Act had not been passed, and would continue to do so unless and until his employment in the Corporation was terminated and until his remunera tion, terms and conditions were duly altered by the Corpora tion.
The proviso to that sub section provided that nothing contained in sub section (1) of section 11 of the Act would apply to any such employee who had by notice in writing given to the Central Government prior to September 1, 1956 intimated his intention of not becoming an employee of the Corporation.
The whole time employees of the erstwhile insurers whose services were thus transferred to the Corpo ration are hereinafter referred to as 'the transferred employees ' of the Corporation.
As mentioned earlier, there were more than 200 insurers whose controlled business had been taken over by the Corporation and we are informed that there were about 27,000 whole time employees working in them.
It was naturally difficult to continue after the establishment of the Corporation in the cases of all the transferred employees, the conditions of service enjoyed by them when they were in the employment of the former insur ers.
Parliament therefore, enacted sub section (2) of section 11 of the Act which provided that notwithstanding anything contained in sub section (1) of section 11 or in any contract of service, the Central Government might for the purposes of rationalising the pay scales of employees of insurers whose controlled business had been transferred to and vested in it or for the purposes of reducing the remu neration payable to those employees in cases where in the interest of the Corporation and its policyholders a reduc tion was called for, alter the terms of service of the employees as to their remuneration in such manner as it thought fit and if the alteration was not acceptable to any employee the Corporation might terminate his employment on giving him compensation equivalent to three months ' remuner ation unless the contract of service with such employee provided for a shorter notice of termination.
It is stated that there were cases pending in other courts also questioning the scope and ambit of sub section (2) of sec tion 11 of the Act as it stood originally. is not acceptable to any employee, the Corporation may terminate his employ ment by giving him compensation equivalent to three months ' remuneration unless the contract of service with such em ployee provides for a shorter notice of termination.
It was felt that clause (b) of section 49(2) of the Act was not in terms applicable to the transferred employees who became the employees of the Corporation under sub section (1) of section 11 of the Act but only referred to the employees and agents of the Corpo ration who were employed after the Corporation was estab lished, that is, after 1st September 1956.
Under regulation 21 of the (Staff) Regulations, 1956 provision was made regarding superannuation and retirement of the employ ees of the Corporation.
An employee shall retire at fifty five years of age provided that the appointing authority may at its discretion extend the service every year upto 60 years of age.
Provided, however, that in respect of some of the employees of insurers who are allowed to continue in service beyond age 60 because of the terms and conditions of employ ment having not 'been favourable in the past, the Executive Committee may at its discretion extend their service every year upto age 65.
Provided further that during the three years, beginning from 1st September, 1956, the Executive Committee may, at its discretion, extend the service of a class I employee, who has completed sixty years of age for such period as may be specified but not exceeding one year at a time if such extension is considered necessary in the inter est of the Corporation.
But the Corporation may require any employee who has attained the age of 55 to retire if his efficiency is found to have been impaired. " Clause 13 of the above Order, therefore, modified regu lation 21 of the (Staff) Regulations, 1956 to the extent indicated therein with effect from the commencement of the Corporation.
After the promulgation of the Order the trans ferred employees to whom it applied were entitled to contin ue in the service of the Corporation till they attained the age of 60 years subject to the Corporation exercising its powers to retire a transferred employee on his attaining the age of 55 years if his efficiency was found to have been impaired.
This Order applied to the members of the staff of the Corporation belonging to Class III and Class IV categories.
It may be noted that the Field Officers referred to in the former clause 6 had been redesignated as the Development Officers before it was substituted by the later clause 6 of the standardisation order.
As regards retirement, the Government has mentioned that the Department of Expenditure has objected to raising the date of superannuation to 58 years of age on the ground that other statutory Corporations are also demanding the same benefit on the analogy of the Life Insurance Corporation 's proposal.
Standardisation Order provides that an employee shall retire at 60 years of age, but the competent authority may require an employee to retire at any time after 55 years of age if his efficiency is found to have been impaired.
In the light of the above it is suggested that the provisions of the Standardisation Order may be extended to transferred officers and the retirement age may be retained at 58 for persons recruited on or after 1st January 1959.
It may be added that this would mean a modification of the earlier decision of the Board in this matter. " Regula tion 19 of the (Staff) Regulations, 1960 dealt with the subject of superannuation and retirement of the employees of the Corporation.
A transferred employee shall retire on completion of age 60; but the appointing authority may direct such employ ee to retire on completion of 55 years of age or at any time thereafter, if his efficiency is found to have been im paired.
It is seen from the above regulation that the cases of all transferred employees were dealt with by sub regulation (1) of regulation 19 and the cases of employees appointed to the service of the Corporation that year after 1st The result was that the regulation made a clear and distinct classification of all the employees of the Corporation belonging to all classes into two groups transferred em ployees and the employees appointed after 1st September, 1956, for purposes of the age of retirement having regard to the historical reasons.
An employee belonging to Class III or Class IV and a transferred employee belonging to Class I or Class II shall retire on completion of age 60; but the appointing authority may direct such employee to retire on completion of 55 years of age or at any time thereafter, if his efficiency is found to have been impaired.
(2) An employee belonging to Class I or Class II appointed to the service of the Corporation on or after 1st September, 1956 shall retire on completion of 58 years of age, but the appointing authority may direct such employee to retire on completion of 55 years of age or at any time thereafter, if his efficiency is found to have been im paired.
Notwithstanding what is stated in sub regula tions (1) and (2) above, an employee may be permitted to retire at any time after he has completed age 55. . . . .
The employees of the Corporation were divided lati tudinally into two groups.
An employee belonging to the Class I or Class II ap pointed to the service of the Corporation on or ' after 1st September, 1956 shall retire on completion of 58 years of age, but the appointing authority may at its discretion, extend his service for one year at a time upto 60 years of age.
It also provided that in the inter est of the Corporation, the Corporation could retire an employee after completion of 50 years of age.
An employee belonging to Class III or Class IV and a transferred employee belonging to Class I or Class II shall retire on completion of age 60; but the competent authority may, if it is of the opinion that it is in the interest of the Corporation to do so, direct such employee to retire on completion of 55 years of age or at any time thereafter, on giving him three months ' notice or salary in lieu thereof.
An employee belonging to Class I or Class II appointed to the service of the Corporation on or after 1st September, 1956 shall retire on completion of 58 years of age, but the competent authority may, if it is of the opinion that it is in the interest of the Corporation to do so, direct such employee to retire on completion of 50 years of age or at any time thereafter on giving him three months ' notice or salary in lieu thereof." The 1st Respondent S.S. Srivastava entered the service of the Corporation as a Class III employee on 22.3.1957 on which date he was appointed as an Assistant in the Corpora tion.
Since he was born in the month of June, 1926, notice was issued in February, 1984 to Respondent No. 1 of his retirement which was due on 30th June, 1984 on his completing the age of 58 years.
The Writ Petition was allowed striking down regulation 19(2) as being violative of Articles 14 and 16 of the Constitution of India and the Corporation was directed not to retire the 1st Respondent before he attained the age of 60 years.
By virtue of the judgment of the High Court, the 1st Respondent continued in the service of the Corporation till he complet ed 60 years of age.
It was also contended that whatever may be the position in respect of persons who were appointed directly to any post belonging to Class I or Class II category after 1st September, 1956, as regards those who joined the service of the Corporation on being appointed to a Class III post after 1st September, 1956 there could not be any reduction of the age of retirement from 60 years to 58 years on their being promoted to a Class I post or Class II post.
The Writ Petition was contested by the Corporation and the Union of India.
Since as regards the age of retirement there was no uniformity in the establishments in which the transferred employees were working prior to the nationalisation of the life insurance business 203 and as in some cases the age of retirement had been fixed at 55 years, in some other cases it was 58 years, in few other cases at 60 years and in many cases there was no age of retirement and the employees could continue as long as they were found to be physically and mentally fit, it became necessary to fix the age of retirement of the transferred employees on a fair, equitable and just basis.
The Central Government and the Corporation felt that 60 years of age could be a proper age of retirement in the circumstances in respect of the transferred employees and that was the reason why by regulation 19 and the standardisation order issued earlier in the case of certain classes of transferred em ployees under section 11(2) of the Act the retirement age was fixed at 60 years and this was done with a view to retaining the services of the experienced employees of the erstwhile insurers.
It was pleaded on behalf of the Corpora tion and the Union of India that in the circumstances the classification of the employees into two categories, namely, transferred employees and others who joined the service of the Corporation on or after 1st September, 1956 for the purposes of the age of superannuation was a valid classifi cation and Articles 14 and 16 of the Constitution of India had not been violated.
Aggrieved by the judgment of 204 the High Court the Corporation and the Union of India have filed these appeals by special leave.
Krishna Iyer, J. at pages 1098 1099 has observed in the course of the said decision thus: "The Corporation, to begin with, had to take over the staff of the private insurers lest they should be thrown out of employment on nationalisation.
It was elementary that the Corporation could not perpetuate incongruous features of service of parent insur ers, and statutory power had to be vested to vary, modify or supersede these contracts, geared to fair, equitable and, as far as possible, uniform treatment of the transferred staff.
Unless there be unmistakable expression of such intention, the ID Act will continue to apply to the Corporation employ ees.
Sub section (1) guarantees to the trans ferred employee the same tenure, at the same remuneration and upon the same terms and conditions on the transfer to the Corporation as he enjoyed on the appointed day under the insurer, and he is entitled to them until they are duly altered by the Corporation or his employment in the Corpora tion is terminated.
The sub section envisages alteration by the Corporation.
That power is to be exercised when the Central Government is satisfied that the interests of the Corporation and its Policy holders require such reduction of revision.
