(Under Article 32 of the Constitution of India).
The Judgment of the Court was delivered by RANGANATH MISRA, J. The petitioner of this application under Article 32 of the Constitution is an engineer who was employed in the Central Public Works Department under the Ministry of Works and Housing in Government of India and was compulsorily retired by order dated 3.8.1976 with effect from 5.11.1976 made under Rule 56(j) of the Fundamental Rules.
1954, and came to be confirmed as Section Officer by an order dated 8.10.1955.
The basis of attack to the impugned order is as specified in Ground No.
According to the said judgment F.R. 56 (j)(i) has no application to officiating government servants, hence can have no appli cation to the petitioner since the petitioner was an officiating government servant. " The impugned notice ran thus: "No. 32/452/66 EC.
111 Government of India Central Public Works Department New Delhi, the 3.8.76 635 ORDER WHEREAS the Engineer in Chief is of opinion that it is in public interest to do so: NOW, THEREFORE, in exercise of the powers conferred by clause (j) of Rule 56 of the Fundamental Rules, the Engineer in Chief hereby gives notice to Shri A.L. Ahuja, As sistant Engineer (Civil), at present under suspension, that he, having already attained the age of fifty years on 10.2.1972, shall retire from service with effect from the forenoon of 3rd November, 1976, or, from the date of expiry of three months computed from the date of issue of the service of this notice on him, whichever is latter.
Fundamental Rule 56(j) under which notice was given provides: "(j) Notwithstanding anything contained in this rule, the appropriate authority shall, if it is of the opinion that it is in the public interest so to do, have the absolute right to retire any Government servant by giving him notice of not less than three months in writ ing or three months ' pay and allowances in lieu of such notice; (i) if he is in Class I or Class II service or post (and had entered Government service before attaining the age 636 of thirty five years), after he has attained the age of fifty years; (ii) in any other case after he has attained the age of fifty five years; . . . . . . . . . . .
bird who may have to go back to the substantive post from which he has been promoted on an officiating basis what is more to the point, a person who has been appointed de novo may begin his service on an officiating basis or on a tempo rary basis and it is obvious that he has no right to the post and cannot be strictly said to be in that service or post as a member of that service.
Even viewed closely and meticulously, the structure of the clause, namely, "if he is in Class I or Class II 637 service or post", emphasises the nature of the service or post vis a vis the Government servant concerned.
When a Government servant belonging to a Class I or Class II service or post on regular basis has to be retired compulsorily, Rule 56(j)(i) comes to the rescue of the Government.
Thus we have reached an inevitable conclusion that Rule 56(j) is meant to cover only those who are in a post on a regular basis, i.e. in a substan tive capacity, and not on an officiating basis only.
It is clear that sub clause (ii) is the general rule applicable to all Government servants and sub clause (i) carves out a class of Government servants into a category and makes a special provision.
A person can be in Class I or Class II service or post even when he hold a post of either class substantively or temporarily or on officiating basis.
Instances are abundant where officers are promoted to Class I or Class II service or post of such class on officiating basis and such officiation lasts for a number of years.
Officiating promotion certainly does not confer a right to the post and at any time the Government servant may be sent back to his substantive post.
There is, however, no reasons why sub clause (i) should be confined to service or post held on substantive basis.
