Penalty for wrongful withholding of property (1) If any officer or employee of a company (a) wrongfully obtains possession of any property of a company; or D (b) having any such property in his possession wrongfully withholds it or knowingly applies it to purposes other than those expressed or directed in the articles and authorised by this Act; he shall, on the complaint of the company or any creditor or contributory thereof, be punishable with fine which may extend to one thousand rupees.
(2) The Court trying the offence may also order such officer or employee to deliver up or refund, within a time F to be fixed by the Court, any such property wrongfully obtained or wrongfully withheld or knowingly misapplied, or in default, to suffer imprisonment for a term which may extend to two years. " That has been the consistent view taken by the High Court of Bombay in a series of cases.
The petitioner Baldev Krishan Sahi was an Under Secretary to the Government of India in the Ministry of Shipping & Transport and on May 21, 1974 accepted employment as Joint Manager in the Mogul Line Limited, a Government of India undertaking, after obtaining release from government service.
Prior to that i.e. On September 26, 1984 he addressed a letter requesting the company to permit him to continue to live in the company 's premises during the period of his accumulated leave after his retirement i.e. for a period of six months, undertaking to vacate the flat as early as possible.
After the expiry of the said period of six months, the company addressed a letter dated April 26, 1985 requesting the petitioner to vacate the premises stating that if he failed to do so, he would be liable to pay higher compensation as per the company 's rules.
The Estate officer by order dated December 2, 1985 directed the eviction of the petitioner.
Instead of availing of that opportunity, the petitioner on March 3, 1986 moved the High Court by a petition under article 226 of the Constitution and obtained ad interim stay of the proceedings before the Estate officer.
In view of this, the company was constrained to lodge a complaint against the petitioner under section 630 of the Act in the Court of the Additional Chief Metropolitan Magistrate, 37th Court, Esplanade, Bombay alleging that he was wrongfully withholding the flat in question which had been given to him for his residence during the period of his employment and and thereby committed an offence punishable under section 630.
The learned Magistrate by his order dated May 22, 1986 took cognizance of the complaint against the petitioner and directed issue of process.
On June 30, 1986 the company merged with the Shipping Corporation of India and all its assets and liabilities were taken over by the Corporation.
The Corporation in the counter affidavit interalia has pleaded that there is acute shortage of housing accommodation in the Metropolitan City of Bombay and it becomes necessary for the Corporation with a view to attract good talent to provide suitable housing accommodation to its officers and employees, and that due to acute financial liquidity it is not possible for the Corporation to buy property in Bombay for this purpose.
It is further pleaded that the petitioner was given the flat for his residence during the period of his employment and that he was bound to vacate the same after his retirement.
The entire argument of the learned counsel is based upon the judgment of the High Court of Calcutta in Amritlal Chum 's case.
(a) and although it primarily refers to the existing officers and employees, it may also take in past officers and employees.
It may well be that an officer or employee may have lawfully obtained possession of any such property during the course of his employment but wrongfully withholds it after the termination of his employment.
That would primarily apply to the present officers and employees and may also include past officers and employees.
The High Court of Calcutta in Amritlal Chum 's case obviously fell into an error in seeking to curtail the ambit of section 630(l)(b) by giving a restrictive meaning to the terms 'officer or employee ' which must take its colour from the context in which it appears.
There is also no warrant for the construction placed by the High Court of Calcutta on the words 'any such property ' occurring in cl.
In somewhat similar facts, an officer of Messrs Jardine Hendersons Limited who had been placed in possession of a furnished flat in premises No. 27, Ballygunj Park, Calcutta as a condition of his service, wrongfully retained possession thereof after ceasing to be an officer of the company.
He further held that the High Court of Bombay was in error in laying down in Govind T. Jagtiani 's case that for purposes of prosecution, cl.
He had been inducted into the flat only by virtue of his capacity as the General Manager of the company 's branch office at Bombay but the company allowed him to retain the same on humanitarian grounds for a short period after his retirement to enable him to find alternative accommodation.
While the existence of the capacity, right and possession would be during employment, the withholding may be even after the termination of the employment and though the possession as it precedes the act of retention or withholding may be rightful in the past affording an 179 Opportunity to withhold, the withholding may be wrongful as in the present case. " We accordingly uphold the view of the High Court of Bombay that the terms 'officer or employee ' of a company applies not only to existing officers or employees but also to past officers or employees if such officer or employee either (a) wrongfully obtains possession of any property, or (b) having obtained such property during the course of his employment, withholds the same after the termination of his employment.
ION: Special Leave A Petition (CRL. ) V.N. Ganpule for the Petitioner.
Soli J. Sorabjee, K.J. John and A.K. Desai for the Respondents.
J. The by section 630, enacts: "630.
The controversy is as to the meaning of the term 'officer or employee ' used in sub s(1) of section 630 and as to the meaning of the words 'any such property ' in cl.
