F.R. Nariman, E.K. Jose, P.H. Parekh and Miss Sunita Sharma for the Appellant.
They filed ejectment proceedings against one 1060 Sugrabhai Mohammed Husain, their tenant and obtained a decree.
It is stated that the appellant was a monthly tenant of the suit premises since about 2nd February, 1965.
it was stated that the licensor gave and granted his 'leave and licence ' to the licensee to use and occupy the said premises for the period of five years.
It further goes on to state that the "licensee shall not under any circumstances be allowed to use the premises for the residential purposes or any other purpose save and except specified therein".
The licensor was entitled to terminate the agreement earlier notwithstanding the fact that the period of the agreement might not have expired.
The said deposit was to be kept free of interest and the same was to be refunded to the 1061 licensee on the licensee surrendering possession of the said premises by removing himself and his belongings on the expiry of the period of the agreement or sooner termination or determination thereof after deducting all the dues if any for payment of compensation.
On or about 9th November, 1970, the respondent herein filed an ejectment proceeding against the appellant under section 41 of the .
Before the Judge, Court of Small Causes the points of defences were filed in which the appellant had stated that the application was not maintainable and the plaintiff was himself occupying the premises under one Sugrabhai Mohammed Husain who himself had adopted ejectment proceedings against the respondent.
The appellant was contending that he was a direct tenant of the respondent.
The submission was that there was sub tenancy by the respondent in favour of the appellant as a monthly tenant of the business with the articles and machinery belonging to the appellant and not to the respondent.
It was recorded by the court with the expression "B.C", a term of some ambiguity as explained later, that the appellant was not claiming protection as a sub tenant under the Rent Act but only the subtenancy as such and therefore, it was recorded that as agreed 'B.C '.
The learned Judge, noted that the only point that arose for consideration was whether the appellant proved that he was a sub tenant as such or not.
It is interesting to note that in the judgment of the Small Cause Court and also of the High Court at several places the expression "B.C." was used; this is intriguing as we find that it intrigued Vaidya, J. because he stated in his judgment dated 9th of December, 1975 what the expression "B.C." was meant by Court.
The learned Judge recorded further that it was practice in the Court of Small Causes, Bombay of using the expression 1063 "B.C.".
The said learned Judge, however, observed that the use of the words in the paragraph which we have stated hereinbefore made the entire paragraph meaningless.
In order to go back to the findings of the learned Judge of the Court of Small Cause and the learned High Court Judge found that the appellant had failed to prove that he was a sub tenant of the respondent and the learned Judge found him to be a licensee.
On an analysis and examination of evidence recorded and in the background of the documents in question the learned Judge came to the conclusion factually that it was an agreement for leave and licence and the appellant was a licensee and not a sub tenant.
In the light of the legal position and also the fact that the rent, light bill stood in the name of the respondent showed that there was no desire to create any lease by the document mentioned hereinbefore and the appellant regarded him as a mere licensee.
To go back to the narration of events, the appellant filed special civil application in the High Court of Bombay under Article 227 of the Constitution.
Thereafter the appellants had served a notice upon the respondent calling upon him to remove himself from the said premises.
In July, 1967 the appellants 1064 filed an application for eviction under section 41 of the .
The respondent approached the High Court under Article 227 of the Constitution.
The respondent had filed a revision petition under section 115 of C.P.C. in the High Court.
Pvt. Ltd., 73 Bombay Law Reporter 394 had held that the Court of Small Causes would have no jurisdiction to proceed with the application filed under section 41 of the .
