From the Judgment and Order dated 22.4.83 of the High Court of Bombay in Writ Petition No. 2388/82.
M.K. Ramamurthy and A.K. Sanghi for the Appellant.
The 1st respondent, All India Reporter Limited, was not served with any individual notice by the Tribunal before it passed its award.
Immediately after the service of the said notice the Ist respon 781 dent filed a writ petition on the file of the High Court of Judicature at Bombay, Nagpur Bench in Writ Petition No. 2388 of 1982 questioning the validity of the notice served on it by the Deputy Labour Commissioner, Nagpur calling upon it to implement the orders of the Central Government on the basis of the award of the Palekar Tribunal.
Initially the State of Maharashtra, the Commissioner of Labour and the Deputy Labour Commissioner, Nagpur had been impleaded as respondents.
It was urged before the High Court on behalf of the Ist respondent, All India Reporter Limited, that the law reports publised by it were not newspapers as defined in the Act and therefore the order made by the Central Government on the basis of the recommendations of Justice Palekar were not applicable to its establishment.
The High Court accepted the plea of the Ist respondent and declared that the law reports were not newspapers within the meaning of section 2(b) of the Act and that the demand made by the Deputy Labour Commissioner to comply with the order made by the Central Government on the basis of the recommendations of Justice Palekar was unsustainable by its judgment dated 22nd April, 1983.
Aggrieved by the decision of the High Court the appellants have filed this appeal by special leave.
But we are concerned in this case with the narrow question whether the six law reports which are being published by the Ist respondent are newspapers within the meaning of the Act and whether the employees engaged in their production or distribution are entitled to the benefit of the orders made by the Central Government on the basis of the recommendations of the Palekar Tribunal.
Any other class of printed periodical work as may, from time to time, be notified in this behalf by the Central Government in the Official Gazette may also be a newspaper.
Entry 39 of List III of the Seventh Schedule to the Constitution reads thus: "Newspapers, books and printing presses.
" In this connection it is necessary to reproduce a passage from the Report of the Royal Commission on the Press (1947 49) appointed by the British Government and presided over by Sir William David Ross.
The law reports which are being published by the Ist respondent are reports of recent decisions of the Supreme Court of India and of the High Courts in India which are supplied to it by its agents appointed at New Delhi and other places where High Courts are situated.
Article 141 of the Constitution provides that the law declared by Supreme Court shall be binding on all courts within the territory of India.
Even apart from Article 141 of the Constitution the decisions of the Supreme Court, which is a court of record, constitute a 783 source of law as they are the judicial precedents of the highest court of the land.
It may be that the decisions contained in these law reports may cease to be items of news after some time but when they are received by the subscribers they do possess the character of works containing news.
The said question arose in that form in view of the language of Entry 54 of List II of the Seventh Schedule to the Constitution which read as follows: "54.
The language of Entry 92 of List I of the Seventh Schedule to the Constitution which conferred on Parliament alone the power to tax sale or purchase of newspapers was in the following terms: "92.
Accordingly, the High Court of Orissa held that the sale of Cuttack Law Times, which according to it was not a newspaper, could be taxed by the State Legislature under Entry 54 of List II of the Seventh Schedule to the Constitution of India.
We find it difficult to agree with the above decision since the High Court of Orissa omitted to take into consideration that information about recent decisions of courts of record could be news in which the public was interested.
Dr. Y.S. Chitale, P.H. Parekh, R.K. Dhillon, Ms. Sunita Sharma and Dr. D. Chandrachud for the Respondents.
Section 9 of the Act authorises the Central Government to appoint a Wage Board consisting of two persons representing employers in relation to newspaper establishments; two persons representing working journalists; and three independent persons, one of whom shall be a person who is, or has been, a Judge of a High Court or of the Supreme Court and who shall be appointed by that Government as the Chairman thereof for the purpose of making recommendations with regard to fixation or revision of wages of working journalists.
Section 13AA which was inserted by Act 6 of 1979 provides for the constitution of a Tribunal for fixing or revising rates of wages in respect of working journalists where the Central Government is of opinion that the Board constituted under section 9 for the purpose of fixing or revising rates of wages in respect of working journalists under the Act has not been able to function effectively.
That Tribunal has to consist of a Judge of the High Court or of the Supreme Court.
Similarly section 13DD of the Act empowers the Central Government to constitute a Tribunal where it is of opinion that the Board constituted under section 13C of the Act has not been able to function effectively.
In exercise of the powers conferred by section 13AA and section 13DD of the Act the Central Government constituted under two separate notifications two Tribunals on 9.2.1979 with Justice Palekar, a former Judge of the Supreme Court, as the member of each of the two Tribunals to make recommendations in respect of fixing or revising wages of working journalists as well as non working journalists.
Justice Palekar made his recommendations on 12.8.1980.
The 1st respondent also did not send a reply to the questionnaire issued by the Tribunal nor it gave any evidence before the Tribunal in respect of the matters referred to therein.
Thereafter during the pendency of the Writ Petition the Indian Federation of Working Journalists and the All India Reporter Karamachari Sangh were impleaded as respondents in the writ petition.
The Ist respondent, All India Reporter Limited, publishes in addition to the law reports referred in the first paragraph of this judgment several other books commentaries, digests and manuals.
The definition of the expression "newspaper" has already been set out above.
Newspapers and books are no doubt shown as separate items but the distinction between them sometimes becomes very thin or totally vanishes.
