From the Judgment and Order dated 6.11.85 of the Allahabad .RM60 It is said that it would be violative of the Constitutional right of "equal pay for equal work".
They will be found correctly stated in the judgment under appeal and may briefly be stated thus: Prior to 1965, in the High Court of Allahabad, Bench Secretaries were on a higher pay scale than that of Section Officers.
In 1965 the State Government appointed a Pay Rationalisation Committee with wide ranging reference.
The State Government accepted the recommendations.
Being dissatisfied with the down grading, the Bench Secretaries made representation to the Government.
The High Court suggested "that in view of financial exigencies the Government may grant for the time being pay scale to 10 PG NO 292 Bench Secretaries as admissible to Section Officers. " When this matter was pending consideration, the Government appointed the Pay Commission (1971 72) headed by Shri Ali Zahir.
On February 1, 1973, the Pay Commission submitted its report.
The Bench Secretaries again moved the Government reiterating their demand.
The Government appears to have received several such representations against the report of Ali Zahir Commission.
It however, suggested that ten posts of Bench Secretaries should be upgraded and placed in the pay scale of Rs.500 1,000 The Government accepted that recommendation and issued an order dated July 2,1976 Name Pay No. of No. of No. of Pay No.
The High Court as usual supported their claim, but the Government did not.
The Rules were framed in exercise of the powers conferred by Article 229(2) of the Constitution and brought into force from July 13,1976.
The entitlement to higher pay scale of Grade I Bench Secretary was therefore, not on the basis of seniority alone, but on the basis of selection by merit cum seniority.
In 1979, the State Government appointed another Pay Commission.
I moved the High Court on judicial side with an application under Article 226 of the Constitution.
The Government order by which the classification was done itself provided that duty and responsibility of Bench Secretary of Grade II be the same as of Grade I shall be seniority.
With regard to rule framed by the Chief Justice for the purpose of promotion to Bench Secretary Grade I, thee High Court said: "Rules were made not because the Court agreed with the classification of Bench Secretaries in Group I and Group II PG NO 298 but because of the Government order dated July 2, 1976.
With these conclusions, the High Court quashed a part of the notification dated July 4, 1976 which created More often functions of two posts may appear to be the same or similar, but there may be difference in degrees in the performance.
The quantity of work may be the same, but quality may be different that cannot be determined by PG NO 299 relying upon averments in affidavits of interested parties.
The equation of posts or equation of pay must be left to the Executive Government.
But it is not known on what basis they were paid in the higher pay scale and treated as a superior class to Section Officers.
All Bench Secretaries in the High Court of Allahabad are undisputedly having same duties.
Art.39(d) of the Constitution proclaims `equal pay for equal work for both men and women ' as a Directive Principle of State Policy.
article 14 of the Constitution enjoins the State not to deny any person equality before the law or the equal protection of the laws and article 16 declares that there shall be equality of opportunity for all citizens in matters relating to employment or appointments to any office under the State.
These equality clauses of the Constitution must mean something to every one.
To the vast majority of the people the equality clauses of the Constitution would mean nothing if they are unconcerned with the work they do and the pay they get.
The higher qualifications for the higher grade, which may be either academic qualifications or experience based on length of service reasonably sustain the classification of the officers into two grades with different scales of pay.
It was found that the petitioner and the other drivers in the Delhi Police Force per formed the same functions and duties as other drivers in the service of the Delhi Administration and the Central Government.
The fact that these employees accepted employment with full knowledge that they will be paid only daily wages and they will not get the same salary and conditions of service as other class IV employees, cannot provide an escape to the Central Government to avoid the mandate of equality enshrined in article 14 of the Constitution.
They demanded parity in their wages, and allowances with those of regular and permanent employees of the Department on the basis of performing similar work.
This Court while granting relief to the workmen observed (at 642) : "The Central Government, the State Government and likewise, all public sector undertakings are expected to function like model and enlightened employers and arguments such as those which were advanced before us that the principle of equal pay for equal work is an abstract doctrine which cannot be enforced in a court of law should ill come from the mouths of the State and State Undertakings. " Article 39(d) of the Constitution proclaims "equal pay for equal work" .
in Keshavananda Bharati vs State of Kerala, [1973] 4 SCC 225 at para 712: "The Constitution seeks to fulfil the basic needs of the common man and to change the structure of society. " In matters of employment the Government of a socialist State must protect the weaker sections.
It is the duty of the State to see that the under privileged or weaker sections get their dues.
Even if they have voluntarily accepted the employment on unequal terms, the State should not deny their basic rights of equal treatment.
It has to be read into article l4 of the Constitution.
article l4 permits reasonable classification founded on different basis.
In service matters, merit or experience could be the proper basis for classification to promote efficiency in administration.
Today SC p. 5 19, Sabyasachi Mukherjee, J. said: "There may be qualitative difference as regards relia bility and responsibility.
Functions may be the same but the responsibilities make a difference.
