From the Judgment and Order dated 9.10.1987 of t he Central Administrative Tribunal Chandigarh in Appln.
WITH (SLP (Civil) No. 6998 of 1988) V.C. Mahajan, Mrs. Indu Goswami, C.V. Subba Rao, P. Parmeshwaran for the Appellant in C.A. He made this entry with ulterior motive to withdraw the pay of Ashok Kumar for the month of May 1969, even though Ash ok Kumar was not working in that Division.
The said fictitious identity card was used by o ne Suraj Singh, cleaner T. No. 210 K of Beggi Tunnelling Div i sion for the purpose of withdrawing the pay of Ashok Kuma r. While Suraj Singh by impersonation was receiving the pay of Ashok Kumar, he was recognised by the Cashier since he kn ew him personally.
The Inquiry Officer framed charge against the responde nt in the following terms: "That the said Shri Parma Nand, while working as Time Keeper in Time Keeping Sub Division of Beas Sutlej Li nk Project, Sundernagar during the month of May 1969 failed to maintain absolute integrity and devotion to duty in as mu ch as he falsely marked the attendance of Shri Ashok Kuma r, Token No. 59 T in the Pay Roll of Control Survey Divisi on for the month of May 1969, which resulted in fictitio us drawal of Rs.238 90 as pay of the said Shri Ashok Kumar.
Suraj Singh, Cleaner (Token No. 210 K), Boggi Tunnelli ng Division, at the time of attempting to receive the pay of Shri Ashok Kumar from the Cashier.
" The respondent moved the High Court of Himachal Prade sh under Article 226 challenging the findings of Inquiry off i cer as well as the order of dismissal passed by the comp e tent authority.
T he answer to the question cannot be determined without refe r ence to the scope of judicial review in the pre Tribun al period.
T he public service and posts may be in connection with t he affairs of the union or of any State.
The law to be enact ed by Parliament may also cover persons appointed in the loc al or other authority or of any corporation owned or controll ed by the Government.
There should be only one Tribunal for t he Union of India and one for each State or for two or mo re States put together.
We may briefly examine the statutory framework.
Secti on 4 of the Act provides for establishment of Central Admini s trative Tribunal as well as State Administrative Tribuna l. 22 requires the Tribunal to deci de every application made to it as expeditiously as possibl e. Ordinarily, the Tribunal shall decide every application on a perusal of documents and written representations and aft er heating such oral arguments as may be advanced.
The powers of the High Cour ts under Article 226, in so far as they are exercisable in relation to service matters stand conferred on the Tribun al established under the Act.
The High Court remitted t he matter to the Government for fresh consideration for awar d ing a proper punishment.
It will be th en left to Government to decide whether, on the basis of the se charges, the punishment of dismissal should be maintain ed 'or else whether a lesser punishment would suffice." The reasonable opportunity contemplated has manifest ly to be in accordance with the rules framed under Article 3 09 of the Constitution.
Therefore if the order may be supported on a ny finding as to substantial misdemeanour for which the 30 punishment can lawfully be imposed, it is not for the cou rt to consider whether that ground alone would have weigh ed with the authority in dismissing the public servant.
It is well established th at when a court of facts acts on material, partly relevant a nd partly irrelevant, it is impossible to say to what exte nt the mind of the court was affected by the irrelevant mater i al used by it in arriving at its finding.
T he show cause notice issued to the corporation mentioned t wo grounds for supersession.
This Court, however, upheld the order of supe r session stating that the order cannot be set aside f or reason that one of the grounds is found to be non existe nt or irrelevant if another ground by itself was serious enou gh to supersede the Corporation.
An administrative or quasi judicial order bas ed on several grounds, all taken together, cannot be sustain ed if it be found that some of the grounds are non existent or irrelevant, and there is nothing to show that the authori ty would have passed the order on the basis of the other rel e vant and existing grounds.
On the other hand, an order bas ed on several grounds some of which are found to be non exis t ent or irrelevant, can be sustained if the court is sati s fied that the authority would have passed the order on t he basis of the other relevant and existing grounds, and t he exclusion of the irrelevant or non existent grounds cou ld not have affected the ultimate opinion or decision. " There was, in our view, legal eviden ce before the Commissioner upon which he was entitled to re st his finding that the copies relied on by the appellant we re not genuine." We must unequivocally state that the jurisdiction of t he Tribunal to interfere with the disciplinary matters or punishment cannot be equated with an appellate jurisdictio n. It is appropriate to rememb er that the power to impose penalty on a delinquent officer is conferred on the competent authority either by an Act of legislature or rules made under the provisoto Article 309 of the Constitution.
But th at procedure was not adopted by this Court since the char ge against appellant was found to be a very minor infraction of duty in checking hammer marks of trees.
The appellant was a low paid class IV Governme nt servant.
Accordingly, two incremen ts with future effect, of the appellant were ordered to be withheld.
