[109F] & ORIGINAL JURISDICTION: Writ Petition (Civil) No. 530 of 1983 etc.
(Under Article 32 of the Constitution of India).
No. 441 of 19 81 vide its order dated 2nd February, 1981.
The learned Judges pointed o ut that it was admitted that the conditions of service applic a ble to the case of the appellants were governed by t he Indian Ordnance Factories (Recruitment and Conditions of Service of Class III Personnel) Rules, 1956 (hereinaft er referred to as the Rules) framed by the President of Ind ia under Article 309 of the Constitution.
It was further poin t ed out that Rule 8 contemplated that appointments by prom o tion were to be made on the basis of a selection list pr e pared for the different grades by duly constituted Depar t mental Promotion Committees laid down in the said ru le whereas Rule 12 provided that no appointment to the posts to which these rules apply shall be made otherwise than as specified therein.
With regard to the plea based on Artic le 16 of the Constitution.
it was held "A half hearted argume nt was raised at the end of the hearing on behalf of the appe l lant petitioners that they have been discriminated again st by depriving them the benefit of automatic promotion in violation of constitutional guarantee under Article 16 of the Constitution.
Moreover, we do not think any case, on t he basis of violation of Article 16 of the Constitution can be found in favour of the appellant petitioners only becau se some 99 supervisors, equally placed, were promoted against the rul es of service.
No formal foundation has been raised in t he pleadings in the writ petition in support of the grou nd based on Article 16 of the Constitution. " Almost analogous prayer had been made in Miscellaneo us Petition No. 9357 of 1983 also namely that the responden ts may be restrained from promoting officers to the next high er posts on the basis of recommendations of certain Departme n tal Promotion Committees without complying with the dire c tions of this Court in its order dated 2nd February, 198 1.
According to learned counsel since Rule 8 of the Rules contemplated th at appointments by promotion were to be made on the basis of selection list prepared in the manner provided therei n, there was no scope for automatic promotion merely aft er expiry of 2 years of continuous service on the basis of t he circular dated 6th November, 1962.
It w as further urged that the petitioners of these writ petitio ns were on the basis of the Rules considered for promotion a nd it is not disputed that all of them have in due course be en promoted as Chargeman II and some of them have even be en promoted to higher posts.
Our attention was further invit ed by learned counsel for the respondents to an order commun i cated among others to the Director 102 General of Ordnance Factories, vide letter dated 28th Dece m ber, 1965 of the Government of India, Ministry of Defenc e, saying inter alia that a minimum period of service of thr ee years in the lower grade should be fixed for promotion to the next higher grade.
so because on merits this period is necessary to judge t he performance in the lower post and the potentialities f or promotion to a higher post.
He also brought to our notice a subsequent circular dated 20th January, 1966 by the Direct or General of Ordnance Factories who had issued.
Ref: This office confidential No. 673/A/NG dt.
The question of promotion of Diploma holders in Mech/Elec.
Engineering and Ex apprentices serving as Sup r. 'A ' Gr. or in equivalent grades has received further consi d eration of the D.G.O.F. who has decided that in futu re promotions of all such individuals will be effected in accordance with the normal rules i.e. on the basis of the ir listing by the relevant D.P.C. and not merely on completi on of 2 years satisfactory continuous service as Supr.
or equivalent grades.
[198 8] 3 S.C. Judgments Today 724 wherein it has been held: "It is well settled that the norms regarding recruitment a nd promotion of officers belonging to the Civil Services can be laid down either by a law made by the appropriate Legisl a ture or by rules made under the proviso to Article 309 of the Constitution of India or by means of executive instru c tions issued under Article 73 of the Constitution of Ind ia in the case of Civil Services under the Union of India a nd under Article 162 of the Constitution of India in the ca se of Civil Services under the State Governments.
If there is a conflict between the executive instructions and the rul es made under the proviso to Article 309 of the Constitution of India, the rules made under the proviso to Article 309 of the Constitution of India prevail, and if there is a co n flict between the rules made under the proviso to Artic le 309 of the Constitution of India and the law made by t he appropriate Legislature, the law made by the appropria te Legislature prevails.
It wa s, inter alia, urged on behalf of the petitioners that t he situation brought about by the rules of July 30, 1959 co n stituted variation to their prejudice in the conditions of service applicable to them immediately prior to the reorga n isation of the State and the Rules were consequently i n valid.
It i s, therefore, clear that neither the Rules of July '30, 195 9, nor the procedure for making promotions to the posts of Deputy Collector divisionwise varies the conditions of service of the petitioners to their disadvantage. " As regards the order of the Madh ya Pradesh High Court dated 4th April, 1983 .it may be point ed out that the said High Court in an earlier writ petiti on being Misc.
No. 44 1 of 198 1 that those w ho according to them had been promoted in pursuance of t he circular dated 6th/November, 1962 on completing two year s ' service were junior to them.
No. 4 41 of 1981, filed in C.M.P. Nos. 9356 57 of 1983.
In this connection, reference may also be made to the cou n ter affidavit of Sobha Ramanand, Deputy Director, Ordnan ce Factory Cells G. Block, Ministry of Defence, filed in Wr it Petition (Civil) Nos. 3812 19 of 1983 with regard to a matter relevant for promotion.
In paragraph 2(i) it has be en stated that during 1962 63 due to sudden expansion of Or d nance Factories Organisation in the wake of Chinese aggre s sion a large number of posts of Chargeman 11 and other pos ts were created and as a result thereof persons already in service as Supervisors 'A ' were promoted to the posts of Chargeman II on completion of 2 years ' service.
It h as further been stated therein that after the newly creat ed posts were thus filled by promotion, chances of promotion of those who were appointed subsequently diminished and f or want of sufficient number of 108 vacancies as Chargeman II they could not be promoted to th at post soon after the completion of 2 years ' service.
They were thereaft er promoted as soon as vacancies became available and th at during the period that they were on the approved panel no person junior to them or of equal seniority superseded the m. Nothing substantial has been brought to our notice on beha lf of the petitioners on the basis of which the aforesa id statements made in the counter affidavit may be doubted.
In view of the foregoing discussion, we find it diff i cult to grant the reliefs prayed for in the aforesaid 'wr it petitions simply on the basis of the judgment of this Cou rt dated 2nd February, 1981 in Civil Appeal No. 441 of 198 1.
No. 44 1 of 19 81 entitled in pursuance of the Civil Miscellaneous Petitio ns referred to above filed by them.
The grievance of the petitio n ers, however, is that this promotion tantamounts to impl e mentation of the order of this Court dated 2nd As regards back wages the Madhya Pradesh Hi gh Court held: "It is the settled service rule that there has to be no p ay for no work i.e. a person will not be entitled to any p ay and allowance during the period for which he did not perfo rm the duties of a higher post although after due considerati on he was given a proper place in the gradation list havi ng deemed to be promoted to the higher post with effect fr om the date his junior was promoted.
At the most they would be entitled to refixation of the ir present salary on the basis of the notional seniority gran t ed to them in different grades so that their present sala ry is not less than those who are immediately below them. "
V.A. Bobde, Shyam Mudaliar, V.M. Tarkunde, G.L. Sangh i, A.K. Sanghi, Mrs. R. Karanjawala, Mrs. Meenakshi Karanjawa la N.M. Popli and V.J. Francis for the Petitioners.
