(Under Article 32 of the Constitution of India).
J. The petitioners are carpenters 1st and 2nd grade employed at the Wood Working Centre of the Himachal Pradesh State Handicrafts Corporation (the "Corpo ration").
In this petition under Article 32 of the Constitution, they are seeking enforcement of their fundamental right to have "equal pay for equal work".
The Corporation has resisted the petitioners ' claim.
The Government has not fixed the mini mum wages payable to the petitioners engaged in the Corpora tion or other like industries, but the Corporation has adopted the minimum wages payable for similar work in the construction industry.
It is also stated that the petitioners are supplied with the necessary tools for carry ing out their work and also working uniforms like aprons and overalls.
The Corporation has clearly stated that there are no regular employees of the petitioners ' categories in its establishment and, as such, the question of payment to the petitioners, the pay admissible to regular employees does not arise.
The Corporation is a company which has been incorporated under the .
The main object of the Corporation as seen from the Memorandum of Associa tion is to preserve the traditional arts and crafts and also to popularise handicrafts and handloom items 665 in the State of Himachal Pradesh and other parts of the country and abroad.
In order to achieve this primary objec tive, the Corporation gives training to artisans, weavers and craftsmen in various traditional arts and crafts.
During the period of training, the trainees are paid a stipend by the Corporation.
Upto 31st March, 1987, the Corporation has imparted training to as many as 1662 persons in different areas like carpet weaving, handloom weaving, painting, metal crafts, wood carving, etc.
Apart from giving training, the Corporation also ensures marketing support to the artisans and craftsmen by purchasing their products at remunerative prices and sell them through the marketing network of the Corporation.
It is said that the village artisans and craftsmen make different items on a piece rate basis and in some cases, they execute the work in their own homes.
The financial aspect of the Corporation is stated to be not encouraging, and indeed, it is disappointing.
But to avoid or minimise further loss, it is stated that the Corporation has reduced its overheads and maintained only the administrative staff in the production centers at different parts of the State and no permanent craftsmen are employed.
With these facts, we may now turn to the principle upon which the petitioners ' case is rested.
The princi ple was incorporated only under Article 39(d) of the Consti tution as a Directive Principle of State Policy.
There the Court pointed out that that principle has to be read into Article 14 of the Constitution which enjoins the State not to deny any person equality before the law or the equal protection of the law and also to Article 16 which declares that there should be equality of opportu nity for all citizens in matters relating to employment or appointment to any office under the State.
The Court, therefore, directed the Central Government to fix the pay scale of the petitioner on par with his counterparts doing identical work under the same employer.
