There it manufactures and sells fusel oil/Styrene Monomer falling under Tariff Item No. 68 of the Ist Schedule to the Act.
The case of the appellant is that the said fusel oil is a com pletely manufactured article and after completion of its manufacture, it is stored in storage tanks duly approved for this purpose.
It is at this stage that the quantity of fusel oil/Styrene Monomer manufactured, according to the appel lant, is entered in the RG 1 Register maintained for goods manufactured by the appellant.
It is also the case of the appellant that the said fusel oil/Styrene Monomer manufac tured by it is sold in bulk and delivered to the customers at the appellant 's factory.
The appellant had filed its price lists in respect of the same.
Collector, the appellant had shown the value of fusel oil/Styrene Monomer at the rate at which those were sold in wholesale as "naked Ex Works and in bulk".
On 2nd July, 1983, a notice in respect of a consignment was issued to show cause as to why value of the drums should not be included in the value of the goods.
Another show cause notice as to why value of the drums should not be included in the assessable value of the goods, was issued to the appellant on the 5th April, 1983 pertaining to Gate Pass No. 773 whereunder the appellant had cleared 2.4 KI of fusel oil in drums supplied by the buyer.
Replies were duly filed to the said show cause notices by the appellant contending, inter alia, that as the drums were supplied by the buyer, value thereof could not be included in the assessable value.
On the 11th August, 1983, two orders were passed by the Assist ant Collector one in relation to each of the aforesaid show cause notices.
Appeals were filed by the assessee.
Collector to inflate the assessable value without establishing the receipt of the additional consideration by the appellant apart from what had been shown in the invoice.
The appellant was not a manufacturer of drums.
No duty of excise, therefore, could be collected from the appellant on such drums which were nei ther manufactured nor purchased by the appellant Learned Attorney General emphasised that it is a well settled principle of construction that in taxing statutes one has only to look merely at what is clearly stated.
In this connection, it may be rele vant to mention that in C.A. 4339 41/86, in respect of which show notice was issued as to why value of drums should not be included in the assessable value of fusel oil and Styrene Monomer, 90% of Styrene Mono 982 mer had been sold directly in tanks and only 10% of Styrene Monomer had been sold in drums and the show cause notice on 20th October, 1983 had been issued relating to clearance of fusel oil in 45 drums but the said drums had been supplied by the buyer.
In that decision, it has been recognized that the measure employed for assessing a tax must not be confused with the nature of the tax, while the measure of the tax may be assessed by its own standard to serve as a standard for assessing the levy the Legislature need not contonour it along lines which spell out the character of the levy it self.
Reliance may be placed to the observations of this Court at pp.
It was contended that it is not correct to equate the meas ure of tax with the levy itself which is the basis of the contentions of the appellant.
This would be a radical departure from old section 4 and cannot be said to be on the 989 same basis.
This Court rejected the contention on behalf of the assessee in that case, that section 4 also levied excise on the basis of a conceptual value which must exclude post manufacturing expenses and post manufacturing profit by observing that the contention proceeded on the assumption that a conceptual value governed the assessment of the levy.
It was reiterated that the old section 4 and new section 4 determine the value on the basis of price charged or chargeable by the particular assessee.
It was conceivable that the wholesale dealer who takes delivery might have its depot at a very short distance only from the factory gate or may have such transport arrangements available that damage or injury to the cigarettes could be avoided.
The ratio of the decision in Godfrey Phil lips ' case (supra) is in consonance with the decision of Union of India vs Bombay Tyre International (supra) and further in consonance with the true basis of excise as explained in several decisions mentioned before.
If the answer is yes, three kinds of situation may arise.
K. Parasaran, Attorney General, A.K. Ganguli, and P. Parmeshwaran for the Respondents.
It has its factory at, inter alia, Visakhapatnam.
The fusel oil/Styrene Monomer is also capable of being supplied in road tankers to customers.
In the said price lists, which were duly approved by the Asstt.
According to the appellant, the manufacture of fusel oil is complete and it is the fully manufactured fusel oil/Styrene Monomer which is stored in the storage tank.
There the drums had been supplied by the buyer.
The Assistant Collector included the value of the drums in the assessable value of the said fusel oil/Styrene Monomer.
He held that the appellant had not collected any amount in excess of the amount indicated in the price lists.
Therefore, in addition 980 to this amount, according to the Collector (Appeals), it was not open to the Asstt.
There was a further appeal to the Tribunal.
The Tribunal held that at the time of removal the goods were delivered from the factory in packed condition and the containers were not returnable by the buyer, there fore, the value had to be included in the assessable value.
The Tribunal, therefore, accepted the revenue 's contention and restored the order of the Asst.
On behalf of the appellant, Shri Salve contended that the Tribunal had failed to appreciate the admitted factual position that the fusel oil/Styrene Monomer manufactured by the appellant is sold in bulk and is capable of being so sold.
Hence, according to the appellant, it is not necessary for the said fusel oil/Styrene Monomer to be supplied to the customers in drums in the aforesaid situation.
The Tribunal, therefore, it was urged, ought to have held that the value could not be included in the assessable value of the fusel oil/Styrene Monomer.
It was contended that in any event under the Act and the Rules, the duty of excise is payable by the manufacturer on the manufactured goods.
The said drums were sup plied by the customers for the purpose of filling the fusel oil/Styrene Monomer. .
It was further urged that on a correct and true interpretation of Section 4(4)(d)(i) of the Act, the cost of packing could be included in the assessable value only when the packing is either manufactured by the assessee or is purchased by the assessee.
The said sub section does not contemplate, accord ing to the appellant, the inclusion of the cost of packing in the value of goods when the packing is supplied by a customer to a manufacturer on its own cost.
It was contended by Shri Salve, appearing on behalf of the appellant, that on a correct analysis of section 4(4)(d), the duty being on the activity of manufacture whatever is necessary to bring the goods into existence alone can be taken into account for duty purposes.
The said decision, according to learned Attorney General, was concerned with the rentals of certain oxygen gas cylinders supplied by the assessee.
the value of such drums/containers would also have to be included on a correct interpretation of charging sections, namely, sec tions 3 and 4 of the Act.
There is no room, he contended, for any intendment.
There is no equity about a tax, it was submitted.
There is no presump tion as to tax.
The Asstt.
Collector in those appeals had included the costs of such drums in the value of styrene monomer.
Relying on the two decisions referred to hereinbe fore, learned Attorney General emphasised that percentages of sales would not in any manner affect determination of the assessable value of the excisable goods.
No. 4339 of 1986 sold only 10% of the excisable goods to its buyer where drums were supplied by the buyers themselves and that 90% of the sales were through tankers belonging to the customers would not in any manner affect the question or determination of the assessable value of the excisable goods inasmuch as the 10% of its sales to whole sale buyers were in drums supplied by the buyers at the time of removal.
According to the learned Attorney General, the fact that 90% of the goods were supplied in tankers and not in containers had no relevance at all and the 10% represent ed the entire quantity of excisable goods delivered in packed condition.
In that case, the learned Attorney General contended the only question which arose was whether the rental charges received by the assessee for the gas cylinders lent by it to its customers could be included in the assessable value and whether inter est earned on deposits made by the customers for the securi ty of the cylinders supplied by the assessee could also be included in the assessable value of the excisable goods.
This Court clarified in the said decision that the said charges could not be included in the value of the goods since these were only ancillary and not incidental to the activities for the manufacture of gases.
Learned Attorney General submitted that this Court had no occasion in that decision to consider the question which arises in the present case, namely whether the cost of packing materials would have to be included in the assessable value of the goods when goods are delivered in packed conditions.
3 SCR 123.
It states, inter alia, that manufacture includes any process incidental or ancillary to the comple tion of manufactured product.
It is, therefore, necessary to bear in mind that a process which is ancillary or incidental to the completion of the manufactured product, that is to say, to make the manufacture complete would be "manufacture".
It is relevant and important to bear this aspect in mind.
Section 3 of the Act provides that there shall be levied and collected in such manner as maybe pre scribed duties of excise on all excisable goods other than salt which are produced or manufactured in India.
"Excisable goods", under section 2(d) of the Act, means goods specified in the Schedule to the as being subject to duty of excise and includes salt.
Section 4 of the Act provides for the valuation of excisable goods for purposes of charging of duty of excise.
The relevant provi sion of section 4 of the Act deals with the manner as to how the value is to be computed and section 4(4)(d) stipulates as follows: ""value" in relation to any excisable goods, (i) where the goods are delivered at the time of removal in a packed condition, includes the cost of such packing except the cost of the packing which is of a durable nature and is returnable by the buyer to the assessee.
