(Under Article 32 of the Constitution of India) R.F. Nariman, P.H. Parekh, N.N. Keshwani, Mrs. H. Wahi and R.N. Keshwani for the Petitioners.
The petitioners in these petitions have questioned the validity of a notification issued by the Government of Gujarat on June 26, 1985 in exercise of its powers conferred by Section 15 of the (67 of 1957), herein after referred to as the Act, amending the Gujarat Minor Mineral Rules 1966, hereinafter referred to as the Rules, with effect from 1 7 1985 substituting the original rule 21 of the Rules by a new rule which reads as follows: "21.
Clause (e) of the said section defines 'minor minerals ' as building stones, gravel, ordinary clay, ordinary sand other than sand used for prescribed purposes and any other mineral which the Central Government may.
It empowers the Central Government to enhance or reduce the rate of royalty prescribed by the Second Schedule in respect of any mineral subject to the condition that the Central Government shall not enhance the rate of royalty in respect of any mineral more than once during any period of three years.
(1) The State Government may, by notifi cation in the Official Gazette, make rules for regulating the grant of (quarry leases, mining leases or other mineral concessions) in re spect of minor minerals and for purposes connected therewith.
(2) Until rules are made under sub section (1), my rules made by a State Government regulating the grant of (quarry leases, mining leases or other mineral concessions) in re spect of minor minerals which are in force immediately before the commencement of this Act shall continue in force.
(3) The holder of a mining lease or any other mineral concession granted under any rule made under sub section (1) 410 shall pay royalty or dead rent, whichever is more in respect of minor minerals removed or consumed by him or by his agent, manager, employee, contractor or sub lessee at the rate prescribed for the time being in the rules framed by the State Government in respect of minor minerals; Provided that the State Government shall not enhance the rate of royalty in respect of any minor mineral for more than once during any period of three years.
It is seen from section 15 that the State Government is empowered to make rules for regulating the grant of quarry leases, mining leases or other mineral concessions in re spect of minor minerals and for purposes connected there with.
In exercise of the said power under section 15 the Government of Gujarat promulgated the Gujarat Minor Minerals Rules, 1966 which are referred to as the Rules as stated above.
During the pendency of the said petitions in the High Court the impugned notification was issued increasing the royalty payable in respect of Black Trap and Hard Murrum from Rs.4 to Rs.7.
Shri R.F. Nariman, learned counsel for the petitioners in some of the petitions had two contentions: 1. that the royalty levied and covered under the Rules should be applied only for mineral development and since the said royalty is being treated as part of the consolidated fund of the State and used for other purposes by the State the levy was bad; and 2.
that the impugned notification in question was in contravention of clause (b) of Article 304 of the Constitution.
