A.S. Nambiar and K.R. Nambiar for the Appellant.
This appeal is directed against the judgment dated 27.10.1979 of the High Court of Madras con firming the conviction of the appellant under section 161, I .P.C. and under section 336 5(2) read with section 5(1)(d) of the Prevention of Corrup tion Act.
PW 3, the Principal of the training school issued exhibit P 2 show cause notice to the PW 1, Venkataswamy, the canteen contractor, as to why his licence for running the canteen should not be cancelled.
This was on the basis of a complaint made by the appellant that the food served in the canteen was substand ard.
The appellant had taken food in the canteen for two days and being dissatisfied discontinued the practice before the notice was issued.
On 21.10.1975, the appellant is stated to have pressed the demand to PW 1.
PW 6 after drawing up a mahazar in the presence of PW 2, Jaganathan, Assistant of the Office of the Special Tehsildar, Usilampatti directed PW 1 to give the notes to the appellant.
PW 1 handed over the money to the appellant who received the same.
When PW 1 emerged, PW 6 along with PW 2 confronted the appellant.
The appellant produced the currency notes.
PW 6 conducted the phenolphthalein test with reference to the fingers of the appellant.
The test was positive, the currency notes were seized and the appellant arrested.
PW 3, the Principal produced the concerned file relating to show cause notice, from the house of the appellant on the same day.
Finally, the appellant was chargesheeted.
PW 1 affirmed the fact that the appellant made the demand and had also received the amount on 22.10.
The recovery of the currency notes from the appellant was not challenged.
The plea of the appellant was that PW 1 had returned the amount due to him and there had been no demand for a bribe as there had been no occasion for doing so.
The Trial Court accepted the prosecution evidence, rejected the plea of the appellant and recorded the conviction.
Before the High Court, the .contentions of the appellant were that there was no independent evidence regarding the demand, the messenger who had contacted PW 1 at the 337 behest of the appellant had not been examined, the solitary evidence of PW 1 is insufficient, the explanation offered by the appellant was probable and there is no conclusive evi dence to hold that the appellant.
It was also urged that the appellant being new in the office could exert little influence on the Principal and the whole story is, therefore improbable.
PW 6 has stated at the time of the seizure the explanation offered by the appellant was that PW 1 had returned the loan and that he had given the money for the Dipawali.
It cannot, therefore, be said that there had been consistent explanation for the appellant.
P 2 memo had been issued on the basis of the complaint received from the appellant that on getting the explanation from PW 1 he on 18.10.1975 itself passed orders and closed the file.
The order made was not disclosed to PW 1 and till 22.10.1975, the file itself was kept by the appellant in his personal custody.
On a careful consideration of the facts and circum stances, we are not satisfied that the appellant had even by preponderance of probability succeeded in rebutting the presumption.
