T.S. Krishnamurthy lyer, M.J. Paul and Kailash Vasudev for the Appellant.
The firm and its partners arc hereinafter compendiously referred to as 'the tenants '.
P 1) was dated 22.9.
P 2), dated 3.10.
On 20.7.65, the LIC moved two applications (being HRC Nos. 3310 and 3311 of 1965) in the court of the Rent Con troller (Sri A. Varadarajan who later became a Judge of the this Court) for fixation of a "fair rent" for each of the premises.
The fair rent claimed was computed at Rs.2,399.03 per month in respect of item No. 1 as against the rent of Rs. 150 p.m. fixed under the lease deed.
The defendants (G.G. and his sons) filed their objections to the above applications.
In view of this the Rent Controller dismissed H.R.C. 3310/ 65 relating to item No. 1 and, in H.R.C. 3311/65, fixed the fair rent in respect of item No. 2 at Rs. 1451 p.m. The order of the Rent Controller was dated 9.3.
There were appeals to the Court of Small Causes.
In respect of item No. 1, in H.R.A. 534/66, the Court, on a perusal of the sale deed dated 30.7.53 filed by the LIC before it, came to the conclusion that the buildings on the land leased under exhibit P 1 had also been conveyed to the LIC and that the LIC was entitled to seek fixation of fair rent in respect of this premises also.
It may be mentioned here that, even in certain earlier proceedings for fixation of fair rent and eviction (H.R.C. 867/73 and H.R.C. 2557/64), it had been held by the Rent Controller that item No. 1 (door No. 2) belonged to the LIC but his order of eviction had been set aside by the appellate court on some other ground.
In the circumstances, the Court of Small Causes, in the appeals now being referred to (H.RA. 534/66), did not treat the earlier decision as res judicata but came independently to the same conclusion that item No. 1 belonged to the LIC.
The tenants filed revision petitions against the order of the Court of Small Causes but these were dismissed on 20.11.1968.
After the Civil Revision Petitions by the tenant were dismissed, the LIC filed C.S. 64/1969 on the original side of the Madras High Court against the tenants for recovery of arrears of rent on the basis of the fair rents fixed, which were computed at Rs.98,250.97 in respect of the two items of property.
No. 54 of 1969 (which was disposed of along with C.S. No. 87 of 72 by a common judgment dated 23.10.1972), the contention urged on behalf of the tenants was that, since the subject matter of the lease under exhibit P 1 was only a vacant site, the Rent Controller had no juris diction to fix the fair rent in respect thereof and that, therefore, the claim in the suit for arrears of rent, based on the Rent Controller 's order in respect of the premises covered by exhibit P 1 had to fail.
The tenants filed an appeal being O.S.A. No. 62 of 1973.
The Appellate Bench confirmed the decree in respect of item No. 2 subject to certain modifications which are not here relevant.
The present appeal, by Special Leave granted on 3.7. 1979, is from the order of the Division Bench rejecting the appellant 's claim for arrears of rent in respect of item No. 1 of the property set out in Schedule A to the plaint based on the difference between the fair rent fixed by the Rent Controller and the rent payable therefore under exhibit P 1.
552 Two interesting aspects may be pointed out in regard to these two questions.
The second is that, though the claim in issue before us is only a money claim for arrears of rent, any decision given by us, based, as it will have to be, on the issue whether the LIC owns the superstructure or not and whether the tenants are the les sees only of vacant land or of both land and buildings, will have repercussions not only on the claim in this suit (which by now has accummulated to more than Rs.3 lakhs) but also on any other proceedings by way of ejectment or otherwise which the LIC may have in contemplation against the tenants.
They clearly make out that the superstruc tures put up by the lessee under exhibit P 1 were not included in the property conveyed under the terms of exhibit P 3 and that, whatever may be the rights of the LIC to evict the tenant with liberty to demolish the superstructure on the termination of the lease, it had no property in the super structure so long as the lease subsisted.
whether, despite the above conclusion, we are precluded, by principles of, or analogous to, res judicata, from going behind the findings to the contrary given in the earlier rent control proceedings by the Court of Small Causes which have become final on the dismissal of the C.R.P. filed thereagainst Sri T.S. Krishnamurthy lyer, learned counsel for the appellant, submitted that the Courts now are precluded from going behind the findings of the Court of Small Causes in the earlier proceedings.
He also conceded that there may be a difference in principle between a civil court and a court of limited jurisdiction.
But, he submitted, even the decision of a Tribunal or a Court of limited jurisdiction cannot be called in question so long as it acts within the scope of the jurisdiction conferred on it by the relevant statutes.
At any rate, it is not open to one of the parties to contend that the decision given by the Court of Small Causes, which has become final between the parties, is a total nullity which can be completely ignored.
It was, therefore, not open to the High Court to entertain a collateral attack on the validity of binding nature or correctness of the order of the Court of Small Causes and to consider and determine afresh the issue as to whether the L.I.C. is the owner of the premises as claimed or not.
The appellant landlord had filed an eviction petition under the Rent Control Act without giving notice under section 111(h) of the (which, in those days, was considered to be a condition precedent even to the filing of an eviction petition under the Rent Control Act) and ob tained an order of eviction.
In these proceedings no conten tion had been raised by the tenant on the non issue of the notice under the .
An appeal by the tenant also failed but here again the above point was not taken.
Thereafter the tenant filed a suit for a declaration that the order of the Rent Controller was ultra vires in that no notice to quit had been given as required by law.
We are of opinion that a tenant can waive notice to quit; but even if he cannot, notice has not to be proved as a condition precedent to the institution of the suit . .
Mr. Srinivasa Ayyangar concedes that if a landlord filed a suit in ejectment and failed to say that the tenancy had been determined, the Court would dismiss the suit and not return the plaint.
In the same way, the Rent Controller would have to dismiss the application if it were not alleged in the affidavit that notice had been given or if it found, upon hearing the parties and considering the evidence, that notice had not been given.
It would follow from this, therefore, that if notice to quit was necessary it would be merely one of the issues to be decided by the Rent Controller and would not in any way affect his jurisdiction to entertain the applica tion.
Shri Iyer submits that the appellants ' case here is on a stronger footing than in the two decisions cited above because here, in the earlier proceedings before the Rent controller and the Court of Small Causes, a specific point had been taken that the tenant was only a tenant of the land and not of the premises (which belonged to him) and that this contention had been specifically over ruled by the appellate court after a consideration of the relevant mate rial.
Sri Krishnamoorthy Iyer also contended that even if it may be an arguable question as to whether the decision in the earlier petitions constitutes res judicata or not and it may plausibly be argued that it does not constitute res judicata, the question for our consideration really is whether the order passed in the 557 earlier eviction petition can be treated as a nullity being passed by a court totally without jurisdiction.
He submitted that if the tenants had filed a suit for declaration that the order passed in the earlier proceedings as a nullity that would have been bound to fail.
He contended that, even if the arguments on behalf of the appellant were to be accepted, the appellants were not entitled to succeed, for the following reason.
The Corporation had formerly filed a petition H.R.C. 867/1963 in respect of these two buildings for fixation of fair rent.
In that petition the tenant disputed the title of the Corporation in respect of the buildings.
So, the Corpo ration immediately filed an application H.R.C. 2557/64 for eviction on the ground of wilful denial of title.
He gave an express finding that the building No. 2.
Mount Road belongs to the Corporation.
He submitted that the Court erred in thinking that no fur ther proceed 558 ings had been taken in the earlier matter, The fact was that a Civil Revision Petition (C.R.P. 1839/66) had been filed against the order of the appellate court (H.R.A. 1162/64).
