Appeal from the judgment and decree dated March 20, 1651, of the Mysore High Court in R.A. No. 155 of 1947 48, arising out of the judgment and decree dated December 19, 1947, of the Court of Sub_Judge, Mysore, in 0.
section K. Venkataranga Iyengar and K. Keshava Iyengar, for the appellant.
November 13.
This appeal arises from a suit brought by the appellant in the court of the Subordinate Judge, Mysore, as the sole executor of the will alleged to have been executed by one Lakshmamma on August 22, 1945, (exhibit A).
In this suit the appellant claimed a declaration that the said Lakshmamma was the owner of the properties mentioned in the schedule attached to the plaint and as such was entitled to dispose of them by a will; and be asked for consequential reliefs purporting to give effect to the bequests made by the said will.
Since respondent 1 was in possession of all the five items, the appellant claimed a decree for possession against respondent 1 in respect of items 3, 4 and 5 and a declaration that respondent I was to have only a life interest in items 1 and 2.
By his plaint the appellant also claimed to recover Rs. 2,106 which had been collected by respondent 1 by way of income from the suit lands and a further prayer was made for the payment of current mesne profits by respondent 1.
One Annaji lyengar who died in July 1903 left behind him his adopted son, the appellant, and two daughters Gundamma alias Ranganayakamma who is still alive and Lakshmamma alias Achamma who is alleged to have executed the will in suit and died thereafter on September 26, 1945, at Mandya.
Respondents 2 to 4 are the sons of the appellant.
The couple had three children, a son named Narayana lyengar who died on January 14, 1944, without any issue and left behind him his widow respondent 1 ; and the two remaining children of Lakshmamma were daughters Thirumalamma and Yadugiramma.
The claim made by the appellant under the will is resisted by respondent 1.
It was also alleged that the said Annaji lyengar had executed a will On August 31, 1901, (exhibit B2(a)) under which he had bequeathed in favour of Lakshmamma and Sadagopalachar hypo thecation bonds to the extent of Rs.
The appellant alleged that Sadagopalachar was a man of very moderate means and had given up his petty job in the registration department in order to manage the properties received by him and his wife from Annaji lyengar.
Alternatively it was alleged by the appellant that even if survivorship did not apply and so her son Narayana lyengar acquired interest to half the share in the properties covered by the gift deed, he had during his lifetime sold away considerable properties of his father and mother much above the value of his half share and in consequence the remaining properties which represent Lakshmamma 's half share became her absolute properties.
