From the Judgment and Order dated 3.2.
Counsel state that the facts in all these appeals are identical and that the only facts neces sary (or, atleast, on record before us), on the basis of which the issue us is to be decided, are these: Each of the appellants/ petitioners (hereinafter referred to compendi ously as 'assessees '), is a registered dealer in the State of Haryana.
He then manufactured certain goods in the State with the aid of said raw materials.
The writ petitions have been filed directly in this Court in view of a learned single Judge of the High Court having decided the issue against the assessees as early as 25.11.
The provisions of the statute, relevant for our purpose, and their relevant amendments may be noticed first: 347 1. made by any dealer" in any capacity during a given period.
So we have to proceed on the basis that the underlined words never were there in el.
The State Government had issued a notification dated 19.7.74 (even before the 1976 amendment) clarifying the position with an answer to the question in the affirmative but this notification as well as the interpretation favoured by it were quashed by a decision of the High Court reported as Goodyear India Ltd. vs State, [1982] 53 STC 163.
However, to avoid confusion both the clauses may be set out here: (b) purchases goods, other than those specified in Schedule B, from any source in the State and uses them in the State in the manufacture of any other goods and either disposes of the manufactured goods in any manner otherwise than by way of sale in the State or despatches the manufactured goods to a place outside the State in any manner otherwise than by way of sale in the course of inter State trade or commerce or in the course of export outside the territory of India within the meaning of subsection (1) of section 5 of the Central Sales Tax Act, 1956;or; (bb) purchases goods, other than those specified in Schedule B except milk, from any source in the State and uses them in the State in the manufacture of any other goods and either disposes of the manufactured goods in any manner otherwise than by way of sale in the State or despatches the manufac tured goods to a place outside the State in any manner otherwise than by way of sale in the course of inter State trade or commerce or in the course of export outside the territory of India within the meaning of sub section (1) of section 5 of the ; or".
The relevant part of clause (b), as thus amended, will, therefore, read: "despatches the manufactured goods to a place outside the State in any manner otherwise than by way of sale . .
In that case the appellant 's goods were exported out of India.
The course of the transaction was that the appellant sold goods to the State Trading Corporation (S.T.C.) but, to the knowledge of both these parties, the goods were to be exported to fulfill contracts entered into by the S.T.C. with foreign buyers, the terms of such contracts between the foreign buyers and the S.T.C. being referred to in, and part of, the appellant 's contracts with the S.T.C. This Court, Khanna, J. dissenting, held that the sales of the appellant were not exempt u/s 5(1).
The appellant had agreed to sell his goods only to the S.T.C. and there was no provity of contract between him and the foreign buyer.
The object and reasons of the C.S.T. (Amendment) Act (Act 103 of 1976), may be usefully extracted.
According to the Export Control Orders, exports of certain goods can be made only by specified agencies such as the State Trading Corporation.
Fur ther, if such sales do not qualify as sales in the course of export, they would be liable to State sales tax and there would be a corresponding increase in the price of the goods.
Now, coming to the facts of the present case, the asses sees purchased raw materials inside the State of Haryana but paid no tax thereon, as they were registered dealers and furnished the declaration forms prescribed under section 24.
As a result of section 5(3), such penultimate sales become export sales falling beyond the purview and competence of State legislatures.
In the alternative, he submitted that, clearly, as the assessees had sold goods to other parties in India, those sales must be either local sales falling under category (1) or inter State sales failing under category (2).
On the other hand, Sri Gupta, learned counsel for the State.
He submitted that the argument that, to levy the tax imposed by section 9(1) in cases covered by section 5(3) but not section 5(1) of the C.S.T. Act would violate Article 286 of the Constitution.
If section 9 is left out, he says, the lan guage of section 6 (as amended) which brings to charge all pur chases and sales in the State would be attracted and so the impugned taxation of the purchases would be in order.
They are either local sales or inter State sales or export sales.
If the purchaser dealer of the manufactured goods is in some other State and the goods have been moved out of Haryana in pursuance of that sale, they would be inter State sales.
The goods which have been sold by the assessee must have been delivered to the dealer in pursuance of the sale either within the State or outside the State in India.
It would be a local sale or inter State sale.
We are unable to conceive of a fourth category of sale, which could be neither a local sale nor an inter State sale nor an export sale.
that such contention should come from the department which has charged the assessees on the basis of section 9(1)(b).
This contention, it seems to us, proceeds on a misconception of the issue before, and the ratio of the decision of this Court in the Goodyear case ; That was a case in which certain dealers, having purchased raw materials and manufactured goods inside the State despatched those goods outside the State otherwise than by way of sale.
The State levied a purchase tax on the raw materials u/s 9(1).
What was declared unconstitutional by this Court was, therefore, only the levy of a tax where raw materials are purchased and used inside the State for the manufacture of finished goods which are then simply and without any sale despatched rather, consigned outside the State.
