(Under Article 32 of the Constitution of India).
The petitioners submitted application for registration as Export Houses and for grant of Export House Certificate which would have entitled them to the grant of such Additional licence.
The said order refusing the Export Certificate was challenged by the petitioners by filing writ petitions under Article 226 of the Constitution before the Bombay High Court.
No. 1423 of 1984, Union of India vs Rajnikant Brothers, and other connected matters by order dated April 18, 1985, wherein it was observed that there was no requirement of diversification of exports as a condition for the grant of Export House Certificates in theImport Policy for the year 1978 1979, and the authorities were directed to issue necessary Export Certificates for the year 1978 79.
While giving the said direction the High Court imposed a condition in 237 the same terms as laid down by this Court in its order dated April 18, 1985, referred to above.
With effect from April 1, 1988, the Government of India issued the revised Import & Export Policy for the period April, 1988 to March 1991.
value of a `single item ' shall not exceed 10% of the flexibility in value terms of Rs.10 lakhs, whichever is less: (b) where the value for import of a `single item ' on the basis of 10% as at (a) above, works out to less than Rupees one lakh, import would be permitted upto a value of Rs. 1 lakh, provided it is within the overall flexibility allowed on the licence: and (iii) import of non OGL capital goods (other than those appearing in Appendices 1 Part A and 8) without indigenous clearance, subject to the same conditions as stipulated at (ii) above, within the overall flexibility allowed to Export/Trading Houses".
(1) Where the applications from Export Houses/Trading Houses for Additional licences have not been disposed of by 31st March of the proceeding licensing year, the rate of entitlement will be the same as permissible during the licensing year to which the application pertains, but the items to be allowed will be as per the Import Policy in force on the date of issue of the licence.
It has been submitted that all Export houses who have been granted Additional licences constitute a single class and that there is no basis for classifying such Export Houses into two different categories on the basis of the date of issuance of the Additional Licences or on the basis of the period of the exports against which such licences have been issued and that such a classification has no connection whatsoever with the object sought to be achieved by the Import & Export Policy 1988 91.
It has been urged that under Import & Export Policy 1978 79 Additional licences were to be given on the basis of one third of the f.o.b.
As regards the right to equality guaranteed under Article 14 the position is well settled that the said right ensures equality amongst equals and its aim is to protect persons similarly placed against discriminatory treatment.
Conversely discrimination may result if persons dissimilarly situate are treated equally.
Under the Import & Export Policy 1978 79, there were two requirements for grant of Additional license: one was the condition as to eligibility for registration as an Export House and grant of Export House Certificates; and the other was the basis for issuing the Additional licences to Export House which had been granted Export House Certificates.
value of exports in the prescribed base period of select products should not be less than Rs.
In other words, under the Import & Export Policy of 1978 79 the basis for grant of Export House Certificate as well as grant of Additional licences to Export Houses was the f.o.b.
Under the Import & Export Policy 1988 91 provision with regard to eligibility for the grant of Export House/Trading House Certificate is contained in para 212 which prescribed that the said eligibility shall be determined on the basis of the net foreign exchange (NEF) earnings from the export actually made in preceding three licensing years termed as 'the Base period '.
Among the conditions for eligibility for grant of such Certificates are that the annual average NFE earnings in the prescribed base period should not be less than Rs.
In para 215 of the said Policy, it is providedthat the Export House/Trading House would be eligible to Additional licences on the basis of the admissible exports made in the preceding licensing year and that the value of these licences will be calculated at 10% of the NFE earnings on the total eligible exports made in the preceding licensing year and that this percentage shall be 12% in cases where an Export/Trading House is able to achieve a minimum growth of 10% in term of NFE realisation in the previous year, over and above the year preceding the same.
That apart even the value of the Additional licences which can be issued under the Import & Export Policy 1988 91 on the basis of NFE earnings is much less viz.
value of exports without taking into account the outgo of foreign exchange in importing the goods required for achieving the export by an Export House and Additional licences were granted for a much larger amount at a high percentage on the basis of the f.o.b.
value of the exports, in the Import & Export Policy 1988 91 there is a more realistic appraisal of actual benefit to country 's economy by the exports by taking into account the net foreign exchange earnings after deducting the value of the imports and additional licences are issued on the basis of the net foreign exchange earnings for a much lesser value on a smaller percentage.
The petitioner were no granted Additional licences on the basis of net foreign exchange earnings and they have secured the Additional licences on the basis of the f.o.b.
In D. navinchandra & Co. case (supra) this Court has not laid down that Export Houses, like the petitioners, who are granted Additional licences on the basis of the order Dated April 18, 1985, are to be treated at par with Export Houses who are granted Additional licences under Import & Export Policy prevalent at the time of import.
In that case this Court, while explaining the background in which the order dated April 18, 1985, was passed, has observed: "It has to be borne in mind that basic background under which the Rajnikant 's decision was rendered, the Export Houses had been refused Export House Certificates because it was insisted that they should have diversified their export and that was a condition for the grant or entitlement of an export house certificate.
248 Here we find that in the Import & Export Policy 1988 91 there has been relaxation to a limited extent in respect of import by Export Houses who are granted Additional licences under the said Policy on the basis of their exports during that period 1987 88 and subsequent periods.
Since the basis for the grant of Additional licences which are entitled to this relaxation is different from the basis on which Additional licences were granted to the petitioners, the petitioners cannot claim the benefit of the same relaxation and assail the validity of sub para (10) of para 218 of the Import & Export Policy 1988 91.
Shri Salve has invited our attention to the Import Licence dated November 21, 1988 issued in favour of M/s. Suraj Diamonds Industries Pvt.
