From the Judgment and Order dated 27.4.79 of the Madras High Court in Criminal Misc.
216 Kapil Sibal, B.R.L. Iyengar, K.V. Mohan, S.R. Setia, K.R. Nambiar and A.K. Nigam for the Appellant.
A Judge of the Supreme Court as well as a Judge of the High Court is a constitutional functionary appointed under Article 124 and under Article 217 of the Constitution re spectively.
Sub article 2 of Article 124 further provides that every Judge of the Supreme Court shall be appointed by the President by warrant under his hand and seal after consultation with such of the Judges of the Supreme Court and of the High Courts in the States as the President may deem necessary for the purpose and shall hold office until he attains the age of sixty five years.
Sub article (5) also provides that Parliament may by law regulate the procedure for the presentation of an address and for the investigation and proof of the misbehaviour or incapacity of a Judge under clause (4).
Without such an address by each of the House of the Parliament, the President is not empowered under the Constitution to order removal Of a Judge of the Supreme Court from his office.
Article 2 18 lays down that a Judge of the High Court may be removed from his office by the President in the manner provided under clauses (4) and (5) of Article 124.
Unless that ad dress is presented to the President in the same session for such removal, the President is not empowered under the Constitution to make the order for removal of the Judge of the Supreme Court of India or of the Judge of the High Court on the ground of proved misbehaviour or incapacity.
"The power to transfer a High Court Judge is conferred by the Constitution in public inter est and not for the purpose of providing the executive with a weapon to punish a Judge who does not toe its line or who, for some reason or the other, has fallen from its grace.
The extraordinary power which the Constitution has conferred on the President by article 222(1) cannot be exercised in a manner which is calculated to defeat or destroy in one stroke the object and purpose of the various provisions conceived with such care to insulate the judiciary from the influence and pressures of the executive.
The power to punish a High Court Judge, if one may so describe it, is to be found only in article 2 18 read with article 124(4) and (5) of the Constitu tion, under which a Judge of the High Court can be removed from his office by an order of the President passed after an address by each House of Parliament, supported by a majority of the total membership of that House and by a majority of not less then two thirds of the members of that House present and voting, has been presented to the President in the same session for such removal on the ground of proved misbehaviour or incapacity.
"The concept of independence of judiciary is a noble concept which inspires the Constitutional Scheme and constitute the foundation on which rests the edifice of our democratic polity.
If there is one principle which runs through the entire fabric of the Constitution, it is the principle of the rule of law and under the Constitution, it is the judiciary which is entrusted with the task of keeping every organ of the State within the limits of the law and thereby making the rule of law meaningful and effective.
It is to aid the judiciary in this task that the power of judicial review has been conferred upon the judiciary and it is by exercising this power which constitutes one of the most potent weapons in armoury of the law, that the judi ciary seeks to protect the citizen against violation of his constitutional or legal rights or misuse of abuse of power by the State or its officers.
If we may again quote the eloquent words of Justice Krishna Iyer: "Independence of the judiciary is not genuflexion; nor is it opposition to every proposition of Government.
It is neither judiciary made to opposition measure nor Government 's pleasure.
It is this princi ple of independence of the judiciary which we must keep in mind while interpreting the relevant provisions of the Constitution.
A Judge of the Supreme Court shall be appointed by the President by the warrant under his hand and seal after consultation with such Judges of the Supreme Court and of the High Court in the State as the President may deem neces sary for the purpose and shall hold office until he attains the age of 65 years.
It is, therefore, evident that a Judge of the Supreme Court as well as a Judge of the High Court is a constitutional functionary as has been observed by this Court in the decisions cited hereinbefore and to maintain the independence of the judiciary and to enable the Judge to effectively discharge his duties as a Judge and to maintain the rule of law, even in respect of lis against the Central Government or the State Government.
Thus, a Judge either of the High Court or of the Supreme Court is inde pendent of the control of the executive while deciding cases between the parties including the Central Government and State Government uninfluenced by the State in any manner whatsoever.
The President has not been given the sole power or the exclusive power to remove a Judge either of the Supreme Court or of the High Court from his office though the Presi dent appoints the Judge by warrant under his hand and seal after consultation with such of the Judges of the Supreme Court and of the High Court in the States as he may deem necessary for that purpose and in case of the appointment of the Judge of the High Court, the President appoints a Judge by warrant under his hand and seal after consultation with the Chief Justice of India, the Governor of the State and in a case of appointment of a Judge other than the Chief Jus tice, the Chief Justice of the High Court.
It is has been eloquently and vehemently urged on behalf of the appellant that since the Judge of the Supreme Court as well as of the High Court is a constitu tional functionary and 223 there is no employer and employee relationship or master and servant relationship between the Judge and the President of India and for that the Central Government or the State Government there is no authority to remove the Judge from 'his office by the executive except by taking recourse to procedure of impeachment as envisaged in Article 124(4) and (5) of the Constitution of India.
The Judge as a con stitutional functionary being appointed by the President can only be removed by mandatory procedure provided under Arti cle 124 of the Constitution and in no other manner.
In England, offices held during good behaviour may in the event of misconduct be determined by impeachment.
It has been urged further that under Article 361, the President and the Governor have been given protection from being answerable to any court for the exercise and perform ance of the powers and duties of his office or for any act done or purporting to be done by him in the exercise and performance of those powers and duties.
The President, therefore, has the power to appoint as well as to remove a Judge from his office on the ground of 226 proved misbehaviour or incapacity as provided in Article 124 of the Constitution.
The contention that frivolous prosecution can be launched against a Judge for giving a judgment against the Central Government or any of its Officers is of no avail in as much as such decision does not amount to misbehaviour within the meaning of the Article 124 of the Constitution.
It is also necessary to mention in this connection that the appellant resigned his post of Chief Justice when FIR was lodged by the CBI and so he ceased to be a public serv ant on the date of lodging the FIR against him by the CBI.
In the present appeal the appellant ceases to be a public servant as h. resigned from the office.
Therefore at the time of filing the FIR the appellant ceases to be a public servant and so no sanction under Sec. 6(1)(c) of the said act is necessary.
The trial of Criminal Case No. 46/77 filed by the Respondent be proceeded with.
K. JAGANNATHA SHETTY, J. This appeal by certificate under Articles 132(1) and 134(1)(e) of the Constitution has been filed by the former Chief Justice of the Madras High Court against the Full Bench decision of the same High Court refusing to quash the criminal proceedings taken against him.
The background of the case in the barest outline is as follows: The appellant started his life as an Advocate in the High Court of Madras.
On 229 1 May 1969, he became the Chief Justice of the Madras High Court.
On 24 February 1976, the CBI registered a case against him with issuance of a First Information Report which was filed in one of the Courts at New Delhi.
It was alleged in the First Information Report that taking into consideration the sources of income of the appellant as a Judge and Chief Justice of the High Court and the mode and style of his living with the probable expenses required during the period of his Judgeship/Chief Justiceship, it is reasonably be lieved that the appellant cannot satisfactorily account fox the possession of assets which are far disproportion he to his known source of income.
On 28 February 1976, a copy of the First Information Report was personally taken by the Investigating Officer to Madras and it was filed before the Court of Special Judge, Madras.
The appel lant on coming to know of these developments proceeded on leave from 9 March 1976 and subsequently retired on 8 April 1976 on attaining the age of superannuation.
On 15 December 1977, a final report under Section 173(2) of the Code of Criminal 'Procedure (Cr. P.C.) was filed against the appellant before the Special Judge, Madras.
The charge sheet inter alia states that the appellant after assuming.
That for the period between 1 May 1969 to 24 February 1976, he was in possession of the pecuniary resources and property disproportionate by Rs.6.41,416.36 to the known sources of income over the same period.
The appellant cannot satisfactorily account for such disproportionate assets.
The particulars of the disproportionate assets and the income of the appellant during the aforesaid period have been fully set out in the charge sheet.
On perusing the charge sheet the learned Special Judge appears to have issued process for appearance of the appellant but the appel 230 lant did not appear there.
It may be noted that before the High Court every conceivable point was argued.
We may briefly refer to those contentions not for the pur pose of examining them, since most of them have not been pressed before us, but only to indicate as to how the appel lant projected his case.
Even the Parliament or the State Legislatures are not competent to make laws creating offences in matters relating to discharge of Judge 's duties.
Any such law would vitiate the scheme and the federal structure of the Constitution particularly the scheme of Article 124(4) read with Article 2 17 and 2 18.
If the Legislatures are held to have powers to create offence for which Judges could be tried in ordi nary criminal Courts then, it may affect the very independ ence of the Judiciary and the basic structure of the Consti tution.
While analysing ingredients of the offence, he went on to state that the gist of the offence is not the possession of assets merely.
He must state whether it is satisfactory or not.
The learned Judge, however, was careful enough to modulate his reasoning so that it may be in conformity with the constitu tional protection guaranteed to the accused under Article 20(3) of the Constitution, Article 20(3) provides that no person accused of any offence shall be compelled to be a witness against himself.
the accused appellant has voluntarily submitted his statement of assets and income to the Investi gating Officer in the course of investigation.
Balasubraman yan, J., however, seems to have ignored that statement and focussed his attention on the default of the Investigating Officer in not calling upon the appellant to account for the disproportionate assets. ' The first concerns with the ingredients of the offence alleged and the requirements of the charge sheet filed against the appellant.
if it is determined in favour of the appel lant, the first becomes academic and wc may conveniently leave it out.
(3) Notwithstanding anything contained in sub sections (1) and (2) the court may decline to draw the presumption referred to in either of the said sub sections, if the gratification or thing aforesaid is, in its opinion, so trivial that no inference of corruption may fairly be drawn." A public servant is said to commit the offence of criminal misconduct (a) if he habitually accepts or obtains or agrees to accept or attempts to obtain from any person for himself or for any other per son, any gratification (other than legal remuneration) as a motive or reward such as is mentioned in section 161 of the Indian Penal Code, or (b) if he habitually accepts or obtains or agrees to accept or attempts to obtain for himself or for any other person, any valuable thing without consideration or for a con 234 sideration which he knows to be inadequate, from any person whom he knows to have been, or to be, or to be likely to be concerned in any proceeding or business transacted or about to be transacted by him, or having any connection with the official functions of himself or of any public servant to whom he is subordinate, or from any person whom he knows to be inter ested in or related to the person so con cerned, or (c) if he dishonestly or fraudulent|y misap propriates or otherwise converts for his own use any property entrusted to him or under his control as a public servant or allows any other person so to do, or (d) if he, by corrupt or illegal means or by otherwise abusing his position as public servant, obtains for himself or for any other person any valuable thing or pecuniary advan tage (or) (e) if he or any person on his behalf is in possession or has, at any time during the period of his office, been in possession, for which the public servant cannot satisfactorily account, of pecuniary resources or property disproportionate to his known sources of income.
(2) Any public servant who commits criminal misconduct shall be punishable with imprison ment for a term which shall not be less than one year but which may extend to seven years and shall also be liable to fine: Provided that the court may, for any special reasons recorded in writing, impose a sentence of imprisonment of less than one year.
(3) Whoever habitually commits (i) an offence punishable under section 162 or section 163 of the Indian Penal Code, or (ii) an offence punishable under section 165 A of the Indian Penal Code, shall be punishable with imprisonment for a term which 235 shall not be less than one year but which may extend to seven years, and shall also be liable to fine: Provided that the court may, for any special reasons recorded in writing, impose a sentence of imprisonment of less than one year.
Whoever attempts to commit an offence referred to in clause (c) or clause (d) of sub section (1) shall be punishable with imprisonment for a term which may extend to three years, or with fine, or with both.
No court shall take cognizance of an offence punishable under section 161 (or section 164) or section 165 of the Indian Penal Code, or under sub section (2) (or sub section 3A) of section 5 of this Act, alleged to have been committed by a public servant, except with the previous sanction, (a) in the case of a person who is employed in connection with the affairs of the (Union) and is not removable from his office save by or with the sanction of the Central Government (of the) State Government; (b) in the case of a person who is employed in connection with the affairs of (a State) and is not removable from his 236 office save by or with the sanction of the Central Government (of the) State Government (c) in the case of any other person, of the authority competent to remove him from his office.
(2) Where for any reason whatsoever any doubt arises whether the previous sanction as re quired under sub section (1) should be given by the Central or State Government or any other authority, such sanction shall be given by that Government or authority which would have been competent to remove the public servant from his office at the time when the offence was alleged to have been committed.
It will be convenient, if at this stage, we also read Section Omitting the immaterial clauses, Section 5A is in these terms: "5A. Notwithstanding anything contained in the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1898, no police officer below the rank (a) in the case of the Delhi Special Police Establishment, of an Inspector of Police; (b) in the presidency towns of Calcutta and Madras, of an Assistant Commissioner of Po lice; (c) in the presidency towns of Bombay, of a Superintendent of Police; and (d) elsewhere, of a Deputy Superintendent of Police, shall investigate any offence punishable under Section 161, section 165 or section 165A of the Indian Penal Code or under section 5 of this Act without the order of a Presidency Magistrate or a Magistrate of the first class, as the case may be, or make any arrest there for without a warrant: Provided that if a police officer not below the rank of an Inspector of Police is autho rised by the State Government in this behalf by general or special order, he may also investigate any such offence without the order of a Presi 237 dency Magistrate or a Magistrate of the first class, as the case may be, or make arrest therefor without a warrant: Provided further that an offence referred to in clause (e) of sub section (1) of Section 5 shall not be investigated without the order of a police officer not below the rank of a Superintendent of Police.
It may be of importance to remember that the power to take cognizance of an offence is vested in the Court of competent jurisdiction.
The competent authority may refuse sanction for prosecution if the offence alleged has no material to support or it is frivolous or intended to harass the honest officer.
When a public servant is prosecuted for an offence which challenges his honesty and integrity, the issue in such a case is not only between the prosecutor and the offender, but the State is also vitally concerned with it as it affects the morale of public serv ants and also the administrative interest of the State.
Section 6 may now be analysed.
Clause (b) of Section 6(1) covers public servants employed in connection with the affairs of the State.
The authority competent to give prior sanction for prosecution of such persons would be the State Government.
Clauses (a) and (b) would thus cover the cases of public servants who are employed in connection with the affairs of the Union or State and are not removable from their office save by or with the sanction of the Central Government or the State Government.
Mr. Kapil Sibal learned Counsel for the appellant stressed the need to read clause (c) in "ejusdem generis" to clauses (a) and (b).
It is true that the relationship of master and servant as is ordinarily understood in common law does not exist between the Judges of higher judiciary and the Government.
It is implicit in such relationship that the servant may disobey the master 's order only at his peril.
But there is no such relationship between the Judges and their appointing authority that is, the Government.
The Judges are not bound nor do they under take to obey any order of the Government within the scope of their duties.
Indeed, they are not Judges if they allow themselves to be guided by the Government in the performance of their duties.
They are required to 'uphold the Constitution and the laws ', 'wit hout fear ' that is without fear of the Executive; and 'without favour ' that is without expecting a favour from the Executive.
There is thus a fundamental distinction between the master and servant relationship between the Government and the Judges of High Courts and the Supreme Court.
It includes not only the State and Central Government employees but also others like Judge, juryman, assessor 240 and arbitrator.
It also includes every person in the service or pay of the Government or remunerated by fees or commis sion by the Government.
On the first requirement there is little doubt and also not seriously disputed by counsel for the appellant.
It has stated, among others that 'a further category should be added to include all persons discharging adjudica tory functions under any Union or State Law for the time being in force. ' Reference may also be made to Section 19 of the IPC, in which "Judge" is defined.
The power is located under Article 124 of the Constitution.
243 (5) Parliament may by law regulate the proce dure for the presentation of an address and for the investigation and proof of the misbe haviour or incapacity of a Judge under clause (4).
The notice of motion should be given to the Speaker or, as the case may be, to the Chairman who may, after consulting such persons, as he thinks fit and after considering such materials, if any, as may be avail able to him, either admit the motion or refuse to admit the same.
The section further provides that the Committee shall frame definite charges against the Judge on the basis of which the investigation is proposed to be held and the Judge shall be given a reasonable opportunity of presenting a written statement of defence.
Incidentally, it may be mentioned that the same procedure has been made applicable for removal of the Comptroller and Auditor General of India.
(See clause (5) of Article 324 of the Constitution.
Counsel for the appellant while referring to the afore mentioned provisions of the Constitution pointed out that the power to remove a Judge is not vested in any single individual or authority.
The only exception made in the Constitution for discussion on the conduct of a Judge is when the motion is taken up for his removal.
That does not however, follow that the Judges of superi or Courts are entitled to be excluded from the scope of the Act as contended for the appellant.
Reference may also be made to the observations of Subba Rao.
It also aims to protect honest public servants from harassment by prescribing that the investigation against them could be made only by police officials of particular status and by making the sanction of the Government or other appropriate officer a pre condition for their prosecution.
p. 531) it is stated that "the distinction between a strict and a liberal construction has almost disappeared with regard to all classes of statutes, so that all statutes, 247 whether penal or not, are now construed by substantially the same rules . .
Similar is the consequence of passing the resolution for removal of the Vice President under Article 67 and the Speaker under Article 248 94 of the Constitution.
Article 67(b) of the Constitution provides that the Vice President may be removed from his office by a resolution of the Council of States passed by a majority of all the then members of the Council and agreed to by the House of People.
Article 94(c) provides that the Speaker may be removed from his office by a resolution of the House of the People passed by a majority of all the then members of the House.
Such authority may be of the de partment in which the public servant is working or an out side authority.
Clause (2) of Article 124 provides that every Judge of the Supreme Court shah be appointed by the Presi dent in consultation with such of the Judges of the supreme Court and of the High Courts as the President may deem necessary for the purpose and in case of appointment of a Judge other than the Chief Justice, the Chief Justice of/India shall always be consulted.
The President exercises this power with the aid and advice of his Council of Minis ters under Article 74 of the Constitution.
In the event of President regarded as the authority competent to give prior sanction for the prosecution of a Judge, counsel for the appellant contended, that the Presi dent cannot act independently.
The Executive may misuse the power by interfering with the judiciary.
It is inappropriate to state that conviction and sen tence are no bar for the Judge to sit in the Court.
We may make it clear that if a Judge is convicted for the offence of criminal misconduct or any other offence involving moral turpitude, it is but proper for him to keep himself away from the Court.
He shall not insist on his right to sit on the Bench till he is cleared from the charge by a Court of competent jurisdiction.
The Judge whose character is clouded and whose standards of morality and rectitude are in doubt may not have the judicial inde pendence and may not command confidence of the public.
The proved "misbehaviour" which is the basis for removal of a Judge under clause (4) of Article 124 of the Constitu tion may also in certain cases involve an offence of crimi nal misconduct under section S(1) of the Act.
"Even a Government servant who is answerable for his misconduct which may also constitute an offence under the IPC or under Section 5 of the Act is liable to be prose cuted in addition to a departmental enquiry.
If prosecuted in a criminal court he may be punished by way of imprison ment or fine or with both but in departmental enquiry, the highest penalty that could be imposed on him is dismissal.
The competent authority may either allow the prosecution to go on in a Court of law or subject him to a departmental enquiry or subject him to both concurrently or consecutive ly.
A discussion on the conduct of Judges of the High Courts and the SUpreme Court in the discharge of their duties shall not take place in the State Legislatures or in Parliament (Articles 12 1 and 211).
But these safeguards may not be adequate.
In the instant case the then Chief Justice of India was requested to give his opinion whether the appellant could be proceeded under the Act.
Mr. Tulsi, learned Additional Solicitor General submitted that he has no objection for this Court for issuing a direction against the Government of India to follow that procedure in every case.
But Counsel for the appellant has reservations.
He maintained that it would be for the State to come forward with u separate enactment for the Judges consistent with the Constitutional provisions for safeguarding the independence of the judiciary and not for this Court to improve upon the defective law.
All that is required is to lay down certain guidelines lest the Act may be misused.
We must never forget that this Court is not a Court of limited jurisdiction of only dispute settling.
Due regard must be given by the Government to the opinion expressed by the Chief Justice.
If the Chief Justice of India himself is the person against whom the allegations of criminal misconduct are received the Government shall consult any other Judge or Judges of the Supreme Court.
Accordingly the directions shall go to the Government.
The second, allied question, is as to the invalidity of the charge sheet filed in the instant case in as such as it failed to incorporate the essential ingredient of the offence.
For a proper consideration of the contentions, we may have the pre natal history of clause (e) of Section 5(1).
For immediate reference, clause (e) of Section 5(1) is reproduced hereunder: " 5(1)(e) if he or any person on his behalf is in possession or has, at any time during the period of his office, been in possession, for which the public servant cannot satisfactorily account, of pecuniary resources or property disproportionate to his known sources of income".
We will presently analyse the ingredients of the offence under clause (e), but before that, two decisions of this Court on the scope of clause (e) may be referred.
Nor it can be regarded as con trary to Article 21 of the Constitution as contended for the appellant.
Counsel for the appellant however, submitted that there is no law prohibiting a public servant having in his posses sion assets disproportionate to his known sources of income and such possession becomes an offence of criminal miscon duct only when the accused is unable to account for it.
But that is not the same thing to state that there is no offence till the public servant is able to account for the excess of assets.
In the view that we have taken as to the nature of the offence created under clause (e), it may not be necessary to examine the contention relating to ingredient of the of fence.
The Investigating Officer is required to consider his expla nation and the charge sheet filed by him must contain such averment.
This sub mission, if we may say so, completely overlooks the powers of the Investigating Officer.
In the course of the investigation, he may examine the accused.
He may seek his clarification and if necessary he may cross check with him about his known sources of income and assets possessed by him.
Indeed, fair investigation requires as rightly stated by Mr. A.D. But to state that after collection of all material the investi gating Officer must give an opportunity to the accused and call upon idm to account for the excess of the assets over the known sources of income and then decide whether the accounting is satisfactory or not, would be elevating the Investigating Officer to the position of an enquiry officer or a judge.
The report must be in the form prescribed by the State Government and stating therein (a) the names of the parties; (b) the nature of the information; (c) the names of the persons who appear to be acquainted with the circumstances of the case; (d) whether any offence appears to have been committed and, if so, by whom (e) whether the accused has been arrested; (f) whether he had been released on his bond and, if so, whether with or without sureties; and (g) whether he has been.
Nothing more need be stated in the report 'of the Investigating Officer.
It is also not necessary that all the details of the offence must be stated.
It states that the investi gation shows that between 1 May 1969 and 24 February 1976 the appellant as the Chief Justice of the High Court of Madras was in possession of the pecuniary resources and property in his own name and in the name of his wife and two sons etc., which were disproportionate by Rs.6,41,416.36 to the known sources of income over the same period and cannot satisfactorily account for such disproportionate pecuniary resources and property.
The details of properties and pecu niary resources of the appellant also have been set out in clear terms.
No. more, in our opinion, is required to be stated in the charge sheet.
Before parting with the case, we may say a word more.
"A legislator or an administrator may be found guilty of corruption without apparently endangering the foundation of the State.
An answer in the negative will be inconsistent with Article 124 Clauses 4 and 5 read with Article 2 18 of the Constitution.
It has been strenuously contended by Mr. Sibal, learned counsel for the appellant, that the Constitution envisages an independent judiciary, and to achieve this goal it is essential that the other limbs of the State including the executive and the lagislature should be denied a posi tion from where the judiciary can be pressurized.
The State is an organisation committed to public good; it is not an end in itself.
Judiciary has a duty to dispense justice between person and person as also between person and State itself.
This has become neces sary so that an aggrieved or misdirected person may not cast aspersions on the court which may adversely affect the public confidence.
Protection to the public servant in general is provided under Article 311 and the interest of the subordi nate judiciary is further taken care of by the High Court, and this along with the provisions regarding previous sanc tion shields them from unjustified prosecution.
Similarly protection is available to the High Court and Supreme Court Judges through the provisions of Article 124(4) and (5) of the Constitution.
There cannot be any rational ground on the basis of which a member of a higher judiciary may be allowed to escape prosecution while in identical circum stances a member of the subordinate judiciary is tried and convicted.
There is still another reason indicating that the interpretation suggested on behalf of the appellant should not be accepted.
It has to be remembered that in a proceeding under Article 124 a Judge can merely be removed from his office.
The main culprit, the Judge shall escape on the argument of the appellant.
As has been stated earlier, the power to remove a High Court Judge from his office does exist and has to be exercised in appropriate circumstances according to the provisions of Article 124.
Taking into consideration the independence of judiciary as envisaged by the Constitution, it has further been observed that the Chief Justice of India will have to be 267 consulted in the matter and steps would have to be taken in accordance with his advice.
But in my view such a binding direction cannot be issued by this Court on the basis of the provisions of the Constitution and the Act.
Before proceeding further 1 would again state that having answered the question as to whether a Judge of the superior court can be removed by some authority whoever he or they may be, in the affirmative, it is not necessary to decide the further controversy as mentioned above.
I would, therefore, be content merely by indicating some of the aspects which may be relevant for the issue, to be decided later in a case when it directly arises.
This will seriously jeopardise the independence of judiciary which is undoubtedly a basic feature of the Constitution.
Realising the serious implica tion it was suggested on behalf of the Union of India that this Court may lay down suitable conditions by way of prior approval of the Chief Justice of India for launching a prosecution.
The difficulty in accepting this argument is that the Governor of the State and the Chief Justice of the High Court are as much involved in the matter of appointment of a Judge of the High Court as the Chief Justice of India.
Otherwise, there will be scope left for the Judge concerned to claim that although he may be facing prosecution or may have been even convicted after trial, he still continues to be a Judge entitled to exercise his powers, as he has not been removed from his office.
I have, with great est respect of my learned brothers, taken the liberty to state some important considerations, which appear to be relevant to me.
The section does not contemplate a notice to be served on the accused.
The records clearly indicate that after duly taking all the appropriate steps it was stated that the assets found in the possession of the appellant in his own name and in the name of his wife and two sons, were disproportionate by a sum of over Rs.6 lacs to his known sources of income during the relevant period and which he "cannot satisfactorily account".
In view of the significance of the point, I record my respectful dissent reassured by the observations of Hughes that 'unanimity which is merely formal, which is recorded at the expense of strong, con flicting views, is not desirable in a court of last resort, whatever may be the effect on public opinion at the time.
The appellant, K. Veeraswami, a former Chief Justice of the Madras High Court filed an application under Section 482 of the Code of Criminal Proce dure, 1973 (Criminal M.P. No. 265 of 1978) to quash the proceedings in C.C. The matter was heard by a full bench of the High Court which dismissed the application by order dated 27.4.
The appellant joined the Bar of Madras in the year 1941 and had a lucrative prac tice.
A charge sheet dated 15.12.1977 was filed alleging that be tween 1.5. 1976, while the appellant was a public servant, he was in possession of pecuniary resources and property in his own name and in the names of his wife Smt.
to his known sources of income during that period and that he cannot satisfactorily account for such disproportionate pecuniary resources and property.
The charge sheet also gave particulars on the basis of which the disproportion in assets was alleged.
The appellant filed a petition under Section 482 Cr. P.C. in the High Court for quashing the prosecution pending in the Court of Special Judge, Madras, on the above charge sheet, with the result indicated above.
Several arguments including the allegation of mala fides against the Central Government were advanced in the High Court on behalf of the appellant.
It is, however, unnecessary to refer to all of them since at the hearing of the appeal before us, the appellant 's case was confined only to the grounds stated hereafter and the ground of mala fides alleged in the High Court was expressly given up at the hearing before us by Shri Kapil Sibal, learned counsel for the appellant.
Shri Kapil Sibal, learned counsel for the appellant advanced two arguments only.
They argued that there is no immunity to the superior Judges as in the case of the President and the Governor under Article 36 1 of the Constitution and, therefore, there was no reason to exclude to superior Judges from the purview of the Act.
At the hearing the consensus was that, this unfortu nate controversy not envisaged earlier, having now arisen, may be, it is time that a clear provision be made within the constitutional scheme to provide for a machinery to deal with the corrupt members of the superior judiciary, which itself is necessary for preservation of the independence of the judiciary.
It is implicit that if the answer is in the affirmative, then the Chief Justice and Judges of the Supreme Court also would fall within the purview of the Act and so also the Comptroller and Auditor Genera 273 and the Chief Election Commissioner, whose terms and condi tions of office are the same as those of a Judge of the Supreme Court of India.
Reference may now be made to certain statutory provi sions on the basis of which the point has to be decided.
(3) Notwithstanding anything contained in subsections (1) and (2), the court may decline to draw the presumption referred to in either of the said sub sections if the gratification or thing aforesaid is, in its opinion, so trivial that no inference of corruption may fairly be drawn.
or having any connection with the official functions of himself or of any public servant to whom he is subordinate, or from any person whom he knows to be inter ested in or related to the person so con cerned, or (c) if he dishonestly or fraudulently misap propriates or otherwise converts for his own use any property entrusted to him or under his control as a public servant or allows any other person so to do, or (d) if he, by corrupt or illegal means or by otherwise abusing his position as public servant, obtains for himself or for any other person any valuable thing or pecuniary advan tage, or (e) if he or any person on his behalf is in possession or has, at any time during the period of his office, been in possession, for which the public servant cannot satisfactorily account, of pecuniary resources or property disproportionate to his known sources of income.
(2) Any public servant who commits criminal misconduct shall be punishable with imprisonment for a term which shall not be less than one year but which may extend to seven years and shall also be liable to fine: Provided that the court may, for any special reasons recorded in writing, impose a sentence of imprisonment of less than one year.
Section 165 or Section 165A of the Indian Penal Code (45 of 1860) or under Section 5 of this Act without the order of a Presidency Magistrate or a Magistrate of the first class, as the case may De, or make any arrest therefor without a warrant: Provided that if a police officer not below the rank of an Inspector of Police is authorised by the State Government in this behalf by general or special order, he may also investigate any such offence without the order of a Presidency Magistrate or a Magis trate of the first class, as the case may be, or make arrest therefor without a warrant: Provided further that an offence referred to in clause (e) of sub section (1) of Section 5 shall not be investigated without the order of a police officer not below the rank of a Superintendent of Police.
(2) If, from information received or otherwise, a police officer has reason to suspect the commission of an offence which.he is empowered to investigate under subsection (1) and considers that for the purpose of investigation or inquiry into such offence, it is necessary to inspect any bankers ' books, then, notwithstanding anything conrained in any law for the time being in force, he may inspect any bankers ' books in so far as they relate to the accounts of the person suspected to have committed that offence or of any other person suspected to be holding money on 278 behalf of such person, and take or cause to be taken certified copies of the relevant entries therefrom, and the bank concerned shall be bound to assist the police officer in the exercise of his powers under this sub section: (2) Where for any reason whatsoever any doubt arises whether the previous sanction as required under subsection (1) should be given by the Central or State Government or any other authority, such sanction shall be given by that Government or authority which would have been com 279 petent to remove the public servant from his office at the time when the offence was alleged to have been committed. " The relevant provisions of the Constitution of India are as under: 12 1.
(5) Parliament may by law regulate the procedure for the presentation of an address and for the investigation and proof of the misbehaviour or incapacity of a Judge under clause (4).
No discussion shall take place in the Legislature of a State with respect to the conduct of any Judge of the Supreme Court or of a High Court in the dis charge of his duties.
(1) The President, or the Governor or 281 Rajpramukh of a State, shall not be answerable to any court for the exercise and performance of the powers and duties of his office or for any act done or purporting to be done by him in the exercise and performance of those powers and duties: Provided that the conduct of the President may be brought under review by any court, tribunal or body appointed or designat ed by either House of Parliament for the investigation of a charge under Article 61: Provided further that nothing in this clause shall be construed as restricting the right of any person to bring appropriate proceedings against the Government of India or the Government of a State.
(2) No criminal proceedings whatso ever shall be instituted or continued against the President, or the Government of a State, in any court during his term of office.
(4) No civil proceedings in which relief is claimed against the President, or the Governor of a State, shall be instituted during his term of office in any court in respect of any act done or purporting to be done by him in his personal capacity, whether before or after he entered upon his office as President, or as Governor of such State, until the expiration of two months next after notice in writing has been delivered to the President or the Governor.
It may also be mentioned that the has been enacted by the Parliament to regulate the procedure for the investigation and proof of the misbeha viour or incapacity of a Judge of the Supreme Court or of a High Court and for the presentation of an 282 address by Parliament to the President and for matters connected therewith, as contemplated by Articles 124(5) of the Constitution of India.
We, therefore, suggest that the Chief Justice of India in consulta tion with the Chief Justices 283 of the High Courts should arrange for a thor ough inquiry into the incidence of corruption among the judiciary, and evolve, in consulta tion with the Central and State Governments, proper measures to prevent and eliminate it.
Perhaps the setting up of vigilance organisa tion under the direct control of the Chief Justice of every High Court coordinated by a Central Vigilance Officer under the Chief Justice of India may prove to be an appropri ate method.
The Chief Justice of India in consulta tion with the Chief Justices of the High Courts should arrange for a thorough inquiry into the incidence of corruption, among the judiciary, and evolve, in consultation with the Central and State Governments, proper measures to prevent and eliminate it.
Perhaps the setting up of vigilance organisations under the direct control of the Chief Justice of every High Court coordinated by a Central Vigilance Officer under the Chief Justice of India may prove to be an appropriate method.
(Para. 12.2) XXX XXX XXX REPORT ON THE GOVERNMENT SERVANTS ' CONDUCT RULES XXX XXX XXX Rule 15 15.
The Committee attaches great impor tance to the changes recommended in the exist ing Rule 15 relating to the acquisition and disposal of property by Government servants.
On the one hand, these reports serve as a check against corruption and on the other, it may be irritating to honest Government serv ants to be subject to restrictions 284 not imposed on other citizens.
Further, no reports need be obtained from those Government servants who have no opportunity to enrich themselves by unlawful means.
The Committee considers that in order to enable Government to ascertain whether any Government servant is in possession of assets disproportionate to his known sources of income or whether he is running into debt, it is necessary that the Government servant should furnish a complete statement of his assets and liabilities periodically.
The Committee considers that only the more/ important items of movable property should be reported specifically and that it would be sufficient if Government servants report the total value of other movable property except articles of daily use like clothes, utensils, crockery, books, etc.
But it is essential that the value of 'movable property should be stated in the statement of assets and liabilities.
The Committee decided to recommend that Government servants should be required to submit a periodical statement of assets and liabilities, as it would not be reasonable to require the Government servants to report all the innumerable small transactions taking place continually.
But as these small transac tions may cumulatively be sizable and have a big effect on his financial position, the purpose will 285 be served only by obtaining a periodical balance sheet.
The Committee, however, consid ers that the reports need not be frequent and that it may perhaps be sufficient if they are submitted once in five years.
The Committee recognises that inclusion of jewellery may be considered to be an unnecessary intrusion into the pri vate affairs of a Government servant.
But jewellery constitute important assets and if excluded from the definition of movable property, the balance sheet submitted by the Government servant may not set out the true picture." A grant of sanction is not an idle formality but a solemn and sacrosanct act which removes the umbrella of protection of Government servants against frivolous prosecutions and the aforesaid requirements must therefore, be strictly complied with before any prosecution could be launched against public servants.
It is for this reason that the learned Solicitor General did not place reliance on clauses (a) and (b) of Sub section (1) of Sec tion 6 in the present case but relied on clause (c) thereof, to contend that sanction thereunder can be obtained for the prosecution of a Judge or Chief Justice of a High Court since the holder of such an office can be removed from office by the President in accordance with clause (4) of Article 124 of the Constitution.
These may be re quoted here for readyreference: "124.
Establishment and constitution of Su preme Court '(1) .
In my view since the question relates to the continuance of a high constitutional functionary like the Additional Judge of High Court it would be jeopardising his security and judicial inde pendence if action is taken on the basis or merely opinion material.
In the absence of satisfactory machinery possessing legal sanction to reach a positive conclusion on the alleged misbehaviour or an act of corruption the decision to drop him shall have been arrived at merely on the basis of opin ions, reports, rumours or gossip and apart from being unfair and unjust to him such a course will amount to striking at the root of judicial independence.
The other alternative, namely, to continue him as an Additional Judge for another term or to make him permanent if a vacancy is available and then take action for his removal under the regular process indicat ed in article 124(4) and (5) read with article 2 18 and Judges (Inquiry) Act,1968 may sound absurd but must be held to be inevitable if judicial independence, a cardinal faith of our Consti tution, is to be preserved and safeguarded.
Considering the question from the angle of public interest therefore, I am clearly of the view that while considering the question of continuance of the sitting Additional Judges on the expiry of their initial term either as Additional Judges or as Permanent Judges the test of suitability contemplated within the consultative process under article 217(1) should not be invoked at least until such time as proper machinery possessing legal sanction is provided for enabling a proper inquiry against an alleged errant Judge less cumbersome than the near impeachment process contemplated by article 124(4) and (5) of the Constitution." As the law now stands it is not open to any single individual, whether it is the President or the Chief Justice of India or anybody else to take cognizance of any allegations of misbehaviour or of incapacity of a Judge and to take any legal action on their basis under the Judges (Inquiry) Act,/1968.
It was pointed out that ordinarily such a person faced with cogent material against him would resign, but in case he does not, the only remedy available is his removal from office in accordance with clauses (4) and (5) of Article 124 read with Article 294 218 of the Constitution till a suitable provision with legal sanction is made.
The scheme of the exist ing law to deal with such situations was considered at length and it was also held that even the power to transfer under Article 222 of the Constitution to another High Court could not be exercised for these reasons.
Thus, even for the procedure for investigation into any misbehaviour of a Judge as well as its proof, a law enacted by the Parliament under Article 124(5) is envisaged in the constitutional scheme.
If special provisions in the form of clauses (4) and (5) of Article 124 and Article 2 18 of the Constitution and the special enactment by the Parlia ment under Article 124(5) were provided in the constitution al scheme for Judges of the High Courts and the Supreme Court, there can be no valid reason to hold that they are governed by the general provisions in addition to these special provisions enacted only for them.
The decision in S.P. Gupta was rendered much later and while dealing with the situations arising out of allegations of misbehaviour including corruption against High Court Judges, it was held that the only machinery with legal sanction in existence is that available under clauses (4) and (5) of Article 124 of the Constitution.
As held in Antulay, the competent authority before granting sanction has to apply its mind and be satisfied about the existence of a prima facie case for prosecution of the public servant on the basis of the mate rial placed before it.
In order to form an objective opin ion, the competent authority must undoubtedly have before it the version of the public servant on the basis of which the conclusion can be reached whether it amounts to satisfactory account or not.
In the case of such public servants whenever sanction to prosecute is sought under Section 6 of the Act, the competent authority can form the requisite opinion on the basis of the available material including the service record of the public servant to come to the conclusion whether the offence under clause (e) of possession of disproportionate assets which the public servant cannot satisfactorily account is made out prima facie.
The ambit of the enactment is to be determined on the basis of the public office held by the public serv ant, which office is alleged to have been abused during the tenure for committing the offence of criminal misconduct under the Act and it is not the fact of continuance in that office or ceasing to hold it which decides the ambit of the enactment.
The remedy is not to extend the existing law and make it workable by reading into it certain guidelines for which there is no basis in it, since the Act was not intended to apply to them.
It appears that the framers of the Constitution, while dealing with such constitutional functionaries, contemplated merely their removal from office in the manner provided in Article 124(4) as the only punishment; and a special law enacted by the Parliament under Article 124(5), even for investigation and proof of any misbehaviour alleged against a superior Judge instead of the general law was clearly visualised when the alleged misbehaviour is connected with his office.
It cannot be imagined that the framers of the Constitution provided for removal of a supe rior Judge on lesser grounds of misbehaviour but nor for the gross misbehaviour of corruption.
Can it, therefore, be said that while investigation into the allegation of corrup tion for the purpose of removal under Article 124(4) needs a special law made by the Parliament under Article 124(5), it is not so for his prosecution which can be made under the provisions of the existing Prevention of Corruption Act? It appears that the framers of the Constitution did not contem plate the need for prosecution of a Judge at that level and expected that a superior Judge would resign if faced with credible material in support of allegations of misbehaviour, and in case he did not resign, his removal under Article 124(5) would be sufficient to deal with the situation.
It is significant that even the , was enacted under Article 124(5) of the Constitution much later and after the 1964 amendment of the Act.
The framers of the Constitution had visualised that the constitutional scheme for appointment of the superior Judges would ensure that by an honest exercise performed by all the constitutional functionaries of their obligation in the process of appointment of a superior Judge, there would be no occasion to try and punish any appointee to such a high office for an act of corruption.
The confidence reposed in them by the framers of the Constitution has been betrayed to this extent.
The social sanction of their own community was visualised as sufficient safeguard with im peachment and removal from office under Article 124(4) being the extreme step needed, if at all.
If so, the time for legal sanction being provided may have been reached.
It may be mentioned that instances of punishment for corruption in earlier centuries including the indictment of Lord Bacon is not apposite for the reason that the situation then was not akin to the scheme in the Indian Constitution for the judges of the High Courts and the Supreme Court and the protection given to them for ensuring the independence of judiciary.
In a letter dated 18th December, 1947, to the Prime Minister, Pt.
Jawaharlal Nehru and the Deputy Prime Minister, Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel, the first Chief Justice of free India said: "Under the Constitution Act, provi sions can be made for the appointment, the salary, pension, leave and removal of the judges.
I recog nise that the Governor General or the Presi dent, who will be an elected person, will have to consult the Cabinet according to the 305 Rules of Business framed for working the Central Government.
It seems to me, however, fundamentally essential that the High Courts, the Federal Court and the Supreme Court (when established) should not be considered a part of, or working under, any department of the executive Government of India.
It should be an independent branch of the Government in touch directly with the GovernorGeneral or the President of the Dominion of India.
The duty and credit for maintaining this high tradition is on the Government in existence when the 'Constitution and the statutory rules are framed, and I have written this to you confi dently hoping that you share my desire to safeguard the dignity and independence of the judiciary and will do the needful in the matter." The framers of the Constitution had visualized the higher echelons of the judiciary as comprised of men of strong moral and ethical fibre who would provide moral leadership in the society of free India and function as the sentinel of the other wings of the State not needing scruti ny themselves.
Our Constitution provides for separation of powers of the three wings of the State with judicial review as one of the essential tenets of the basic structure of the Constitution.
It is thus the judiciary which is entrusted with the task of interpretation of the Constitution and ensuring that the other two wings do not overstep the limit delineated for them by the Constitution.
