(Under Article 32 of the Constitution of India).
The grounds on which the vires of the provisions is attacked are that the section gives an unguided, unchanelised and arbitrary power to the State Government to include any substance as poison for the purpose of restriction to be imposed on the posses sion for sale and sale of the same.
The petitioner 's have also taken the plea that though the Act is a Central enactment it is possible of unjust and unjustified discriminatory appli cation as it is left to each State Government to determine what substance they would include as poison and regulated and the decision in one State to include the substance as poison is not automatically made applicable to the other States.
In exercise of this power by the Notification No.
In fact the learned counsel argued the petition on the basis that the petition ers are a manufacturer of 'thinner ' within Rule 2(x)(2) which has been declared as poison for purposes of the Act.
Rule 2 was amended as already stated including 'thinner ' of the description mentioned therein as poison.
It was a law in force in the territory of India before the commencement of the Constitution and as such continued in force.
223 That Section enables the State Government to make Rules generally to carry out the purposes and objects of the Act.
When this Act 1/1904 was repealed and re enacted as Poison Act 12 of 1919 the definition was omitted and speci fied substances were included in the schedule with a power vested in the State Government to amend the same by Rules including other substances to the list of poisons.
A substance may be a deadly poison or a valuable medicine according to how and how much is taken.
It states that the State Government may by rule regulate the posses sion of any specified poison in any local area in which the use of such poison for the purpose of committing murder or mischief by poisoning cattle appears to it to be of such frequent occurrence as to render restriction on the posses sion thereof desirable.
That is what the Government have done in this case.
It has become a notorious fact, which we can even take judicial notice of, that the substance known as 'thinner ' as it is or mixing with some other substances are taken as intoxicating spirits endangering the life.
P.N. Duda, N. Safaya, P.K. Choudhary and Ms. Rekha Pandey for the Petitioners.
Kapil Sibal, Additional Solicitor General, Ms. A. Subha shini and K. Swamy for the Respondents.
It was further contended that the restriction imposed on possession for sale and sale were not reasonable restrictions.
The object of the enactment is to regulate the posses sion for sale and the sale, whether wholesale or retail of poisons and the importation of the same.
In other words, it is intended to control over the traffic in poisons.
F. 10/44/72 fin.
It was the con tention of the petitioners before the authorities that their "unit is manufacturing only those thinners which contain only liquid substance, like as ecotone, ethyl acetate SDS etc.
and not all solubles.
" Though in the beginning the petitioners were contending that in substance manufactured by them did not come within Rule 2(x)(2) and there were some correspondence in this regard, when the competent authority held that the substance manufactured by the petitioners would come within the definition of 'thinner ' as contained in Rule 2(x)(2) of the Rules, the petitioners did not question the finding on any material.
Before us also they had not placed any materi al to show that the finding was wrong or that the substance would not come within Rule 2(x)(2).
Rules of 1926 were made in exercise of the rule making power under Section 3 of the Act.
