R.K.Kapoor and Anis Ahmed Khan for the Appellant.
S.N.Mishra, L.K. Gupta, D.K. Yadav and D.K.Garg for the Respondents.
Thereafter, a host of writ petitions 122 were filed in this Court under Article 32 of the Constitu tion challenging the constitutional validity of section 15 on the ground that it infringed Articles 14 and 15 of the Constitution.
Finding no reasonable classifi cation it struck down 124 clauses 'first ', 'secondly ' and 'thirdly ' of section 15(1)(a), clauses 'first ', 'secondly ', and 'thirdly ' of section 15(1)(b) and clause 'first ', 'secondly ', and 'third ly ' of section 15(1)(c) and the entire section 15(2) as ultra vires the Constitution.
In that case it was held that a right of pre emption by vicinage offended Article 19(1) (f) of the Constitution but a similar right conferred on co sharers was intra vires Article 19(1)(1) of the Constitution.
In that case also this Court held that the right of pre emption vested in co shar ers was a reasonable restriction on the right to hold, acquire or dispose of property conferred by Article 19(1)(1) of the Constitution.
In Atam Prakash s case, this Court, therefore, held that what was said about the right of pre emption granted to co sharers in relation to Article 19(1)(1) of the Constitution applied with equal force to justify the classification in relation to Articles 14 and 15 of the Constitution.
In the present case also the appellant seeks to exercise the right of pre emption as a co sharer i.e. father 's broth er 's son of the vendors.
Since this Court found certain intrinsic contradictions in the list of relatives covered by the first three clauses, it saw no justification for the classification contained in the said provision conferring a right based on consanguinity and, therefore, struck down those clauses:as discriminatory and violative of Articles 14 and 15 of the Constitution.
At the same time it upheld the right conferred on co sharers for reasons stated earlier.
Once conferment of the right of pre emption in favour of co sharers was considered to be a reasonable restriction on the right to hold, acquire and dispose of property under Article 19(1) (f), the same re striction was held to be valid when tested on the touchstone of Articles 14 or 15 of the Constitution.
The relations in the first three clauses of section 15(1)(b) may or may not be co sharers, The use of the expression 'other ' in clause fourthly conveys the possibility of their being co sharer also.
We direct that on the appellant plaintiff depositing the entire amount of sale price together with the amount needed for the stamp duty for the execution of the conveyance in his favour within three months from today, the purchaser respondent No. 1 shah within one month of such deposit execute a conveyance of the land, i.e. his share therein derived from his vendors, in favour of the appellant and shall deliver possession thereof to the appellant.
If the respondent No. 1 fails to do so, the Court shall appoint a Commissioner who shall execute the conveyance on behalf of the respondent No. 1 and the Court shall put the appellant in possession of the suit land.
Special leave granted.
Persons in whom right of pre emption vests in respect of sales of agricultural land and village immovable property (1) The right of pre emption in respect of agricultural land and village immovable property shall vest (a) where the sale is by a sole onwer First, in the son or daughter or son 's son or daughter 's son of the vendor; Secondly, in the brother or brother 's son of the vendor; Thirdly, in the father 's brother or father 's brother 's son of the vendor; Fourthly, in the tenant who holds under tenan cy of the vendor the land or properly sold or a part thereof Co) where the sale is of a share out of joint land or property and is not made by all the co sharers jointly First, in the sons or daughters or son 's son or daughter 's sons of the vendor or vendors; Secondly, in the brothers or brother 's sons of the vendor or vendors; Thirdly, in the father 's brother or father 's brother 's sons of the vendor or vendors; Fourthly, in the other co sharers; Fifthly, in the tenants who hold under tenancy of the vendor or vendors the land or property sold or a part thereof; (c) where the sale is of land or property owned jointly and is made by all the co shar ers jointly 123 First, in the sons or daughters or sons ' sons or daughters ' sons of the vendors; Secondly in the brothers or brother 's sons of the vendors; Thirdly, in the father 's brothers or father 's brother 's sons of the vendors Fourthly, in the tenants, who hold under tenancy of the vendors or any one of them the land or properly sold or a part thereof.
