K.N. Rajagopala Sastri, R. H. Dhebar and D. Gupta, for the appellant.
February 23.
The appellant before us in both the appeals is the Commissioner of Income tax and the respondents are the two assessees, in one case a Bank and the other a private limited company.
In C. A. No. 259/58 the assessee is a public limited company incorporated in the State of Cochin with branches in that State as well as in what was British India and in Travancore State.
It filed its incometax return showing an income of Rs.
79,275 shown as loss from branches situate outside the State of Travancore, in British India and other Indian States.
At the instance of the Commissioner of Income tax the following question was referred to the High Court of Travancore Cochin: Is the aforesaid sum of Rs.
the assessee is a private limited company with its registered office in the former Cochin State.
It was carrying on business at its head office in Cochin State and it also carried on business in Travancore State.
The assesse made a profit in Travancore State and incurred a loss in the State of Cochin and sought to deduct this loss from the profit of Travancore State thus showing a net profit of Rs. 2,643.
27,709 arising in Cochin State could be set off against the profit of Rs.
38,998 arising in Travancore State ? " It may be stated that the relevant sections of the Travancore Act which govern the two appeals are identically worded with those of the Indian Incometax Act of 1922 (to be called the Indian Act).
They could only be adjusted against profits arising in an Indian State or in the case of Travancore State in British India or another Indian State.
But then it was said that as the profits or gains of business in an Indian State were exempted from payment of tax in British India business in section 10 must mean business in British India.
It will be open to the assessee in that appeal to take such steps in regard to that question as it may be advised.
ivil Appeals Nos.
But this question was not answered by the High Court which confined itself to answering the first question which was common to both the appeals.
The assessee 's appeal to the Income tax Commissioner was unsuccessful but the Appellate Tribunal held that the banking business of the assessee being one and indivisible for the purpose of determining the amount assessable to income tax it was entitled to deduct the losses incurred outside Travancore State from the profits accruing and arising in that State.
In C. A. 260/58 The Appellate Tribunal also did not accept the submissions of the assessee and upheld the order of assessment.
and was answered in favour of the assessee.
It is only necessary to set out section 32(1) of the Travancore Act and the proviso which correspond to section 24(1) and proviso (i) of the Indian Act and which are necessary for the decision of the appeals before us: S.32(1) " Where any assessee sustains a loss of profits or gains in any year under any of the heads mentioned in Section 9 (Section 6) he shall be entitled to have the amount of loss set off against this income, profits or gains under any other head in that year: (Sections in brackets are the corresponding sections of the Indian Act).
Ordinarily the effect of an excepting or a qualifying proviso is to carve something out of the preceding enactment or to qualify something enacted therein which but for the proviso would be in it and such a proviso cannot be construed as enlarging the scope of an enactment when it can be fairly and properly construed without attributing to it that effect.
But it has been held that a section framed as a proviso to a preceding section may sometimes contain matter which is in substance a fresh enactment adding and not merely qualifying that which goes before.
It was argued on behalf of the Revenue that this (1) , 37.
Section 3 provided for the charge of income tax in respect of the total income of the previous year.
Under section 4 the total income of any previous year of any person who was resident included all income, profits and gains from whatever source derived but (i) it must accrue or arise to him during the year in British India or (ii) accrue or arise to him without British India during such year.
Section 4(3) provided what income, profits or gains were not to be included in the total income of the person receiving them.
(2) [1922] 1 Ch 517.
263 there were six heads of income chargeable to income tax.
Then followed sections 7 to 12B laying down the method of computation of the income arising from each head.
Now we come to section 24(1).
By the addition of this section the loss under one head of profits or gains was allowed to be set off against income, profits and gains under any other bead in any assessment year.
Section 24(1) became the subject matter of controversy in the courts.
Sir George Rankin said at p. 241 " In their Lordships ' opinion, whether a firm is registered or unregistered, partnership does not obstruct or defeat the right of a partner to an adjustment on account of his share of loss in the firm, whether the set off be against other profits under the same (1) (1936 Thus the Privy Council emphasised that the object of section 24(1) was to allow a set off of profits against losses arising under different heads and Only in such cases could recourse be had to section 24(1).
In cases where profits and losses arose under the same head they had to be adjusted against each other.
When the two arise under the same head, of course the loss can be deducted but that is done under section 10 and not under section 24(1) (Per Bose, J.) 34 266 determining profits and gains of the business of any resident.
The proper function of a proviso is that it qualifies the generality of the main enactment, by providing an exception and taking out as it were, from the main enactment, a portion which, but for the proviso would fall within the main enactment.
