From the Judgment and Order dated 19.7.1979 of the Rajasthan High Court in D.B. Civil Writ Petition Subhash Mallick and S.K. Jain for the Appellant.
The first writ petition was filed by the father Raghubir Singh whereas the second writ petition was filed by his minor son Surendrapal Singh through his next friend Shri Jagjit Singh, maternal grand father of the minor.
The facts of the case briefly are that proceedings under Chapter III B of the Rajasthan Tenancy Act (Act No. 3 of 1955) (hereinafter referred to as 'the Act of 1955) were commenced for determining the ceiling area for Raghubir Singh.
It was thus held that Raghubir Singh and his son Surendrapal Singh are entitled to retain 124 Bighas and 16 Biswas only and the surplus land measuring, 4 Bighas and 6 Biswas may be resumed.
Dissatisfied with the order of the Revenue Appellate Authority, Raghubir Singh filed a revision application under Section 230 of the Act of 1955 before the Board of Revenue for Rajasthan.
Before the Division Bench of the High Court in the writ petitions it was urged on behalf of Raghubir Singh that no appeal having been filed by the State from the order the Sub Divisional Officer dated 5th May, 1976, the said order became final and the Board of Revenue had no jurisdiction to set aside that part of the Sub Divisional Officer 's order which had gone against the State and in his favour.
At the same time, the power is there, and it may be exercised sparingly in extraordinary case,, where interest of justice requires that the Board should exercise the power".
B.D. Sharma for the Respondents.
These writ petitions were decided by the aforesaid common judgment.
On behalf of raghubir Singh it was urged before the Board that the petitioner was in possession of 112 Bighas only and not 129 Bighas and 3 Biswas as held by the lower courts.
He sought permission to adduce additional evidence in support of his contention.
The application for adducing additional evidence was disallowed.
It was submitted that the power of general superintendence and control over all revenue courts vested in the Board could not be exercised to the detriment of the 726 writ petitioners much less by way of suo motu exercise of powers.
Divisional Officer, Assistant Collectors and Tehsildars in a district shall be subordinate to the Collector thereof, (c)all Assistant Collectors, Tehsildars and Naib Tehsildars in a sub division shall be subordinate to the Sub Divisional Officer thereof, and (d) All Additional Tehsildars and Naib Tehsildars in a tehsil shall be subordinate to the Tehsildar thereof. " The contention of learned counsel for the appellant is that the section confers executive powers of superintendence and control on the Board and it does not vest any power of superintendence on the Board on judicial side.
For this purpose he relied or the decision of the Division Bench of the Rajasthan High Court reported as Karan Singh vs Board of Revenue, Rajasthan.
The Division 727 Bench in that case was concerned with the interpretation of Section 9 of the Land Revenue Act.
In that case also the High Court took the view that it is not correct to say that Section 9 is limited to the executive control and superintendence of the Board over subordinate revenue courts and it does not apply to judicial proceedings.
It is both administrative as well as judicial powers.
Rajasthan: ILR where the High Court had to construe the power of the Board of Revenue, Rajasthan, conferred on it by the Rajasthan Board of Revenue Ordinance (NO.XXII of 1949).
