He had on October 26, 1968 instituted a suit No. 157 of 1968 for a declaration and an injunction to restrain the defendants from dispossessing him from the property known as 'Palmar Oiteral do Predio Aivao ' comprising seven lots of coconut grove situated at Caranzalem belonging to defendant No. 2.
On the dismissal of the said suit the original plaintiff filed another suit No. 114/74 on May 6, 1974 for restoration of possession on the ground that he was the lawful tenant of the said property and since he had not been dispossessed,in accordance with law the defen dants who were mere trespassers were liable to be evicted.
No. 1 executed a deed of lease in favour of the latter effective from January 1, 1968 on the strength whereof defendant The plaintiff, therefore, contended that defendant No. 1 was a trespasser in the property and was liable to be evicted therefrom.
No. 2 was, therefore, entitled to let out the property to defendant No. 1 and hence the latter was in lawful possession of the said property The plaintiffs allegation that he was forcibly dispossessed was denied.
The Trial Court also found that the plaintiff had paid a sum of Rs. 1200 to defendant No.2 through his employee Dattu Kenkro by way of advance rent for the year commencing from January 1, 1968.
The Trial Court, therefore, held that the plaintiff was wrongly dispossessed by defendant No. 1 in collusion with defendant No.2 and decreed the suit for eviction on September 25, 1985.
It is against this order of the High Court that the present appeal by special leave is preferred.
The first ground on which the High Court dismissed the suit is that the suit was barred by the principle of res judicata in view of the dismissal of the former suit No. 157/68.
That suit was for a declaration that the plaintiff was a lessee and for an injunction to restrain the defendants from interfering with his possession of the suit property.
The foundation for that suit was that the plaintiff who claimed to be a lessee in respect of the demised property apprehended his forcible dispossession therefrom.
That suit, however, came to be dismissed as the Trial Court came to the conclusion that the plaintiff was no more in possession of the property in respect of which he claimed to be a lessee.
It was only thereafter that the plaintiff filed the suit for restoration of his possession.
He, therefore, contended that the lease stated to have been created in favour of defendant No. 1 by defendant No. 2 was a sham and bogus document set up with a view to supporting their illegal action in dispossessing him.
It is not the finding of the High Court that in the previous suit the question regarding the tenancy of the plaintiff was determined against the plaintiff.
As the record stands the only ground on which the previous suit 1022 was dismissed was the technical ground that a suit for a mere declaration cannot lie without claiming possession once it is found that the plaintiff had lost possession.
Injunction could not be granted to the plaintiff against dispossession as he had already been dispossessed.
It is only when the subject matter of any suit is directly and substantially in issue in the previous suit that the subsequent suit would be barred by res judicata if the competent court trying it had decided the issue regarding tenancy against the plaintiff.
The High Court has concluded against the plaintiff on this point in paragraph 31 which reads as under: As stated earlier, the first suit was dismissed on a technical ground that the suit for a mere declaration without seeking consequential relief of possession could not lie.
In that suit the issue regarding the status of the plaintiff as a lessee was not settled once for all and hence that issue could not be stated to be barred by res judicata in the subsequent suit brought by the lessee for possession the demised property.
Rule 2 thereof requires that the plaintiff shall include the whole of his claim in the framing of the suit.
Sub rule (1) of Rule 2, inter alia, provides that every suit shall include the whole of the claim which the plaintiff is entitled to make in respect of the cause of action.
However, sub rule (3) of Rule 2 provides that a person entitled to more than one relief in respect of the same cause of action may sue for all or any of such reliefs; but if he omits, except with the leave of the court, to sue for all such reliefs he shall not afterwards sue for any relief so omitted.
To preclude the plaintiff from so doing it is provided that if he omits any part of the claim or fails to claim a remedy available to him in respect of that cause of action he will thereafter be precluded from so doing in any subsequent litigation that he may commence if he has not obtained the prior permission of the court.
It may not be out of place to clarify that the doctrine of res judicata differs from the rule embodied in Order 2 Rule 2, in that, the former places emphasis on the plaintiff 's duty to exhaust all available grounds in support (if his claim while the latter requires the plaintiff to claim all reliefs emanating from the same cause of action.
The first suit was dismissed on the technical ground that since the plaintiff was not in de facto possession no injunction could be granted and a suit for a mere declaration of status without seeking the consequential relief for possession could not lie.
Once it was found that the plaintiff was not in actual physical possession of the demised property, the suit had become infructuous.
The allegation in the former suit was that the plaintiff was a lessee and his 1024 possession was threatened and, therefore, he sought the court 's assistance to protect his possession by a prohibitory injunction.
Therefore, the cause of action for the former suit was based on an apprehension that the defendants were likely to forcibly dispossess the plaintiff.
It may be that the subject matter of the suit was the very same property but the cause of action was distinct and so also the relief claimed in the subsequent.
Proceeding further the High Court takes the view that even after the Fifth Amendment came into force the plaintiff had not applied to the Mamlatdar for possession of the land within the period allowed by Section 18 of the Act and had, therefore, allowed the first defendant to become a deemed purchaser of the suit property on the strength of his tenancy.
We may now proceed to examine whether this view taken by the High Court is correct.
The question is whether this subsequent change in the law deprived the Civil Court of jurisdiction which it undoubtedly possessed on the date of the institution of the suit.
If a suit is filed to recover possession of agricultural land from a trespasser and no dispute arises, the adjudication whereof is required to be done by the special machinery set up under the Act, the Civil Court will continue to have jurisdiction.
There may arise a situation where the entire dispute pending before the Civil Court can be adjudicated by the special machinery only and not the Civil Court, what procedure the 1028 Civil Court follow in such a situation? In Shah Yograj Kuverji Oil Mills and Ginning Factory vs Subhash Chandra Yograj Sinha, ; = ; the facts were that the landlord had filed a suit for eviction on April 25, 1957 in the regular court, i.e., the Court of the Joint Civil Judge (Junior Division), Erandol, which admittedly had jurisdiction to pass a decree for possession of the demised premises.
The contention of the landlord that the operation of section 12(1) is limited to suits filed after the Rent Act comes into force in a particular area was not accepted.
In other words, he disputed the plaintiff 's contention that, he was a trespasser and pleaded tenancy.
