Appeal from an Order of the High Court of Bombay (Bavdekar and Chainani JJ.) The facts are stated in the judgment.
Iswarlal C. Dalai and R.B. Dalai, for the appellant.
C.K. Daphtary, Solicitor General for India (G. N. Joshi, with him) for the Republic of India (respondent No. 1).Jindra February 1.
It is said that the appellant wanted to go to the United Kingdom for treatment of his failing eye sight and he got into touch with the complainant Mulchand Kodumal Bhatia, who is the second respondent in this appeal, through one Sayed for the purpose of making necessary ar rangements about the flat occupied by him in view of his intended departure.
He, however, got into touch with the police on 1 12 1948, and in conjunction with the latter, a trap was laid for the appellant.
It was arranged that the complainant should bring with him Rs. 1,000, being the balance due in respect of the furniture and that the police would give him Rs. 29,500 to be paid to the appellant.
As the appellant and his wife were leaving the flat, the man, who masqueraded as the complain ant 's brother, threw off his disguise and disclosed his identity.
The police party, who were down below ready for the raid, held up the car of the appellant and recovered the sum of Rs. 30,500 from the rear seat of the car and also some papers, a typed draft of a partnership agreement be tween the complainant and the appellant and an application form for permission to occupy the building as caretaker.
The appellant was charged under section 18(1) of the Bombay Rents, Hotel and Lodging House Rates Control Act, LVII of 1947, for receiving a pugree of Rs.
The defence of the appellant was that he was in search of a partner to carry on his business during his intended absence, who was also to act as caretaker of his flat anal that it was in this connection and with this object in view that he entered into negotiations with the complain ant.
2,000 was paid and received as a guarantee against disposal and damage of the furniture and it was agreed to be paid back on the appellant 's return to India.
The wife of the appellant denied any aiding and abetting.
