On June 10 1901 Jugal Kishore Lal granted a lease of 96 bighas out of his 400 bighas to one D M Mathews.
No plan was annexed to this lease deed.
As the plan is a part of the lease deed it is clear from the plan that the northern boundary of the leasehold of Samanta is the said line.
It is well settled that a map referred to in a lease should be treated as incorporated in the lease and as 499 forming part of the said document.
He held that article 48 of the Limitation Act applied to the suit and that the appellant had failed to prove that the respondents had knowledge of the sinking of the quarries and pits in the encroached land.
Obviously where a person has a right to sue within three years from the date of his coming to know of a certain fact it is for him to prove that he had the knowledge of the said fact on a particular date for 501 the said fact would be within his peculiar knowledge.
It is the obligation of the plaintiff to satisfy the court that his action is not barred by lapse of time see Lalchand Marwari vs Mahanth Rampur Gir 1 and Rajah Sahib Perhlad Sein vs Maharajah Rajender Kishore Sing 2 .
He stated in his evidence that the appellant had encroached upon the South Kujamal Colliery in Seam Nos 10 11 and 12 and another special seam known as 4 feet seam and that in August 1941 be came to know about the encroachment for the first time when the Mines Department forwarded a plan of the joint workings of the two collieries of the parties.
In the cross examination two suggestions were made to him namely that in 1932 there was a survey of the plaintiffs  and defendants  coal land by the Mines Department and that Seam Nos 11 and 12 were 1 Pat 312.
He denied that he had any knowledge of the said two facts.
After noticing the words in the last column of the article the learned Judges proceeded to observe thus  The starting date of limitation in the case of conversion is the date when the person who has the right to possession first learns of the act of conversion.
 Adverting to the burden of proof the learned Judges observed There is nothing in the pleadings which would show precisely at what period tile plaintiff or the plaintiff s agent which is the same thing became aware of the sale and its wrongfulness that is to say became aware of the fact of conversion.
But to say that no duty is cast upon the plaintiff even to allege the date when they had knowledge of the defendant s possession of the converted property and that the entire burden is on the defendant is contrary to the tenor of the article in the Limitation Act and also to the rules of evidence.
 In Talyarkhan vs Gangadas 3 Rangnekar J formulated the legal position thus The onus is on the plaintiff to prove that he first learnt within three years of the suit that the property which he is seeking to recover was in the possession of the defendant.
But the courts found from Commissioner s maps that in the encroached portion there were only underground workings and that the quarries were mostly outside the encroached area.
In the written statement the defendants did not deny the fact that the coal still left in the encroached area was lost to the plaintiffs but only stated that it was purely a question of statutory obligation on the part of the plain.
Appeal dismissed.
