 Sections 6 to 15 prescribe the special procedure which the court has to follow in the trial of the cases referred to it.
2  293 offences as there can of course be no trial of offences in the abstract and the general expressions used in providing for the power to set that machinery in operation must be restricted to that end in accordance with the intention of the legislature for a literal construction of the general language would impute to the legislature an intention to confer an arbitrary power of reference which would be incon sistent not only with the declared object of the statute but also with the constitutional prohibition against discrimina tion which the legislature must be taken to have been aware of when it deliberately re enacted the provisions of the old Ordinance.
His first line of argument is that quite apart from the question of classification there has been no infringement of article 14 of the Constitution in the present case.
It must appear not only that a classification has been made but also that it is based upon some reasonable ground some difference which bears a just and proper relation to the attempted classification1.
A careful perusal of this decision will make it quite clear that the Court upheld the validity of the statute impugned in that case not on the ground that the inequality was of minor importance but on the ground that the classification of establishments according to the number of workmen employed therein was based on an intelli gible distinction having a rational relation to the subject matter of the legislation in question.
I have already stated that this part of the sub section contemplates a process of classification of of fences classes of offences and classes of cases.
 In order to be a proper classification so as not to offend against the Constitution it must be based on some intelligible differentia which should have a reason able relation to the object of the Act as recited in the preamble.
Even if this difference in the circum stances of the two alleged offenders can be made the basis of a classification there is no nexus between this differ ence and the object of the Act for in the absence of any special circumstances there is no apparent reason why the offence of theft in a dwelling house by a stranger should require a speedier trial any more than the offence of theft by a servant should do.
Here the law lays an unequal hand on those who have committed intrinsically the same quality of offence his power must inevitably result in discrimination and this discrimination is in terms incorpo rated in this part of the section itself and therefore this part of the section itself must incur our condemnation.
Article 14 provides The State shall not deny to any person equality before the law or the equal protection of the laws within the territory of India Then follow articles 15 and 16 the former prohibiting discrimination on grounds of religion race caste sex place of birth or any of them and the latter providing for equality of opportunity in matters of public employment.
 It does not take from the states the power to classify either in the adoption of police laws or tax laws or eminent domain laws but permits to them the exercise of a wide scope of discretion and nullifies what they do only when it is without any reasonable basis.
If a law deals equally with members of a welldefined class it is not obnoxious and it is not open to the charge of denial of equal protection on the ground that it has no application to other persons.
If the Act does not state what exactly are the offences which in its opinion need a speedier trial and why it is so considered a mere statement in general words of the object sought to be achieved as we find in this case is of no avail because the classification if any is illusive or evasive.
Discrimination may not appear in the statute itself but may be evident in the administration of the law.
If an uncontrolled or unguided power is conferred without any reasonable and proper standards or limits being laid down in the enactment the statute itself may be challenged and not merely the particular administrative act.
Co vs Illinois Prof Weaver says at page 404 of his compendious book on Constitutional Law under the heading of  DISCRIMINATION IN THE ADMiNiSTRATION OF THE LAWS  Discrimination may exist in the administration of the laws and it is the purpose of the equal protection clause to secure all the inhabitants of the state from intentional and arbitrary discrimination arising in their improper or preju diced execution as well as by the express terms of the law itself.
In Tarrance vs Florida  the administration of a State law and not the law itself was challenged and the court said Such an actual discrimination is as potential in creating a denial of equality of rights as a discrimina tion made by law  There is only one other point that I would like to deal with.
If the Act does not enunciate any principle on the basis of which the State Government could select offences or classes of offences or cases or classes of cases and the State Government is left free to make 358 any arbitrary selection according to their will and pleasure then the Act is void.
 Bose J We are concerned here with article 14 of the Constitution and in particular with the words equality before the law and equal protection of the law.
