Names of such incumbents were to be shown in a proforma and they were to be employed in the Andhra region without break in service by creating supernumerary posts if necessary.
Section 3 of the Act gave the power to make Rules in respect of certain classes of employment in certain areas.
They are called the Andhra Pradesh Public Employment Requirement as to Residence Rules 1959.
For this reason section 3 of the Act is challenged as ultra vires the Constitution.
The first clause emphasises that ware shall be in India equality of opportunity for all citizens in matters of employment or appointment to any office under the late.
The second clause then specifies a prohibition against discrimination only on the grounds of religion race sex descent place of birth residence or any of them.
For the original words of the clause under any State specified in the First schedule or any local or other authority within its territory any requirement as to residence within that State  the present words from under the Government  to Union territory  have been substituted.
any requirement as to residence within the State or Union territory prior to employment or appointment to an office in that State or Union territory.
Firstly whether Parliament  while prescribing the requirement may prescribe the requirement of residence in a particular part of the State and secondly whether Par liament can delegate this function by making a declaration and leaving the details to be filled in by the rule making power of the Central or State Governments.
It has already made a declaration that no person shall be disqualified for any office in the territory of India because of his residence in any particular part of India.
more appropriate and specific language could have been used such as any requirement as to residence within that State or Union territory or part of that State or Union territory .
He contends that the power is given to Parliament to make any law and therefore Parliament is supreme and can make any law on the subject as the article says.
He very ingeniously shifts the emphasis to the words any requirement  and contends that the requirement may be also as to residence in the State or any particular part of state.
The claim of Mr Setalvad that Parliament can make a provision regarding residence in any particular part of a State would render the general prohibition lose all its meaning.
It follows therefore that section 3 of the Public Employment Requirement as to Residence Act 1957 in so far as it relates to Telengana and we say nothing about the other parts and Rule 3 of the Rules under it are ultra vires the Constitution.
In view of our conclusion on this point it is not necessary to express any opinion whether delegation to the Central andor State Governments to provide by rules for the further implementing of the law made by Parliament is valid or not.
