Before the High Court the contention of the Federation was that the premises in which the registered office of the Federation is located is not a commercial establishment within the meaning of section 25 of the Act which in consequence had no application.
 352 It was then contended that the activities of the Federation carried on in the premises in question amounted to work in connection with or incidental or ancillary to trade or business in general within the latter part of the definition of commercial establishment.
 It will be seen that while the definition of establishment includes a shop  and commercial establishment the definitions of shop  and commercial establishment  are mutually exclusive.
It came up for consideration before this Court in Management of the Federation of Indian Chambers of Commerce and Industry vs Their workman Shri R K Mittal1 After considering its Memorandum of Association Articles of Association and other material which was more or less the same as in the present case it was held by this Court that the activity of this Federation is in the nature of a business or trade.
 Mr Pai further maintains that the ratio in R K Mittal s case supra is not applicable to the instant case because the definition of  industry in section 2j of the is far wider than that of commercial establishment in section 25 of the Act.
As regards the preliminary objection it is true that before the High Court it was not argued that the activity of the Federation amounts to the carrying on of any business or trade in the premises in question.
Alternatively it was contended that the case fell within part b of the definition of commercial establishment inasmuch as its activities were connected with trade and business generally.
An examination of the activities of the Federation showed that the Federation carried on systematic activities to assist its members and other businessmen and industrialists and even to non members as for instance in giving them the right to subscribe to their bulletin in taking up their cases and solving their difficulties and in obtaining concessions and facilities from them from the Government.
These activities were business activities and material services rendered to businessmen traders and industrialists who are members of the constituents of the Federation.
For all the foregoing reasons particularly in view of the decision of this Court in R K Mittals case supra we would hold that the pre premises of the Federation are a commercial establishment within the meaning of section 25 of the Act.
