His only contention is that it is a private religious endowment and not a public one.
He submits that there is no evidence of long user of this temple by 521 the public as a matter of right.
After him the present Buwa Purshottam came to Gadi.
That ownership is of your own.
As stated above we are unable to hold that recitals in these documents taken as a whole can reasonably lead to the conclusion that the Sansthan is a private property.
Again in the gift deed exhibit 39 the donee is described as Shri Rukhmini Pandurang Sansthan Sansthan Amalner Sakharam Maharaj at present Vasudev Buwa Guru Bal 525 krishna Maharaj.
Hence with the intention object that some service may be rendered by me for his Devasthan I have given in gift out of love the below mentioned property valued at Rs 600 Six hundred without taking any consideration from you for the purpose of expenses of performing worship and offering Naivadya food.
In accordance with this theory it has been held that when property is dedicated for the worship of a family idol it is a private and not a public endowment as the persons who are entitled to worship at the shrine of the deity can only be the members of the family and that is an ascertained group of individuals.
Distinguishing the decision of the Privy Council in Bahu Bhagwan Din vs Gir Har Saroon on the ground that the properties in that case were granted not in favour of an idol or temple but in favour of one Daryao Gir who was maintaining a temple and to his heirs in perpetuity this Court further held in the above decision But in the present case the endowment was in favour of the idol itself and the point for decision is whether it 527 was private or public endowment.
In Tilkayat Shri Govindlji Maharaj vs The State of Rajasthan and others this Court had to consider about a Hindu temple being private or public and observed as follows Where evidence in regard to the foundation of the temple is not clearly available sometimes judicial decisions rely on certain other facts which are treated as relevant.
Are the members of the public entitled to an entry in the temple  Are they entitled to take part in offering service and taking Darshan in the temple  Are the members of the public entitled to take part in the festivals and ceremonies arranged in the temple  Are their offerings accepted as a matter of right The participation of the members of the public in the Darshan in the temple and in the daily acts of worship or in the celebrations of festivals occasions may be a very important factor to consider in deter mining the character of the temple.
Examples do occur where the founder may grant property to his spiritual preceptor and his disciples in succession with a view to maintain one particular spiritual family and for perpetuation of certain rights and ceremonies which are deemed to be conducive to the spiritual welfare of the founder and his family.
The Bhajans at Pandharpur performed by Maharaj are attended by the public.
