Appeals by Special Leave from the Judgment and order dated 20 1 1979 of the Madhya Pradesh High Court in Misc.
5 6 in CA 161779.
For the purpose of holding election to the .
Aggrieved by the order passed by the High Court Ashok Kumar Mishra and Bhagwat Singh Thakur Petitioners No 1 and 5 respectively in the 494 petition before the High Court filed a petition for special leave to appeal to this Court and Purshottam Lal Sharma petitioner No 6 before the High Court filed another petition.
It was also alleged that on October 20 1978 34 persons mentioned in Annexure P 7 approached the Deputy Collector to entertain their claim for inclusion in the electoral roll and he refused to receive their applications.
The claim of petitioner No 5 was rejected as no evidence in support of his claim was produced before the Deputy Collector.
It was further pleaded that no other claims or objections were preferred either on October 20 1978 or on any other sub sequent date.
It is not the case of the petitioners that they did not know immediately after the publication of such notice that in the said notice a period of 20 days had been mentioned in its preamble as the period within which the claims and objections could be preferred and in paragraph 7 thereof it had been stated that any such claim or objection filed beyond the prescribed period was liable to be rejected.
If they felt that the said notice suffered from any illegality they could have brought it to the notice of the Collector immediately 496 thereafter.
It was open to them to move the State Government under Rule 6 of the Rules to make an order directing the Collector to follow .
No such appeal was presented.
It was notified that the nominations could be filed on and after November 25 1978 and the poll if necessary would take place on December 31 1978.
It was only on December 5 1978 for the first time that a letter was addressed by petitioner No 6 to the Collector drawing his attention to the error that had crept into the notice published under Rule 41 of the Rules.
By that time the nominations had all been received.
It was however argued before us relying upon a news item which had appeared in a daily called Nav Bharat  dated October 21 1978 in which there was a reference to a statement made by the Minister for Local Self Government of Madhya Pradesh regarding the irregularity in the division of Raipur town into different wards for purposes of election.
It was also stated therein that in the course of the discussion with the press reporters on that day the Minister had stated that he had directed the Commissioner Raipur Division Raipur that the date for inclusion of names in the electoral roll could be extended if the election date was not affected.
It is difficult to place any reliance on the above news item for the purpose of concluding that the Collector Raipur had been informed about the defect in the notice issued under Rule 41 of the Rules by October 21 1978.
It is well settled that the power of the High Court under Article 226 of the Constitution to issue an appropriate writ is discretionary and if the High Court finds that there is not satisfactory explanation far the inordinate delay it may reject the petition if it finds that the issue of Writ will lead to public inconvenience and interference with rights of others.
