Industrial Corpn.
Chapter VIII of the Act consisting of sections 64 to 71 is entitled Special Areas.
By section 36 of the aforesaid Adhiniyam local authorities were prohibited from recovering the property tax from November 24 1970.
As observed in Nathella Sampathu Chetty there is a distinction between a mere reference to or a citation of one statute in another and an incorporation which in effect means the bodily lifting of the provisions of one enactment and making them part of another so much so that the repeal of the former leaves the latter wholly untouched.
 In Heavy Engineering Mazdoor Union vs The State of Bihar  Ors the Heavy Engineering Corporation Limited was incorporated under the and its entire share capital was contributed by the Central Government.
It is as much bound by Acts of Parliament as any other subject of the King.
Finally the learned Attorney General raised a contention of fundamental importance which was not raised in the High Court.
Basing himself on that consideration the Attorney General argues 1 By virtue of the declaration contained in section 2 of Mines and Minerals Development and Regulation Act 1957 the legislative field covered by Entry 23 19 List II passed on the Parliament by virtue of Entry 54 List I 2 The Parliament enacted the Coal Mines Nationalisation Act 1973 for acquisition of coal mines with a view to reorganising and reconstructing such coal mines so as to ensure the rational coordinated and scientific development and utilisation of coal resources as best to subserve the common good.
3 Under section 5 of the Nationalisation Act the acquired properties were vested in a Government Company in order to carry out more conveniently the object of that Act and for that purpose the properties were freed from all encumbrances by section 6 of the Act.
4 The taxing power of the State legislature must be construed as limited in its scope so as not to come in conflict with the power and function of the Union to regulate and develop the mines as envisaged by the Nationalisation Act.
Apart from the fact that there is no data before us showing that the property tax constitutes an impediment in the achievement of the goals of the Coal Mines Nationalisation Act the provisions of the MP Act of 1973 under which Special Areas and Special Area Development Authorities are constituted afford an effective answer to the Attorney General s contention.
Entry 23 of List II relates to Regulation of mines and mineral development subject to the provisions of List I with respect to regulation and development under the control of the Union.
Entry 54 of List I relates to Regulation of mines and mineral development to the extent to which such regulation and development under the control of the Union is declared by Parliament by law to be expedient in the public interest.
But in order to 20 judge whether on that account the State legislature loses its competence to pass the Act of 1973 it is necessary to have regard to the object and purpose of that Act and to the relevant provisions thereof under which Special Area Development Authorities are given the power to tax lands and buildings within their jurisdiction.
Entry 54 of List I does not contemplate the taking over of municipal functions.
By the aforesaid declaration and the enactment of section 15 the whole of the field relating to minor minerals had come within the jurisdiction of Parliament and no scope was left for the enactment of the second proviso to section 10 of the Bihar Land Reforms Act.
For these reasons the appeals fail and are dismissed with costs.
