By the said Judgment and decree the High Court of Andhra Pradesh had reversed the Judgment of the learned Subordinate Judge Masulipatam dated 19th November 1964 dismissing the suit of the plaintiffs respondents against the appellant.
Late Shri Raja Vasireddi Chandra Dhara Prashad was the husband of respondent No 1 and father of the respondents No 2 to 5 herein.
It was further stated that the said two cheques were encashed and the appellant had duly appropriated the amount and credited in the accounts towards the premium payable by the deceased.
He had further stated that the proposal form was sent from the office at Guntur to the Divisional office at Masulipatam and exhibit B 1 to B 4 and B 8 were sent in this connection.
He held that as per the prospectus of Life Insurance Corporation of India the risk under the Corporation policy commenced on the date of receipt of the first premium in full or the date of acceptance whichever was later and the second instalment of the premium falls due on a date calculated from such date of commencement of risk.
Relying on certain other documents which were called for for the first time by the High Court relating to certain other cases where only the Assistant Divisional Manager made similar endorsement the High Court came to the conclusion that there was a valid contract.
He had stated that the purpose of review slip was to enable the Divisional Manager to asses the risk and take a decision.
 Though in certain human relationships silence to a proposal might convey acceptance but in the case of insurance proposal silence does not denote consent and no binding contract arises until 360 the person to whom an offer is made says or does something to signify his acceptance.
Having regard to the clear position in law about acceptance of insurance proposal and the evidence on record in this case we are therefore of the opinion that the High Court was in error in coming to the conclusion that there was a concluded contract of insurance between the deceased and the Life Insurance Corporation and on that basis reversing the judgment and the decision of the learned Subordinate Judge.
In the facts and circumstances of the case there will be no order as to costs in this Court.
