As a result of this firing one innocent namely Brahamdeo Mishra was killed.
In the affidavit of the District Magistrate the detaining authority it has been stated that the activities of the petitioner s brother and the petitioner have disturbed the normal tempo of life in Katras and Jogta Police Stations in Dhanbad area.
He is likely to be enlarged on bail.
 According to the District Magistrate when police pressure to apprehend him became heavy the detenu opted to surrender before the Sub Divisional Judicial Magistrate on 10th January 1986 in substantive case to frustrate the service of the detention order.
All the documents which formed the basis of detention were supplied to the detenu.
His representation was duly considered and rejected.
Crl A 35386 with WP crl 2786 dt.
From the affidavit of the District Magistrate it does not appear that either the prospect of immediate release of the detenu or other factors which can justify the detention of a person in detention were properly considered in the light of the principles noted in the aforesaid decision and especially in the decisions in Rameshwar Shaw vs District Magistrate Burdwan  Anr  and Ramesh Yadav vs District Magistrate Etah and others though there was a statement to the effect that the petitioner was in jail and was likely to be enlarged on bail.
If a man is in custody and there is no imminent possibility of his being released the power of preventive detention should not be exercised.
If there were cogent materials for thinking that the detenu might be released then these should have been made apparent.
Eternal vigilance on the part of the authority charged with both law and order and public order is the price which the democracy in this country extracts from the public officials in order to protect the fundamental freedoms of our citizens.
If however the detenu is released on bail in the aforesaid criminal cases the matter of service of the detention order under the Act on the aforesaid materials may be reconsidered by the appropriate authority in accordance with the law.
