Appeal No 1713NT of 1973.
But it appears that it was admitted position that Tika Ram  Sons had a cash balance of Rs4000 only on 111957 and it did not have any overdraft facilities with any bank.
But there was no evidence that Tika Ram and Sons were carrying on any banking business.
34 and 5 were answered in the negative.
Aggrieved by the said decision the revenue has come up in appeal.
In order to constitute a valid gift there must be an existing property.
In the case of banking companies or other firms and companies who have overdraft facilities even if the sums are not in credit of the donor and are not with such companies or firms gifts might be possible by adjustment of the book entries.
But in such cases 127 merely books entries would not suffice.
Commis sioner of Income Tax Poona vs Dharsey Keshavji 143 ITR 509 and Commissioner of Income Tax Poona vs Devichand Uttamchand In the background of facts of those cases the Bombay High Court held that the gifts were valid.
In the case of Baliram Mathuradas By his legal Heir Madanlal Paliram vs Commissioner of Income Tax Bombay City II the Bombay High Court had occasion to consider this question and held that there was no evidence of acceptance.
C was not in a position to make gifts in cash of the amounts credited in favour of his wife and relatives.
He had large assets but these were represented by land buildings plant machinery and stock in trade.
C s wife withdrew various sums of money from time to time from the interest account and whenever C desired to retransfer amounts to his capital account he obtained let ters of consent from her.
In Sukhlal Sheo Narain vs Commissioner of Wealth Tax Haryana the Punjab  Haryana High Court had dealt with a case where the father had gifted Rs84000 ie Rs28000 to each of his sons.
Father had complete control and dominion over that amount.
Balance of the firm was only Rs 15.
In Commissioner of Wealth Tax vs Gulab Rai Govind Pra sad there was an alleged gift of Rs2 lakhs to minor son by book entries.
No acceptance was produced.
If the possession enjoyment or benefit of the donor in the property was consistent with the facts and circumstances of the case other than those of the factum of gift it could not be said that the donee had not retained the possession and enjoyment of the property to the entire exclusion of the donor or to the entire exclusion of the donor in any benefit to him by contract or otherwise.
But in that case the question in the present form in which it arises before us in the instant case did not arise.
As the respondent is not appearing there will be no order as to costs.
