It is further mentioned in the said agreement that it was agreed by the licensee that if he commits any default of any terms and conditions or fails to pay the compensation for two months or if the licensee at any time puts up false or adverse claim of tenancy or sub tenancy the licensor shall be entitled to terminate the agreement and cancel and revoke and withdraw the leave and licence granted earlier and shall be entitled to take possession forthwith of the said premises.
In order to go back to the findings of the learned Judge of the Court of Small Cause and the learned High Court Judge found that the appellant had failed to prove that he was a sub tenant of the respondent and the learned Judge found him to be a licensee.
The Bombay Rent Act was amended by Maharashtra Act 17 of 1973.
If he was such a licensee the non obstante clause of section 15A1 give him the status and protection of a tenant in spite of there being anything to the contrary in any other law or in contract.
It was further held that a person continuing in possession of the premises after termination withdrawal or revocation of the licence continued to occupy it was a trespasser or a person who had no semblance of any right to continue in occupation of the premises.
It was futher held that a person continuing in occupation of such premises after revocation of the licence was still liable to pay compensation or damages for its use and occupation.
It was further held that filing an application under section 41 of the 1065 might in certain circumstances have the effect of putting an end to the licence if it was subsisting on the date of its filing.
It was further held that it was right that the Court should act in consonance with the spirit of the Maharashtra Amending Act 17 of 1973 but the Court cannot and should not cast the law to the winds or twist or stretch it to a breaking point amounting to almost an absurdity.
It was observed that the finding of the High Court that the respondent was in occupation of the premises under a subsisting licence was wholly wrong and suffered from serious infirmities of law and fact and deserved to be set aside.
He referred us to the decision of this Court in the case of Associated 1066 Hotels of India Ltd vs RN Kapoor  where at page 383 this Court noted that there was a marked distinction between a lease and a licence.
In determining whether an agreement creates between the parties the relationship of landlord and tenant or merely that of licensor and licensee the decisive consideration is the intention of the parties.
In any event this is a possible view that could be taken.
In the aforesaid view of the matter we are clearly of the opinion that in view of the intention of the parties in the document and the facts and circumstances of this case it was a licence and not a lease.
NPV Appeal dismissed.
