From the Judgment and Order dated 4785  21684 of the Customs Excise and Gold Control Appellate Tribunal New Delhi in Appeal Nos.
According to the appellant the manufacture of fusel oil is complete and it is the fully manufactured fusel oilStyrene Monomer which is stored in the storage tank.
Collector in those appeals had included the costs of such drums in the value of styrene monomer.
According to the learned Attorney General since the Act provides for only one exception to this measure namely non inclusion of the cost of such packing where the packing is durable in nature and is returnable by the buyer to the assessee in all other cases the cost of the packing would have to be included in the assessable value of the excisable goods where such goods are delivered at the time of removal in packed condition.
For articles to be goods these must be known in the market as such and these must be capable of being sold or being sold in the market as such.
Furthermore no cost was in fact incurred by the assessee.
AN Sen J who agreed with Pathak J observed that on a proper construction of section 44di it was clear that any secondary packing done for the purpose of facilitating transport and smooth transit of the goods to be delivered to the buyer in the wholesale trade could not be included in the value for the purpose of assessment of excise duty.
Chief Justice Bhag wati on the other hand held that corrugated fibreboard containers in which the cigarettes were contained fell within the definition of packing  in the Explanation to section 44di and if these formed part of the packing in which the goods were packed when delivered at the time of removal then under section 44di read with the Expla nation the cost of such corrugated fibreboard containers would be liable to be included in the value of cigarettes.
Even secondary packing would be within the terms of the Explanation because such second ary packing would also constitute a wrapper or a container in which the excisable goods are wrapped or contained.
But the test to determine whether the cost of any particular kind of secondary packing is liable to be included in the value of the article is whether a particular kind of packing is done in order to put the goods in the condition in which they are generally sold in the wholesale 991 market at the factory gate.
He answered that it is not.
But as a matter of fact delivery in drums was only to facilitate their transport in small quantities.
For this reason I agree with Rangana than J that the wider propositions canvassed by the two sides including the question of correctness of the view relating to secondary packing taken in Union of India vs Godfrey Phillips India Ltd raised by the learned Attorney General need not be considered and decided in these matters.
