KN Bhattacharya and P K Chatterjee for appellants.
March 22.
The Judgment of the Court was delivered by SUBBA RAO J.
This appeal by certificate granted is directed against the judgment of the High Court of Judicature at Patna dated April 23 1953 confirming that of the Subordinate Judge Dhanbad dated November 30 1946.
The plaintiffs and the defendant are adjoining colliery owners at Kujama.
The plaintiffs  land lies immediately to the south of the defendants  land.
On August 2 1894 Raja of Jharia granted mukarrari lease of the coal and coal mining rights in 300 bighas of land in village Kujama to Satya Karan Banerjee and Girish Chandra Samanta.
Samanta purchased the leasehold interest of Banerji and thereafter on November 23 1900 it appears that Samanta bad surrendered his rights under the previous lease in favour of the Raja and taken a fresh lease of the same 300 bighas on a reduced rent.
Walji Kheta represented the defendants.
By diverse transfers the interest of Samanata vested in Bagdigi Kujama Collieries Limited.
The plaintiffs case was that as a result of a letter written by the Inspector of Mines on August 18 1941 the plaintiffs made an inquiry and came to know that the defendants had encroached upon their coal mines on the northern side and removed coal from the encroached portion and had rendered the remaining coal of the encroached portion unworkable.
On those allegations they asked for the following reliefs aThat the intermediate boundary line between the plaintiffs  coal land and the defendants  coal land be ascertained and fixed.
cThat a permanent injunction be issued against the defendants restraining them from encroaching upon the plaintiffs  coal land and cutting and removing coal therefrom.
The defendants denied that they had encroached upon the plaintiff   coal land and stated that the suit was barred by limitation.
They further pleaded that the 495 plaintiffs would not be entitled to any damages.
Learned counsel for the appellant contends that the said boundary should be fixed solely with reference to the boundaries given in the lease of 1894 whereas learned counsel for the respondents contends that no plan has been annexed to the said lease and therefore the boundary could more satisfactorily and definitely be fixed with reference to the plans annexed to the subsequent lease deeds executed in favour of the successors in interest of the appellant and the respondents.
On August 2 1894 Raja Jaimangal Singh executed the lease deed exhibit 1 in respect of 300 bighas in favour of the respondents  predecessor in interest.
It may also be noticed at this stage that the map annexed to this lease deed has not been filed by the appellants.
On June 10 1901 Jugal Kishore Lal that is the predecessor in interest of the appellant demised a plot of 96 bighas carved out from his leasehold to Mathews under a deed exhibit C1.
Mathews in turn demised under exhibit D the said land of 96 bighas to Walji Khetan representing the appellant.
It may be mentioned that the said boundary line is exactly the same as that found in exhibit 3b.
But a perusal of exhibit I shows that there is no reference in regard to the western boundary to revenue records.
2 1869 12 MIA 292.
503 onus of proof may shift to the defendant.
But to say that no duty is cast upon the plaintiff even to allege the date when they had knowledge of the defendant s possession of the converted property and that the entire burden is on the defendant is contrary to the tenor of the article in the Limitation Act and also to the rules of evidence.
123127 2 3 Bom.
848 860.
