December 19.
The Judgment of the Court was delivered by RAGUHBAR DAYAL J.
The prosecution case in brief is that due to enmity the appellant caused injuries to Sheo Sahai who was sleeping in his cattle shed in village Bhadurpur Ghar with a sword at about mid night on the night between June 14 15 1960.
The appellant thereafter proceeded to the Canal Distributory at some distance from the village and had a bath there.
He delivered the sword which has been found by the Serologist to be stained with human blood.
The appellant was taken in custody and as a result of the investigation was sent up for trial The appellant denied the allegation that he had caused the death of Sheo Sahai and alleged that he was falsely accused of the offence.
He alleged that one Paley Singh informed him about the murder of Sheo Sahai and asked him to go to the Police Station Ekdil and to inform the Station Officer orally about the murder.
He did accordingly.
He was detained at the Police Station till 11 am the next day and was then put up in the lock up.
The Sub Inspector took his thumb impression forcibly on three papers but did not tell him the reason.
The appellant adduced no evidence in support of his statement.
The Courts below rightly did not accept his version.
The evidence led by the prosecution consisted of the evidence relating to motive to his extrajudicial confession to one Ujagar Singh when he was having a bath in the Canal to his purchasing the sword and to his delivering it at the police Station after he had dictated the report.
Both the Courts below rightly believed the evidence about the motive and purchase of the sword by the appellant.
205 The learned Sessions Judge believed Ujagar Singh and acted on the extra judicial confession made by the appellant to him.
The High Court however did not rely on this extra judicial confession.
It relied on certain statements made by the appellant in his report dictated at the Police Station and considered those facts together with the motive and the evidence about the purchase of the sword sufficient to confirm the appellant s conviction and sentence.
The learned counsel for the appellant has argued that the entire report dictated by the appellant was inadmissible in evidence as its contents amounted to a confession of the offence by the appellant made to a Police Officer and that the evidence relied upon by the High Court was insufficient to establish that the appellant had murdered Sheo Sahai.
On the other hand learned Counsel for the respondent urged that the High Court was wrong in rejecting the statement of Ujagar Singh about the appellant s extra judicial confession and that the extra judicial confession together with the circumstances relied on by the High Court fully make out the prosecution case against the appellant.
He also urges that such portions of the report which did not amount to a direct admission of the appellant s striking Sheo Sahai with a sword and thereby causing his death were admissible in evidence.
We do not consider it necessary to decide whether any portion of the report dictated by the appellant at the Police Station is admissible or not in evidence as there is good independent evidence with respect to the four matters mentioned in the report and relied on by the High Court in considering the case against the appellant.
Ajit Singh bears no enmity with the appellant.
Kehar Singh PW3.
We need also consider whether the facts that the accused had a motive to harm Sheo Sahai and that he had purchased a sword a day before the incident and deposited it stained with human blood at the Police Station on the night of the murder are sufficient to establish that it must be the appellant who committed the murder of Sheo Sahai or not as we are of opinion that the High Court erred in rejecting the statement of Ujagar Singh about the appellant s confessing to him that he had murdered Sheo Sahai.
To us it seems that in the middle of June when the chari and sugar cane crop would not have been very high it seems improbable that Ujagar Singh would have been sleeping in his field or that he should have met the appellant in the manner alleged.
If Ujagar Singh s statement made it very likely that what he stated did happen there could not have appeared any improbability in Ujagar Singh s sleeping in his field and meeting the appellant in the manner alleged especially when the learned Judges believed and there was evidence about it that the fields had chari and sugarcane crop at the time.
The learned Judges have not stated those considerations if any in addition to the improbability of Ujagar Singh s presence in his field on account of the crops being not very high which made them doubt the appellant s confessing to Ujagar Singh.
It may be mentioned that Ujagar Singh was on the field according to his statement for protecting the crop from the depradations of neel gais.
This tends to support Ujagar Singh s statement that the appellant had a bath in the Canal at that hour.
It may be that having blurted out the truth to Ujagar Singh when taken by surprise the appellant thought the best thing to be to proceed to the Police Station and report the matter there.
We are therefore of opinion that Ujagar Singh s statement about the appellant s confessing to him that he had murdered Sheo Sahai has been erroneously rejected by the High Court.
The extra judicial confession of the appellant to Ujagar Singh finds ample support from the facts that the appellant did purchase a sword a day before that very sword was found to be stained with human blood shortly after the murder and that sword was handed over by the appellant himself to the Police Officer at the Police Station.
The evidence of the appellant s having enmity with Sheo Sahai the appellant s conduct in purchasing a sword and delivering it stained with human blood to the Police and the appellant s confession to Ujagar Singh fully establish that the appellant did commit the murder of Sheo Sahai.
Appeal dismissed.
