iminal Appeals Nos.
2011 to 2013 of 1958.
B C Misra and P K Chakravarti for the appellant.
September 27.
The judgment of the Court was delivered by MUDHOLKAR J.
In all these trials the appellant who was a postman attached to the Bulandshahr post office was tried for offences under section 52 of the Indian Post Office Act 1898 VI of 1898 and in two of  them also for offences under sections 467 and 471 of the Indian Penal Code.
Briefly stated the allegations against the appellant were that he either stole or secreted five registered letters and that he fabricated three receipts showing that the registered letters were received by the addressees.
The learned Additional Sessions judge acquitted the appellant of all these offences.
The State then preferred an appeal against his acquittal in these three cases to the High Court of Allahabad but restricted the appeal to the acquittal of the appellant in respect of offences under 410 section 52 of the Indian Post Office Act 1898 hereafter referred to as the Act.
The appellant has come up to this Court by special leave.
Briefly stated the prosecution case is that when the house in which the appellant lives along with his father Diwan Singh a retired Police Head Constable was searched by the CID Inspector SN Singh along with Masood Murtaza Sub Inspector of Police Bulandshahr on May 12 1956 in connection with a case against Messrs Greenwood Publicity they accidentally discovered a large number of letters and postcards and also the five registered letters in question.
At the time of the search the appellant who happens to be a trade union official was not in Bulandshahr but was away on leave at Delhi in connection with a postal conference.
These articles were found in an almirah the key of which was produced by the appellant s father.
A number of other articles were also seized at that time but we are not concerned with them as they have no connection with the charges against the appellant.
Briefly the appellant s defence in all these cases is that there are two factions in the Bulandshahr post office and that these articles were planted by the opposite party.
Further according to him neither the house nor the almirah from which the articles are said to have been 411 seized was in his exclusive possession.
He stated and that fact is not denied that the house which consists of two rooms only has been rented in his father s name that both of them live in those two rooms and that the almirah was in his father s possession inasmuch as the key was produced by him.
2 That it has not been established that the five registered letters were in the exclusive possession of the appellant.
3 That the search was illegal inasmuch as it was in contravention of the provisions of sections 103 and 165 of the Code of Criminal Procedure.
5 That the High Court has not found that there were compelling reasons for setting aside the appellant s acquittal .
6 The sentences in the three cases having been ordered to run consecutively the total sentence is excessive.
So far as the alleged illegality of the search is concerned it is sufficient to say that even assuming that the search was illegal the seizure of the articles is not vitiated.
It may be that where the provisions of  sections 103 and 165 Code of Criminal Procedure are 412 contravened the search could be resisted by the person whose premises are sought to be searched.
It may also be that because of the illegality of the search the Court may be inclined to examine carefully the evidence regarding the seizure.
Whoever being an officer of the Post Office commits theft in respect of or dishonestly misappropriates or for any purpose whatsoever secretes destroys or throws away any postal article in course of transmission by post or anything contained therein shall be punishable with imprisonment for a term which may extend to seven years and shall also be punishable with fine.
Surely it cannot be contended that any entrustment  is necessary with regard to that act.
Indeed if entrustment were proved and the article entrusted is not found to have been disposed of in the manner permissible under the Act the offence committed would be not theft but criminal breach of trust.
according to Mr Misra the appellant cannot be said to have secreted the letter just because it was found in the almirah which is said to have been in his exclusive possession.
The next and in our opinion the most important question to be considered is whether the prosecution has established that the five registered letters in question were recovered from the possession of the appellant.
As already stated all that the prosecution has been able to prove is this case is that these letters were found in an almirah of the house in which the appellant lives jointly with his father and of which the key was furnished by the father.
Appeal allowed.
