SV Gupte Solicitor General R Ganapathy Iyer and RN Sachthey for the appellant.
AV Viswanatha Sastri and SP Varma for the respondent.
By a Treaty between the East India Company Nawab Asfuddaula in or about the year 1775 the province of Benaras was ceded to the British Government.
The British Government granted a sanad of Raj to Raja Chet Singh who in turn gave the Jagir of Parganas Seyedpore and Bhittery in perpetuity to Babu Ausan Singh.
The disputes between the Jagirdars and Zamindars ultimately ended in 1837 by a compromise between the British Government and the then Jagirdar Hat Narain Singh whereby the British Government 702 granted a pension of Rs 363228 to Babu Hat Narain Singh anal his heirs in perpetuity.
The quantum of this pension was calculated on the basis of 14th of the revenue of the Jagir.
By this arrangement the revenue or land collections of Jagir became payable by the Zamindars direct to the Government and by the grant of the pension Babu Hat Narain Singh and his successors no longer remained the proprietors of the Parganas or the Jagir and became entitled to merely a pension.
The pension was paid regularly from year to year by the Government to Babu Har Narain Singh and his heirs.
The source of the pension was a liability undertaken by the Government for extinguishing the proprietary rights of the Jagirdar and when the immediate source of the income was not land or rent collections from land it is difficult to hold that the receipt of the assessee was agricultural income within the meaning of Section 43viii of the Income tax Act.
 The High Court held that from the language of the letter of July 7 1837 it was manifest that the right which was conferred 703 was a right to a share of one fourth in the net land revenue collections after deducting costs of Tahsil establishment.
The learned Additional Solicitor General on behalf of the appellant contends that according to the true interpretation of the letter dated July 7 1837 no right in the land revenue was granted to the assessee.
Shah J observed The appellant has no beneficial interest in the lands which are the subject matter of the trust nor is he given under the trust a right to receive and appropriate to himself the income of the properties or a part thereof in lieu of any beneficial interest in that income.
The source of the right in which a fraction of the net income of the trust is to be appropriated by the appellant as his remuneration is not in the right to receive rent or revenue of agricultural lands but rests in the covenant in the deed to receive remuneration for management of the trust.
The income of the trust appropriated by the appellant as remuneration is not received by him as rent or revenue of land the character of the income appropriated as remuneration due is again not the same as the character in which it was received by the appellant as trustee.
Both the source and character of the income are therefore altered when a part of the income of the trust is appropriated by the appellant as his remuneration and that is so notwithstanding that computation of remuneration is made as a percentage of the income a substantial part whereof is derived from lands used for agricultural purposes.
