M K Ramamurthi for the respondents.
The Judgment of the Court was delivered by Wanchoo J.
It is unnecessary to set out the facts of the two appeals at this stage.
It is sufficient to say that the respondents made applications under section 33 C2 of the Industrial Disputes Act No 14 of 1947 praying for determination and computation of the benefit to which they were entitled under the Desai award as they were not satisfied with the fixation of their pay by the appellant bank under para 5356.
The Desai award dealt with the method of adjustment in the scales of pay fixed by it from para 5329 onwards.
It divided the employees of the banks with which it was concerned in two groups.
Examples of how this would be done were given in para.
5348 of the Desai award.
5348.
In the present appeals we are concerned with workmen who entered service before January 1 1959 and the fitment of these workmen was dealt with in para.
5356 of the Desai award and it is this paragraph which calls for interpretation in the present appeals.
We may at this stage mention that a similar question of fit ment was considered by the Sastry award in para.
1 As the words of para 292 of the Sastry award as modified by the Labour Appellate Decision are almost the same as the words of para.
3In the matter of adjustment all efficiency bars whether in the previously existing or in the scales fixed by us should be ignored.
b To the basic pay into which he is fitted under cl.
a the annual increments in the new scale as from that stage onwards should be added at the rate of one increment for every completed three years of service in the same cadre as on 31st January 1950 up to a limit of 12 years  service hereafter one increment for every four years of service up to another 8 years service and after that one increment for every five years of service.
c Such increments shall not however exceed four in number.
NOTE  Omitted by the Labour Appellate Tribunal in view of change in cl.
b 4 A.
Thereafter each succeeding year s annual increment shall take effect as and from 1st April of that year.
iii In the matter of adjustment all efficiency bars whether in the previously existing scales or in the scales provided by the Sastry award as modified should be ignored.
c Such increments shall not however exceed four in number.
d of cl.
The bank claimed that under cl.
ii of the Desai award the adjusted basic pay in the new scale was not to exceed what point to point adjustment would give an employee on January 1 1962.
ii and cl.
iv could not give to an employee more than the maximum arrived at under cl.
Thus the bank s case was that once the maximum arrived at by point to point adjustment as on January 1 1962 was reached under cl.
iv could be allowed.
a b and c of cl.
Further cl.
under sub cls.
a b and c of cl.
i and cl.
Under sub cl.
a of cl.
Where under cl.
b read with sub cl.
c of cl.
Thus sub cl.
a of cl.
iv and cl.
i together.
b read with sub cl.
c of cl.
i and ii.
d of cl.
d of cl.
d of cl.
a b and c of el.
d of el.
ii works.
a b and c of el.
b read with sub cl.
I le joined service on April 11 1949.
This is equal to his actual salary as on January 1 1959.
He would not be entitled to any increments under sub cls.
Tek Chand Sharma respondent in CA 1009 was appointed on November 15 1950.
His salary as on January 1 1959 was Rs 100 and his place of posting was Nakodar in area IV of the 1 906 Sastry award.
Under subcl.
a of cl.
He would not be entitled to any increments under sub cls.
a of cl.
So his salary as on January 1 1962 would be fixed at Rs 182.
The award of the labour court therefore in the case of Tek Chand Sharma is correct.
CA 1008 allowed.
