M C Setalvad R K Garg and section C Agarwala for the appellants.
BACHAWAT and SHELAT JJ.
Mudholkar J.
On June 4 1965 the Company preferred a writ petition under article 226 of the Constitution in the Punjab High Court for the issue of a writ of mandamus or other appropriate writ direction or order quashing the order of the Board dated May 19 1965.
The Managing Director Mr Balasubramanian joined in the petition as petitioner No 2.
The second respondent is Mr T T Krishnamachari who was at that time Minister for Finance in the Government of India.
Apart from the relief of quashing the order of May 19 1965 the appellants sought the  issue of a writ restraining the Company Law Board and the Inspectors from giving effect to the order dated May 19 1965 and also sought some other incidental reliefs.
Appellant No 2 was appointed Managing Director of the Company from December 5 1961 and his appointment and remuneration were approved by the Central Government on July 30 1962.
The erection of the plant was undertaken by Ms L A Mitchell Ltd of Manchester in pursuance of a collaboration agreement between it and the company entered in October 1961 and approved by the Central Government in November of that year.
It would appear that as the work of setting up of the plant was being delayed the Company sent a notice to Ms Mitchell Ltd  on April 2 1965 in which the Company stated that if the plant was not completely installed and got into running order by June 1 1965 the Company will have to make alternative arrangements and that it would hold Ms L A Mitchell Ltd liable to pay damages to the Company for the loss suffered by it.
According to the appellants before entering into a collaboration agreement with Ms L A Mitchell Ltd the appellant No 2 Balasubramanian was negotiating with a German firm named Kali Chemie A G of Hanover for obtaining their collaboration.
Appellant No 2 did not agree to this with the result that the company s negotiations with Kali Chemie broke down.
i to iii.
i to iii.
For sub section.
The Company and its Managing Director filed a petition under article 226 of the Constitution in the High Court of Punjab seeking to quash the order and on failure there have filed this appeal by special leave of this Court.
a of sub section.
1 of section 642 read with sub section.
The Board.
Bachawat J.
that organ itself.
Shelat J.
