P Ram Reddy and A V Rangam for the appellant.
R Ganapathy Iyer for the respondent.
The Judgment of the Court was delivered by Ramaswami J.
The respondent purchased by a registered instrument dated October 5 1956 the business carried on by one Purushottam Raju under the name All India Trading Company.
The Sales tax authorities attempted to recover the arrears of tax from the respondent as the purchaser of the business.
The respondent thereafter moved the Madras High Court under article 226 of the Constitution for the issue of a writ in the nature of certiorari to quash the orders of the Commercial Tax Officer and the Board of Revenue.
The Division Bench consisting of section Ramachandra Iyer CJ and Ramakrishnan J reversed the judgment of the Single Judge holding that Rule 21 A of the Sales Tax Rules was illegal and ultra vires and the respondent was not liable to pay the sales tax due from his predecessor in title Purushottam Raju.
Rule 21 A was framed by the State Government under the rule making power granted to it under section 191 and 2 of the Act.
Rule 21 A reads as follows  When the ownership of the business of a dealer liable to pay the tax under the Act is entirely transferred any tax payable in respect of such business and remaining unpaid at the time of the transfer shall be recoverable from the transferor or the transferee as if they were the dealers liable to pay such tax provided that the recovery from the transferee of the arrears of taxes due prior to the date of the transfer shall be only to the extent of the value of the business he obtained by transfer.
The trans feree shall also be liable to pay tax under the Act on the sales of goods effected by him with effect from the date of such transfer and shall within thirty days of the transfer apply for registration or licence as the case may be unless he already holds a certificate of registration or licence as the case may be.
 Section 19  1  and 1 9 2 c are to the following effect 19.
1 The State Government may make rules to carry out the purposes of this Act.
It imposes a liability to pay sales tax on every dealer for each year and the tax is to be calculated on his total turnover for that year.
Section 2b of the Act defines a dealer as a person who carries on the business of buying selling .
goods.
The word turnover is defined in section 2i of the Act to mean the aggregate amount for which goods are either bought or sold by a dealer whether for cash or for deferred payment or other valuable consideration .
It is manifest that a person who purchases a business as a dealer  can be assessed to sales tax only in respect of his turnover and under the scheme of the charging provision of the Act the purchaser of the business has nothing to do with the sales effected by the seller of the business.
The turnover in respect of such sales remains therefore the turnover of the transferor and not of the transferee.
By the amending Act of 1959 Act 1 of 1959 an express provision was inserted by which the transferee of the business was made liable for the arrears of sales tax due from the transferor.
On behalf of the appellants Mr Ram Reddy suggested that the State Government has power under section 191 and 192 c of the Act to frame the impugned rule.
We are unable to accept this argument as correct.
We also consider that the State Government has no authority under section 192c of the Act to enact the rule.
Section 192c deals with the assessment to tax of businesses which are discontinued or the ownership of which has changed.
It is true that the word assessment in the scheme of sales tax and income tax legislation is a term of varying import.
As the Judicial Committee however said in Badridas Daga vs CIT 1 the words assess  and assessment  refer primarily to the computation of the amount.
of income.
The liability is definitely created by sections 3 and 4 of the Income tax Act which are the charging sections and the assessment order under section 23 only quantifies the liability which has already been definitely and finally created by the charging sections and the provision in regard to assessment relates only to the machinery of taxation.
In our opinion the principle of these decisions applies to the interpretation of the Act in the present case.
We consider that in the context and background of other sections of the Act the word assessment  used in section 192c does not include the power of recovering tax assessed from a person other than the assessee.
It follows therefore that Rule 21 A is beyond the rule making power of the State Government either under section 191 or section 192c of the Act.
Payment and recovery of tax 1 The tax assessed under this Act shall be paid in such manner and in such instalments if any and within such time as may be specified in the notice of assessment not being less than fifteen days from the date of service of the notice.
If default is made in paying according to the notice of assessment the whole of the amount outstanding on the date of default shall become immediately due and shall be a charge on the properties of the person or persons liable to pay the tax under this Act.
In our opinion there is no justification for this argument.
In default of such payment the whole of the amount then remaining due may be recovered as if it were an arrear of land revenue.
Payment and recovery of tax 1 The tax assessed under this Act shall be paid in such manner and in such instalments if any and within such time as may be specified in the notice of assessment not being less than fifteen days from the date of service of the notice.
RKPS Appeal dismissed.
