MC Setalvad Attorney General for India B Sen with him for the appellant in Case No 297.
V Rajaram Iyer Advocate General of Hyderabad R Ganapathy Iyer with him for the State of Hyderabad.
AR Sornanatha Iyer Advocate General of Mysore K Ramaseshayya Choudhry with him for the State of Mysore.
B Sen for the appellant in Case No 298.
January 11.
289 PATANJALI SASTRI CJ.
Section 3 empowers the State Government by notification in the official gazette to constitute Special Courts and section 4 provides for the appointment of spe cial judges to preside over such courts.
Section 5 whose constitutionality is impugned runs thus 290 51 A Special Court shall try such offences or classes of cases as the classes of offences or cases State Government may by general or special order in writing direct.
Chakravartti and Das JJ.
It 1  603.
292 purports to provide for the matters to be tried by a special court and does not in form seek to define the kind or class of offences or cases which the State Government is empowered under the Act to assign to such a court for trial.
As the very object of the Act was to provide for speedier trials by instituting a system of special courts with a simplified and shortened procedure it is reasonable to conclude that so far as the legislature was concerned its intention was that courts constituted under the Act and applying such procedure should deal only with cases requiring speedier trial and that accordingly the State Government should refer to such courts only cases of that description.
Co 2.
The object of the law we assume until the lower Court shall decide otherwise is single to keep up competition and the general language is to be restricted by the specific provi sions and to the particular end.
538 558.
In other words section 5 1 must in my opinion be read as empowering the State Government to direct a special court to try such offences or classes of offences or cases or classes of cases as in its judgment require speedier trial.
Rep405.
As pointed out in Chiranjit Lal s case2 and in numerous American decisions dealing with the equal pro tection clause of the 14th Amendment the State in the exercise of its governmental power must of necessity make laws operating differently on different groups or classes of persons within its territory to attain particular ends in giving effect to its policies and it must possess for that purpose large powers of distinguishing and classifying persons or things to be subjected to such laws.
3   106.
It seems like a contradiction to say that a law having equality of operation may yet give equality of protection.
Government is not a simple thing.
Classification is the recognition of those relations and in making it a legislature must be allowed a wide latitude of discretion and judgment.
An affirmative finding on the point may not howev er be decisive of the issue.
If the impugned legislation is a special law applicable only to a certain class of persons the court must further enquire whether the classi fication is founded on a reasonable basis having regard to the object to be attained or is arbitrary.
It is interesting to find that the trend of recent decisions in America has been to lean strongly toward sus taining State action both in the legislative and in the administrative spheres against attacks based on hostile discrimination.
 These decisions seem to my mind to reveal a change of approach marked by an increasing respect for the State s regulatory power in dealing with equal protection claims and underline the futility of wordy formulation of so called tests in solving problems presented by concrete cases.
But it is to be noted that the minority which included Holmes and Brandeis JJ expressed the opinion that it was within the power of the State to make such differentiation and the law was perfectly consti tutional.
3  2  300 provision Day J observed after referring to certain prior decisions  These cases leave in no doubt the proposition that the conferring of discretionary power upon administrative boards to grant or withhold permission to carry on a trade or business which is the proper subject of regulation within the police power of the state is not violative of rights secured by the 14th Amendment.
Indeed it does not by its own force make the special procedure provided in the Act applicable to the trial of any offence or classes of offences or classes of cases for it is the State Government s notification under the section that attracts the application of the procedure.
If the discretion given to the State Government should be exercised improperly or arbitrarily the administrative action may be challenged as discriminatory but it cannot affect the constitutionality of the law.
So long as the possibility of its being applied for purposes not sanctioned by the Constitution cannot be ruled out it must be held to be wholly unconsti tutional and void.
I cannot share the view of Das Gupta J that the expediency of speedier trial is too vague and indefinite to be the basis of a well de fined classification.
I do not think that article 14 denies to the State Legislature such regulative power.
To sustain a law as not being discriminatory is not however to leave the party affected by a discriminatory application of the law without a remedy for as we have seen state action on the adminis trative side can also be challenged as a denial of equal protection and unconstitutional.
In Snowden vs Hughes 2 it was laid down that  the unlawful administra tion by State officers of a State statute fair on its face resulting in its unequal application to those who were entitled to be treated alike is not a denial of equal pro tection unless there is shown to be present in it an element of intentional or purposeful discrimination.
No attempt has been made in the present case to prove that the State Government was influenced by any discriminatory motive or design.
 In view of these facts it seems to me impossible to say the State Government has acted arbitrarily or with a dis criminatory intention in referring these cases to the Spe cial Court for there are obviously special features which mark of this group of cases as requiring speedier disposal than would be possible under the ordinary procedure and the charge of discriminatory treatment must fail.
FAZL ALl J.
I think the fallacy of the argument lies in overlooking the fact that the insid ious discrimination complained of is incorporated in the Act itself it being so drafted that whenever any 310 discrimination is made such discrimination would be ulti mately traceable to it.
MAHAJAN J.
MUKHERJEA J.
FN Balsara 2.
in the Code.
CHANDRASEKHARA AIYAR J.
Bombay and Another vs.
