Appeal No 1940 of 1967.
Appeal by special leave from the judgment and order dated April 17 27 1967 of the Gujarat High Court in Civil Revision Application 328 of 1967.
section T Desai and I N Shroff for the appellants.
M P Amin P M Amin P N Dua and J B Dadachanji for respondent No 1.
R P Kapur for respondents Nos 2 and 3.
The Judgment of the Court was delivered by Shah J.
By insistence upon procedural wrangling in a com paratively simple suit pending in the Court of Small Causes at Ahmedabad the parties have effectively prevented all progress in the suit during the last six years.
A building in the town of Ahmedabad used as a cinematograph theatre belonged originally to Messrs Popatlal Punjabhai.
estate of the owners and on August 19 1954 the receivers estate of the owners and on August 19 1954 The receivers granted a lease of the theatre on certain terms and conditions to two persons Raval and Faraqui.
By an agreement dated November 27 1954 between Raval and Faraqui on the one hand and Messrs Filmistan Distributors India Private Ltd hereinafter called Filmistan on the other hand right to exhibit cinematograph films was granted to the latter on certain terms and conditions.
Filmistan instituted suit No 149 of 1960 in the Court of the Civil Judge Senior Division at Ahmedabad against Raval and Faraqui and two other persons claiming a declaration that it 437 was entitled pursuant to the agreement dated November 27 1954 to exhibit motion pictures in the theatre.
By an order dated December 1 1960 the suit was disposed of as compromised.
It was inter alia agreed that Raval and Faraqui were bound and liable to allow Filmistan to exercise its exhibition rights in the theatre that Raval and Faraqui their servants and agents were not to have any right to exhibit any picture in contravention of the terms and conditions of the agreement dated November 27 1954 and that Raval and Faraqui shall execute and register an agreement in writing incorporating the said agreement with the variation as to rental.
On September 1 1963 Filmistan filed suit No 1465 of 1963 in the Court of Small Causes at Ahmedabad inter alia for a declaration that as sub lessee or as lessee under law it was entitled to obtain and remain in possession of the theatre and to exhibit cinematograph films and to hold entertainment performances etc.
in the theatre and that one Shabeer Hussain Khan Tejabwala had no right title or interest in the theatre that the defendants in the suit be ordered to hand over vacant and peaceful possession of the theatre and the defendants their servants and agents be restrained by an injunction from interfering directly or indirectly with its rights to obtain and remain in possession of the theatre or any part thereof and to exercise its right of exhibiting motion pictures and entertainment performances etc.
This suit was filed against the receivers in insolvency of the owners of the theatre against Raval and Faraqui against Tejabwala and also against Baldevdas Shivlal who claimed to be the owner of the theatre.
Three sets of written statements were filed against the claim made by Filmistan but no reference need be made thereto since at this stage in deciding appeal the merits of the pleas raised by the defendants are not relevant.
After issues were raised on June 20 1966 the plaint was amended and additional written statements were filed by the Defendants.
The learned Judge was then requested to frame three additional issues in view of the amended pleadings  the issues were 1.
Whether in respect of the terms of the said consent decree as also of the said document dated November 27 1954 as confirmed by their letter dated January 31 1955 and further confirmed by document dated December 1 1960 defendants Nos 5 and 6 are debarred from leading any evidence of the plaintiffs witnesses in view of section 92 of the Evidence Act  In drawing up the additional issues not much care was apparently exercised  whether a party is entitled to lead evidence or to put questions in cross examination of the plaintiff s witnesses cannot form the subject matter of an issue.
Filmistan then applied to the Court of Small Causes for an order that issues Nos 11 12  13 be tried as preliminary issues.
A revision application against that order was dismissed in limine by the High Court of Gujarat.
Thereafter elaborate arguments were advanced and the Trial Judge passed an order disallowing the objection.
The Court also rejected the contention that there was any bar of estoppel and held that evidence as to the true nature of the transaction was not inadmissible by virtue of section 92 of the Evidence Act.
Filmistan feeling dissatisfied with the order invoked the revisional jurisdiction of the High Court of Gujarat under section 115 of  the Code of Civil Procedure.
The revision petition was entertained and elaborate arguments were advanced at the Bar.
The High Court referred to a number of authorities and observed that the correctness of the findings of the Trial Court on issues Nos 12 and 13 may not be examined in exercise of the powers under section 115 of the Code of Civil Procedure.
It is not open to any Court of law to try an issue over again or reopen the same if an earlier decision operates as res judicata.
The learned Judge will not proceed with the trial.
441 In the present case the Court of Small Causes had only decided that a question seeking information about the true legal relationship arising out of the document could be permitted to be put to the witnesses for Filmistan.
The Trial Judge in overruling the objection did not decide any issues at the stage of recording evidence  he was not called upon to decide any issues at that stage.
But the High Court has recorded a finding that the agreement dated November 27 1954 created a lease and that the consent decree operated as res judicata.
To interpret the expression case as an entire proceeding only and not a part of the proceeding imposes an unwarranted restriction on the exercise of powers of superintendence and may result in certain cases in denying relief to the aggrieved litigant where it is most needed and may result in the perpetration of gross injustice.
GC Appeal allowed.
