M C Chagla and B R Agarwala for the appellant.
section T Desai R N Sachthey and B D Sharma for the respondent.
The appeal was originally heard by J C Shah Ag.
The first Order of the Court remanding the case to the Tribunal was delivered by Shah Ag C J Ms Amarchand Sobhachand a firm registered under the Indian Income tax Act 1922 carried on business at Madras in drugs chemicals mercury camphor and silk yam and as money lenders.
There were two partners of the firm Mohanlal Sagmal and Seshmal Sobhachand and Ramniklal and Lakshmichand minors were admitted to the benefits of the partnership each with 732 share in the profits.
Sobhachand one of the partners of Bhojaji Sobhachand with 16 share in the profit and loss is the father of Seshmal Ramniklal and Lakshmichand partners of the appellants.
In the books of account of the appellants which were main tained according to the mercantile system there was a current sarafi account in respect of their transactions with the Bombay firm in which were credited the funds transmitted from Bombay in respect of their business transactions.
The following is a table showing the balances at the end of the Samvat years 2003 Amount Interest At the end of the Samvat Year 2003 Cr16951 00 2004 Dr102188 4 5Dr.
2633 9 3 2005 Cr27815 0 0Dr.
The Income tax Officer disallowed their claim holding that  these transactions were mere accommodations which can have no bearing to the regular business carried on by the assessee.
 The Appellate Assistant Commissioner agreed with the Income tax Officer.
He held that the debt .
did not arise in the course of the appellants  business as chemists and druggists nor in the course of their money lending business.
The Income tax Appellate Tribunal accordingly confirmed the order of the Appellate Assistant Commissioner.
Section 102 xi of the Indian Income tax Act 1922 as in force at the relevant time provided  2 Such profits or gains shall be computed after making the following allowances namely  xi When the assessee s accounts in respect of any part of his business profession or vocation are not kept on the cash basis such sum in respect of bad and doubtful debts due to the assessee in 807SupCI71 418 respect of that part of his business profession or vocation and in the case of an assessee carrying on a banking or money lending business such sum in respect of loans made in the ordinary course of such business as the Income tax Officer may estimate to be irrecoverable but not exceeding the amount actually written off as irrecoverable in the books of the assessee Provided      Clause xi was in two parts.
A bad and doubtful debt in respect of a business other than banking or money lending is allowable even if it is not in respect of loan  but a debt due in the course of the business of a money lending is not allowable unless it is in respect of loans made in the ordinary course of his business.
The Tribunal s order is very brief  it gives no reasons in support of the conclusions.
An accommodation advance is a neutral expression  it may be of the nature of a loan advanced in the ordinary course of business by a money lender it may be an advance the money lending or other business of the assessee but not in the nature of a loan or it may be wholly unrelated to the business of the tax payer.
The statement submitted by the Tribunal is also inadequate.
It contains only a summary of the business relations between.
the appellants and the Bombay firm a statement as to the amounts due at the end of each year at the foot of the account the interest if any charged and a summary of the orders made by the Income tax Officer the Appellate Assistant Commissioner and the Tribunal.
Counsel for the Revenue however contended that there are three important circumstances which appear from the order of the Appellate Assistant Commissioner and the Income tax Officer from which it may be inferred that the advances made by the appellants to the Bombay firm were not in respect of loans in the ordinary course of the business of the appellants nor in respect of their other business.
But the Tribunal has not raised any inference from these circumstances and has merely observed that charging of interest cannot make it a money lending account.
The Tribunal will give opportunity to both the parties of being heard but will restrict themselves to the evidence on the record.
The order of the Court was delivered by Shah J.
The Judgment of the Court was delivered by Hegde J.
Two minors Ramniklal Sobhachand and Lakshmichand Sobhachand were admitted to the benefits of the partnership.
It accordingly .
The tribunal accordingly submitted a fresh statement of the case on the question referred.
They read   11.
The only facts in favour of the assessee are that incidental charges are debited to the Bombay firm in respect of some of the remittances and there is a flow of moneys to the Bombay firm up to 10 3 1952 when the last of the remittances was sent to it before the firm collapsed in about April 1952.
No costs.
GC Appeal dismissed.
