PP Rao and R N Sachthey for the appellants.
d To collect and disseminate statistical and other information and to make effort for the spread of commercial and economic knowledge.
fTo provide for arbitration in respect of disputes arising in the course of trade industry or transport or other business matters and to secure the services 350 of expert technical and other men to that end if necessary or desirable.
k To attain those advantages by united action which each member may not be able to accomplish in its separate capacity.
n O p q r s t u v x y To sell or dispose of the undertaking of the Federation or any part thereof for such consideration as the Federation may think fit and in particular for shares debentures or securities of any other association or company having objects altogether or in similar to those of the Federation.
z To take or otherwise acquire and hold shares in any other association or company having objects altogether or in part similar to those of the Federation.
z4 4 The income and property of the Federation whencesoever derived shall be applied solely towards the promotion of the objects of the Federation as set forth in the Memorandum of Association and no portion thereof shall be paid or transferred directly or indirectly by way of dividend bonus or otherwise by way of profit to the members of the Federation.
It is done in the interest of trade and business of the country.
It deals with the trade or busi ness in general to secure the interest of the country.
it is predominantly a charitable organization and not a professional one.
It shall apply in the first instance.
The definitions of commercial establishment establishment and shop given in sub sections 5 9 and 27 of section 2 are material for our purpose.
Further the definition of commercial establishment is wider than that of shop.
Secondly it should be premises wherein a any trade business or profession is carried on or b any work in connection with or incidental or ancillary thereto is carried on.
There is no doubt that the registered office of the Federation is premises.
 It will be seen that any business trade is an element common to the definitions of commercial establishment and industry given in the respective statutes.
It undertakes regular publication of periodicals bulletins Reviews etc.
These services are material services.
It is well settled that a systematic activity can be a business activity even if no dividends are declared or profits shared.
In the matter.
