B D Bal with A G Ratnaparkhi for the appellant.
The Judgment of the Court was delivered by GOSWAMI J.
There was a saint endowed with spiritual powers by the name of Sakharam Maharaj at Amalner.
The deity of his worship was Shri Vithal Rukhamai.
Although the origin of the Sansthan is dipped somewhat in antiquity and direct testimony was lacking it has never been disputed that Sakharam Maharaj constructed a temple in the year 1817 at Amalner and installed the aforesaid deity according to religious rites.
He also acquired certain properties and the said temple with the properties constituted Shri Vithal Rukhamai Sansthan of Amalner.
The sansthan had movable property of the value of Rs 19164 and immovable properties of the value of Rs 106000 and the average gross annual income as well as the average annual expenditure was Rs 11000 .
The application was made on May 29 1952 to the Assistant Charity Commissioner Poona under protest and without prejudice 520 to the claim made therein that the Sansthan was not a public trust.
The applicants thereupon filed an appeal under section 70 of the Act before the Charity Commissioner Bombay who by his order of August 31 1957 affirmed the decision of the Assistant Charity Commissioner.
It is not disputed by Mr Bal appearing on behalf of the appellant that the Sansthan in question is an endowment.
Mr Bal further contends that the High Court failed to consider all the material documents filed on behalf of the appellant except only exhibit 35 and that the conclusion was highly erroneous being contrary to the one that had been reached by the District Judge on appraisal of the entire documentary evidence.
This would go to show that the Government recognised the Sansthan with the temple as a public religious endowment and only on that basis the grant was continued.
Then came Prahladbuwa.
Then came Vasudeo.
This evidence of Ramkrishna Deshpande stands corroborated by the Sanad which shows in the year 1860 61 the Manager of the Sansthan as Balkrishnabuwa Guru Govindbuwa.
It is clear from the Sanad that the Government treated the temple as a public religious endowment.
The next document in sequence is a Varaspatra of February 28 1869 exhibit 35 executed by Guru Govind Balkrishna buwa in favour of Prahladbuwa.
The appellant draws our attention to the following recitals in the above deed I have been carrying on the Malaki of Shri Sansthan Amalner  523 According to the appellant this would go to show that the executant of the document Balkrishnabuwa described himself as Malak  owner of the Sansthan.
It is further pointed out that while nominating Prahlad as Adhikari Balkrishnabuwa stated in the said document as follows You are entitled to the ownership of all the incomes that will come before the Deity Shri Samarth and during the Swari procession as well as the income of Inam Najrana and the income of movable and immovable property.
You are free to give and take as per the Shishya sampradaya as has been done previously.
From the above the appellant contends that the Sansthan was a private property and it was also transferred to the Shishya Adhikari to maintain it as his own property.
Your bhauband and others have no right whatsoever over the same.
