It will be easier with the help of the following pedigree to understand the point involved in this appeal Khandappa Sangappa Magdum Hirabai Plaintiff Gurupad Biyawwa Bhagirathibai Dhundubai Shivapad Deft 1 Deft 3 Deft.
If a partition were to take place during Khandappa s lifetime between himself and his two sons the plaintiff would have got 14th share in the joint family properties the other three getting 14th share each.
Khandappa s 14th share would devolve upon his death on six sharers the plaintiff and her five children each having a 124th share therein.
Adding 14th and 124th the plaintiff claims a 724th share in the joint family properties.
That in short is the plaintiffs case.
became indisputably entitled to a share in the joint family properties but following the judgment of the Bombay High Court in Shiramabai Bhimgonda vs Kalgonda1 the learned trial judge limited that share to 124th refusing to add 14th and 124th together.
Defendant I has filed this appeal against the High Court s judgment by special leave.
Another Division Bench of the Bombay High Court in Rangubai Lalji vs Laxman Lalji2 had already reconsidered and dissented from earlier Division Bench judgment in Shiramabai Bhimgonda1 In these two cases the judgment of the Bench was delivered by the same learned Judge Patel J.
On further consideration the learned Judge felt that Shiramabai1 was not fully argued and was incorrectly decided and that on a true view of law the widow s share must be ascertained by adding the share to which she is entitled at a notional partition during her husband s life time and the share which she would get in her husband s interest upon his death.
Since the view of the High.
Court that the suit properties belonged to the joint family and that there was no prior partition is well founded and is not seriously disputed the decision of this appeal rests on the interpretation of Explanation 1 to section 6 of the Hindu Succession Act 30 of 1956.
That section reads thus 6.
When a male Hindu dies after the commencement of this Act having at the time of his death an interest in a Mitakshara coparcenary property his interest in the property 1196366Bom.
LR351.
Explanation 2.
Nothing contained in the proviso to this section shall be construed as enabling a person who has separated himself from the coparcenary before the death of the deceased or any of his heirs to claim on intestacy a share in the interest referred to therein.
The plaintiff s share by the application of the proviso has to be determined according to the terms of the testamentary instrument if any made by the deceased and since there is none in the instant case by the application of the rules of intestate succession contained in sections 8 9 and 10 of the Hindu Succession Act.
The deceased Khandappa died leaving behind him two sons three daughters and a widow.
Thus whatever be the share of the deceased in the coparcenary property since there are six sharers in that property each having an equal share the plaintiff s share therein will be 16th.
In a partition between Khandappa and his two sons there would be four sharers in the coparcenary property the fourth being Khandappa s wife the plaintiff.
Khandappa would have therefore got a 14th share in the coparcenary property on the hypothesis of a partition between himself and his sons Two things are thus clears  One that in a partition of the coparcenary property Khandappa would have obtained a 14th share and 767 two that the share of the plaintiff in the 14th share is 16th that is to say 124th.
The question which poses a somewhat difficult problem is whether the plaintiff s share in the coparcenary property is only 124th or whether it is 14th plus 124th that is to say 724th.
Section 3 of the Hindu Women s Rights to Property Act.
2 AIR 1974 Guj.
