Civil Appeal Nos.
5 6 in CA 161779.
For the purpose of holding election to the .
It was also notified that claims or objections which had not been preferred as required under the Rules within the prescribed period would be rejected.
Thereafter the calendar of events was published on November 25 1978 notifying that the poll if necessary would take place on December 31 1978 in all the 44 constituencies Six petitioners including the appellants herein presented a petition under Article 226 of the Constitution before the High Court of Madhya Pradesh at Jabalpur on December 28 1978 requesting the Court to make an order quashing the electoral roll and the calendar of events issued for the purpose of the said election and directing the respondents to refrain from conducting the poll on December 31 1978.
On December 30 1978 the learned Single Judge before whom the case came up for orders directed the issue of notice of the petition and the stay application to the respondents and issued an interim order directing the respondents not to notify the results of the election under Rule 46 of the Rules pending disposal of the petition.
Aggrieved by the order passed by the High Court Ashok Kumar Mishra and Bhagwat Singh Thakur Petitioners No 1 and 5 respectively in the 494 petition before the High Court filed a petition for special leave to appeal to this Court and Purshottam Lal Sharma petitioner No 6 before the High Court filed another petition.
One of the grounds on which the appellants challenged the validity of the electoral roll the calendar of events and the declaration of results of election was that the entire election process had become vitiated on account of the defect in the notice issued under Rule 1 of the Rules notifying that claims and objections should be preferred within a period of 20 days from the date of the publication of that notice when sub rule 3 of Rule 4 of the Rules prescribed that such claims and objections could be preferred within 30 days from the date of publication of that notice.
It was alleged that by reason of a shorter period being fixed for entertaining claims and objections a large number or people who could have filed claims and objections were prevented from preferring them within 30 days from the date of publication or the notice which was the prescribed period.
It was also alleged that on October 20 1978 34 persons mentioned in Annexure P 7 approached the Deputy Collector to entertain their claim for inclusion in the electoral roll and he refused to receive their applications.
became a nullity and that therefore the declaration of results of all the 44 successful candidates was liable to be quashed.
On behalf of the respondents it was pleaded that while it was true that the period of 20 days had been mentioned in the notice issued under Rule 41 of the Rules it was open to all the persons who were interested in preferring claims or objections to file them within 30 days from the date of publication of the notice under Rule 41.
They further pleaded that the authorities would have taken action to correct the error in the notice issued under Rule 41 of the Rules granting 20 days  time to prefer claims and objections if it had been brought to their notice by the petitioners immediately after it was noticed by them.
In paragraph 7 of the notice it was mentioned that claims and objections received beyond the prescribed period would not be considered.
