G B Pai Manick K Gagrat J B Dadachanji O C Mathur and K J John for the Appellants in CA No 2299 and Respondents in CA 230079.
The following Judgements were delivered PATHAK J.
It functions as a consulting organisation and a service industry and does not manufacture any product or carry on trade.
Its work force consists of engineers and supervisors and different categories of workmen.
Out of 665 employees at Bombay the draftsmen and the administrative staff number 306.
These workmen are members of the Tata Consultant Employees Union.
They served a Charter of Demands in July 1974 on the appellant and as their demands were not accepted and conciliation proceedings proved fruitless the State Government made a reference of the dispute under section 101 d Industrial Tribunal Maharashtra for adjudication.
170 The Union filed a statement before the Tribunal claiming an upward revision of the wage scales and dearness allowance and an increase from fifteen years to twenty years in the span for earning annual increments.
It was urged that the Efficiency Bar as a feature of the wage scales should be removed.
The claim of the Union was resisted by the appellant who maintained that the existing wage scales were fair and reasonable on a region cum industry basis and that it would not be possible for the appellant to bear the additional financial burden if the demands of the Union were accepted.
Reference was made to the political uncertainty in Iran which had placed an appreciable part of the appellant s business in jeopardy and to various other factors peculiar to an engineering consultancy business beyond the appellant s control.
Nothing those facts the Tribunal observed that compared with the increased paying capacity of the appellant an inference drawn from the prosperity enjoyed by the appellant over the years there was definite need for revising the wage scales.
It was pointed out that the dearness allowance and house rent allowance granted by the appellant made little impact in neutralising the cost of living.
The need for revising the wage scales was not disputed by the appellant.
In proceeding to revise the wage structure the Tribunal took into account the two principles involved in the process the financial capacity of the industry to bear the burden of an increased wage bill and the prevailing wage structure on an industry cum region basis.
Holding it impossible in the circumstances to apply the principle of industry cum region basis the Tribunal turned to a consideration of the financial capacity of the company to bear an additional burden.
171 in this connection it proceeded on the footing that the appellant was a separate and independent division of Tata Sons Limited and had no functional integrality with the other divisions.
The Tribunal took note of the elaborate scales of wages already existing in the wage structure of the appellant and decided to modify the existing structure of the scales with flat increases in each category.
II DriverAsstt.
660 EB 25 785.
Caretaker.
Steno 20 625 EB 25 725.
800 EB 30 950.
OptrRecep tionistAssist.
Record Keeper Veh.
Mechanic Jr Librarian.
IV Sr.
975 EB 40 1175.
Assist Administrative AssistPersonnel AssttComm.
Asstt Canteen Asstt.
1230 EB 60 1530.
SurveyorDiploma Holder.
60 1700.
 Further it appears that the Tribunal intended to grant the increase of Rs 150 to each draughtsman and Rs 100 to all other workmen in their basic pay.
However this is not clearly mentioned anywhere in the award due to accidental slip or omission.
The same has been made clear in paragraph No 23 but it appears that the words to each employee after the figure Rs 150  were omitted.
Similarly the same words to each employee after the figure 100 were omitted.
When the award is sent for publication a necessary corrigendum be made in the award and the aforesaid words after the figures Rs 150 and Rs 100 be added.
It may be mentioned that only from that point of view viz to grant flat increase of Rs 150 and of Rs 100 to the employees in the category of Draftsmen and the other categories respectively that a burden statement was called for from the company and the same was submitted vide exhibit C 51.
The fitment has also to be done only after the flat increase is added to the present basic salary of each employee.
I do not think that any problem would arise for interpretation of the award.
Since the award has been already signed I do not think anything further can be added to this award.
Rule 31 provides 31.
Further it appears that the Tribunal intended to grant the increase of Rs 150 to each draughtsman and Rs 100 to all other workmen in their basic pay.
However this is not clearly mentioned anywhere in the award due to accidental slip or omission.
The same has been made clear in paragraph No 23 but it appears that the words to each employee after the figure Rs 150  were omitted.
Similarly the same words to each employee after the figure 100 were omitted.
