A K Sen and G L Sanghi Vineet Kumar and Devinder Gupta for the Appellant.
578 DD Thakur SN Kacker and RP Bhatt for respondent in 261181.
J Sorabjee K K Venugopal and R P Bhatt for respondent in 2611 A81.
Altaf Ahmad and Irfan Ahmad for respondent No 2.
section Ghosh and A K Nag for the intervener.
The Judgment of the Court was delivered by BALAKRISHNA ERADI J.
Reasons will follow.
 We now proceed to state in this judgment the reasons in support of our aforesaid conclusion 579 In July 1966 the appellant Ved Gupta decided to embark upon a venture to construct and operate an air conditioned Cinema in a plot of land which he proposed to take on lease in Gandhi Nagar Jammu in Collaboration with two osher persons namely Todar Mal and Kishan Kumar.
Accordingly on July 22 1966 Ved Gupta purporting to act on behalf of a partnership consisting of himself and the two persons aforementioned as a matter of fact no partnership had been constituted at all by that date applied to the District Magistrate Jammu under section 3 of the Jammu and Kashmir Cinematograph Act 1989 1933 AD herein after referred to as the Act for permission to construct a modern Cinema Hall at the proposed site a detailed description of which was furnished in the plan annexed to the application.
Shri Ved Gupta was informed by the District Magistrate Jammu by his Memo Annexure B that the Government had approved the construction of a Cinema Hall at the proposed site and had granted the requisite permission in his favour as per letter dated September 11 1967 issued by the Secretary to Government General Department.
From Annexure B it would appear that the permission so granted was in favour of Ved Ved Gupta in his individual capacity and not as the representative of any firm.
In the meantime by a deed dated December 7 1966 which was registered on December 24 1966 the plot in question was taken on lease jointly by Ved Gupta Todar Mal and Krishan Kumar for a period of 40 years on the terms and conditions set out therein.
Thereafter under a deed dated July 15 1969 the aforesaid three persons entered into a partnership along with 11 others under the name and style Metro Theatres for carrying on the business of constructing and running a modern air conditioned Cinema in the site covered by the permission granted by the Government.
By a subsequent agreement executed by the 14 partners on February 22 1969 the name of the Cinema business was changed from Metro Theatre  to Apsara Theatre.
A Schedule of conditions imposing various duties and obligations on the licensee is also appended to the said licence.
Consequent thereon the firm was reconstituted and a new partnership deed was executed by the remaining partners on April 11 1970 Clause 18 of the said document contained the following recital The licence for running the Cinema by which Apsara Theatre is being run stands in the name of Shri Ved Gupta so Shakur Dass the 9th party.
The right to operate the Cinema licence shall be the property of this partnership and changes in the constitution shall make no difference in this respect.
Subsequently on January 26 1976 Krishan Kumar addressed a communication to the District Magistrate stating that he had not actually signed the notice sent on December 3 1975 that Todar Mal had unauthorisedly purported to send the notice on his behalf also without his knowledge or consent and the said notice may therefore be treated as fictitious.
A copy 581 of the said letter was sent by Krishan Kumar to Ved Gupta also.
Todar Mal did not leave the matter there.
He filed a writ petition in the High Court of Jammu and Kashmir challenging the legality and validity of the orders passed by the District Magistrate and the appellate authority namely the State Government.
Krishan Kumar was a party respondent in the Special Leave Petition also.
On April 19 1979.
In being served with the order of injunction Ved Gupta wrote to the District Magistrate on September 24 1980 that it had become impossible for him to operate the Cinema licence in view of the temporary injunction issued by the District Court and since it is only the licensee who is held responsible under the Act and the Rules for due compliance with all the terms and conditions of the licence and answerable to the licensing authority for all commissions and omissions in the Cinema premises he may be saved from any prosecution or other action under law in the capacity of licensee of the Apsara Theatre in respect of any illegal acts or offences committed by others in the said premises.
It reads Whereas it has been brought to my notice by Shri Ved Gupta sole licensee Apsara Theatre that the District and Sessions Judge Jammu has issued a temporary injunction against the exhibition of films by him in the above said Theatre And whereas the SP City by his letter No 1Conf.
This order shall come into force with immediate effect.
The two learned Judges comprising the Division Bench however came to divergent conclusions.
It was further held by The Acting Chief Justice that the effect of the licence was that it renders privilege the building of the cinematographs used therein and the privilege must necessarily follow the title in such building and the cinematograph.
Consequently it became impossible for the Letters Patent Appeal being heard by a third Judge designated by the Chief Justice as contemplated by Rule 23 2.
The learned Judges took the view that Rule 23 of the Jammu and Kashmir High Court Rules 1975 squarely covered the situation that had arisen before them.
3 If there is no such majority then the decision shall be in accordance with the decision of the senior Judge except in the case of an appeal from a decree where such decree shall be confirmed 586 In the opinion of the Division Bench the present case was governed by sub rule 3 of Rule 23 and consequently the decision in the case had to be in accordance with the opinion of the senior Judge.
The District Magistrate and the State Government whose orders were sought to be quashed were the main respondents in this writ petition.
It is sufficient to state that these reasons do not appeal to us as correct or tenable.
 On a careful reading of this Section it will be seen that far from supporting the view taken by the learned Acting Chief Justice this provision goes to show that the holder of a licence may be a person different from the owner of the cinematograph or a partner of the cinematography.
Hence it becomes obvious that the basic premise on which the learned Acting Chief Justice has founded his reasoning cannot be accepted as correct or sound.
While the firm and the partners may have a right to share in the profits of the business which may be conducted in the Theatre on the strength of licence issued to Ved Gupta they have no right or interest in the licence which was granted to Ved Gupta in his personal and individual capacity.
That Rule reads 88v.
We make it clear that the inter se rights and claims of Shri Ved Gupta on the one hand and the firm and its partners on the other in respect of the Apsara Theatre are left open to be decided in the civil suit that is said to be pending.
HLC Appeal allowed.
