etition Nos.
1073 1100 1117 19 1229 95 142 1554 1746 2140 2155 2271 2396 2459.
1198 1217 1302 12 1314 15 1566 1641 1140 70 2360 95 1643 17252272 232921522332233924913486 89 2498 2521 2522 533 742611 2638 and 2531 of 1983.
Under Article 32 of the Constitution of India AND Writ Petition Nos 42184571 and 5266 5280 of 1983 Under article 32 of the Constitution of India AND Transfer Case Nos 44 339 of 1983 KK Venugopal SS Ray PP Rao VM Tarkuade and R K Garg V Jogayya Sharma MP Rao Sudarsh Menon T VS N Churi G Narasimhulu A Subba Rao MKD Namboodiry HS Guru Raj Rao section Markandeya ATM Sampath DK Garg Nikhil Chandra and A K Panda for the Petitioners.
LN Sinha Attorney General Anil B DivanB Parthasarthi and KR Chaudhary for the Respondents.
GN Rao for the State.
Miss A Subhashini for the Union.
The Judgment of the Court was delivered by CHANDRACHUD C J.
In the elections held to the Legislative Assembly of Andhra Pradesh in January 1983 a new political party called Telugu Desam was swept to power.
It assumed office on January 9 1983.
On February 8 1983 an Order GO Ms No 36 was issued by the Government of Andhra Pradesh stating that it had decided to reduce the age of superannuation of all Government employees other than in the last Grade Service from 58 to 58 years.
Two notifications issued in exercise of the power conferred 586 by the Proviso to Article 309 read with Article 313 of the Constitution was appended to that order.
By these notifications every Government servant whether ministerial or non ministerial but not belonging to the last Grade Service who had already attained the age of 55 years was to retire from service with effect from February 28 1983.
Speaking to the Government employees in the Secretariat premises the next day the Chief Minister justified the reduction of the retirement age from 58 to 55 years on the ground that it had become necessary to provide greater employment opportunities to the youths.
Over 18000 Government employees and 10000 public sector employees were superannuated as a result of the order.
These writ petitions were filed by the Andhra Pradesh Government employees to challenge the aforesaid order and the notifications on the ground that they violate Articles 14 16 21 and 300A of the Constitution.
The case of the petitioners as laid in the writ petitions is that there was no basis at all for reducing the age of retirement from 58 to 55 that the age of retirement was increased from 55 to 58 by the Government of Andhra Pradesh by a notification dated October 29 1979 and nothing had happened since then to justify reduction of the age of retirement again to 5 i that providing employment opportunities to the youths h Is no relevance on the question of fixing the age of retirement that the Government had exercised its power arbitrarily without having regard to factors which are relevant on the fixation of the age of retirement that the Government had acted unreasonably in not giving any previous notice to the employees which would have enabled them to arrange their affairs on the eve of retirement that the Government was estopped from reducing the age of retirement to 55 since the employees had acted on the representation made to them in 1979 by increasing the age of retirement from 55 to 58 that as a result of the increase in the age of retirement from 55 to 58 years in 1976 a vested right had accrued to the employees which could be taken away if at all only from future entrants to the Government service that retirement of experienced and mature persons from Government service will result in grave detriment to public services of the State and that the decision of the Government is bad for a total non application of mind to the relevant facts and circumstances bearing on the question of the age of retirement like increased longevity.
The petitioners aver that the Government had not even considered the enormous delay which 587 would be caused in the payment of pensionary benefits to employees A who were retired from service without any pre thought.
A counter affidavit was filed on behalf of the State of Andhra Pradesh by Shri R Parthasarathy Joint Secretary in the Finance Department of the State at the stage of admission of the writ petitions.
It is stated in that affidavit that the recommendation of the one Man Pay Commission appointed by the Government of Andhra Pradesh.
after which the age of retirement was increased to 58 in 1979 has no relevance to the present decision of the State to reduce the age of retirement that the fact that the average expectation of life is about 70 years is not a ground for increasing the age of retirement of Government employees that the general trend was for reducing the age of retirement that the Government of Kerala and Karnataka had reduce the age of retirement of their employees to 55 though it was earlier increased from 55 to 58 that in some States in India the age of retirement is 55 and not 58 the present decision was taken by the Government in order to fulfill its commitment that it will take welfare measures in order to improve the lot of the common man and.
The inconvenience alleged by the petitioners in the matter of payment of their pension and other retirement benefits was imaginary since the Government was making extensive arrangements to disburse such benefits expeditiously.
By the counter affidavit the Government of Andhra Pradesh denied that any of the provisions of the Constitution were violated by the impugned decision to reduce the age of retirement.
Another affidavit was filed on behalf of the Government of Andhra Pradesh after the rule nisi was issued in the writ petitions.
588 The affidavit is sworn by Shri AK Sharma Deputy Secretary to Government of Andhra Pradesh.
Finance and Planning.
It is stated in that affidavit that the question of the age of superannuation was not referred to the one Man Pay Commission of Shri A Krishnaswamy which was appointed by the Andhra Pradesh Government on November 3 1 977 that the recommendation made by the Pay Commission was casual and was not based on relevant criteria that as many as 1204008 educated youths were left without employment on September 30 1979 as a result of the unwarranted increase in the age of superannuation from 55 to 58 that the number of unemployed youths had grown to 1784699 by December 31 1982 and that the age of retirement was reduced because it is the duty of the State within the limits of its economic capacity and development to make effective provision to solve the unemployment problem.
The rest of the averments i1 this affidavit are on the same lines as in the affidavit of Shri R Partbasarathy.
Rule Nisi was issued on the writ petitions by this Court on February 25 1983.
On the very next day that is on April l0th Governor of Andhra Pradesh promulgated Ordinance No 5 of 1983 called the Andhra Pradesh Public Employment Regulation of Conditions of Service Ordinance  The Ordinance was passed to regulate the recruitment and conditions of service of persons appointed to Public Services and posts in connection with the affairs of the State of Andhra Pradesh and the officers and servants of the High Court of Andhra Pradesh.
Clause 101 of the Ordinance prescribes that every Government employee not being a workman and not belonging to Last Grade Service shall retire from service on the afternoon of the last day of the month in which he attains the are of 55 years.
Clause 102 provides that every Government employee not being a workman but belonging to the Last Grade Service shall retire from service on the afternoon of the last day of the month in which he attains the age of 60 years.
Clause 103 provides that every workman belonging to the Last Grade Service or employed on a monthly rate of pay in any service notified as Inferior shall retire from service on the afternoon of the last day of the month in which he attains the age of 60 years.
Workmen belonging to Ministerial Service or any service other than the Last Grade Service notified as Inferior have to retire on the afternoon of the last day of the month in which they attain the age of 55 589 years.
By clause 15 All Rules and Regulations made under the proviso to Article 309 or continued under Article 3 l 3 of the Constitution or made under any other law for the time being in force governing the recruitment and conditions of service of the Government employees continue to be in force in so far as they are not inconsistent with the provisions of the Ordinance.
It provides further that all amendments made to the Fundamental Rules and particularly the amendments made by the notification dated February 8 1983 shall be and shall be deemed always to have been made validly and shall have effect notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in the proviso to rule 2 of the Fundamental Rules as if the Ordinance was in force on February 8 1983.
Clause 16 of the Ordinance declares that every amendment made before or after the commencement of the Ordinance to the Fundamental Rules and the Hyderabad Civil Services Rules shall be and shall be always deemed to have applied to all Government employees whether appointed before or after the amendment.
Clause 18 of the Ordinance provides by sub clause i that the proviso to rule 2 of the Fundamental Rules shall be and shall be deemed always to have been omitted.
The age of retirement was previously governed by these two Rules.
The arguments advanced before us fall under distinct heads learned counsel having shared their burden equitably.
Shri Venugopal challenged the Ordinance on the ground that it is unreasonable.
Shri Tarkunde challenged it on the ground that the superannuation of the employees by reduction of the age of retirement amounts in the circumstances to removal  of the employees within the meaning of Article 311.
The challenge of Shri Siddhartha Shankar Ray is based on the ground of a total non application of mind.
Shri RK Garg who appears in a group of three Transferred Cases contends that the Ordinance is bad because it supersedes all industrial adjudications and overrules even settlements arrived at between the management and the employees.
Shri PP Rao contends that the Ordinance is bad because.
whereas in the case of compulsory retirement a notice of three months is 590 required to be given by the Government under the relevant rules in the case of superannuation of employees who had already attained the age of 55 on February 8 1983 when the first Order was issued the impugned law gives to the employees a notice of 20 days only since all such employees had to retire on February 28 1983.
Shri P P Rao also challenges the retrospective deletion of the proviso to Rule 2 of the Fundamental Rules as being arbitrary.
Shri ATM Sampath laid stress on the lack of acceptable reasons to justify the issuance of the Ordinance Like some of the other learned counsel he suspects the bona fides of the state Government in issuing the Order and the Ordinance.
It was suggested by the petitioners though somewhat in passing that the object of the State Government in reducing the age of retirement was to get rid of n senior members of Government service whose loyalty was thought to be not above suspicion.
We will presently set out the specific contentions advanced before us but before doing so.
Barring a few services in a few parts of the world as for example the American Supreme Court the terms and conditions of every public service provide for an age of retirement.
Indeed the proposition that there ought to be an age of retirement in public services is widely accepted as reasonable and rational.
A common scheme of general application governing superannuation has therefore to be evolved in the light of experience regarding performance levels of employees the need to provide employment opportunities to the younger sections of society and the need to open up promotional opportunities to employees at the lower levels early in their career.
Inevitably the public administrator has to counter balance conflicting claims while determining the age of superannua 591 tion.
The balancing of these conflicting claims of the different segments of society involves minute questions of policy which must as far as possible be left to the judgment of the executive and the legislature.
These claims involve considerations of varying vigour and applicability.
As stated in The Supreme Court And The Judicial Function 2 Judicial self restraint is itself one of the factors to be added to the balancing process carrying more or less weight as the circumstances seem to require.
State of Tamil Nadu  2 Edited by Philips B Kurland Oxford and IBH Publisning Co Page 13.
Shri Venugopal who led the argument on behalf of the petitioners contends that the provisions of the Ordinance whereby the age of retirement is reduced from 58 to 55 are arbitrary and irrational and hence violative of Articles 14 and 16 of the Constitution for the following reasons a The age of superannuation was increased from 55 to 58 years with effect from October 29 1979 after an elaborate and scientific inquiry by a One Man Pay Commission b The State Government issued the order reducing the age of retirement within one month of the assumption of office by it.
That result is indeed produced by the impugned action of the State Government In 1979 when the age of retirement was increased from 55 to 58 years promotional opportunities were denied to the employees because those who would have retired at the age of 55 got a fresh lease of life for another years.
The very foundation of this argument is fallacious By GO NO.
745 dated November 31977 the Government of Andhra Pradesh had appointed Shri A Krishnaswamy a retired member of the l.
The question as to whether the age of retirement should be raised.
Clause 101 of the Ordinance prescribes that every Government employee not being a workman and not belonging to Last Grade Service shall retire from service on the afternoon of the last day of the month in which he attains the are of 55 years.
Clause 102 provides that every Government employee not being a workman but belonging to the Last Grade Service shall retire from service on the afternoon of the last day of the of the Commission cover the review of the existing retirement benefits  the reference would naturally include the age of retirement.
In any case the power of a Commission to enquire into a question must depend 595 upon the terms of the Reference and not upon the statements made on the floor of the House.
That question was not within its purview.
As regards Shri Venugopal s argument at b above the fact that the decision to reduce the age of retirement from 58 to 55 was taken by she State Government within one month of the assumption of office by it cannot justify the conclusion that lt the decision is arbitrary because it is unscientific in the sense that it is not backed by due investigation or by compilation of relevant data on the subject.
Were this so every decision taken by a new Government soon after assumption of office shall have to be regarded as arbitrary.
The reasonableness of a decision in any jurisdiction does not depend upon the time which it takes.
Conversely decisions which are taken promptly cannot be assumed to be bad because they are taken promptly.
Besides we have to consider the validity of a law regulating the age of retirement.
It is untenable to contend that a law is bad because it is passed immediately on the assumption of office by a new Government.
It must also be borne in mind that the question as to what should be the proper age of retirement is not a novel or unprecedented question which the State Legislative had to consider.
The State 596 Government had the relevant facts as also the reports of the various Central and State Pay Commissions before it on the basis of which it had to take a reasonable decision.
The aid and assistance of a well trained bureaucracy which notoriously plays an important part not only in the implementation of policies but in their making was also available to the Government.
The contentions of Shri Venugopal which arc set out in paragraphs c to g above and partly in paragraph b itself are by and large matters of legislative policy in the formulation of which the Government of the day must be allowed a free though fair play.
Indeed the acceptance of argument advanced by the various counsel for the petitioners must lead to the conclusion that there has to be a uniform age of retirement all over India.
If reduction of the retirement age from 58 to 55 is to be regarded as arbitrary on the ground that it overlooks the advance made in longevity fixation of retirement age at 58 is also not likely to sustain the charge of arbitrariness.
Then again though immutable considerations which are generally or universally true like increased life expectation are as much Jammu and Kashmir as for Tamil Nadu that cannot justify the conclusion that fixation of the retirement age at 55 in Jammu and Kashmir is invalid since the State of Tamil Nadu has fixed it at 58.
Some of the reasons on which there was unanimity for increasing the age of retirement were the continuing mental and physical efficiency of most of the Government servants at the age of 55 the increased expectation of life resulting from improved public health conditions and the national waste involved in sending men and women into enforced idleness while they were still capable of rendering efficient service.
On this data the Commission concluded in paragraph 11 of its Report Thus however valid may have been the view taken in 1971 and re affirmed in 1937 38 that the age of 55 was normally the dividing line between health and efficiency on the one side and marked physical deterioration and decline in efficiency On the other there is sufficient reason to think that is no longer so and that the deviding line can be safely moved a few years upwards.
However.
It is estimated that on an average there would be approximately 6500 retirements each year from Government departments Panchayat Raj Institutions and also Aided Institutions where pensionary liability is borne by Government.
Government were thus able to create promotional avenues to serving employees at various levels and create opportunities for appointment against about 18000 posts in Government Panchayat Raj and aided educational institutions alone not to speak of the opportunities that were created in the various Corporations etc owned or controlled by Government.
The function of that cell is to monitor the progress of settlement of pension eases In addition it is said the Government had issued instructions by a notification dated February 14 1983 for payment of anticipatory pension at 3110th of the last pay drawn in all cases wherein the sanction of pension was delayed.
Either the one or the other of these two stages is regarded generally as acceptable depending upon the employment policy of the Government of the day.
2  965.
