1264 6771 etc.
From the Judgment and Order dated 261269 of the High Court of Andhra Pradesh at Hyderabad in WP Nos 3956 3971 3983 3899 4421 4474 4537 4544 4570 4825 and 493368.
Ex parte for the Respondents.
The Judgment of the Court was delivered by TULZAPURKAR J.
Section 28 of the Act runs thus 28.
Money lending business not to be carried on in licensed premises No licensed dealer shall unless authorised by the Administrator so to do a carry on business as a money lender or banker on the security of any article or ornament or both b permit any other person to carry on money lending banking or any other business in the same premises in which he carried on business as such dealer.
 The High Court has struck down the aforesaid provision only on the ground that it suffers from the vice of excessive delegation of legislative power inasmuch as no criteria or guide lines have been 954 provided by reference to which the power conferred on the Administrator to refuse permission or grant permission should be exercised and that the section confers an arbitrary uncanalised power upon the Administrator with the result that the licensed dealer is at his mercy while seeking permission to carry on money lending or banking business on the security of any article ornament or both in the same premises in which he carried on business as such dealer.
The High Court s reasoning in this behalf is to be found in its judgment at page 87 of the paper book and it runs thus The Administrator as is evident from this provision is given unlimited authority or power to refuse permission or to grant permission.
No rules have been framed prescribing the conditions or circumstances under which the Administrator could refuse permission or grant permission.
A dealer is at the mercy of the Administrator and is help less against the arbitrary exercise of the power by the Administrator when he chooses to negative the request.
It is clear that Section 28 confers an arbitrary and uncanalised power without any criteria for guiding the discretion of the Administrator.
It cannot be disputed that sec.
28 is part and parcel of the entire scheme of Gold Control as envisaged by the Act and the object of the enactment and the scheme affords sufficient guidance to the Administrator in the matter of exercising his discretion under that section.
28 are meant to prevent the circumvention of other provisions of the Act.
28 cannot be struck down on the ground of excessive delegation of legislative power and its validity has to be upheld.
214 Guj.
276 this Court struck down sec.
276 on the ground that it conferred a very wide and vague power on the Administrator.
SR Appeal allowed.
