In exercise of its powers under section 637 of the  the Central Government specified 50 as the number of All India Tourist Vehicle Permits  which may be granted by the Karnataka State Transport Authority.
We are concerned in these appeals with the vires and interpretation of this proviso.
The State Transport Authority by its proceedings dated April 30 1984 granted 11 out of the 14 permits to the Karnataka State Tourism Development Corporation one permit to the Indian Tourism Development Corporation and two permits to the Karnataka State Road Transport Corporation.
A number of appeals were preferred to the Karnataka State Transport Appellate Tribunal.
It was on that ground again it was so stated by the Tribunal that some of the appellants 1012 before the Tribunal had to be denied the grant of permits though otherwise they would have been entitled to the grant of permits having regard to their expertise experience and resources.
The writ petitions were rejected by the High Court on the ground that the preference contemplated by the proviso to section 637 contemplated exclusion of the non preferred  class if sufficient number of applicants from the preferred classes were available.
The Karnataka State Road Transport Corporation the Karnataka State Tourism Development Corporation and some other private operators have filed these appeals by special leave of this Court under article 136 of the Constitution.
Shri Shanti Bhushan learned counsel for the Karnataka State Road Transport Corporation Dr Chitley learned counsel for some of the private operators Shri Datar learned counsel for the Karnataka State Tourism Development Corporation Shri Sampat and Shri Javali learned counsel for other private operators submitted that the State Transport Appellate Tribunal and the High Court were wrong in distinguishing the decision of this court in Sher Singh s case and that the true position was that on a correct interpretation of the proviso to sec.
It was also urged that the fourth sub clause of the proviso offended article 14 and had to be struck down.
Shri CS Vaidyanathan learned counsel for some of the preferred private operators urged that the view taken by the High Court and the State Transport Appellate Tribunal was correct and that the fourth sub clause of the proviso to section 637 did not offend article 14 of the Constitution.
A public service vehicle is defined in section 225 as any motor vehicle used or adapted to be used for the carriage of passengers for hire or reward and includes a motor cab contract carriage and stage carriage.
Sections 46 47 and 48 deal with the grant of stage carriage permits.
Section 471 A enables the State Government to reserve a certain percentage of stage carriage permits for the Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes.
Section 471 H prescribes that notwithstanding anything contained in the section an application for stage carriage permit from a State Transport undertaking for operating in any inter State route shall be given preference overall other applications provided of course the authority is satisfied that the State Transport Undertaking would be able to operate in the inter State route without detriment to its responsibility for providing efficient and adequate road transport services in any notified area or notified route.
Section 631 stipulates broadly that a permit granted by the Regional Transport Authority of any one region shall not be valid in any other region unless the permit has been countersigned by the Regional Transport Authority of that other region and a permit granted in any one State shall not be valid in any other State unless countersigned by the State Transport Authority of 1014 that other State or by the Regional Transport Authority concerned.
637 of the .
