ION Special Leave A Petition CRL  No 1765 of 1987 From the Judgment and order dated 8971987 of the Bombay High Court in WP No 332 of 1987.
VN Ganpule for the Petitioner.
Soli J Sorabjee KJ John and AK Desai for the Respondents.
The Judgment of the Court was delivered by SEN J.
The by section 630 enacts 630.
Penalty for wrongful withholding of property 1 If any officer or employee of a company a wrongfully obtains possession of any property of a company or D b having any such property in his possession wrongfully withholds it or knowingly applies it to purposes other than those expressed or directed in the articles and authorised by this Act he shall on the complaint of the company or any creditor or contributory thereof be punishable with fine which may extend to one thousand rupees.
2 The Court trying the offence may also order such officer or employee to deliver up or refund within a time F to be fixed by the Court any such property wrongfully obtained or wrongfully withheld or knowingly misapplied or in default to suffer imprisonment for a term which may extend to two years.
 The only question involved in this special leave petition is as to the scope and effect of sub section.
1 of section 630 of the Act.
The controversy is as to the meaning of the term officer or employee  used in sub s1 of section 630 and as to the meaning of the words any such property  in cl.
b thereof and there is a conflict of opinion between the High Courts of Calcutta and Bombay on the question.
On a literal construction of the term officer or employee  occurring in sub section.
1 of section 630 of H 172 the Act the High Court of Calcutta in Amritlal Chum vs Devi Ranjan Jha  Anr held that it refers only to the existing officers and employees of a company.
It also held that the words any such property  in section 630lb relate to property specified in cl.
a viz property of a company wrongfully taken possession of by a present officer or employee of the company.
The High Court of Bombay on the other hand has placed a beneficent construction on the provisions contained in section 630 and according to it the term officer or employee  in sub section.
1 of section 630 must be interpreted to mean not only the present officers and employees of a company but also to include past officers and employees of the company.
It is also of the view that the words any such property  in ck b qualify the words any property of a company  appearing in cl.
That has been the consistent view taken by the High Court of Bombay in a series of cases.
See Harkishan Lakhimal Gidwani vs Achyut Kashinath Wagh  Anr  Govind T Jagtiani vs Sirajuddin section Kazi  Anr  which have since been followed in a series of cases referred to by the learned Single Judge Ashok Agarwal J.
The issues involved in the special leave petition are of considerable importance to the corporate sector as many of the business organisations both in the public as well as the private sector are required to provide residential accommodation to their officers and employees as a condition of their service to attract better talent and have of necessity to purchase residential flats in multi storeyed buildings in large cities and towns for the use of such officers and employees during the course of their employment and the question is whether the provisions contained in sub section.
1 of section 630 which provide for the launching of a prosecution against an officer or employee of a company for wrongful possession of such property under cls.
a and b of sub section.
1 of section 630 and for the recovery of such property by the issue of process under sub section 2 also extends to past officers and employees of the company and whether the Court trying the offence has the power to issue a process under sub section.
2 against such officer or employee.
At the conclusion of the hearing we had by a short order dismissed the special leave petition and held that the view expressed by the learned Single Judge following the earlier decisions of the High Court in Harkishan Lakhimal Gidwani and reiterated in Govind T Jagtiani was to be preferred to the view to the contrary expressed by the High Court of Calcutta in Amritlal Chum.
As the respondent Shipping Corporation of India a public sector undertakings was in dire need of the flat in question which is situate in a posh locality like the Cuffe Parade in 173 Bombay for the use of its senior executive we could not accede to the request of the learned counsel for the petitioner to refer the case to a bench of three judges and heard learned counsel for the parties at quit some length on August 271987 and dismissed the special leave petition.
The reasons therefor follow.
At the very threshold it is necessary to set out a few facts.
The petitioner Baldev Krishan Sahi was an Under Secretary to the Government of India in the Ministry of Shipping  Transport and on May 21 1974 accepted employment as Joint Manager in the Mogul Line Limited a Government of India undertaking after obtaining release from government service.
He was first allotted a service quarter.
In 1975 the company purchased a spacious flat being flat No 151 in Jolly Maker Apartment III at 119 Cuffe Parade and the petitioner being the senior most executive was allotted the flat for his residence.
The petitioner retired from the service of the company on or about September 30 1984.
Prior to that ie On September 26 1984 he addressed a letter requesting the company to permit him to continue to live in the company s premises during the period of his accumulated leave after his retirement ie for a period of six months undertaking to vacate the flat as early as possible.
It appears that the company on humanitarian grounds acceded to this request and permitted the petitioner to stay on in the company s flat for six months after his retirement and in accordance with the company s rules he was required to pay compensation for the use of the premises.
After the expiry of the said period of six months the company addressed a letter dated April 26 1985 requesting the petitioner to vacate the premises stating that if he failed to do so he would be liable to pay higher compensation as per the company s rules.
Since the petitioner failed to vacate the flat the company initiated proceedings for his eviction under the Public Premises Eviction of Unauthorised occupants Act 1971.
The Estate officer by order dated December 2 1985 directed the eviction of the petitioner.
The petitioner carried an appeal to the City Civil  Sessions Court Bombay but the same was dismissed by the Principal Judge City Civil Court by his order dated January 16 1986.
Instead of availing of that opportunity the petitioner on March 3 1986 moved the High Court by a petition under article 226 of the Constitution and obtained ad interim stay of the proceedings before the Estate officer.
In view of this the company was constrained to lodge a complaint against the petitioner under section 630 of the Act in the Court of the Additional Chief Metropolitan Magistrate 37th Court Esplanade Bombay alleging that he was wrongfully withholding the flat in question which had been given to him for his residence during the period of his employment and and thereby committed an offence punishable under section 630.
The learned Magistrate by his order dated May 22 1986 took cognizance of the complaint against the petitioner and directed issue of process.
On June 30 1986 the company merged with the Shipping Corporation of India and all its assets and liabilities were taken over by the Corporation.
The Corporation in the counter affidavit interalia has pleaded that there is acute shortage of housing accommodation in the Metropolitan City of Bombay and it becomes necessary for the Corporation with a view to attract good talent to provide suitable housing accommodation to its officers and employees and that due to acute financial liquidity it is not possible for the Corporation to buy property in Bombay for this purpose.
It is further pleaded that the petitioner was given the flat for his residence during the period of his employment and that he was bound to vacate the same after his retirement.
It is asserted that the petitioner with a dishonest intention is wrongfully with holding the flat and has instituted false and frivolous proceedings with the ulterior object of protracting and delaying the eviction proceedings.
We are informed that the petitioner has been deliberately and dishonestly withholding the flat covering an area of 1750 square feet in Cuffe Parade which is a posh area valued at approximately Rs30 lakhs and putting it to his own use contrary to the terms of his employment.
The first and foremost argument of learned counsel for the petitioner is that the provision contained in section 630 of the Act is a penal provision and therefore must be subject to a strict construction and there is no room for intendment.
It is submitted that on a true construction the scope and effect of the section was limited to such property of the company which was wrongfully obtained by an officer or employee of the company.
Emphasis was placed upon the words any such property  in cl.
b of sub section.
1 for the contention that cl.
b does not stand by itself but is inter connected with cl.
a and therefore both clauses a and b must be read together.
In essence the submission is that sub section.
Secondly it is contended that the legislature never intended to include past officers and employees of a company within the ambit of section 630 of the Act which provides for prosecution of an officer or employee of a company for wrongfully withholding the property of the company inasmuch as it has used different languages where it was so intended namely in sections 538 and 545.
The entire argument of the learned counsel is based upon the judgment of the High Court of Calcutta in Amritlal Chum s case.
I of section 630 of the Act which defeats the very purpose and object with which it had been introduced.
wrongfully withholds possession of it after the termination of his employment.
The section is in two parts.
Sub section.
1 by clauses a and b creates two distinct and separate offences.
First of these is the one contemplated by cl.
a and although it primarily refers to the existing officers and employees it may also take in past officers and employees.
In contrast cl.
It may well be that an officer or employee may have lawfully obtained possession of any such property during the course of his employment but wrongfully withholds it after the termination of his employment.
1 of section 630 of the Act.
The whole object of enacting sub section.
a into cl.
a ie property wrongfully obtained.
b even though cls.
Kotwal J.
PSS Petition dismissed.
