From the Judgment and Order dated 9101987 of t he Central Administrative Tribunal Chandigarh in Appln.
WITH SLP Civil No 6998 of 1988 VC Mahajan Mrs Indu Goswami CV Subba Rao P Parmeshwaran for the Appellant in CA No 1709 of 1988.
The Judgment of the Court was delivered by K JAGANNATHA SHETTY J.
A bogus identi ty card in the name of Ashok Kumar TNo.
The said fictitious identity card was used by o ne Suraj Singh cleaner T No 210 K of Beggi Tunnelling Div i sion for the purpose of withdrawing the pay of Ashok Kuma r.
While Suraj Singh by impersonation was receiving the pay of Ashok Kumar he was recognised by the Cashier since he kn ew him personally.
The Inquiry Officer framed charge against the responde nt in the following terms That the said Shri Parma Nand while working as Time Keeper in Time Keeping Sub Division of Beas Sutlej Li nk Project Sundernagar during the month of May 1969 failed to maintain absolute integrity and devotion to duty in as mu ch as he falsely marked the attendance of Shri Ashok Kuma r Token No 59 T in the Pay Roll of Control Survey Divisi on for the month of May 1969 which resulted in fictitio us drawal of Rs238 90 as pay of the said Shri Ashok Kumar.
 After a detailed enquiry against the respondent and t wo others the Inquiry Officer found all the three guilty of the charge framed against each of them.
The other two persons were let off wi th minor punishments of withholding two or three future incr e ments in their pay scales.
The respondent moved the High Court of Himachal Prade sh under Article 226 challenging the findings of Inquiry off i cer as well as the order of dismissal passed by the comp e tent authority.
Consequentl y the said writ petition stood transferred to the Tribunal by operation of section 29 of that Act.
The Tribunal upon consideration of the matter agre ed with the findings recorded by the Inquiry Officer that t he respondent was the master mind behind the scheme to defra ud the project.
The Tribunal observed Since the applicant had.
After reaching this conclusion the Tribunal pr o ceeded to examine the adequacy of penalty awarded to t he respondent.
Under these circu m stances the evidence that the applicant was the only mast er mind who sought to defraud the project of the funds cann ot be termed to be direct.
In the intere st of 25 justice it is necessary to modify the punishment awarded to the applicant.
There will be no order as to costs.
To put in oth er words whether the Tribunal could interfere with the penal ty awarded by the Competent authority on the ground that it is excessive or disproportionate to the misconduct proved T he answer to the question cannot be determined without refe r ence to the scope of judicial review in the pre Tribun al period.
T he public service and posts may be in connection with t he affairs of the union or of any State.
The law cannot provide for hierarchy of Tribunals.
It also provides power to constitute Benches of the Centr al Administrative Tribunal.
Section 27 provides for execution of orders.
15 and Joint Administrative Tribun al under sec.
