TS Krishnamurthy lyer MJ Paul and Kailash Vasudev for the Appellant.
K Parasaran PD Sharma TK Seshadri and K Swami for the Respondents.
A very interesting question comes up for consideration in this appeal.
The property which is the subject matter of the present dispute originally formed part of an extent of land situat ed on Mount Road Madras bearing door Nos 2 and 3 and measuring 41 grounds and 2005 sq.
It belonged to several co owners.
The firm and its partners arc hereinafter compendiously referred to as the tenants .
The first lease Ext.
P 1 was dated 229.
This was a property comprising of an area of 4 grounds and 151 square feet with certain buildings thereon.
The rent for the premises was Rs 150 per month.
The second lease deed Ext.
P 2 dated 310.
and some building thereon.
The fair rent claimed was computed at Rs239903 per month in respect of item No 1 as against the rent of Rs 150 pm fixed under the lease deed.
In respect of item 2 the fair rent claimed was Rs326650 as against Rs200 pm payable under the lease deed.
The defendants GG and his sons filed their objections to the above applications.
They claimed that under both the lease deeds what had been leased out to them was only a vacant land and that the superstructure had been built by them.
The Rent Controller accepted the above argument so far as item was concerned.
In view of this the Rent Controller dismissed HRC 3310 65 relating to item No 1 and in HRC 331165 fixed the fair rent in respect of item No 2 at Rs 1451 pm.
The order of the Rent Controller was dated 93.
The fair rent fixed by the Rent Controller at Rs994 pm was upheld.
The tenants filed revision petitions against the order of the Court of Small Causes but these were dismissed on 20111968.
Turn 551 ing now to CS No 54 of 1969 which was disposed of along with CS No 87 of 72 by a common judgment dated 23101972 the contention urged on behalf of the tenants was that since the subject matter of the lease under exhibit P 1 was only a vacant site the Rent Controller had no juris diction to fix the fair rent in respect thereof and that therefore the claim in the suit for arrears of rent based on the Rent Controller s order in respect of the premises covered by exhibit P 1 had to fail.
The Court addressed itself to this question.
The Appellate Bench confirmed the decree in respect of item No 2 subject to certain modifications which are not here relevant.
The present appeal by Special Leave granted on 37.
The first is that if either question is answered in the negative the other will not arise for consideration and the appeal will have to be allowed.
The second is that though the claim in issue before us is only a money claim for arrears of rent any decision given by us based as it will have to be on the issue whether the LIC owns the superstructure or not and whether the tenants are the les sees only of vacant land or of both land and buildings will have repercussions not only on the claim in this suit which by now has accummulated to more than Rs3 lakhs but also on any other proceedings by way of ejectment or otherwise which the LIC may have in contemplation against the tenants.
The decision in this appeal will therefore be of great moment for the LI C.
675 the latter is strictly confined to the terms of the statute creating it.
vs Smt.
