Industrial Corpn.
Section 55 provides that for every Special Area there shall be a Special Area Development Authority consisting of a Chairman and such other members as the Government may determine from time to time.
Such a direction was first issued by Notification dated January 28 1976 published in the Government Gazette dated February 27 1976 by which the Development Authority Korba was directed to exercise the powers and perform the functions of a Class I Municipality constituted under the Madhya Pradesh Municipality Act 1961.
By another Notification dated March 15 1977 published in Government Gazette dated July 15 1977 the Development Authority Korba was directed under the aforesaid clauses of sections 68 and 69 to exercise the powers and perform the functions under the Madhya Pradesh Municipal Corporation Act 1956.
It says that the Corporation shall impose a tax payable by the owners of buildings or lands situated within the city with reference to the gross annual letting value of the building or land called the property tax.
In 1964 the Madhya Pradesh State Legislature had enacted the Madhya Pradesh Nagariya Sthawar Sampatti Kar Adhiniyam which was made applicable to the whole State including the urban areas.
By section 36 of the aforesaid Adhiniyam local authorities were prohibited from recovering the property tax from November 24 1970.
For conferring powers to levy tax on the entry of goods in place of octroi tax the Madhya Pradesh Sthaniya Kshetra Me Mal Ke Pravesh Par Kar Adhyadesh 1976 6 of 1976 was promulgated.
On June 24 1976 respondent 1 the Special Area Development Authority Korba entered into an agreement with the appellant Company under which the Company agreed to contribute a sum of Rupees three lakhs annually to the seed capital of the Authority in consideration of the Authority agreeing not to exercise its power of taxation or of levying any other charges on the assets and activities of the Company under the Act of 1973 as amended from time to time or under any other Act or notification.
11 The appellant Company disputed its liability to pay the aforesaid amounts on the grounds principally that no tax was leviable on its property since the Company was owned wholly by the Government of India and that respondent 1 was estopped from levying the property tax by reason of the agreement of 1976.
