Civil Appeals Nos.
Ex parte for the Respondents.
In these 11 appeals only that part of the judgment of the Andhra Pradesh High Court is assailed by the Union of India where the challenge to the validity of section 28 of the Gold Control Act 1968 has succeeded.
Section 28 of the Act runs thus 28.
Money lending business not to be carried on in licensed premises No licensed dealer shall unless authorised by the Administrator so to do a carry on business as a money lender or banker on the security of any article or ornament or both b permit any other person to carry on money lending banking or any other business in the same premises in which he carried on business as such dealer.
 The High Court has struck down the aforesaid provision only on the ground that it suffers from the vice of excessive delegation of legislative power inasmuch as no criteria or guide lines have been 954 provided by reference to which the power conferred on the Administrator to refuse permission or grant permission should be exercised and that the section confers an arbitrary uncanalised power upon the Administrator with the result that the licensed dealer is at his mercy while seeking permission to carry on money lending or banking business on the security of any article ornament or both in the same premises in which he carried on business as such dealer.
collector of Central Excise Poona II Division while declaring sec.
276 of the Act is clearly inapplicable.
It is true that no express rule prescribing the conditions or circumstances under which the permission can be granted or refused 1 955 has been framed nor any particular guide line has been expressly indicated in sec.
 In Harakchand Banthria s case supra this Court has further pointed out that even though import of gold into India had been banned considerable quantities of contraband gold were finding their way into the country through illegal channels affecting the national economy and hampering the country s economic stability and progress that the Customs Department was not in a position to effectively combat the smuggling over the long borders and coast line that therefore anti smuggling measures had to be supplemented by a detailed system of control over internal transactions and that the Gold Control Act 1968 was passed for this purpose.
