The British Government granted a sanad of Raj to Raja Chet Singh who in turn gave the Jagir of Parganas Seyedpore and Bhittery in perpetuity to Babu Ausan Singh.
The source of the pension was a liability undertaken by the Government for extinguishing the proprietary rights of the Jagirdar and when the immediate source of the income was not land or rent collections from land it is difficult to hold that the receipt of the assessee was agricultural income within the meaning of Section 43viii of the Income tax Act.
 The learned counsel for the respondent Mr A Viswanatha Sastri urges that on its true interpretation the letter dated July 7 1837 showed an arrangement for sharing collections.
We respectfully adopt the reasoning and conclusion of this Court in the case of State of  704 Uttar Pradesh vs Kunwar Sri Trivikram Narain Singh1 and hold that the respondent under the arrangement had no interest in land or in the land revenue payable in respect thereof.
And rent is not land within the meaning of the definition This Court observed in Mrs Bacha F Guzdar Bombay Commissioner of Income tax Bombay4 as follow Agricultural income as defined in the Act is intended to refer to the revenue received by direct association with the land which is used for agricultural purposes and not by indirectly extending it to cases where that revenue or part thereof changes hands either by way of distribution of dividends or otherwise 1  2 3 16 ITR325 4 705 The same test was adopted by this Court in Maharajadhiraja Sir Kameshwar Singh vs Commissioner of Income tax Bihar and Orissa1 and the Court again looked to the source of the right in order to determine whether income was agricultural income or not.
The remuneration not being received as rent or revenue of agricultural lands under a title legal or beneficial in the property from which the income is received it is not income exempt under section 43viii.
 It follows from the decisions of the Privy Council and the judgments of this Court cited above that if it is held in this case that the source of the allowance or pension is the arrangement arrived at in 1837.
He refers to the following passage from the speech of Viscount Simon in Commissioner of Inland Revenue vs Wesleyan and General Assurance Society1 It may be well to repeat two propositions which are well established in the application of the law relating to Income tax.
If the other method is adopted tax will not be payable .
Mr Sastri relying on Perrin vs Dickson1 contends that an annuity is not always taxable as income.
