The respondents to this appeal are the trustees of the Port of Bombay.
Thus the 12 hours  shift at the Alexandra Docks was 8 hours  of duty 3 hours  overtime and one hour variable recess.
They contended that regard being had to the number of actual work hours the case of shore crew at the Prince s and Victoria Docks and the Butcher Island could not be compared with that of the crew at the Alexandra Docks or the Flotilla Crew.
The hours of work and the payment of overtime are therefore governed by the provisions of the and the Minimum Wages Central Rules 1950 and the controversy in this case must be appreciated and resolved in accordance with them.
We shall now turn to these provisions.
1 Where an employee whose minimum rate of wages is fixed under this Act by the hour by the day or by such a longer wage period as may be prescribed works on any day in excess of the number of hours constituting a normal working day the employer shall pay him for every hour or for part of an hour so worked in excess at the overtime rate fixed under this Act or under any law of the appropriate Government for the time being in force whichever is higher.
There is no definition of interval either in the Act or the Rules but the provisions of section 13 2 c read with section 13 3 give us an indication of what is meant by an interval of rest.
There is clear antinomy between hours of work and intervals of rest in sub rules 1 and 2 of Rule 24 and the phrase inclusive of one or more specified intervals  governs the normal working day and not the number of hours of work.
A working day of 12 hours is thus made up of hours of work and hours of rest and the number of hours of work which cannot exceed 9 is part of the normal working day which may also include one or more specified intervals of rest.
From section 13 read with Rule 24 we know that the number of hours constituting a normal working day is 9.
The section so read lays down  Where an employee   works on any day in excess of 9 hours the employer shall pay him for every hour or for part of an hour so worked in excess at the overtime rate    Under Rule 25 1 b this overtime rate is double the ordinary rate of wages.
He can specify the intervals of rest and spread the 8 hours or 9 hours as the case may be together with intervals of rest over 12 hours in a twelvehour shift.
These periods of rest must not be periods during which the workman is on duty and inaction is due to want of work for him but they must be pre determined periods of inaction during which the workman is neither called upon nor expected to display physical activity or sustained attention.
For the hours of rest he is not required to pay overtime but he must specify those hours.
As in the present case the total number of hours of work in a week is 48 8 hours per day for 6 days overtime is payable for that hour or part of an hour beyond the 8 hours in which the workman is either made to work or the interval is not specified.
The Port Trust can say that it will not take more than two hours extra work on any day and specify the remaining two hours as the intervals for rest.
54Daily hours Subject to the provisions of section 51 no adult worker shall be required or allowed to work in a factory for more than nine hours in any day Provided   55.
The periods of work of an adult worker in a factory shall be so arranged that inclusive of his intervals for rest under section 55 they shall not spread over more than ten and a half hours in any day Provided that the Chief Inspector may for reasons to be specified in writing increase the spread over to twelve hours.
There is no provision in the which breaks up the hours of work by interposing a compulsory period of rest as is done by the latter part of section 55 of the .
The reason perhaps is that in some employments time for work depends on some 643 extraneous factors and hours of rest cannot always be fixed to break up those hours.
This is achieved by pres cribing that the hours of work in a six day week shall not exceed 48 although on any particular day the hours of work in a day may go up to 9.
According to their resolution the recess is fixed as near the middle of the work as possible depending on the tides.
The crew at the Prince s and Victoria Docks work in a different way and their case cannot be compared with that of the Flotilla Crew or the crew at the Alexandra Docks.
