c Such increments shall not however exceed four in number.
ivSubject to rules i to iii a workman s basic pay in the scale provided by the Sastry award as modified shall be fixed in the following manner aA workman shall first be fitted into the scale of pay of Sastry award as modified by placing him at the stage in the Sastry award scale as modified equal to or next above his basic pay as on 1st January 1959 in the scale then in force in the bank concerned hereinafter called the Bank s scale.
bTo the basic pay into which he is fitted under clause a annual increment or increment in scale provided by the Sastry award as modified as from that stage onwards should be added at the rate of one increment for every completed three years of his service in the same cadre as on 1st January 1959.
c Such increments shall not however exceed four in number.
 The dispute between the bank and the workmen in the present case was this.
ii of the Desai award the adjusted basic pay in the new scale was not to exceed what point to point adjustment would give an employee on January 1 1962.
ii the adjusted basic pay is to be as on January 1 1962.
Under sub cl.
ii is subject to cl.
b read with sub cl.
iv but this will be subject to cls.
i and ii and the adjusted basic pay arrived at by giving the increments under sub cls.
b and c cannot exceed the adjusted basic pay as arrived at by point to point adjustment in the Sastry award as modified or the maximum of that scale or the actual basic pay as on 1st January 1959 as the case may be.
iv and cl.
b read with sub cl.
iv have to be added but this is again subject to the provisions of cls.
i and ii.
The appellant bank s contention is that two further annual increments allowed under sub cl.
d cannot be permitted in view of cl.
ii the adjusted basic pay has to be fixed as on January 1 1959 sub cl.
ii provides cannot be given.
d as was done by the Labour Appellate Tribunal in its modification of the Sastry award.
ii has to be worked out as on January 1 1959 the two increments provided by sub cl.
a b and c of el.
iv of the Desai award.
ii works.
Therefore two increments under sub cl.
a b and c of el.
iv in accordance with what we have interpreted these sub clauses as well as cls.
i and ii to mean.
d must always be given.
b read with sub cl.
c may in some cases be not available where the actual pay as on January 1 1959 which will not be reduced under el.
His place of posting was Phagwara in area ITT.
This is equal to his actual salary as on January 1 1959.
b and c because his actual salary coincided with the adjusted basic pay in the Sastry award scale as modified as on January 1 1959.
d for the years 1960 and 1961 and his salary therefore as on January 1 1962 under the Sastry award would come to Rs 119.
i his salary cannot be fixed below Rs 100 which he was actually getting.
Under subcl.
b and c of cl.
d which will bring his salary to Rs 112 as on January 1 1962.
CA 1009 is hereby dismissed.
CA 1008 allowed.
CA 1009 dismissed.
