In view of article 229 of the Constitution.
It appears that for some time past there were differences between the High Court and the government about the posting of some of the judicial officers.
The High Court was anxious that a judicial officer occupying one of the administrative posts enumerated above should not in the interest of judicial work continue in that post for an unduly long time.
As mentioned earlier member sales tax tribunal was an ex cadre post.
Before considering the correctness of that submission it is necessary to notice that this argument breaks down when we come to the question of filling up the post of the Registrar.
the State government or the High Court.
1  2  161 namely whether the power to transfer District Judges is included in the control  exercisable by the High Court over District Courts under article 235 or in the power of appointment of persons to be and the posting and promotion of district judges  which is to be exercised by the Governor under article 233 albeit in consultation with the High Court.
For however well meaning a Minister may be he can never possess the same intimate knowledge of the working of the judiciary as a whole and of individual Judges as the High Court.
Just as the High Court resents any interference by the executive in the functioning of the judiciary the executive has a right to ask the High Court not to interfere with its functions.
At the end of that period the government is bound to allow him to go back to his parent department unless the High Court agrees to spare his services for some more time.
In other words the period during which a judicial officer should serve in an executive post must be settled by agreement between the High Court and the government.
If only there is mutual understanding and appreciation of the difficulties of the one by the other there will be harmony.
Except for very good reasons we think the High Court should always be 164 willing to spare for an agreed period the services of any of the officers under its control for filling up such executive posts as may require the services of judicial officers.
