 Sections 6 to 15 prescribe the special procedure which the court has to follow in the trial of the cases referred to it.
2  293 offences as there can of course be no trial of offences in the abstract and the general expressions used in providing for the power to set that machinery in operation must be restricted to that end in accordance with the intention of the legislature for a literal construction of the general language would impute to the legislature an intention to confer an arbitrary power of reference which would be incon sistent not only with the declared object of the statute but also with the constitutional prohibition against discrimina tion which the legislature must be taken to have been aware of when it deliberately re enacted the provisions of the old Ordinance.
In my opinion the true position is as follows  As a general rule if the Act is fair and good the public authority who has to administer it will be protected.
His first line of argument is that quite apart from the question of classification there has been no infringement of article 14 of the Constitution in the present case.
It must appear not only that a classification has been made but also that it is based upon some reasonable ground some difference which bears a just and proper relation to the attempted classification1.
It was held that the equal protection clause could be availed of against the taxing officer but if he was found to have acted bona fide and the discrimination was the result of a mere error of judgment on his part the action would fail.
A careful perusal of this decision will make it quite clear that the Court upheld the validity of the statute impugned in that case not on the ground that the inequality was of minor importance but on the ground that the classification of establishments according to the number of workmen employed therein was based on an intelli gible distinction having a rational relation to the subject matter of the legislation in question.
The Act accordingly empowers the State government to direct the offences which in its view require speedier trial to be tried by a Special Court according to the special procedure provided by it for the speedier trial of those offences.
 In order to be a proper classification so as not to offend against the Constitution it must be based on some intelligible differentia which should have a reason able relation to the object of the Act as recited in the preamble.
if the State gov ernment classifies offences arbitrarily and not on any reasonable basis having a relation to the object of the Act its action will be either an abuse of its power if it is purposeful or in excess of its powers even if it is done in good faith and in either case the resulting discrimination will encounter the challenge of the Constitution and the Court will strike down not the law which is good but the abuse or misuse or the unconstitutional administration of the law creating or resulting in unconstitutional discrimi nation.
Article 14 provides The State shall not deny to any person equality before the law or the equal protection of the laws within the territory of India Then follow articles 15 and 16 the former prohibiting discrimination on grounds of religion race caste sex place of birth or any of them and the latter providing for equality of opportunity in matters of public employment.
 It does not take from the states the power to classify either in the adoption of police laws or tax laws or eminent domain laws but permits to them the exercise of a wide scope of discretion and nullifies what they do only when it is without any reasonable basis.
If a law deals equally with members of a welldefined class it is not obnoxious and it is not open to the charge of denial of equal protection on the ground that it has no application to other persons.
Discrimination may not appear in the statute itself but may be evident in the administration of the law.
If an uncontrolled or unguided power is conferred without any reasonable and proper standards or limits being laid down in the enactment the statute itself may be challenged and not merely the particular administrative act.
Co vs Illinois Prof Weaver says at page 404 of his compendious book on Constitutional Law under the heading of  DISCRIMINATION IN THE ADMiNiSTRATION OF THE LAWS  Discrimination may exist in the administration of the laws and it is the purpose of the equal protection clause to secure all the inhabitants of the state from intentional and arbitrary discrimination arising in their improper or preju diced execution as well as by the express terms of the law itself.
 Bose J We are concerned here with article 14 of the Constitution and in particular with the words equality before the law and equal protection of the law.
It is not enough that justice should be done.
