the view that there were other industries in the region in which minimum wages were higher than the minimum wages paid by the Company but failed to fix the minimum wages in the award in accordance with the minimum wages being paid in those industries.
The principle for fixation of minimum wages that should ordinarily be adopted was laid down by this Court in the case of French Motor Car Co Limited.
in the same region.
He has stated that the Alumihium Factory at Hirakud carries on its work with the help of highly automatic machines and is  supplied electricity by the Government at subsidised rates.
It is clear that in the Aluminium Factory the number of workmen who have to be paid production bonus is very small and almost insignificant as compared with the number in the Company In these circumstances it would be more appropriate to compare the total wage packet of the Company with the wage packet received by the workmen of other industries in the region viz the three Collieries the Rourkela Steel Plant and the Cement Factory at Rajgangour.
Comparing with them there is justification for fixing the total wage packet of the workmen in the Company at Rs 95 which would include production bonus.
Consequently in varying the award of the Tribunal we would direct that the total minimum wage packet of a workman in the Company shall be fixed at Rs 95 consisting of  the three elements of basic wage dearness allowance and production bonus.
On behalf of the workmen it was urged before the Tribunal that the proportion should be 3 1 1 so that the production bonus and the dearness allowance would both be equal and 13rd of the basic wage.
Consequently we are unable to hold that the Tribunal has committed any error and that in this respect any interference by us is called for.
It appears that the Tribunal did not accept this demand primarily on the ground that the distinction between casual workers and  the permanent workers was recognised by both the parties in the agreement of 1959.
In all these circumstances we think that the revised wages should take effect from 13th December 1962.
In fact the principle which is being applied is the simple one of calculating the bonus payable at the rate of three months  basic wage in each case and in no case is the dearness allowance taken into account.
