The Income tax Officer disallowed their claim holding that  these transactions were mere accommodations which can have no bearing to the regular business carried on by the assessee.
The question referred was therefore answered in the affirmative and against the appellants.
A bad and doubtful debt in respect of a business other than banking or money lending is allowable even if it is not in respect of loan  but a debt due in the course of the business of a money lending is not allowable unless it is in respect of loans made in the ordinary course of his business.
Counsel said that 1 Sobhagchand Amarchand partner of the Bombay firm is the father of Seshmal one of the partners of the appellants and of the minors Ramniklal and Lakshmichand who are admitted to the benefits of partnership 2 that large amounts of money were advanced shortly before the Bombay firm closed its business and 3 that there was a consistant practice for paying or receiving interest on the 420 amounts due at the foot of the account but no interest was charged by the appellants in respect of the dues at the foot of the account at the end of Samvat Years 2007 and 2008.
After receipt of the supplementary statement of case from the Tribunal the appeal was heard by J C Shah K section Hegde and A N Grover JJ.
The Tribunal will submit the statement within three months from the date on which the papers reach the Tribunal.
In the assessment of income tax of the appellant for the assessment year 1952 53 relevant to the account year Samvat 2008 the assessee claimed a deduction of Rs 268385 as bad debt due from the Bombay firm incurred by that firm in the course of business transactions.
In appeal the Appellate Assistant Commissioner agreed with the Income tax Officer.
At the hearing of the appeal this Court found that the tribunal s order was very brief and that it gave no reasons in support of its conclusions.
reframed the question as follows Whether on the facts and in the circumstances of the case the Appellate Tribunal erred in disallowing a sum of Rs 268385 written off by the assessee in their books of accounts as irrecoverable  By its order dated July 29 1969 this Court called upon the Tribunal to submit a supplementary statement of case on the reframed question.
The tribunal has accordingly submitted a further statement.
On the other hand the narrations in the entries as they stand the failure to adjust interest in the account of the Bombay firm at the stage at which it became a debtor in Samvat year 2007 the manner in which the partner of the appellant firm tried to explain the position in March 1954 and the stand of the firm itself at all earlier stages support the case of the Department 12.
Having considered all the circumstances of the case we are of the opinion that the sums in question were not sent to the Bombay firm as loans made in the ordinary course of the money lending business of the assessee nor in respect of any other business of the assessee.
It is also true that the tribunal after catalogueing the arguments advanced at the bar has come to certain abrupt conclusions but all the tame it cannot be denied that the findings reached by the tribunal are findings of fact and those findings are supported by the evidence on record.
