77 M C Bhandare A N Karkhanis Miss Malini Panduval and Mrs section Bhandare for the Appellant.
M N Shroff for Respondent No 2.
In this appeal by special leave we are called upon to interpret a benign provision enacted to ameliorate the economic condition of neglected wives and discarded divorcees namely.
So section 125 and sister clauses must receive a compassionate expansion of sense that the words used permit.
For instance it recited that this respondent had transferred the suit premises namely a flat in Bombay to the appellant and also the shares of the Cooperative Housing Society which built the flat concerned.
She proceeded on the footing that she was still a wife while the respondent rejected this status and asserted that she was a divorce and therefore ineligible for maintenance.
This is obviously beyond dispute or.
In the normal course an order for maintenance must follow the quantum having been determined by the learned Magistrate at the trial level.
His next plea was that there must be proof of neglect to maintain to attract s125 and his third contention was that there was a settlement by consent decree in 1962 whereby the mehar money had been paid and all claims adjusted and so no claim for maintenance could survive.
If any in statutory interpretation belongs to the ill used wife and the derelict divorcee.
Surely Parliament in keeping with article 153 and deliberate by design made a special provision to help women in distress cast away by divorce.
From this coign of vantage we must view the printed text of the particular Code.
80 section 125 requires as a sine qua non for its application neglect by husband or father.
His case on the contrary is that she has forfeited her claim because of divorce and the consent decree.
His plea is his right to ignore.
In this generous jurisdiction a broader perception and appreciation of the facts and their bearing must govern the verdict not chopping little logic or tinkering with burden of proof.
Do divorcees have to 1 prove mutual consent to live apart Divorce painfully implies that the husband orders her out of the conjugal home.
If law has nexus with life this argument is still born.
The last defence based on mehar payment merits more serious attention.
No settlement of claims which does not have the special statutory right of the divorcee under section 125 can operate to negate that claim.
But what was the amount of mehar  Rs 5000  interest from which could not keep the woman s body and soul together for a day even in that city where 40 of the population are reported to live on pavements unless she was ready to sell her body and give up her soul  The point must be clearly under stood that the scheme of the complex of provisions in Chapter IX has a social purpose.
Ill used wives and desparate divorcees shall not be driven to material and moral dereliction to seek sanctuary in the streets.
This traumatic horror animates the amplitude of s127.
The keynote thought is adequacy of payment which will take reasonable care of her maintenance.
If the first payment by way of mehar or ordained by custom has a reasonable relation to the object and is a capitalised substitute for the order under section 125 not mathematically but fairly then section 1273 b subserves the goal and relieves the obligor not pro tanto but wholly.
Law is dynamic and its meaning cannot he pedantic but purposeful.
PBR Appeal allowed.
