Chapter VIII of the Act consisting of sections 64 to 71 is entitled Special Areas.
Section 127A2 of the Madhya Pradesh Municipalities Act and section 136 of the Madhya Pradesh Municipal Corporation Act also provide that the property tax shall not be leviable inter alia on buildings and lands owned by or vesting in the Union Government.
 In Heavy Engineering Mazdoor Union vs The State of Bihar  Ors the Heavy Engineering Corporation Limited was incorporated under the and its entire share capital was contributed by the Central Government.
Gajendragadkar C J while speaking for the Court referred to the judgment of Lord Denning in Tamlin vs Hansaford in which the learned Judge observed In the eye of the law the corporation is its own master and is answerable as fully as any other person or corporation.
The learned Attorney General resisted the taxation on the lands by contending that they belong to the Madhya Pradesh State Government and were taken on lease for a period of 30 years by the appellant companies.
The appellants may if so advised raise this particular point in future assessments.
3 Under section 5 of the Nationalisation Act the acquired properties were vested in a Government Company in order to carry out more conveniently the object of that Act and for that purpose the properties were freed from all encumbrances by section 6 of the Act.
Entry 54 of List I relates to Regulation of mines and mineral development to the extent to which such regulation and development under the control of the Union is declared by Parliament by law to be expedient in the public interest.
But in order to 20 judge whether on that account the State legislature loses its competence to pass the Act of 1973 it is necessary to have regard to the object and purpose of that Act and to the relevant provisions thereof under which Special Area Development Authorities are given the power to tax lands and buildings within their jurisdiction.
one of which is to provide for the development and administration of Special Areas through Special Area Development Authorities Section 64 of the Act of 1973 which provides for the constitution of the special areas lays down by sub section 4 that Notwithstanding anything contained in the Madhya Pradesh Municipal Corporation Act 1956 the Madhya Pradesh Municipalities Act 1961 or the Madhya Pradesh Panchayats Act 1962 the Municipal Corporation Municipal Council Notified Area Committee or a Panchayat as the case may be shall in relation to the special area and as from the date the Special Area Development Authority undertakes the functions under clause v or clause vi of section 68 cease to exercise the powers and perform the function and duties which the Special Area Development Authority is competent to exercise and perform under the Act of 1973.
Entry 54 of List I does not contemplate the taking over of municipal functions.
This contention was repelled by this Court by holding that sections 78 and 79 of the Madras District Boards Act had nothing to do with the development of mines and minerals or their regulation.
The reasoning adopted in this decision shows that it is not correct to say that the property tax provided for in the Act of 1973 is beyond the legislative competence of the State Legislature that tax has nothing to do with the development of mines.
The paramount purpose behind the declaration contained in section 2 of the Mines and Minerals Regulation and Develop 22 ment Act 1957 is not in any manner defeated by the legitimate exercise of taxing power under section 69d of the Act of 1973.
vs Chanan Mal.
It was held by this Court that the Haryana Act was not in any way repugnant to the provisions of the Act of 1957 made by Parliament and that the ownership rights could be validly acquired by the State Government under the State Act.
