J Sorabjee K K Venugopal and R P Bhatt for respondent in 2611 A81.
From Annexure B it would appear that the permission so granted was in favour of Ved Ved Gupta in his individual capacity and not as the representative of any firm.
Clause 15 of the said deed provided that the site for construction of a Cinema which had been obtained on lease by Ved Gupta Todar Mal and Krishan Kumar in their own names shall not be their personal property but shall be the property of the partnership and that the permission which Ved Gupta had obtained from the Government for construction of the Theatre in the said plot shall be treated as the property of the partnership.
Krishan Kumar was a party respondent in the Special Leave Petition also.
Krishan Kumar addressed a letter to the District Magistrate Jammu requesting that the renewal of the licence may be granted in the name of the premises of Apsara Theatre The District Magistrate rejected the said request by a detailed order dated April 21 1979.
On the date of the institution itself the District Judge Jammu issued an order of temporary injunction restraining defendants 1 to 7 from interfering with the possession and the running of the Theatre Apsara by the plaintiffs.
In being served with the order of injunction Ved Gupta wrote to the District Magistrate on September 24 1980 that it had become impossible for him to operate the Cinema licence in view of the temporary injunction issued by the District Court and since it is only the licensee who is held responsible under the Act and the Rules for due compliance with all the terms and conditions of the licence and answerable to the licensing authority for all commissions and omissions in the Cinema premises he may be saved from any prosecution or other action under law in the capacity of licensee of the Apsara Theatre in respect of any illegal acts or offences committed by others in the said premises.
16980 has intimated that there was exhibition of films on 25th September 1980 in Apsara Theatre by persons other than the licensee And whereas under the provisions of the Cinematograph Act read with rules none other than licensee is permitted to exhibit films during the currency of the licence without permission of the licensing authority Now therefore I A Sahasranaman District Magistrate Jammu hereby order that exhibition of films in Apsara Theatre will remain suspended till further orders.
Rule 23 is in the following terms 23 1 In the event of a difference of opinion among the judges composing any bench of the court the decision shall be in accordance with the opinion of the majority of the Judges.
Aggrieved by the decision of the High Court Ved Gupta has filed these appeals after obtaining special leave from this Court.
Although we entertain very serious doubts about the correctness of the view taken by the Division Bench of the High Court regarding the applicability of Rule 23 3 to the instant case we do not feel called upon to examine the said question in depth or to pronounce upon it in this case in view of the conclusion arrived at by us on the merits of the case that the conclusions recorded by the Acting Chief Justice on the points that arose for decision in the Letters Patent Appeal cannot be legally sustained and that there was no justification for interference by the Division Bench with the judgment of the learned Single Judge dismissing the writ petition.
Admittedly the licence in respect of the Apsara Theatre was granted by the District Magistrate in the sole name of Ved Gupta and in all the relevant columns of the document of licence Ved Gupta has been shown as the licensee and there is no mention at all of the firm or its partners.
An application filed by Shri Krishan Kumar for a declaration that the licence was the property of the firm and for inclusion of his name and that of Todar Mal in the said licence as joint licensees was rejected by the District Magistrate by his order dated December 29 1977.
In proceedings to which the licensing authority was a party the High Court as well as this Court had upheld its order holding Ved Gupta to be the sole licensee rejecting the case put forward on behalf of the firm and the firm and its partners are bound by the said decision.
We are of the opinion that on a reading of the provisions contained in the Act and the Rules and the explicit terms of the licence itself it is impossible to sustain the view expressed in the judgment under appeal that the licence is a grant for the premises and constitutes an interest attached to the premises.
 On a careful reading of this Section it will be seen that far from supporting the view taken by the learned Acting Chief Justice this provision goes to show that the holder of a licence may be a person different from the owner of the cinematograph or a partner of the cinematography.
The object and purpose of this Section obviously is to empower the licensing authority to revoke the licence in the event of the commission of an offence under Section 6 or Section 6 E of the Act not merely by the licensee but also by any person who may be in actual charge of a cinematography or management of the cinematograph.
In the light of the foregoing discussion we have no hesitation to hold that the view expressed by the learned Single Judge that Ved Gupta was a sole licensee and that the firm had no interest in the licence was perfectly correct and sound and the contrary view taken by the learned Chief Justice is erroneous.
In this connection it is relevant to refer to Rule 88v.
On September 26 1980 the Superintendent of Police Jammu reported to the District District Magistrate that cinema exhibition in Apsara Theatre was being conducted by some persons other than the licensee and hence the licensee had been challenged by him under Section 6 of the Act.
If Ved Gupta the licensee bad been expelled from the partnership the proper course to be adopted by the firm and its partners was to move the authorities for the grant of a licence and to run the Theatre only after obtaining such licence.
No legal right or legitimate expectation of the firm or its partners can be said to have been affected by the said order passed by the District Magistrate for the simple reason that no person can be recognised as having a right to contravene the provisions of the statute prohibiting exhibition of cinematograph films in public by any one other than the licensee or his authorised representative.
