DK Sen Gopal Subramonium and RN Poddar for the Appellant.
Ex parte for the Respondents.
276 of the Act is clearly inapplicable.
28 are meant to prevent the circumvention of other provisions of the Act.
Therefore in our view the objective the policy and the Scheme of the Act together with the necessity to ensure prevention of circumvention of the other provisions of the Act afford more than sufficient guidance to the Administrator in the matter of exercising the power of discretion conferred on him under sec.
In fact sec.
51 of the Act requires that the Administrator should have regard to the policy and purposes of the Act in making his orders.
Even the restriction in the case of a third person in carrying on business as a money lender banker or any other business in the same premises is not absolute in as much as the Administrator can authorise the third person to carry on the business in the licensed premises of the dealer and while implementing such limited restrictions or granting relief against the same he will be guided by the policy and purposes of the Act and by the prime consideration that circumvention of the other provisions of the Act shall not be premitted.
28 cannot be struck down on the ground of excessive delegation of legislative power and its validity has to be upheld.
276 of the Act invalid we would like to point out that while conferring power on the Administrator in the matter of granting or renewing a license to a dealer the unamended sec.
276 in several of its clauses referred to certain concepts which Administrator was required to take into account and these concepts were regarded as indefinite uncertain and vague.
214 Guj.
LR 112 957 suitability of the applicant  in cl.
e and public interest  in cl.
g A did not provide any objective standard or norm and because such indefinite uncertain and vague expressions or concepts had been used in some of the clauses under sec.
276 this Court struck down sec.
276 on the ground that it conferred a very wide and vague power on the Administrator.
28 of the Act valid.
