The petition was heard by Ali Khan and Reddy JJ.
They say they saw all five accused striking him the three appellants Pandurang Tukia and Bhilia with axes the other two who have not appealed with sticks.
But what the learned counsel for the appellants says is that he saw Narsabai on the evening of the murder and as she did not give him any names it is evident that no one knew who the assailants were and that therefore the accusation made against the accused was a subsequent concoction and that it was for that reason that they waited till the next morning before reporting the matter to the police.
He also admits that he saw Narsabai there but says he did not speak to her.
The absence of the names in the report is therefore not of much consequence in this case especially as the names were disclosed in full at the time of the inquest.
As a matter of fact Subhana does not ascribe any particular blow either to Tukaram or to Nilia though he does describe in detail what the other three did.
We think Rasika and Subhana are telling the truth when they say that these two accused were also there but we think that because of that they think they must have joined in the attack and so have added that detail to their story.
We uphold his conviction under section 302 of the Indian Penal Code.
As their Lordships say in the latter case the partition which divides their bounds is often very thin nevertheless the distinction is real and substantial and if overlooked will result in miscarriage of justice.
In the present case there is no evidence of any prior meeting.
But to quote the Privy Council again the inference of common intention should never be reached unless it is a necessary inference deducible from the circumstances of the case.
We do not intend to examine that here because we are of opinion that the sentence should be reduced to transportation in these two cases mainly because of the difference of opinion in the High Court not only on the question of guilt but also on that of sentence.
