From the Judgment and Order dated 1031986 of the Karnataka High Court in WP Nos.
We are concerned in these appeals with the vires and interpretation of this proviso.
A public service vehicle is defined in section 225 as any motor vehicle used or adapted to be used for the carriage of passengers for hire or reward and includes a motor cab contract carriage and stage carriage.
Sections 46 47 and 48 deal with the grant of stage carriage permits.
Desai J speaking for the court observed However when an application for a permit is made under Chapter IV the Undertaking has to compete with private operators who may as well make an application for permit.
It signifies that other things being equal 1016 one will have preference over the others.
47 the application of the Undertaking for an inter State route shall be examined as application of any other private operator.
Qualitative and quantitative comparison on broad features of passenger transport facility such as fleet facilities to travelling public and other relevant consideration may be undertaken and after balancing these factors other things being equal the application of the Undertaking shall be given preference over other applicants.
In an application under Chapter IV Corporation has to enter the arena like any other applicant face the competition and come up to the level of other private operators intending to obtain stage carriage permits and then in respect of the route in question claim preference.
Preference in this context would mean that other things generally appearing to be qualitatively and quantitatively equal though not with mathematical accuracy statutory provision will tilt the balance in favour of the Undertaking.
Clauses i to iii of the proviso providing for preference to be given to applications for permits from the Indian Tourism Development Corporation the State Tourism Development Corporation and the State Tourist Department were not questioned but the preference provided for by clause iv and to be given to such operators of tourist cars or such travel agents as may be approved in this behalf by the Ministry dealing in tourism was questioned as an infringement of article 14 of the Constitution.
It is difficult to agree with the interpretation of the Karnataka High Court having regard to the definitions of Transport Vehicle and motor car contained in section 229 A and section 216 respectively.
637 of the .
On the other hand it mentions that approval carries with it certain privileges such as allotment of ex STC vehicles and that it is therefore necessary that the department is able to exercise some control on the functioning of these operators.
It is seen that the scheme excludes omnibus operators and requires applicants to have 1019 either two years  experience in the car hire business with contacts in the tourist business or to own five tourist taxies.
In the result we set aside the orders of the State Transport Appellate Tribunal and the High Court and direct the State Transport Appellate Tribunal to hear the appeals in the light of what we have said.
PSS Appeals allowed.
