Appeal No 1713NT of 1973.
But it appears that it was admitted position that Tika Ram  Sons had a cash balance of Rs4000 only on 111957 and it did not have any overdraft facilities with any bank.
But there was no evidence that Tika Ram and Sons were carrying on any banking business.
Section 123 of the said Act deals with how transfers are effected and stipulates inter alia that for the purpose of making a gift of movable property as in this case the transfer must be effected either by a registered instrument signed by the donor and attested or by delivery.
34 and 5 were answered in the negative.
Aggrieved by the said decision the revenue has come up in appeal.
In order to constitute a valid gift there must be an existing property.
It is possible in certain circumstances for a donor to make a valid gift by instructing a firm or a company or a HUF in which the donor has an account to give effect to the gift by debiting his account and crediting the account in the name of the donee.
But in such cases 127 merely books entries would not suffice.
C was not in a position to make gifts in cash of the amounts credited in favour of his wife and relatives.
He had large assets but these were represented by land buildings plant machinery and stock in trade.
In Sukhlal Sheo Narain vs Commissioner of Wealth Tax Haryana the Punjab  Haryana High Court had dealt with a case where the father had gifted Rs84000 ie Rs28000 to each of his sons.
Father had complete control and dominion over that amount.
Balance of the firm was only Rs 15.
No acceptance was produced.
The Tribunal never doubted that the transaction in question was bona fide but dismissed the appeal of the assessee on the sole ground that the transfer evidenced by the entries in the books of account and by the declaration did not operate to bring into existence a valid gift.
If the possession enjoyment or benefit of the donor in the property was consistent with the facts and circumstances of the case other than those of the factum of gift it could not be said that the donee had not retained the possession and enjoyment of the property to the entire exclusion of the donor or to the entire exclusion of the donor in any benefit to him by contract or otherwise.
But in that case the question in the present form in which it arises before us in the instant case did not arise.
As the respondent is not appearing there will be no order as to costs.
