At the conclusion of the hearing we had by a short order dismissed the special leave petition and held that the view expressed by the learned Single Judge following the earlier decisions of the High Court in Harkishan Lakhimal Gidwani and reiterated in Govind T Jagtiani was to be preferred to the view to the contrary expressed by the High Court of Calcutta in Amritlal Chum.
At the very threshold it is necessary to set out a few facts.
A few days thereafter ie On March 7 1986 the petitioner instituted a suit being Civil Suit No 174 138286 in Small Causes Court Bombay seeking a declaration that he was a tenant of the disputed flat which is now pending.
b does not stand by itself but is inter connected with cl.
a namely where an officer or employee of a company wrongfully obtains possession of any property of the company during the course of his employment to which he is not entitled.
a and although it primarily refers to the existing officers and employees it may also take in past officers and employees.
b contemplates a case where an officer or employee of a company having any property of a company in his possession wrongfully withholds it or knowingly applies it to purposes other than those expressed or directed in the 176 articles and authorised by the Act.
It would be noticed that cl.
b also makes it an offence if any officer or employee of a company having any property of the company in his possession knowingly applies it to purposes other than those expressed or directed in the articles and authorised by the Act.
1 of section 630 is the preservation of the property of a company by the creation of two distinct offences by clauses a and b which arise under different sets of circumstances and it would be rendered nugatory by projecting cl.
a into cl.
b as applicable to such property of a company possession of which is wrongfully obtained by an officer or employee of the company ie refers to the whole of cl.
Section 630 of the Act plainly makes it an offence if an officer or employee of the company who was permitted to use any property of the company during his employment wrongfully retains or occupies the same after the termination of his employment.
By a curious process of reasoning the High Court of Calcutta in Amritlal Chum s case held that section 630 of the Act applies only to the existing officers and employees and not to those whose employment has been terminated.
b was wide enough to include former or past officer or employee of the company inasmuch as on a plain reading of the section the two clauses do not permit different interpretations as suggested.
Further whenever the framers of the law in their wisdom thought it proper to bring within the mischief of the provisions of the Act former officers or employees of a company they did not hesitate to do so and they expressly legislated.
b as taking in the property mentioned in cl.
He had been allotted the premises of a flat approximately 3500 square feet in area located at Mayfair Gardens Little Gibbs Road Bombay.
He had been inducted into the flat only by virtue of his capacity as the General Manager of the company s branch office at Bombay but the company allowed him to retain the same on humanitarian grounds for a short period after his retirement to enable him to find alternative accommodation.
This humanitarian and charitable consideration shown by the company was reciprocated by the petitioner by adopting H 178 an adamant attitude and he declined to vacate the same on one pretext or another.
b even though cls.
a and b are separated by the word or  which must in the context in which it appears be read as and  and so construed must mean withholding of property wrongfully obtained by an existing officer or employee.
a as regards penal consequences squarely covering the case of a past employee or officer.
iii The entitlement of an officer to the property of the company is contingent on the right and capacity of the officer by virtue of his employment which is transformed into the actual possession of the property and the duration of such right would be co terminus with the terms of employment.
 In Govind T Jagtiani vs Sirajuddin section Kazi supra Kanade J fol lowed the critical analysis of section 630 made by Kotwal J as above and observed that the entitlement of an officer to the property of the company and the duration of such right would be co terminus with the terms of employment and the right would stand extinguished with the termination to the employment giving rise to an obligation to hand over the property back to the company and observed If the property is held back the retained possession would amount to wrongful withholding of the property of the company.
