The agreement is described as an agreement of leave and licence  entered into between the respondent on the one hand and the appellant on the other wherein the respondent had been described as the licensor and the appellant had been described as the licensee  and the recitals therein recite that the licensor was seized and possessed of and was otherwise well entitled as the monthly tenant of the workshop premises situated at 231 Ripon Road Cooperative Building Bombay being the premises in dispute and whereas the licensee had approached the licensor to allow him to occupy and use the said premises for the purpose of carrying out his business of workshop for a period of five years and whereas the licensor had agreed to allow the licensee to use the premises under the said leave and licence of the licensor for a period of five years from 1st of September 1965 till 31st of August 1970 that agreement was being executed.
The agreement further recited that the licensor shall have the full right to enter upon the premises and inspect the same at any time.
The contention of the respondent that he was a tenant was negatived by the Small Cause Court Bombay.
The Bombay Rent Act was amended by Maharashtra Act 17 of 1973.
This Court allowing the appeal held that in order to get the advantage of section 15A of the Bombay Rent Act the occupant must be in occupation of the premises as a licensee as defined in section 54A on the 1st of February 1973.
It was further held that a person continuing in possession of the premises after termination withdrawal or revocation of the licence continued to occupy it was a trespasser or a person who had no semblance of any right to continue in occupation of the premises.
It was observed that the finding of the High Court that the respondent was in occupation of the premises under a subsisting licence was wholly wrong and suffered from serious infirmities of law and fact and deserved to be set aside.
Reviewing these decisions Denning LJ had observed at page 384 of the report 1 that to ascertain whether a document created a licence or lease the substance of the document must be preferred to the form 2 the real test was the intention of the parties whether they intended to create a lease or a licence 3 if the document created an interest in the property it is a lease but if it only permitted another to make use of the property of which the legal possession continued with the owner it was a licence and 4 if under the document a party got exclusive possession of the property prima facie he was considered to be a tenant but circumstances might be established which negative the intention to create a lease.
In any event this is a possible view that could be taken.
NPV Appeal dismissed.
