A non journalist newspaper employee means any person employed to do any work in or in relation to any newspaper establishment but does not include any such person who is a working journalist or is employed mainly in a managerial or administrative capacity or being employed in a supervisory capacity performs either by the nature of the duties attached to his office or by reason of the powers vested in him functions mainly of a managerial nature as stated in section 2dd of the Act.
Chapter II of the Act deals with certain conditions of service of the working journalists.
In exercise of its powers under section 12 of the Act the Central Government accepted a part of the recommendations and made an order thereon on 26121980 and accepted the remaining part of the recommendations and made another order thereon on 2071981.
Initially the State of Maharashtra the Commissioner of Labour and the Deputy Labour Commissioner Nagpur had been impleaded as respondents.
It was urged before the High Court on behalf of the Ist respondent All India Reporter Limited that the law reports publised by it were not newspapers as defined in the Act and therefore the order made by the Central Government on the basis of the recommendations of Justice Palekar were not applicable to its establishment.
Any other class of printed periodical work as may from time to time be notified in this behalf by the Central Government in the Official Gazette may also be a newspaper.
Even apart from Article 141 of the Constitution the decisions of the Supreme Court which is a court of record constitute a 783 source of law as they are the judicial precedents of the highest court of the land.
At any rate lawyers and others connected with courts and judicial proceedings who constitute a substantial section of the public are interested in knowing the contents and the effect of the decisions.
784 Strong reliance was placed on behalf of the Ist respondent on the decision of the High Court of Orissa in PSV Iyer vs Commissioner of Sales Tax Orissa AIR 1960 Orissa 221 in which the question that arose for consideration was whether a law journal Cuttack Law Times which was a non official monthly journal containing the decisions of the Orissa High Court the Orissa Board of Revenue and also of the Supreme Court was a newspaper and if it was a newspaper whether it was competent for the Legislature of the State of Orissa to levy sales tax on the sale of the said journal.
Tax on the sale or purchase of newspapers and on advertisements published therein.
 After referring to the definition of the expression newspaper  in the Press and Registration of Books Act 1867 the Indian Post Offices Act 1898 the Parliamentary Proceedings Protection of Publication Act 1956 the Delivery of Books and Newspapers Act 1956 the  etc.
Accordingly the High Court of Orissa held that the sale of Cuttack Law Times which according to it was not a newspaper could be taxed by the State Legislature under Entry 54 of List II of the Seventh Schedule to the Constitution of India.
785 The High Court of Madras declined to follow the above decision of the Orissa High Court in its decision in TV Ramnath and Another vs Union of India and Others 1975 Labour and Industrial Cases 488 in which the Madras Law Journal a law report published from Madras was held to be a newspaper and the establishment in which the said law report was being published was a newspaper establishment which attracted the provisions of that Act.
Even though the same may be primarily intended for that section of the public which is concerned with law and the administration of law in the present days nothing prevents any educated individual taking interest in such publications and the news themselves being of interest to such persons.
 It is seen that the editor of the law report containing the above decision has appended an editorial comment on this stating that this decision is wrong and that the Orissa High Court s decision was right.
Justice AN Grover who later became a Judge of the Supreme Court of India and the Chairman of the Press Council as a Judge of the Punjab  Haryana High Court held in LD Jain vs General Manager Government of India Press and Others ILR 1967 Punjab and Haryana 193 that the Gazette of India which was the official publication of all kinds of news and information was a newspaper within the meaning of section 2b of the Working Journalists Conditions of Service and Miscellaneous Provisions Act 1955 and that it was not essential for a newspaper to conform strictly to the usual pattern of a daily or weekly or monthly newspaper or a magazine containing news which members of the public ordinarily read in order to get reports of recent events comments on them etc.
In doing so he distinguished the decision of the Australian Court in Ex Parte Stillwell in which the Bradshaw s Guide was held to be a book of reference which lacked every element of what could be called a newspaper on which the Orissa High Court had relied.
In the Annual Report of the Registrar of Newspapers for India 1957 there is an interesting discussion of certain specific cases in which the question whether the publications involved were newspapers or not.
In the course of the said report it is obversed thus In this connection the Press Registrar scrutinised reports published in certain foreign countries regarding their own Press and it was noticed that in the catalogues prepared by them specialised newspapers such as the one under consideration were not excluded from the list of newspapers.
A catalogue of Yugoslav newspapers and magazines for instance includes publications relating to the following subjects Political information economics law and states administration education philology natural sciences medicine agriculture technology geography ethnography history archives archaeology literature music applied art film chess photography tourism stamp collecting physical culture and sport humour and religion.
 It is significant that the expression newspaper  as defined in the Act includes not merely public news  but also comments on public news .
SL Appeal allowed.
