An appeal by the tenant also failed but here again the above point was not taken.
If there is any dispute which arises between the parties as to whether the particular application falls within the jurisdiction of the tribunal it is the tribunal which is competent to decide that dispute and determine whether the particular matter falls within its jurisdiction.
He submitted that if the tenants had filed a suit for declaration that the order passed in the earlier proceedings as a nullity that would have been bound to fail.
counsel contended that section 10 makes it clear beyond doubt that the Rent Controller is precluded from deciding any issue regarding title to the property and that if any such question arises he should leave it to be decided by ordi nary civil courts in appropriate proceedings.
Indeed in the Presidency Town he is subordinate to the Court of Small Causes which has been notified as the author ity to hear appeals from his orders and it is a well settled proposition that the Court of Small Causes is not competent to adjudicate on questions of title.
But we think Sri Parasaran is right in saying that since the Rent Controller has no jurisdiction to entertain an application except by a landlord or a tenant the ques tion of title to the property is one on which his very jurisdiction depends.
In order to decide whether the denial of the landlord s title by the tenant is bona fide the Rent Controller may have to go into the tenant s contentions on the issue but he is not to decide the question finally.
So also in an application under section 4 the jurisdiction of the Rent Controller is to determine a fair or standard rent for the premises.
Yet having regard to the manner in which he is required to come to this conclusion and having regard to the fact that at least in the Presidency Town an appeal from his order goes to the Court of Small Causes it is difficult to escape the conclu sion that the jurisdiction to be exercised by him is a limited and a prima facie one.
Can it possibly be said that the finding of the revenue court on the issue of adop tion is binding on the parties in a subsequent suit in a civil court in which the validity of the adoption might fall to be decided There can be no doubt about the answer.
In order to operate as res judicata the finding must be one disposing of a matter directly and substantially in issue in the former suit and the issue should have been heard and finally decided by the court trying such suit.
