141976 or in the course of export out of the territory of India.
Incidence of taxation 1 Subject to other provisions of this Act every dealer whose gross turnover during the year immediately preceding the commencement of this Act exceeded the taxable quantum Defined in section 7 shall be liable to pay tax under this Act on all sales and purchases effected after the coming into force of this Act.
 These amendments were effective from 141976.
Amendment of section 9 of Haryana Act 20 of 1973 For clauses b and bb of sub section 1 of section 9 of the principal Act the following clause shall be substituted namely b purchases goods other than those specified in Schedule B from any source in the State and uses them in the State in the manufacture of any other goods and either disposes of the manufactured goods in any manner otherwise than by way of sale in the State or dispatches the manufactured goods to a place outside the State in any manner otherwise than by way of sale in the course of inter State trade or commerce or in the course of export outside the territory of India within the meaning of subsection 1 of section 5 of the Central Sales Tax Act 1956or.
However it added a new sub section 3 with retrospective effect from 275.
Purchases of raw materials in the State used in the manufacture of goods inside the State attract the tax under section 91 unless those manufactured goods are dealt with in one of three ways 1 disposed of by way of sale inside the State 2 despatched to a place outside the State but by way of a sale in the course of inter State trade or commerce or 3 despatched to a place outside the State but by way of sale in the course of export outside the territory of India.
He fully supported the reasoning of the High Court and urged that full effect should be given to the words within the meaning of sub section I of section 5 which found a place in section 91b till they were dropped by Act 1 of 1988.
Each of the assessee have sold its goods to another dealer If that dealer is also a resident of Haryana and has taken delivery of the goods in Haryana and exported them thereafter the assessees  sales would be local sales.
Even in such a case if the transport of goods from the assessee s place of business to the port is in pursuance of the terms of the sale the movement of the goods would be occasioned by the sale made by the assessee and would be an inter State sale.
There is however nothing unconstitutional about the two other consequences that flow on the language of the clause one express and the other implied one in favour of the Revenue and the other in favour of the assessee viz 364 1 that there will be a tax on the purchase of the raw materials if the manufactured goods are disposed of in the State itself otherwise than by way of sale and 2 that there will be no tax on the purchase of the raw materials if the manufactured goods are despatched from the State consequent on a i local sale ii inter State sale or iii a sale in the course of export.
It may be pointed out that after Act I of 1988 this provision does not tax purchases even in cases where the manufactured goods are disposed of only by way of penultimate sales falling under section 53 but not under section 51 of the CST Act 1956 but this amendment came later and will have to be left out of account for the purpose of these cases ii This provi sion has been held to be ultra vires in the Goodyear case supra.
