Subhash Mallick and SK Jain for the Appellant.
The application for adducing additional evidence was disallowed.
In the ultimate analysis the Member of the Board found that there was a gross and patent illegality in the order of the Sub Divisional Officer and consequently set aside the order of the Sub Divisional Officer dated 5th May 1976 as well as the order of the Appellate Authority dated 6th September 1976 and remanded the case to the Sub Divisional Officer Hanumangarh for fresh determination of the calling area for Raghubir Singh.
 The contention of learned counsel for the appellant is that the section confers executive powers of superintendence and control on the Board and it does not vest any power of superintendence on the Board on judicial side.
Section 9 whereof provides as under 9 Subject to the other provisions of this Act the general superintendence and control over all revenue courts and over all revenue officers shall be vested in and all such Courts and Officers shall be subordinate to the Board.
 In that case also the High Court took the view that it is not correct to say that Section 9 is limited to the executive control and superintendence of the Board over subordinate revenue courts and it does not apply to judicial proceedings.
It is clear from the language of Section 221 of the Act of 1955 that the Board of Revenue has general powers of superintendence and control over all revenue courts.
It is both administrative as well as judicial powers.
If the subordinate court disregards any specific provision of law and does something illegal it is open to the Board of Revenue to interfere and set the matter right.
At the same time the power is there and it may be exercised sparingly in extraordinary case where interest of justice requires that the Board should exercise the power.
 These words have been consistently interpreted to mean that the High Court had power in appropriate cases to interfere with the judicial orders of the courts.
In the Government of India Act of 1935 there was provision under Section 224 for superintendence by the High Courts  but subsection2 made it clear that this superintendence would not be construed as giving to the High Court any jurisdiction to question any judgment of any inferior court which was not otherwise subject to appeal or revision.
U R Appeal dismissed.
