Mudholkar J.
We were however not impressed by this argument.
1 As soon as may be after the commencement of the Companies Amendment Act 1963 the Central Government shall by notification in the Official Gazette constitute a Board to be called the Board of Company Law Admin istration to exercise and discharge such powers and functions conferred on the Central Government by or under this Act or any other law as may be delegated to it by that Government.
It is not necessary to go into it.
It may be said at once that apart from that allegation nothing has been said attributing to the Chairman any personal bias grudge oblique motive or ulterior purpose.
Therefore all that I have to consider is whether the action of the Chairman can be challenged as done either contrary to the provisions empowering him or beyond those provisions.
These grounds limit the jurisdiction of the Central Govern ment.
In other words the enumeration of the inferences which may be drawn from the circumstances postulates the absence of a general discretion to go on a fishing expedition to find evidence.
It is not sufficient to assert that the circumstances exist and give no clue to what they are because the circumstances must be such as to lead to conclusions of certain definiteness.
But if the circumstances pointed out are such that no inference of the kind stated in section 237b can at all be drawn the action would be ultra vires the Act and void.
Now the Chairman in his affidavit referred to two memoranda dated May 30 1964 and July 4 1964 presented by certain ex directors and also stated that from September 1961 complaints were being received in regard to the conduct of the affairs of the Company and one such complaint was received from Special Police Establishment in November 1963.
As a general rule if the statute directs that certain acts shall be done in a specified manner or by certain persons their performance in any other manner than that specified or by any other person than one of those name is impliedly prohibited.
In Cook vs Ward1 the Court held that where a drainage board constituted by an Act of Parliament was authorised by it to delegate its powers to a committee the powers so delegated to the committee must be exercised by them acting in concert and it was not competent to them to apportion those powers amongst themselves and one of them acting alone pursuant to such apportionment could not justify his acts under the statute.
