Appeals by special leave from the judgment and order dated  March 6 1967 of the Orissa High Court in OJC Nos.
In view of article 229 of the Constitution.
It appears that for some time past there were differences between the High Court and the government about the posting of some of the judicial officers.
The High Court was anxious that a judicial officer occupying one of the administrative posts enumerated above should not in the interest of judicial work continue in that post for an unduly long time.
district judges as the case may be after they had held those posts for three years or more.
The above.
The High Court overruled the prayer made on behalf of the government to stay the operation of its decision till necessary orders were obtained from this Court.
Shri Sarjoo Prasad learned counsel for the High Court of Orissa at the very commencement of his arguments conceded that the order of the High Court holding that those officers had no authority to hold the posts in question is unsustainable.
As mentioned earlier member sales tax tribunal was an ex cadre post.
It is not the case of the parties that he was placed at the disposal of the government for any definite period.
Hence that part of the High Court s order is unassailable.
As seen earlier the cadre of the superior judicial service senior branch consisted of not only the posts of district and sessions judges and addl.
But we were told that in view of the decisions of this Court in State of West Bengal vs Nripendra Nath Bagchi1 and State of Assam vs Ranga Mahammad2 the High Court must be held to have that right as those posts are included in the cadre of superior judicial service.
The rule laid down in that decision is of no assistance in determining the question as to whether the High Court has power to fill up some of the posts in the secretariat.
There is less chance of success for a person seeking advantage for himself if the Chief Justice and his colleagues with personal information deal with the matter than when a Minister deals with it on notes and information supplied by a secretary.
But it was beyond the powers of the High Court to post Shri KB Panda as the law secretary Shri T Misra as superintendent and legal remembrancer and Shri PK Mohanti as the deputy law secretary.
