An industrial dispute between these workmen and the management of Orient Paper Mills Ltd hereinafter referred to as the Company was referred by the State Government under section 101 d of the Industrial Disputes Act hereinafter referred to as the Act for adjudication by the Tribunal enumerating 30 different items of dispute.
the view that there were other industries in the region in which minimum wages were higher than the minimum wages paid by the Company but failed to fix the minimum wages in the award in accordance with the minimum wages being paid in those industries.
The principle for fixation of minimum wages that should ordinarily be adopted was laid down by this Court in the case of French Motor Car Co Limited.
They are Titaghur Paper Mill No 3 situated at Chaudwar and the JK Paper Mills at Rayagada.
On these facts the Tribunal held that it would not be proper to compare the wage structure for these Paper Mills with that of the Company.
We do.
not think that such a consideration should be taken.
between.
in the same region.
It appears to us that an Industrial Tribunal has the discretion in appropriate cases of making a direction linking the dearness allowance element of a wage to the Price Index but at the same time the Tribunal is entitled to choose the alternative course of fixing the wage at the prevailing Price Index and leaving the labour to raise a fresh demand and if necessary a fresh industrial dispute for further rise in wages in case there is marked variation in the Price Index and the wage fixed in the award becomes out dated.
It appears that the Tribunal did not accept this demand primarily on the ground that the distinction between casual workers and  the permanent workers was recognised by both the parties in the agreement of 1959.
The demand made by the workmen was for bonus equivalent to six months  wages and the argument was that if the Tribunal had worked out the surplus available on the correct basis that surplus would have certainly justified grant of profit bonus at the rate of six months  wages.
The award had to cover the year 1963 64 also and at least for that year the accounts could not possibly have been completed as that year was still running when the award was given by the Tribunal on the 11 th January 1964.
The claim was in fact based on the circumstances that according to the workmen the bonus in their case was being calculated as equivalent to three months  basic wages while the case of some clerical staff the calculation was made on the basis of their consolidated wages consisting of basic wages and dearness allowance.
