Appeal by Special Leave from the Judgment and Order dated 14 6 1967 of the Mysore High Court in Writ Petition No 44065.
GM Shankariah  Ors.
In the case before us the petitioner admits that the Mysore State Civil Services Integration Rules provided for filing of objections against the preliminary provisional Inter State Seniori ty list.
Presumably he had that opportunity.
We are unable to appreciate.
The judgment of the Mysore High Court was in our opinion based on an apparent misun derstanding of Shankariah s case supra and on a failure to appreciate the facts of the case of the petitioner respondent which is now before us.
830 we hold that the combined final gradation list dated April 6 1962 so far as category 6 is concerned is ultra vires and illegal and that part of the notification alone must be quashed by grant of a writ in the nature of certiorari.
We think that any claim to have a say against the final fist prepared on an analogy with the second opportunity which is afforded to a person to be punished after arriving at a decision on the facts of a departmental trial and proposal to inflict a particular punishment upon him is quite inap propriate.
All that is done is that certain principles are applied in the preparation of the list.
These principles are generally found in the rules or executive directions which are known to or are capable of being found out by the persons affect ed.
When a provisional seniority fist is prepared there is a possibility of some mistakes occurring about the facts of a case or in the application of those rules.
It would therefore be quite fair to give a person affected an oppo rtunity to be heard against the proposed fist before it is finalised so that any possible mistakes either on facts relating to his particular case or of law in applying the rules governing seniority to those facts may be rectified.
If he was to have that opportunity the list would not really be final but only provisional or preliminary.
It was an opportunity to be given before the final list was to be declared and published as a final list.
A right to representation was recognised as existing at time when the list was still to be considered as not finalised presumably because some mistakes had crept in due to want of heating on two points.
We find no such grounds in the ease before us.
So long as the Central Government has acted properly according to the provisions of the Act we are of the view that a Court cannot go into the merits or otherwise of equation of posts which is a matter within the province of the Central Government.
It was also held there at p 2106 It is no doubt true that the Central Government must have due regard to the princi ples enunciated by it in consultation with the States for the purpose of equation Of posts.
