DK Sen Gopal Subramonium and RN Poddar for the Appellant.
Ex parte for the Respondents.
The Judgment of the Court was delivered by TULZAPURKAR J.
In these 11 appeals only that part of the judgment of the Andhra Pradesh High Court is assailed by the Union of India where the challenge to the validity of section 28 of the Gold Control Act 1968 has succeeded.
Section 28 of the Act runs thus 28.
Money lending business not to be carried on in licensed premises No licensed dealer shall unless authorised by the Administrator so to do a carry on business as a money lender or banker on the security of any article or ornament or both b permit any other person to carry on money lending banking or any other business in the same premises in which he carried on business as such dealer.
Further the section does not provide nor is any rule brought to our notice which enjoins upon the Administrator to give a hearing to dealer who seeks permission under this Section and give reasons in case he decides to refuse the permission.
276 of the Act is clearly inapplicable.
Therefore in our view the objective the policy and the Scheme of the Act together with the necessity to ensure prevention of circumvention of the other provisions of the Act afford more than sufficient guidance to the Administrator in the matter of exercising the power of discretion conferred on him under sec.
In fact sec.
Moreover regard must be had to be the nature of the restrictions imposed by the Section.
Having regard to this position which obtains in the case sec.
We may indicate that the same provision section 28 was challenged before the Patna High Court in Bihar State Bullion Merchants  Association vs Union of lndia1 and the Gujarat High Court in Ramanlal Purshottamamdas Chokshi vs Union of India  Others 2 and these High Courts have upheld its validity.
We approve the view taken in those cases As regards the analogy drawn by the High Court from the reasoning adopted by this Court in Harakchand Banthia s case supra while declaring unamended sec.
276 in several of its clauses referred to certain concepts which Administrator was required to take into account and these concepts were regarded as indefinite uncertain and vague.
214 Guj.
e and public interest  in cl.
276 this Court struck down sec.
No such vague or indefinite expressions or concepts are to be found in sec.
28 by reference to which the Administrator is required to exercise his power.
In the absence of parity of situation or circumstances the doctrine of parity of reasoning cannot be invoked.
The appeal succeeds but since the respondents have not appeared there will be no order as to costs.
SR Appeal allowed.
