Civil Appeal No 3909 of 1986.
From the Judgment and order dated 2991986 of the Allahabad High Court in CR No 83 of 1986.
Shanker Ghosh and P K Jain for the Appellants.
YS Chitale.
Madan Lokur Prashant Bhushan Beni Parshad Rajinder Dhawan and Jitendra Sharma for the Respondents.
This appeal arises out of a judgment passed by the High Court of Allahabad in Civil Revision No 83 of 1986 wherein the learned Judge of the High Court allowed the revision petition set aside the judgment and decree of the Trial Judge and decreed the plaintiff suit for ejectment of the appellant.
The disputed property was let out on June 25 1976.
The accommodation was for the first time assessed for house tax by the Nagar Palika Ghaziabad with effect from October 1 1976.
The suit was filed for eviction after termination of tenancy before the trial court and objection was raised that as the shop and the basement were separately let out the tenancy could not be terminated by a single notice that would be invalid.
The trial court therefore dismissed the suit.
The High Court set aside this conclusion of the trial court.
The main ground which was before the High Court was as to whether the provisions of UP Urban Buildings Regulation of Letting Rent and Eviction Act 1972  Act  for short will be applicable to these proceedings in view of the fact that although the premises were let out in June 1976 but as the assessment was made on October 1 1976 the provisions of the Act referred to above will not apply for 10 years from October 1 1976 and therefore the suit could be decreed as the protection available under this Act will not be available to the tenant.
High Court after discussing various decisions came to the conclusion that in view of the language of Section 2 sub clause 2 Explanation 1 it could not be doubted that period of 10 years will commence from 160 the date of assessment ie October 1 1976 that it is in that view of the matter that the learned Judge of the High Court decreed the suit and hence the present appeal.
Learned counsel for the appellant contended that apart from the controversy about the date which should be the starting point for computing the period of 10 years in view of the language of Sections 39 and 40 of the Act provisions of this Act will be applicable to the present case and therefore a decree for eviction could only be passed.
If it could be passed on anyone of the grounds mentioned in Section 20 clause 2 of this Act in support of this contention the learned counsel placed reliance on decisions in Om Prakash Gupta etc.
vs Dig Vijendrapal Gupta etc.
 11982 3 SCR 491 and Vineet Kumar vs Mangal Sain Wadhera  On the other hand learned counsel for the respondent contended that the rights of parties will be governed on the basis of the date on which the suit was filed and it was contended that if on the date on which the suit was filed by the respondent the provisions of this Act were not applicable then merely because the proceedings have been pending for all these years it could not be contended that as now 10 years elapsed the decree could not be passed.
Learned counsel placed reliance on a decision in Firms Amar Nath Basheshar Dass vs Tek Chand 11972 3 SCR 922 and contended that this is a decision of three Judges Bench which clearly hold that if the suit was filed within a period of exemption then the suit could be decreed and the provisions of the Act will not be applicable.
Learned counsel further contended that in the decision in Vineet Kumar s case supra on which reliance has been placed by learned counsel for the appellant the Firms Amar Naath Basheshar Dass s case supra has not been referred to and decision in Vineet Kumar s case supra is a judgment by a Bench of two Judges.
It was also contended by learned counsel that as till the matter was pending in the High Court 10 years have not been completed and therefore the High Court passed the decree Now it could not be contended that as during the pendency of the proceedings in this Court 10 years have elapsed and therefore the appellant tenant will be entitled to protection of the provisions of Section 20 It was contended that it is well settled that if the right to file a suit accrues on the date of tiling of the suit then the rights will have to be determined on the basis of the law applicable on the date of the suit and not subsequently.
Learned counsel for the appellant contended that the decision in 161 Firms Amar Nath Basheshar Dass s case supra will not be applicable to the present case as in that case this Court was considering the language of a notification issued under the East Punjab Act exempting buildings from the operation of the Act for five years and the view taken by this Court in that decision is based on the language of the notification issued whereas in view of the language of Sections 39 and 40 of the Act which is applicable to the present case that view is not possible and it is because of this that in Vineet Kumar s case supra this Court took the view that if during the pendency of the proceedings 10 years have elapsed the tenant will be entitled to the benefit of the provisions of the Act.
It was contended that in this decision the Court was concerned with the provisions of Section 2 of the Act itself.
1076 which is the date on which the first assessment of this property was made and during the pendency of this matter 1.
1086 has been crossed now the period of exemption has come to an end and therefore the appellant is entitled to the benefits thereof.
2 sub clause 2 quoted above.
Admittedly this suit was not pending on the date on which this Act came into force.
An attempt was made to contend that so far as the present property is concerned the Act will be deemed to have come into force on the expiry of 10 years ie 11086 but this contention could not be accepted as it is very clear from the language of this Act that it applied I only to a suit pending on the date of the commencement of this Act and this is the view taken in the Om Prakash Gupta s case wherein it was observed Further in order to attract section 39 the suit must be pending on the date of commencement of the Act which is 15th of July 1972 but the suit giving rise to the present appeal was filed on 23rd of March 1974 long after the commencement of the Act.
It is clear that provisions of Section 40 will come to the rescue of the appellant tenant only if the suit from which revision or appeal arose was pending on the date of commencement of this Act ie 1571972 and therefore it could not be contended that the present revision petition or the appeal either to the High Court or the appellate authority arose out of suit which was pending on the date on which this Act came into force.
It is well settled that the rights of the parties will be determined on the basis of the rights available to them on the date of the suit but in Vineet Kumar s case supra this Court took the view that if during the pendency of the proceedings 10 years have elapsed the tenant is entitled to the protection under the Act and in coming to this conclusion the Court also considered the language of Section 39 of the Act and it observed The appellant in the present case only seeks the protection of the new Rent Act which became applicable to the premises in question during the pendency cf the litigation.
Subsection 4 of section 20 stipulated that in any suit for eviction on the grounds mentioned in Cl.
a to sub section.
