In this petition under Article 32 of the Constitution they are seeking enforcement of their fundamental right to have equal pay for equal work.
They are being paid the same wages as are payable to carpenters painters and carpenters  helpers engaged in the construction industry.
The Corporation has clearly stated that there are no regular employees of the petitioners  categories in its establishment and as such the question of payment to the petitioners the pay admissible to regular employees does not arise.
The Corporation is a company which has been incorporated under the .
The main object of the Corporation as seen from the Memorandum of Associa tion is to preserve the traditional arts and crafts and also to popularise handicrafts and handloom items 665 in the State of Himachal Pradesh and other parts of the country and abroad.
It is thus a service oriented organisation helping the village artisans and craftsmen to produce and market their products on remunerative prices.
Randhir Singh case was concerned with a driver constable in the Delhi Police Force under the Delhi Administration.
The Court held that the principle of equal pay for equal work has no mechanical application in every case of similar work.
He claimed pay scale admissible to Senior Speech Pathologist Senior Physiotherapist Senior Occupational Therapist Audiologist and Speech Pathologist.
His case was based on the allegations that he was discharging same duties and performing similar functions as Senior Speech Therapist Senior Physiotherapist Senior Occupa tional Therapist Audiologist and Speech Pathologist.
In the first place even assum ing that the petitioners  jobs are comparable with the counterparts in the government service the petitioners cannot enforce the right to equal pay for equal work.
Unless it is shown that there is a discrimination amongst the same set of employees by the same master in the same establishment the principle of equal pay for equal work cannot be enforced.
PSS Petition dismissed.
