etition Civil Nos.
12676 77 of 1985 etc.
Under Article 32 of the Constitution of India RF Nariman PH Parekh NN Keshwani Mrs H Wahi and RN Keshwani for the Petitioners.
The Judgment of the Court was delivered by VENKATARAMIAH CJ.
It empowers the Central Government to enhance or reduce the rate of royalty prescribed by the Second Schedule in respect of any mineral subject to the condition that the Central Government shall not enhance the rate of royalty in respect of any mineral more than once during any period of three years.
 It is seen from section 15 that the State Government is empowered to make rules for regulating the grant of quarry leases mining leases or other mineral concessions in re spect of minor minerals and for purposes connected there with.
In exercise of the said power under section 15 the Government of Gujarat promulgated the Gujarat Minor Minerals Rules 1966 which are referred to as the Rules as stated above.
The original rule 21 was substituted by new rule 21 by the issue of impugned notification on 26 6 1985 which provides that a holder of a quarry lease or any other mineral conces sion granted under the Rules shall pay royalty in respect of minor minerals provided in column 2 of the Schedule removed or consumed by him or by his agent manager employee contractor or sub lessee from the leased area at the rates specified in column 3 of the said Schedule.
Since many of the contentions raised by the parties in respect of the constitutionality of section 15 of the Act and the validity of Rules made thereunder had been considered and the contentions urged by the petitioners against the said rule in those petitions had been rejected in the present case the petitioners have confined their case only to the following points which according to them had not been considered in the said decision.
The minerals belong to the Government and if anybody wants to have the right as a lessee to exploit the mines in question to the exclusion of all others and to remove the minerals with a view to making profit he has to pay a royalty imposed in accordance with law.
Having regard to the depreci ation in the value of 413 the rupee and the increase in the cost of  administration of the State which is ever increasing as a welfare State we cannot say that Rs7 is an unreasonably high rate.
We have taken this view after going through the observations made by this Court in Trivedi s case supra at page 544 where this Court has observed that where a statute confers discretion ary powers upon the executive or an administrative authori ty the validity or constitutionality of such power cannot be judged on the assumption that the executive or such authority will act in an arbitrary manner in the exercise of the discretion conferred upon it.
If the executive or the administrative authority acts in an arbitrary manner its action would be bad in law and liable to be struck down by the courts but the possibility of abuse of power or arbi trary exercise of power cannot invalidate the statute con ferring the power or the power which has been conferred by it.
We do not therefore find any substance in the contention urged by Shri Nariman.
Under clause 1 of the proviso to the impugned rule 21 a holder of a Parwana granted under the Rules has to pay royalty at the rate of 50 per cent of the royalty payable by the lessees and no royalty is payable by village potters who manufacture upto one lakh bricks per year and by the village potters whose annual production was not exceeding two lakh bricks and who supply at least one lakh bricks to the Rural Housing Board or Panchayats.
It is obvious that a valid classification of persons and things for 414 purposes of imposing any obligation on them would not be violative of Article 14 provided the classification is a reasonable one.
It is equally clear that while levying a tax the authority con cerned is entitled to grant concessions and exemptions wherever necessary having regard to the purpose of the Act the levy of royalty is incidental to the regulation and development of minerals.
Whoever is given an exclusive right to exploit a mine will have to pay some amount by way of return to the Govern ment of India as authorised by entry 50 of List II of the 7th Schedule to the Constitution.
Rule 33 B of the Rules reads thus 33B Grant of quarrying Parwana On an application made to the competent officer he may grant a quarrying Parwana to extract and remove from the specified area within his jurisdiction the minor mineral from a plot not exceeding 2000 square meters as may be specified by the competent officer.
