Appeal No 1367 of 1980.
Subhash Mallick and SK Jain for the Appellant.
BD Sharma for the Respondents.
These writ petitions were decided by the aforesaid common judgment.
The first writ petition was filed by the father Raghubir Singh whereas the second writ petition was filed by his minor son Surendrapal Singh through his next friend Shri Jagjit Singh maternal grand father of the minor.
The matter was taken to the Board of Revenue for Rajasthan by a revision application and the Board by its order dated 14th April 1975 directed that the ceiling area for Raghubir Singh may be determined according to the old law ie Act of 1955 and not according to the new law ie Rajasthan Imposition of Ceiling on Agricultural Holding Act 1973 hereinafter referred to as the Act of 1973.
It was thus held that Raghubir Singh and his son Surendrapal Singh are entitled to retain 124 Bighas and 16 Biswas only and the surplus land measuring 4 Bighas and 6 Biswas may be resumed.
The application for adducing additional evidence was disallowed.
The Board went on to hold that there is no provision for separate units in Chapter III B of the Act of 1955.
In the ultimate analysis the Member of the Board found that there was a gross and patent illegality in the order of the Sub Divisional Officer and consequently set aside the order of the Sub Divisional Officer dated 5th May 1976 as well as the order of the Appellate Authority dated 6th September 1976 and remanded the case to the Sub Divisional Officer Hanumangarh for fresh determination of the calling area for Raghubir Singh.
The general superintendence and control over all revenue courts shall be vested in an all such Courts shall be subordinate to the Board and subject to such superintendence control and subordination a x x x omitted b all Additional Collectors Sub.
Divisional Officer Assistant Collectors and Tehsildars in a district shall be subordinate to the Collector thereof call Assistant Collectors Tehsildars and Naib Tehsildars in a sub division shall be subordinate to the Sub Divisional Officer thereof and d All Additional Tehsildars and Naib Tehsildars in a tehsil shall be subordinate to the Tehsildar thereof.
 The contention of learned counsel for the appellant is that the section confers executive powers of superintendence and control on the Board and it does not vest any power of superintendence on the Board on judicial side.
Section 9 whereof provides as under 9 Subject to the other provisions of this Act the general superintendence and control over all revenue courts and over all revenue officers shall be vested in and all such Courts and Officers shall be subordinate to the Board.
 In that case also the High Court took the view that it is not correct to say that Section 9 is limited to the executive control and superintendence of the Board over subordinate revenue courts and it does not apply to judicial proceedings.
The contention on behalf of the appellant to that effect was negatived but on merits the High Court held that it was not appropriate for the Board to exercise the powers conferred by Section 9 of the land Revenue Act in view of the fact that the Board had appellate jurisdiction and it could not therefore make use of its powers of superintendence and control and the order of the Board could not be held proper with reference to Section 9 of the Land Revenue Act.
It is clear from the language of Section 221 of the Act of 1955 that the Board of Revenue has general powers of superintendence and control over all revenue courts.
It is both administrative as well as judicial powers.
It is open to the Board to exercise its powers of superintendence on all its subordinate courts in order to regulate the functioning of  the subordinate courts so as to keep them within their respective spheres of jurisdiction.
Board of Revenue.
Section 221 of the Act of 1955 is similar to Section 107 of the Government of India Act 1915 and there is no section like sub section 2 of Section 224 of the Government of India Act of 1935 in the Act of 1955.
U R Appeal dismissed.
