shri achutananda purohit appellant was the intermediary in respect of vast forests and other lands comprised in the estate of jujumura in the district of sambalpur.
shri purohit appellant is an advocate by profession and is 83 years old.
he has argued in person and with passion.
if we may anticipate ourselves none of the nine submissions has appealed to us save to the extent the high court has upheld.
even so a minimal narration of the facts and a brief consideration of each argument is necessary and we proceed to do so.
although he waxed sentimentally on this note he did not convince us on his contentions.
section 26 has great relevance as it lays down the method of arriving at the gross asset and section 27 has like significance as it focuses on the manner in which the net income from an estate shall be computed by deducting certain items from the gross asset of the estate.
section 28 states how the amount of compensation is to be determined and the methodology of payment.
the act also provides for appeal second appeal and revision the last being to the high court and the earlier ones being to the collector and a board constituted under section 22.
against the background of law just projected we may set out shri purohit s points which if we may say so are substantially the same as have been argued by him in revision before the high court with partial success.
for convenience of reference we may extract the statement by the high court of the contentions urged before it and repeated before us by the appellant.
it is this court which by its order dated 10 4 1969 in civil revisions 201 202 and 203 of 1968 conferred new jurisdiction on the compensation officer to deal freshly with the case and therefore notwithstanding anything contained in the act the compensation has to be calculated according to the directions given by the court 2 the court was fully aware of the statutory provision in section 262.
b v of the act but in spite of it the direction was that the divisional forest officer should make the appraisement.
but as the court directed that no further evidence on behalf of the state should be received ext.
a1 is inadmissible in evidence.
3 assuming that in spite of the directions of the court the compensation offi cer is entitled to follow the procedure laid down in section 262bv the expression subject to the approval of the chief conservator of forests does not refer to the appraisement made by the d f o but refers to his appointment.
4 assuming that section 262 b v would have full force what it contemplates is that the appraisement must be made by the d f o and it is subject to the approval by the chief conservator of forests.
6 unlike in case of fisheries etc.
but before examining this essential issue we may dispose of the minor points pressed so that the deck may be cleared for dealing with what deserves to be dealt with.
point No 8 has only to be stated to be rejected.
law is sometimes blind.
moreover article 31a repels the applicability of articles 14 19 and 31 to the acquisition by the state of any estate or of any rights therein etc.
point No 6 in the list of contentions earlier reproduced is also bereft of force and we may make short shrift of it.
the contention is that therefore in arriving at the next income the deduction of income tax is not permissible.
here again the flaw in the submission consists in mis reading section 27 of the act which expressly states that the net income from an estate shall be computed by deducting from the gross assets of such estate any sum which was payable by the intermediary as income tax in respect of any income derived from such estate for the previous agricultural year.
no income therefore no income tax and therefore no deduction is the syllogism of shri purohit.
similarly an assumed income tax also has to be worked out and deducted.
if a notional income on the assumed basis can be used for fixing compensation a notional income tax can be calculated and deducted.
the confusion that vitiates the argument is prompted by a circular letter of government regarding non deductibility of income tax due to the state from the amount of compensation lying to the credit of estate holders.
in short section 27 properly construed can not lend itself to the meaning imputed to it by the appellant.
in the present case the appellant did submit the d return to the compensation officer and adduced some evidence to substantiate it.
the appraisement can be scientifically done by looking to the age of the trees as they stand now.
it is open to the petitioners to give evidence that after the date of vesting many of the trees and forest produce have been removed.
but in such a case the materials must be brought to the notice of the petitioners who would be entitled to cross examine the witnesses connected therewith and may give rebutting evidence.
the compensation case is to be disposed of by the compensation officer within six months from today 104 1969 with intimation to this court.
strictly speaking the statutory requirement is for initial appraisal of the annual income by the forest officer.
equally clearly a slight error has crept into the judge s order because he does not make any reference specifically to the statutory requirement of approval of the chief conservator of forests of the appraisement made by the forest officer.
however what followed is interesting though erroneous.
the district forest officer who incidentally happens to be a forest officer under the act having been appointed as required thereunder made his appraisal of the annual income and submitted to the chief conservator who altered the annual yield and reduced it substantially.
but he pointed out that the forest officer had omitted to include the income from kendu leaves and added that sum to the income from forests.
the compensation officer accepted the report of the chief conservator and made the statutory calculation on that date.
a second appeal was filed by the appellant before the board of revenue without success.
from this narrative what follows is that the chief conservator had substituted his appraisement which was accepted by the statutory tribunal.
indeed there was a fundamental difference in the basis adopted by the forest officer and the chief conservator in the matter of assessing the income of the forests in question.
the direction given by the learned judge in the remand order is correct although it may require a little clarification.
the true legal drill is.
and this holds good after the second remand order that the forest officer will do the appraisement of the annual income forward his report to the chief conservator of forests who will take the said report into consideration and if necessary make modifications therein or approve it with such changes as he deems fit.
thereafter the appropriate statutory course will follow.
substantially this is what has been done by the learned judge when allowing the revisions and remitting the case back to the compensation officer.
it is again due to mistakes committed by the authorities concerned that the matter is being remitted back to the compensation officer for disposal.
in this context it is perhaps not irrelevant to remember that the appellant a freedom fighter is an 83 year old man and at this stage of his life the state should show commisseration not merely in quickly disposing of the proceedings but also in not being cantankerous in awarding and disbursing the balance compensation.
