on or about 23rd of august1963.
andhra pradesh requested for the requisition of the property named as sail gulshan with a vast extent of land and palaces with roads and surrounded by a compound wail measuring 19 acres and 10 guntas situated in the heart of hyderabad city near sarojini devi hospital.
in this appeal we are concerned with the claim for compensation for the said acquisition by one abdul khader who was a flower picker.
his claim for compensation for requisition was settled by sharing the rent in or about 1969 the appellant is one of the owners of the property in question deriving their title and right from the said sail nawaz jung.
tenancy and agricultural lands act1950 being.
act no xxi of 1950.
hereinafter called the andhra pradesh act.
sub s 2 of s 34 of the said act also deals with to be deemed to be a protected tenant in respect of any landfor certain purposes.
sub s 2 of s 35 stipulates that a declaration by the tahsildar that the person is deemed to be a protected tenant or in the event of an appeal from the tahsildar s decision such declaration by the collector on first appeal or by the board of revenue on second appeal shall be conclusive that such person is a protected tenant and his rights as such shall be recorded in the record of right of where there is no record of rights in such village record as may be prescribed.
s 36 of the said act deals with the recovery of possession by protected tenant.
s 37 deals with persons not entitled under s 34 to be deemed in certain circumstances as protected tenants.
s 38 of the said act deals with right of protected tenant to purchase land.
s 39 deals with right of protected tenants to exchange lands.
s 40 of the said act makes rights of protected tenant heritable.
sub s 3 of s 40 of the said act provides that if a protected tenant dies without leaving any heirs all his rights shall be so extinguished.
it is as follows 99 bar of jurisdiction 1.
save as provided in this act.
no civil court shall have jurisdiction to settle decide or deal with any question which is by or under this act required to be settled decided or dealt with by the tahsildar tribunal or collector or by the board of revenue or government.
no order of the tahsildar tribunal or collector or of the board of revenue or government made under this act shall be questioned in any civil or criminal court.
s 102 of the said act stipulates that the act shall not apply to certain lands and areas and provides inter alia as follows 102 nothing in this act shall apply to lands leased granted alienated or acquired in favour of or by the central government or the state government a local authority or a cooperative society.
it is relevant at this stage to refer to certain provisions of the central act to consider the controversy involved in this appeal the central act was enacted giving power for requisitioning and acquisition of immovable property for union purposes.
s 3 of the said act gave power to requisition immovable property.
s 4 of the said act empowers taking possession of requisitioned property.
s 5 deals with rights over requisitioned property.
s 6 deals with the power of release from the requisitioning.
s 7 authorises the central government where it is of the opinion that it is necessary to do so to acquire requisitioned property.
hence i suspect the entry and order to cancel the copy of the tenancy issued in favour of sri modh.
sd tahsildar.
hyderabad west taluk.
in the appeal of abdul khader the proceedings of revenue divisional officer while questioning entry of the name of abdul khader in the register is a genuine one or net and while it is stated that it was entered in the register in such suspicious way by giving serial no 1 a between serial nos 1 and 2 of register being exhibit a 106 and exhibit a 107it ultimately held that abdul khader was a protected tenant under section 37a of the andhra pradesh act.
on or about 19th of april1972.
he held further that khasra pahani which is the basic record of occupancy period after spot inspections does not find the name of abdul khader and further held that all entries except this entry in the protected tenancy register prepared under section 37a of the andhra pradesh act was supported by an enquiry.
it was in those circumstances held by him that the entry was a spurious one.
now as the arbitrator has already been appointed he will go into the matter as to whether the petitioner was a protected tenant of the lands or not and if he was the protected tenant to what share in the compensation amount he would be entitled to.
claim petition was filed by the appellant before the arbitrator claim petition was also filed by abdul khader claiming 60 of compensation as a protected tenant.
in the meantime abdul khader filed an application on or about 21st of october1984 for adducing additional evidence to mark kaulnama dated 2nd of december1950 for the first time and oubuliatnama dated 2nd december1950 as exhibits in deciding the protected tenancy rights.
on or about 22nd of april1985.
the appeal is heard.
dr chitale learned counsel for the appellants submitted that the high court should be directed to consider the issues relating to the jurisdiction of the arbitrator appointed and functioning under the requisitioning and acquisition of immovable property act195 i to decide whether a person is protected tenant of an agricultural land or not in the light of ss 99 and 102 of the andhra pradesh telangana area.
we agree with his submission.
other c m ps were filed for clarification of the second part of the order dated 19th august1985 and this court on 29th november1985 in cmps.
in the judgment under appeal which is directed against the award made by the arbitrator formulated the following four issues  1 what is the value of the land 2 who are entitled to the compensation amount 3 whether abdul khader is a protected tenant of sail gulshan of the area 19 02 guntas excluding the land of buildings wells etc and 4 what share is to be apportioned to successors of sail nawaz jung.
in this appeal we are concerned with the question whether the high court was right in upholding the award of the arbitrator so far as it has held in favour of abdul khader and his rights to get 60 of the compensation.
kowlnama executed in favour of shaik hussain was not filed.
in this background the court addressed itself to the question whether abdul khader was a protected tenant or not entitled to 60 of the compensation.
section 37a was enacted on 12th of march1956 the high court was however of the view that it can not be said that it was for the revenue authorities alone to decide the issue because the arbitrator was ordered to decide the issue by the high court on 19th august1974 and by this court on 30th of january1975 the high court also referred to the directions of this court dated 19th august1985 mentioned hereinbefore.
aggrieved by the aforesaid decision the appellants being the successor of the owner of the land in question is in appeal before us.
shri shanker ghosh learned counsel for the appellant urged that under the said andhra pradesh act it was mandatory under s 99 read with s 102 of the said act in conjunction with the definition of s 2r of the act for the revenue authorities to decide whether abdul khader was a protected tenant or not.
he had claimed rights of a protected tenant.
for this reliance was placed on s 102 of the andhra pradesh act which lays down that the act will not apply to lands leased granted alienated or acquired in favour of or by the central government or the state government etc and on s 99 of the act which bars the jurisdiction of civil courts to deal with any question which is under the andhra pradesh act required to be settled to be decided or dealt with by the tahsildar tribunal or collector.
in that view of the matter we are unable to accept the challenge to the award.
in that view of the matter we must uphold that decision however unsatisfactory.
it might appear that a fruit pucker gets 60 of the compensation while the owners get only if that is the law.
let it be.
in the aforesaid view of the matter this appeal must fail and is accordingly dismissed with costs.
appeal dismissed.
