out of this amount a sum of rs 15000 was paid at that time and it was promised that the balance dowry of rs 10000 would be paid in the month of october2002upon which the marriage was performed.
the accused pathan hussain basha his father pathan khadar basha and mother pathan nazeer abi forced her to get the balance amount of dowry.
despite such pressure she was not able to get that money from her family.
they even refused to send her to her parental house.
she was unable to bear the cruelty to which she was subjected by the accused persons.
on 15th february2003at about 11 a m the deceased committed suicide by hanging herself in the house of the accused.
subsequently lw 3 pathan basheerunnisa sent her grandson pathan inayatullah khan lw 4 to the house of the parents of the deceased to inform them about the incident.
however upon medical examination by the doctor she was declared brought dead.
the father of the deceased pathan yasin khan lw 1 and her mother pathan shamshad begum lw 2 were present at that time.
lw 1lodged the report which was registered by sri k srinivasarao lw 16the sub inspector of police.
the fir was registered under section 304b and section 498a of the indian penal code1860 for short the ipc thereafter investigation was conducted by one shri p devadass lw 17 he inspected the site from where he recovered and seized the saree that had been used for hanging.
m madhusudana reddy conducted autopsy over the body of the deceased and prepared post mortem certificate giving the cause of death as asphyxia as a result of hanging.
on 16th february2003at about 5 p m.
investigating officer arrested all the three accused persons.
the high court of andhra pradesh vide its judgment dated 26th october2006while allowing the appeal in part convicted accused nos 1 and 2 for the aforementioned offences however acquitted accused no 3namely pathan khadar basha.
first and the foremost we must consider what is the evidence led by the prosecution to bring home the guilt of accused.
accused were charged with offences under sections 498a and 304b of the ipc the fir in the present case was lodged by lw 1who is the father of the deceased.
according to this witness on 23rd january2002the marriage of his daughter was solemnised with accused pathan hussain basha and he had accepted to give rs 25000 in marriage.
he had given only rs 15000 and had agreed to pay rs 10000 after four months.
in the marriage he had also given a gold chain a double bed an iron safe and other items.
he had called his son in law accused no 1to his house as per custom at that point the accused demanded a ceiling fan.
the accused asked for rs 1000 with a ring for the deceased.
later on the accused came to fetch deceased.
it is stated by lw 3 that she knew all the accused persons as she was residing in the house of the accused and the deceased.
according to this witness also in the beginning they were happy however after some time she used to hear some quarrel between the deceased and the accused persons.
he confirmed the fact that rs 15000 was given at the time of marriage and rs 10000 was to be given within some time which the father of the deceased failed to provide.
in fact there is no dispute to the fact that the deceased died of hanging.
lw 14 is a witness to the seizure of the body and she noticed injuries on the body of the deceased.
from the above evidence it is clear that the dowry demands were being raised by the accused persons persistently from the family of the deceased and for that they even harassed the deceased by beating and abusing her.
the period intervening between the marriage and the death of the deceased is very small.
at this stage it will be appropriate for us to examine as to what are the ingredients of an offence punishable under section 304b of the ipc.
11 alongside insertion of section 304 b in ipc the legislature also introduced section 113 b of the evidence act which lays down when the question as to whether a person has committed the dowry death of a woman and it is shown that soon before her death such woman had been subjected by such person to cruelty or harassment for or in connection with any demand for dowry the court shall presume that such person had caused the dowry death.
12 explanation appended to section.
amongst others lapse of time between the date of marriage and the date of death is also a relevant consideration for the court while examining whether the essential ingredients of the provision are satisfied or not in a given case.
it is the first criteria which the prosecution must prove.
12 the definition of dowry under s 2 of the act reads as under 2 definition of dowry.
in this actdowry means any property or valuable security given or agreed to be given either directly or indirectly a by one party to a marriage to the other party to the marriage or b by the parents of either party to a marriage or by any other person to either party to the marriage or to any other person at or before or any time after the marriage in connection with the marriage of the said parties but does not include dower or mahr in the case of persons to whom the muslim personal law shariat applies.
all the expressions used under this section are of a very wide magnitude.
the expressions or any time after marriage and in connection with the marriage of the said parties were introduced by the amending act 63 of 1984 and act 43 of 1986 with effect from 2 101985 and 19 11 1986 respectively.
the object being that everything which is offending at any time i e at before or after the marriage would be covered under this definition but the demand of dowry has to be in connection with the marriage and not so customary that it would not attract on the face of it the provisions of this section.
at this stage it will be appropriate to refer to certain examples showing what has and has not been treated by the courts as dowry.
the customary payments in connection with birth of a child or other ceremonies are not covered within the ambit of the word dowry.
the definition of dowry is not restricted to agreement or demand for payment of dowry before and at the time of marriage but even include subsequent demands was the dictum of this court in state of a p v.
raj gopal asawa20044 scc 470 2004 indlaw sc 205.
the courts have also taken the view that where the husband had demanded a specific sum from his father in law and upon not being given harassed and tortured the wife and after some days she died such cases would clearly fall within the definition of dowry under the act.
further the interpretation given should be one which would avoid absurd results on the one hand and would further the object and cause of the law so enacted on the other.
16 scc 155 2008 indlaw sc 1962 held that the legislative object in providing such a radius of time by employing the words soon before her death is to emphasise the idea that her death should in all probabilities has been the aftermath of such cruelty or harassment.
for want of any specific period the concept of reasonable period would be applicable.
such demand or harassment may not strictly and squarely fall within the scope of these provisions unless definite evidence was led to show to the contrary.
it is of some significance that these expressions should be given appropriate meaning to avoid undue harassment or advantage to either of the parties.
in other words the offence shall be deemed to have been committed by fiction of law.
onus has to be discharged by leading proper and cogent evidence.
the high court acquitted pathan khadar basha the fatherin law of the deceased as there was no direct evidence against him.
accused pathan hussain basha and pathan nazeer abi have rightly been found guilty of the offence by the courts.
the offences having been proved against the accused and keeping in view the attendant circumstances we are of the considered view that ends of justice would be met if the punishment awarded to the appellants is reduced.
consequently we award ten years rigorous imprisonment to the appellants.
the appeals are partially accepted to the extent afore indicated.
appeals partly allowed.
