ujjagar singh the appellant herein a resident of village bangawali tehsil malerkotla was tried and convicted by the additional sessions judge sangrur for the murder of his niece mukhtiar kaur and was awarded the death penalty.
in addition he was convicted for an offence punishable section 376 of the ipc and sentenced to undergo rigorous imprisonment for 10 years and to a fine of rs 5 000 and in default of payment to undergo further r i for one year and section 309 of the ipc to a sentence of simple imprisonment for one year.
the aforesaid convictions and sentences have been maintained by the high court and the matter is before us in these proceedings by way of special leave.
the facts of the case are as under.
satnam singh conveyed this information to sarpanch jora singh pw1 who was attending a marriage at that time.
jora singh accompanied by gurdeep singh pw3 thereupon rushed to ujjagar singh s house and found mukhtiar kaur lying dead with a gun shot injury and the appellant also with a gun shot injury lying unconscious on the ground in the adjoining room.
jora singh and gurdeep singh immediately removed ujjagar singh to the civil hospital dhuri in the jeep belonging to kulwant singh pw4.
jora singh also met inspector harjinder pal singh pw14 at 4 40 p m near the hospital who recorded his statement at that place and with his endorsement exhibit p a sent it to police station dhuri where the formal fir was registered at about 4 45 p m with the special report being delivered to the illaka magistrate at dhuri itself at 6 20 p m the same evening.
the facts as narrated were that arjan singh of village bangawali had three sons puran singh ujjagar singh appellant and ajmer singh.
puran singh had died about 20 years earlier leaving behind his wife two sons and a daughter mukhtiar kaur.
the two sons and the wife also died long before the incident and mukhtiar kaur the sole surviving member of this branch of the family had been married to balwinder singh pw9 about 9 or 10 years earlier.
puran singh had however transferred 30 or 35 bighas of agricultural land falling to his share after the death of his father in the name of the appellant s sons by a collusive decree in the year 1994 and the suggestion was that this transaction had been objected to by mukhtiar kaur who was demanding that the land be returned to her.
it appears that mukhtiar kaur s relations with her in laws had got strained and she had left her matrimonial home and come to live with ujjagar singh her uncle 7 or 8 months earlier and the suggestion was that mukhtiar kaur had been killed by the appellant with his licensed gun and he had thereafter attempted to commit suicide.
having recorded the aforesaid facts in the fir pw14 inspector harjinder pal singh reached the place of incident and lifted one spent 12 bore cartridge case shaktiman make from near mukhtiar kaur s dead body and one dbbl gun from the place where ujjagar singh appeared to have been shot and another spent cartridge case was recovered from the right barrel of the gun.
after completion of the investigation at the spot mukhtiar kaur s dead body was sent for its post mortem examination.
on the completion of the investigation a charge sheet under sections 302 376 and 309 of the ipc was filed against the accused and as he pleaded not guilty he was brought to trial.
during the trial jora singh pw1 satnam singh pw2 gurdeep singh pw3 and kulwant singh pw4 resiled from their statements given to the police and were declared hostile.
pw10 karam singh aforesaid confirmed the story given by balwinder singh.
313 of the cr.
p c in reply to question 33 he stated as under i am innocent.
false allegations have been levelled against me.
i regained consciousness in hospital.
the trial court and the high court relying on the circumstances available on the evidence convicted and sentenced the appellant as already mentioned above.
he has also pointed out that there were no eye witnesses to the incident and the 4 witnesses i e jora singh and others who had reached the place of incident and carried the injured appellant to the hospital had also resiled and as the prosecution story now rested on circumstantial evidence alone it was imperative for the investigating officer to have taken the finger prints from the weapon and that in any case the recovery of the spent cartridges and the gun were clearly suspicious as the weapon had been sent to the laboratory after an inordinate delay.
it has finally been submitted that the land had been transferred in the name of ujjagar singh s sons in the year 1994 by gurmail kaur mother of mukhtiar kaur by a collusive decree and there was no evidence to show that mukhtiar kaur had ever displayed any unhappiness or made any complaint to any person or any authority with regard to the decree and as such the very basis of the prosecution story did not exist.
we first take up for consideration the question of the conviction section 376 of the ipc.
but we see no justification in the omission of the prosecution to have him examined after he had recovered his health and been discharged from hospital.
we therefore find that ujjagar singh s conviction section 376 of the ipc can not be sustained.
he has also relied on the judgment of balu sonba shinde v state of maharashtra 2002 7 scc 543 2002 indlaw sc 1923 to contend that it was open to the accused to take advantage insofar as possible from the statement of a witness though declared hostile and the four witnesses having disowned the prosecution story and having given a different version the appellant was entitled to derive such benefit as possible in this situation.
in mahmood v state of u p 1976 1 scc 542 1975 indlaw sc 643 it has been observed that in a case dependent wholly on circumstantial evidence the court must be satisfied athat the circumstances from which the inference of guilt is to be drawn have been fully established by unimpeachable evidence beyond a shadow of doubt bthat the circumstances are of a determinative tendency unerringly pointing towards the guilt of the accused and cthat the circumstances taken collectively are incapable of explanation on any reasonable hypothesis save that of the guilt sought to be proved against him.
in this case this court held that the omission of the prosecution inter alia to have the finger prints found on the alleged murder weapon was fatal to the prosecution story.
in 1984 4 scc 116 sharad birdhichand sarda v state of maharashtra 1984 indlaw sc 432 this court discussed the ratio of the judgments in hanumant v state of m p air 1952 sc 343 1952 indlaw sc 89 tufail alias simmi v state of u p 1969 3 scc 198 1969 indlaw sc 573 and ramgopal v state of maharashtra 1972 4 scc 625 1971 indlaw sc 555 and shivaji sahabrao bobade v state of maharashtra 1973 2 scc 793 1973 indlaw sc 181 and observed thus a close analysis of this decision would show that the following conditions must be fulfilled before a case against an accused can be said to be fully established 1the circumstances from which the conclusion of guilt is to be drawn should be fully established.
there is not only a grammatical but a legal distinction between may be proved and must be or should be proved as was held by this court in shivaji sahabrao bobade v state of maharashtra 1973 indlaw sc 181 where the following observations were made.
2the facts so established should be consistent only with the hypothesis of the guilt of the accused that is to say they should not be explainable on any other hypothesis except that the accused is guilty 3the circumstances should be of a conclusive nature and tendency 4they should exclude every possible hypothesis except the one to be proved and 5there must be a chain of evidence so complete as not to leave any reasonable ground for the conclusion consistent with the innocence of the accused and must show that in all human probability the act must have been done by the accused.
mr goburdhan has also cited mahmood v state of u p 1976 1 scc 542 1975 indlaw sc 643 shankarlal gyarasilal dixit v state of maharashtra 1981 2 scc 35 1980 indlaw sc 47 sharad birdhichand sarda v state of maharashtra 1984 4 scc 116 1984 indlaw sc 432 omwati smt and ors v mahendra singh.
1998 9 scc 81 1997 indlaw sc 1403 sudama pandey ors v state of bihar 2002 1 scc 679 2001 indlaw sc 21243 and r r khanna reddy anr.
v state of a p 2006 10 scc 172 2006 indlaw sc 144 in support of his plea relating to the evaluation of circumstantial evidence.
the motive is in the mind of the accused and can seldom be fathomed with any degree of accuracy.
the cause of death of the deceased usha devi i e by a gun shot injury is not disputed.
the fact that the terrace and the bedroom are adjoining each other is not in dispute.
it therefore can not be a case where the death might have been caused by somebody by firing a shot at the deceased from a distance of more than 6 feet.
once the prosecution has been able to show that at the relevant time the room and terrace were in exclusive occupation of the couple the burden of proof lay upon the respondent to show under what circumstances death was caused to his wife.
the onus was on him.
the question now arises as to the sentence that should be imposed on the appellant.
it would be seen that both the sessions court and the high court were appalled by the allegations and findings of incestuous rape and murder.
in this background the death sentence is not called for.
we accordingly acquit the appellant of the charge section 376 of the ipc but maintain his conviction for the other offences but commute his death sentence to life.
