Appeal from the Judgment and order dated 3 2 1978 of the Andhra Pradesh High Court in Crl.
The appellant was acquitted by the learned Additional Sessions judge Chittoor of an offence under Section 302 Indian Penal Code.
The acquittal was reversed by the High Court of Andhra Pradesh and the appellant was convicted under Section 302 Indian Penal Code and sentenced to suffer imprisonment for life.
About three months before the occurrence the deceased gave birth to a female child in the house of the accused at Cherlopalle.
The accused used to visit his wife and often used to stay in the house of the deceased s mother.
On 18th December 1972 according to the case of the prosecution the accused once again requested his mother in law to send his wife to his house.
That evening the accused again came to the house of his mother in law.
The house consisted of only one room.
They found the deceased bleeding profusely from the left side of her chest.
When the Police officers went to the village they 366 found the accused tied to a pole.
The stab injury had gone through the third intercostal space and through the upper lobe of the left lung in an upward and medial direction.
P W 13 the Medical officer who examined the accused found several abrasions and contusions on the person of the accused.
There was no fracture.
He regained consciousness next morning.
He referred to the evidence of me Doctor who stated that the injury found on the deceased could have been caused even if she was standing.
The learned Sessions Judge thought that when there were two divergent versions given by the prosecution and the defence and when two views were possible the benefit of doubt should be given to the accused.
He therefore acquitted the accused.
The High Court observed that the learned Sessions Judge had magnified the importance to be attached to minor discrepancies.
In this appeal the learned Counsel for the appellant argued that the accused had no motive to kill his wife and that his version was more probable than the version of the prosecution.
He also contended that two views were possible on the evidence and the accused was entitled to the benefit of doubt.
We have perused the relevant evidence as well as the judgments of the Sessions Judge and the High Court.
Merely because the Medical Officer stated that the victim could have received the injury if she was standing it did not follow that the injury could have been received in the circumstances mentioned by the accused.
We may also refer here to the comment of the learned Counsel for the appellant that realizing that the motive would assume considerable importance if the case was one based on circumstantial evidence the prosecution tried to make P W 3 depose as if she had witnessed occurrence.
We do not think that the comment is justified.
The Inspector of Police P W 15 however stated that P W 3 did not state before him that she saw the accused making a gesture as if he was stabbing the deceased.
The learned Counsel for the appellant advanced the usual argument submitted in all cases where an order of acquittal is reversed namely that where two views of the evidence are possible the accused is entitled to the benefit of the doubt arising from the two views and that where the Trial Court has taken a possible view and acquitted the accused the High Court should not interfere with the order of acquittal merely because another view is also possible.
After Sanwat Singh vs State of Rajasthan this Court has consistently recognised the right of the Appellate Court to review the entire evidence and to come to its own conclusion bearing in mind the considerations mentioned by the Privy Council in Sheo Swarup s case.
In Khem Karan  Ors.
Where the Trial Court allows itself to be beset with fanciful doubts rejects creditworthy evidence for slender reasons and takes a view of the evidence which is but barely possible it is the obvious duty of the High Court to interfere in the interest of justice lest the administration of justice be brought to ridicule.
The appeal is dismissed.
