It belonged to several co owners.
The second lease deed Ext.
1947 relating to Door No 3 Item 2 in Schedule A to the plaint covered an area of 8700 sq.
In respect of item 2 the fair rent claimed was Rs326650 as against Rs200 pm payable under the lease deed.
They claimed that under both the lease deeds what had been leased out to them was only a vacant land and that the superstructure had been built by them.
They claimed there fore that they were entitled to relief under the Madras 550 City Tenants  Protection Act and that the Rent Controller Court had no jurisdiction to fix a fair rent.
So far as item 2 was concerned it appears that at the time of the hearing it was conceded before the Rent Controller that the respondents were tenants of the entire properties covered by the lease deed and that they had not constructed any of the premises thereupon.
The order of the Rent Controller was dated 93.
There were appeals to the Court of Small Causes.
The order of the Rent Controller in respect of item 2 was also upheld.
The tenants filed revision petitions against the order of the Court of Small Causes but these were dismissed on 20111968.
It came to the conclusion that exhibit P 1 did not in law create a valid lease between the co owners and the tenants.
After referring to the terms of the sale deed exhibit P 3 the superstructure constructed on the land was held to have been conveyed to the vendee under the sale deed dated 30 7 1953 and to have thus vested in the LIC.
It held that there was a valid tease between the quondam owners and the tenants under Exts.
In view of this finding it was held that the Rent Controller had no jurisdiction to entertain the application for fixation of fair rent in respect of the property which was only a vacant piece of land.
In conse quence it was held the LIC could not maintain the suit for recovery of rent based on the order made by the statutory tribunal under the Rent Control Act and claim the difference between the so called fair rent and the contract rent.
The present appeal by Special Leave granted on 37.
We therefore answer the first question posed by us in the affirmative.
The Division Bench observed   .
He submitted that if the tenants had filed a suit for declaration that the order passed in the earlier proceedings as a nullity that would have been bound to fail.
It was only this limited aspect eviction on the ground of non bona fide denial of title that was under consideration of the Court under section 102vii of the Act read with the proviso to section 101 and the Court s observa tions on the question of title were one on a collateral issue.
We think that this contention is well founded.
So also in an application under section 4 the jurisdiction of the Rent Controller is to determine a fair or standard rent for the premises.
The trial Judge rejected the application holding that question of the applicability of the Act was res judicata since it had been finally decid ed by the High Court between the same parties in respect of the same land in the earlier proceeding for fixation of standard rent.
These documents were executed on January 7 1953 but the respondent contin ued in the possession of the house property throughout.
