hereinafter called the rent act is the question involved in this appeal by special leave from the judgment and order of the high court of gujarat dated 21st of august1979.
it is clear from the evidence on record that the partnership firm had undergone metamorphosis from time to time and again ever since the year 1960 the firm bharat neon signs first originated on 4th of october1960 as many as six persons were named in the partnership firm on or about 4th of october1960 and they had executed a deed of partnership on 13th of october1960 which is exhibit 114 on the record.
it may be mentioned that the partnership deed exhibit 114 was executed by six persons and at that stage the appellant or his father were not partners in the firm.
but thereafter when the partnership deed exhibit 69 was executed the appellant and his father joined the firm with an agreement to share profits only and their share was fixed at 0 03 paise in a rupee.
in 1965 some partners retired and the remaining four partners executed a fresh partnership deed exhibit 117 on 1st.
it is true that since after 4th of october1960 the partnership firm was carrying on business in the premises in question.
it is well settled that if there was such a partnership firm of which the appellant was a partner as a tenant the same would not amount to subletting leading to the forfeiture of the tenancy.
a i r 1972 gujarat 6 1970 indlaw guj 68 thakkar j of the gujarat high court as the learned judge then was held that the mere fact that a tenant entered into a partnership and allowed the premises being used for the benefit of partnership does not constitute assignment or subletting in favour of the partnership firm entitling a landlord to recover possession.
there was an appeal before the court of small causes bombay and by judgment and order delivered by the court of small causes bombay on 18th of august1977it was held that the learned trial judge had erred in passing a decree for possession on the ground of subletting change of user and breach of terms of tenancy.
in the premises the appeal was allowed.
it was further alleged by the landlord that the appellant had unlawfully sublet the major part of the premises in question of both the suits to defendant nos 2 to 5 in the original suit and these defendants were running business in partnership for manufacturing of neon signs in the name of bharat neon signs.
it was further alleged that the appellant had also unlawfully sublet one room of the suit premises to defendant no 6 in suit no 553 of 1969 who was residing in that room.
for the purpose of the suit no 553 of 1969 with which the appeal is concerned it is relevant to state that the appellant had raised the contention that ahmedabad fine weaving works was not the tenant of the suit premies but the suit premises was tenanted by the father of the appellant girdharlal chimalal in 1938 and he was the original tenant of the premises and appellant subsequently joined the business of his father as a partner and the name of the partnership firm was ahmedabad fine weaving works.
he has stated further that the suit premises were to be used for business and he could use it for any business and he joined in partnership with defendants nos 2 to 5 somewhere in 1961 to prepare neon signs and the defendants nos 2 to 5 were his partners and doing business in the suit premises.
he contended further that the suit premises was with him and the defendants nos 2 to 5 had not acquired any tenancy rights in the suit premises.
it is further stated that he had filed a civil suit to dissolve the partnership and to take account and his suit was pending in city civil court.
it may be mentioned that by the time the revision petition came to be decided by the high court the suit had been decreed in his favour directing a dissolution of the said partnership and directing taking of the accounts.
as mentioned hereinbefore the learned trial judge consolidated both the suits and in the instant suit being no 553 of 1969 with which this appeal is concerned it was held by the learned trial judge that there was unlawful subletting.
but there is nothing illegal about it.
all these tests were borne in mind by the court of small causes bombay in the appeal from the decision of the learned trial judge.
one point was emphasised by mr mehta learned counsel appearing for the respondents that the original first partnership deed did not mention the appellant or his father as a partner.
it was in the second partnership deed that the appellant and his father joined the firm.
it was emphasised that this aspect was not considered by the court of small causes and the high court therefore was justified in interfering with the findings of the court of small causes.
it is evident from the sales tax registration and other registration certificates and licences under the shops and establishments act that the partnership was registered in the name of the appellant and the appellant was also indicated as a partner.
but the question is from the three deeds itself which were examined in detail by the court of small causes and which were re examined by the high court could it be said unequivocally that there was no partnership.
all these factors were present before the court of small causes.
the first partnership deed which is exhibit 114 is dated 13th october1960 it recited that the partnership firm should be presently started at ahmedabad and the same should later be started in another city.
in this the appellant was not a partner.
exhibit 69 at page 136 of volume ii of the paper book is a partnership deed wherein girdharlal the father of the appellant no 1 and the appellant no 1 joined as partners.
all the work had been done by some of the partners of which appellants were not parties and that they had to do the said work as per instructions of the other partners.
clauses 6 and 7 of the said partnership deed recited inter alia as follows 6 the year of accounts of our partnership shall be aso vadi 30th day i e diwali and the first account year is decided to be the aso vadi 30th day of samvat year 2017 while settling accounts at the close of the year33 amount from the sum which may remain as net profit after deducting all expenditures viz interest discount rent of the shop rent of the godown insurance brokerage travelling telegrams postage salaries of employees etc shall be carried to reserve fund and thereafter in the sum that remains as net profit the shares of us the partners have been fixed as under 7 while settling accounts at the close of the year if the sum less than rs 1500 falls to the 0 03 shares of the partners of the seventh and eighth parts the amount falling short has to be debited towards the head of expenditure and rs 1500 fifteen hundred only have to be paid in full to each of them two and in those circumstances or if there be loss the parties of the seventh or eighth parts have not been held liable therefore and in the year or losses it has been decided to pay rs 1500 fifteen hundred only to each of them after debiting the same towards the head of expenditure and in the year of losses nothing has to be carried to the reserve fund and the loss has to be borne by us to parties first to sixth parts in the following proportion 8 clause 8 empowered the operating of the bank accounts by partners other than the appellant and his father.
however on account of the death of khristi girdharbhai chimanlal on 1 2 61 and other reasons the said partnership was dissolved from 8 9 61 thereafter we the parties from the first to seventh part have after purchasing at its cost price all the debts and dues goods stock etc together with goodwill of the dissolved partnership started manufacturing and selling of neon signs tubes in partnership from 9 9 61 we the parties of all the seven parts execute the deed of the said partnership to day.
2 the work to be carried out by our partnership is of manufacturing and selling neon signs tubes and of obtaining orders therefore.
in any event all these factors were considered by the court of small causes bearing in mind the correct legal principles.
it was held in the majority judgment by hidayatuiiah j as the learned chief justice then was that though section 35 of the delhi and ajmer rent control act was worded in general terms but it did not create a right to have the case re heard.
a right to appeal carries with it right of re heating on law as well as fact.
if that was done in a particular case then the fact that the revisional authority or the high court might have arrived to a different conclusion is irrelevant.
1961 indlaw sc 157 supra bhagwati j observed that the ambit of section 351 of the delhi ajmer rent control act which fell for consideration in hari shanker s case 1961 indlaw sc 157 supra was the same as section 293 of the bombay rent act and therefore he expressed the opinion that the high court could interfere only if there was miscarriage of justice due to mistake of law.
as we read the power the high court must ensure that the principles of law have been correctly borne in mind.
indlaw sc 244 observed that where lower courts applied their minds properly in deciding a matter under section 132 of the bombay rent act the high court could not substitute its own finding for the one reached by the courts below on a reappraisal of evidence under section 292 of the act as substituted by the gujarat act 18 of 1965 this court reiterated that although the high court had wider power than that which could be exercised under section 115 of c p c yet its revisional power could only be exercised for a limited purpose with a view to satisfying itself that the decision was according to law.
he also referred to section 4 of the partnership act about the principles of partnership namely1 there must be agreement entered into by all the persons concerned 2 the agreement must be to share the profits of a business and 3 the business must be carried on by all or any of the persons concerned acting for all.
and it was a possible view to take.
in the result the appeal is allowed and the judgment and order of the gujarat high court dated 21st of august1979 are set aside.
