while he was posted at surat as deputy engineer he was transferred to ukai subdivision under the order of the superintending engineer dated 29th march1974 pursuant to the order of transfer he was relieved from his duties at surat on 30th march1974 to enable him to join at ukai.
he made representation to the additional chief engineer for cancelling his transfer order on the ground that his mother aged 70 years was ailing and it would cause great inconvenience to him if he was required to join at ukai.
his representation was rejected and he was directed to join at ukai but he did not do so instead he filed a civil suit at baroda challenging validity of the order of transfer.
meanwhile the chief engineer by his order dated 27th may1974 discharged the respondent from service with effect from 31st march1974 in accordance with service regulation no 113 the respondent challenged the validity of the order of his discharge from service by means of a writ petition under article 226 of the constitution before the high court of gujarat.
a learned single judge of the high court quashed the order of termination on the findings that the order of discharge was issued m violation of the basic principles of natural justice as no opportunity was afforded to the respondent before discharging him from services under regulation no 113.
a division bench of the high court dismissed the appeal preferred by the appellants but it allowed the respondent s appeal.
after hearing learned counsel for the parties we were satisfied that the learned single judge as well as the division bench both had committed error in allowing the writ petition and granting relief to the respondent.
however in the interest of justice we permitted the respondent to file written submissions if any in support of his case.
no party is entitled to get a case transferred from one bench to the other unless the bench is biased or there are some reasonable grounds for the same but no right to get a case transferred to any other bench can legitimately be claimed merely because the judges express opinion on the merits of the case on the conclusion of hearing.
in the instant case on the conclusion of the oral hearing we had expressed our opinion on 28 1 1988 in the open court that we were inclined to allow the appeal and set aside the order of the high court and dismiss the writ petition but taking a sympathetic view we requested sh.
no government servant or employee of public undertaking has legal tight for being posted at any particular place.
if the order of transfer is not stayed modified or cancelled the concerned public servant must carry out the order of transfer.
in the absence of any stay of the transfer order a public servant has no justification to avoid or evade the transfer order merely on the ground of having made a representation or on the ground of his difficulty in moving from one place to the other.
in fact during the tenure of his service in the board the respondent had been transferred from one place to another place several times.
the above rule provides that if an employee of the gujarat electricity board continues to remain absent from duty or overstays the period of sanctioned leave and in spite of warning he fails to return to duty he renders himself liable to be discharged summarily from service without complying with the procedure prescribed for taking disciplinary action under the gujarat electricity board conduct discipline and appeal procedure.
regulation 113 confers wide powers on the authorities to summarily discharge an employee from service if he continues to be absent from duty in an unauthorised manner and refuses to join his duty even after warning.
it is noteworthy that the validity of regulation 113 was not challenged before the high court and the parties proceeded on the assumption that regulation 113 was valid and applicable to the respondent s service.
the division bench of the high court held that no warning as contemplated by service regulation no 113 had been issued to the respondent nor he had been afforded any opportunity of showing cause before the impugned order of discharge was passed and consequently the order of discharge was null and void being contrary to service regulation no 113 itself.
on march 291974 the superintending engineer of the board issued the order transferring the respondent from surat to ukai on 30 3 1974 the respondent was relieved from surat and directed to join his duty at ukai but the respondent did not join his duty at the new place of posting.
instead he made a representation to the additional chief engineer on 8 4 1974 after the transfer order.
in this situation the superintending engineer by his letter dated 18th april1974 directed the respondent to show cause as to why action should not be taken against him for disobeying the order of transfer and also for unauthorised absence from duty in breach of service regulation.
by that letter respondent stated that he was waiting for the decision of his representation made for reconsideration of his transfer from surat to ukai and therefore the question of his remaining on unauthorised leave was misconceived.
no government servant or employee of any public undertaking has a right to be absent from duty without sanction of leave merely on account of pendency of representation against the order of transfer.
since the respondent continued to be absent from duty the superintending engineer by a registered post acknowledgment due letter dated april 241974 informed the respondent that his request to postpone his transfer was rejected and he was directed to join his duty at ukai and on his failure to do so disciplinary action would be taken against him.
but even thereafter the respondent did not join his duties.
in fact the superintending engineer had by his letter dated 18th april1974 clearly reminded the respondent that his unauthorised absence was in breach of service regulation no 113 and called upon to show cause why action should not be taken against him but in spite of these letters the respondent failed to join his duties.
firstly even if the letter dated 24 4 1974 was not served on the respondent there is no dispute that the superintending engineer s letter dated 18th april1974 had been served on him.
by that letter warning as contemplated by regulation no 113 had been issued to the respondent.
no doubt the presumption is rebuttable and it is open to the party concerned to place evidence before the court to rebut the presumption by showing that the address mentioned on the cover was incorrect or that the postal authorities never tendered the registered letter to him or that there was no occasion for him to refuse the same.
no 113 the learned single judge as well as the division bench both erred in law in setting aside the order of discharge.
