3 and 4 are diploma holders in civil engineering.
allegedly from their salary provident fund was being deducted.
a dispute arose as to whether all the appellants were employed for the purpose of the said project or the appellants in civil appeal no 337 of 2002 were appointed in the year 1991 by the authority for its own job.
an industrial dispute was raised by the appellants herein as their services were not being regularized by the respondent.
aggrieved by and dissatisfied with the said award the respondent authority herein filed a writ petition before the madhya pradesh high court indore bench which was marked as writ petition no 1188 of 1997.
by reason of the impugned judgment dated 26 4 2000 the said writ petition was allowed.
it was held that the services of the appellants can not be directed to be regularized in services.
as regard the application of the madhya pradesh industrial employment standing orders act 1961 for short the 1961 act and the rules framed there under known as m p industrial employment standing order rules 1963 for short the 1963 rules it was observed that although there was no specific pleadings raised in this behalf by the respondents therein nor any question having been referred to the labour court by the state government touching the said issue it committed an error in granting relief to them on the basis thereof on its own motion.
despite the same the high court went into the question of applicability of the said act and held that the 1961 act and the 1963 rules had no application.
before the high court various documents were produced by the appellants herein to show the nature of their employment but the same had not been taken on records by the high court.
as regard application of the doctrine of equal pay for equal work it was held to be not applicable as the appellants were not entitled to absorption or classification in terms of the 1961 act and the 1963 rules.
dr rajiv dhawan learned senior counsel appearing on behalf of the appellants in civil appeal no 337 of 2002 and mr m n rao learned senior counsel appearing on behalf of the appellants in civil appeal no 335 of 2002 took us through materials on records and contended that the appellants herein became permanent employees of the respondents having regard to the provisions contained in section 2 of the 1961 act and order 2i and 2vi of the standard standing orders as set out in the annexure appended to the 1963 rules defining permanent employees and the temporary employees.
it was urged that the expression clear vacancies has to be read in the context of period for which the concerned workman was required to work namely six months.
dr dhawan would furthermore contend that the findings of fact had been arrived at by the labour court that the appellants of civil appeal no 337 of 2002 were appointed by the authority and not only their work was being taken in the project but also in other works and thus mere posting of the appellants to the said project would not disentitle them from the benefit of the said act.
it was further contended that as the respondents despite direction to produce documents including the offers for appointment did not produce the same an adverse inference should have been drawn against them by the high court.
as regard the claim of equal pay for equal work the learned counsel would urge that the high court has failed to consider the same in its true perspective.
drawing our attention also to the pleadings as also the reliefs claimed for by the appellants before the labour court the learned counsel would contend that no contention was raised therein by the appellants as regard their entitlement of permanency in terms of the provisions of the 1961 act and the 1963 rules.
it was urged that there does not exist any controversy that oda was to continue before 30 6 1997 and as such the appellants could not have been absorbed by the respondent authority.
classification of employees.
i a permanent employee is one who has completed six months satisfactory service in a clear vacancy in one or more posts whether as a probationer or otherwise or a person whose name has been entered in the muster roll and who is given a ticket of permanent employee vi.
12 of the constitution of india.
it is therefore constitutionally obliged to strictly comply with the requirements of articles 14 and 16 thereof before making any appointment.
it is also not in dispute that the respondent authority has been constituted under madhya pradesh nagar tatha gram nibesh adhiniyam 1973 adhiniyam section 47 whereof mandates that all appointments to the posts of officers and servants included in the state cadre mentioned in section 76 b of the development authority services must be made by the state government and the appointments to the posts of officers and servants included in the local cadre in the said services by the concerned town and country development authority.
it is also not in dispute that the state government in exercise of its rule making power conferred upon it section 85 of the adhiniyam has made rules known as m p development authority services officers and servants recruitment rules 1987.
concededly the respondent authority before making any appointment neither intimated the employment exchange about the existing vacancies if any nor issued any advertisement in relation thereto.
indisputably the conditions precedent for appointment of the officers and servants of the authority as contained in the service rules had not been complied with.
a state before offering public service to a person must comply with the constitutional requirements of articles 14 and 16 of the constitution.
in hindustan shipyard ltd and others vs dr p sambasiva rao and others 1996 7 scc 499 1996 indlaw sc 3441 a division bench of this court observed.
having regard to the rules which have been made by the appellant corporation regular appointment on the post of medical officer can only be made after the duly constituted selection committee has found the person suitable for such appointment.
it was therefore impermissible for the state to direct regularization of the services of the employees of the cooperative societies.
jt 2004 8 sc 531 2004 indlaw sc 729 a division bench of this court opined no person illegally appointed or appointed without following the procedure prescribed under the law is entitled to claim that he should be continued in service.
case law relied upon by the appellant.
it was in fact held that as the petitioners therein were not regularized in accordance with the prescribed rules and regulations for regular appointments their services had to be terminated and as such there had been neither any arbitrary nor illegal action on the part of the respondents nor any violation of the fundamental rights guaranteed under articles 14 and 16.
however having regard to the facts and circumstances of the said case some directions were issued presumably in terms of article 142 of the constitution.
in hindustan shipyard ltd 1996 indlaw sc 3441 supra this court also distinguished the said decision.
in niadar and another vs delhi administration and another 1992 4 scc 112 1988 indlaw sc 244 again no law has been laid down.
it appears that there existed a scheme for regularization and some directions were issued in terms thereof.
by reason of the provisions of the said act application of standard standing orders to undertakings has been provided in terms whereof the matters to be provided in the standard standing orders have been specified.
it is furthermore not in dispute that adhiniyam came into force in 1973.
had the appointments of the appellants been made in terms of the provisions of the adhiniyam and rules framed thereunder the respondent authority was statutorily enjoined to make an offer of appointment in writing which was to be accepted by the appellants herein.
it may be true that the appellants had been later on put on a monthly salary but there is nothing on record to show as to how the same was done.
a ticket of permanent employee was thus required to be issued in terms of order 3 of the standard standing orders.
it is not the case of the appellants that they had been working as technical supervisors and clerks in respect of which service book may be maintained instead of issuance of a ticket.
it is also not the case of the appellants that their names had appeared in the service book maintained for the said purpose.
in absence of any specific directions contained in the schedule appended to the standing orders the statute and the statutory rules applicable to the employees of the respondent shall prevail.
in m p vidyut karamchari sangh vs m p electricity board 2004 9 scc 755 2004 indlaw sc 198 a three judge bench of this court held that a regulation which is not inconsistent with the provisions of the 1961 act and the rules can be issued by a statutory authority.
for the purpose of this matter we would proceed on the basis that the 1961 act is a special statute.
but in absence of any conflict in the provisions of the said act the conditions of service including those relating to recruitment as provided for in the 1973 act and the 1987 rules would apply.
if by reason of the latter the appointment is invalid the same can not be validated by taking recourse to regularization.
no case was made out by the appellants herein in their statements of claim that they became permanent employees in terms thereof.
furthermore the labour court having derived its jurisdiction from the reference made by the state government it was bound to act within the four corners thereof.
dr dhawan is not correct in his submission that a separate ticket need not be issued and what was necessary was merely to show that the appellants had been recognized by the state as its employees having been provided with employment code.
for the purpose of obtaining a permanent status constitutional and statutory conditions precedent therefor must be fulfilled.
if the appellants were appointed for the purpose of the project they would be deemed to have been appointed therefor and only because such appointments had been made by the respondent would by itself not entitle them to claim permanency.
however it has been seen that even services of one of them had been requisitioned only for the project work.
if a document was called for in absence of any pleadings the same was not relevant.
in absence of any pleadings the appellants could not have called for any document to show that the provisions of the 1961 act and 1963 rules would apply.
before the high court as also before us the appellants have produced a large number of documents which were not filed before the labour court.
an adverse inference need not necessarily be drawn only because it would be lawful to do so.
2004 indlaw sc 829 this court observed in such a factual background in our opinion the industrial court or the high court could not have drawn an adverse inference for the non production of the muster rolls for the year 1990 to 1992 in the absence of specific pleading by the respondents applicants that at least during that period they had worked for 240 days continuously in a given year.
it was within its jurisdiction to do so particularly having regard to the nature of the evidence adduced by the respondent.
equal pay for equal work.
for the reasons aforementioned we do not find any merit in these appeals which are dismissed accordingly.
