these appeals are directed against a judgment and order dated 17 october 2003 passed by the special court constituted under the special courts trial of offences relating to transactions in securities.
act 1992 for short the act in misc.
application nos.
late harshad mehta were persons notified in terms of the act which was enacted to provide for the establishment of a special court for the trial of offences relating to transactions in securities and for matters connected therewith.
in terms of the provisions of the act along with late harshad mehta the custodian had notified 29 entities in terms of section 3 of the act comprising three of his younger brothers wife of late harshad mehta wives of two of his younger brothers and other corporate entities a partnership firm and three hufs.
however out of the said 29 entitles only late harshad mehta and two of his younger brothers were cited as accused in various criminal cases filed against them.
the properties of late harshad mehta and the appellants herein being notified persons stood attached in terms of the provisions of the act.
before the learned special court the parties herein filed several applications which can be sub divided in three categories as would be noticed shortly hereinafter.
it is not in dispute that the learned special court on or about 3 august 1993 issued directions in various proceedings before it appointing auditors to prepare and audit the books of accounts of all notified persons for the period 1 april 1990 and 8 june 1992 i e the date of the notification.
a chartered accountants firm was appointed by the learned special judge by an order dated 17 september 2003 to represent all notified entities in the family of late harshad mehta for the purpose of ascertaining their tax liabilities.
application No 41 of 1999 seeking permission of the special court for sale of residential premises commonly known as madhuli of eight notified entities.
application being 4 of 2001 was filed by the custodian praying for the sale of commercial premises.
applications praying for lifting of attachment on their residential premises on the ground that the same had been purchased much prior to 1 april 1991 and the same had no nexus with any illegal transactions in securities.
alternatively it was prayed that since their asset base was greater than genuine liabilities the said residential premises should be released from attachment.
impugned judgment.
by reason of the impugned order dated 17 october 2003 the learned special judge allowed misc.
4 of 2001 and 41 of 1999.
applications filed by the appellants herein for release of the residential flats as well as the commercial premises from attachment were dismissed.
in case no such undertakings are filed by the adult members as directed above within the aforesaid period the custodian shall stand appointed as receiver of the flats which are described in exh.
contentions of the parties appellants 9.
ii having regard to the fact that only three entitles out of eight were involved in the offences the liability of harshad mehta could not have been clubbed for the purpose of directing attachment and consequent sale of the properties which exclusively belong to them.
a copy of the auditor s report having only been supplied during pendency of these appeals the learned special judge committed a serious error in passing the impugned judgment relying on or on the basis thereof.
iin view of the decision of this court in l s synthetics ltd v fairgrowth financial services ltd and another 2004 11 scc 456 2004 indlaw sc 715 all properties belonging to the notified persons being subject to automatic attachment could be applied for discharge of the joint liabilities of the harshad mehta group in terms of section 11 of the act.
iithe applications for de notification filed by the appellants herein having been withdrawn the contention raised by the appellants that they are not liable in terms of the provisions of the act are not open to question particularly in view of the fact that no application for de notification could be filed subsequently as they had become barred by limitation.
iiithe order of assessment under the income tax act having become final and binding as on the date when the orders of assessment were passed and thus mere filing of appeals were not sufficient for raising a contention that the taxes did not become due.
civil appeal No 2795 of 2004 and the kedarnath jute mfg.
co ltd v the commissioner of income tax.
even in the case of dr pratima mehta wherein some excesses has been shown if the interest is calculated for the last over 13 years of the amount received the liabilities would exceed the assets.
hitesh mehta and dr pratima mehta who are medical practitioners by profession having affirmed affidavits admitting that the share broking and investment businesses which were part of family businesses were undertaken and conducted by late harshad mehta and they had no knowledge thereabout nor were they involved therewith.
even before this court the sale of commercial properties had not been questioned.
a large number of commercial properties having already been sold and third party rights having been created this court should not interfere with the impugned judgment.
2 to deal with the situation and in particular to ensure speedy recovery of the huge amount involved to punish the guilty and restore confidence in and maintain the basic integrity and credibility of the banks and financial institutions the special court trial of offences relating to transactions in securities ordinance 1992 was promulgated on the 6th june 1992.
3 of section 3 contains a non obstante clause providing that on and from the date of notification under sub section 2 any property movable or immovable or both belonging to any person notified under that sub section shall stand attached simultaneously with the issue of the notification and such attached properties may be dealt with by the custodian in such manner as the special court may direct.
in the ordinance which preceded the act there was no provision for giving post facto hearing to a notified person for cancellation of notification but such a provision has been made in the act as would appear from section 42 thereof 1 of section 4 of the act reads as under contracts entered into fraudulently may be cancelled if the custodian is satisfied after such inquiry as he may think fit that any contract or agreement entered into at any time after the 1st day of april 1991 and on and before the 6th june 1992 in relation to any property of the person notified under sub s 2 of section 3 has been entered into fraudulently or to defeat the provisions of this act he may cancel such contract or agreement and on such cancellation such property shall stand attached under this act.
any prosecution in respect of any offence referred to in sub s 2 of section 3 pending in any court is required to be transferred to the special court.
the following liabilities shall be paid or discharged in full as far as may be in the order as under a all revenues taxes cesses and rates due from the persons notified by the custodian under sub s 2 of section 3 to the central government or any state government or any local authority b all amounts due from the person so notified by the custodian to any bank or financial institution or mutual fund and c any other liability as may be specified by the special court from time to time.
provisions.
but at the stage when liabilities are required to be discharged the notified person may inter alia raise a contention inter alia for the purpose of establishing that the properties held and possessed by them are sufficient to meet their liabilities.
indlaw sc 732 v custodian and others 1998 5 scc 1 wherein the following questions were framed what is meant by revenues taxes cesses and rates due.
at what point of time should the taxes have become due.
does the special court have any discretion relating to the extent of payments to be made under section 112a from out of the attached funds property.
whether the special court has the power to absolve a notified person from payment of penalty or interest for a period subsequent to the date of his notification section in the alternative is a notified person liable to payment of penalty or interest arising from his inability to pay taxes after his notification.
as regard question No 1 it was held in the present case the words taxes due occur in a section dealing with distribution of property.
in other words taxes as assessed which are presently payable by the notified person are taxes which have to be taken into account under section 112a while distributing the property of the notified person.
in the context of section 112 therefore the taxes due refer to taxes as finally assessed.
in regard to question No 2 it was opined every kind of tax liability of the notified person for any other period is not covered by section 112a although the liability may continue to be the liability of the notified person.
in respect of the question No 3 it was opined that the date of distribution arrives when the special court completes the examination of claims under section 9 a and if on that date any tax liability for the statutory period is legally assessed and the assessment is final and binding on a notified person that liability would be considered for payment section 111a.
he may not in these circumstances explain transactions before the income tax authorities in case his position is prejudicially affected in defending criminal charges.
but if the assessment is a best judgment assessment the special court may examine whether for example the income which is so assessed to tax bears comparison to the amounts attached by the custodian or whether the taxes so assessed are grossly disproportionate to the properties of the assessee in the hands of the custodian applying the wednesbury principle of proportionality.
in regard to question No 5 this court agreed with the finding of the special court that neither penalty nor interest can be considered as tax under section 112a of the act.
so far question No 6 is concerned it was held that the remedy of a notified person who is assessed to penalty or interest after the notified period would be entitled to move the appropriate authority under the taxing statute stating if it is open to him under the relevant taxing statute to contend that he was unable to pay his taxes on account of the attachment of all his properties under the special court act and that there is a valid reason why penalty or interest should not be imposed upon him after the date of notification the authorities concerned under the taxing statute can take notice of these circumstances in accordance with law for the purpose of deciding whether penalty or interest can be imposed on the notified person.
1992 3 bom cr 716 1992 indlaw mum 6066 wherein it was held if the person approaches the special court and makes out for example a case that the property which is attached has no nexus of any sort with the illegal dealings in securities belonging to banks and financial institutions during the relevant period andor that there are no claims or liabilities which have to be satisfied by attachment and sale of such property in our view the special court would have the power to direct the custodian to release such property from attachment.
the ratio of the said decision as regard applicability of the limitation act was further considered by a division bench of this court in fairgrowth investments ltd v custodian 2004 11 scc 472 2004 indlaw sc 868 wherein it was held that section 5 of the limitation act will have no application in relation to an application falling under sub s 2 of section 4 of the act stating it is enough for the purpose of this appeal to hold that section 292 of the limitation act 1963 does not apply to proceedings under section 42 of the special court trial of offences relating to transactions in securities act 1992.
in tejkumar balakrishna ruia v a k menon and another 1997 9 scc 123 1996 indlaw sc 2403 this court held in our view the terms of sub s 3 of section 3 are clear.
by reason thereof the property that belongs to a notified person stands attached simultaneously with the issue of the notification that makes him a notified party.
even to say that such interpretation would reduce a notified person to beggary would not be accurate because the alms that he received being his property would stand attached.
iiwhether individual liabilities of the appellants ought to have been separately considered by the special court as not a part of harshad mehta group.
before adverting to the questions raised herein we may notice that both the parties have raised several contentions before us which have not precisely been raised before the learned special judge.
it is no doubt true that the law of limitation bars a remedy but not a right.
air 1968 all 246 1967 indlaw all 16 but as observed hereinbefore.
in l s synthetics ltd 2004 indlaw sc 715 supra this court observed a statute of limitation bars a remedy and not a right.
although a remedy is barred a defence can be raised.
a special statute providing for special or no period of limitation must receive a liberal and broader construction and not a rigid or a narrow one.
we are therefore of the opinion that the provisions of the limitation act have no application so far as directions required to be issued by the special court relating to the disposal of attached property are concerned.
although we do not intend to enter into the correctness or otherwise of the said contention of the appellants at this stage however there can not be any doubt whatsoever that they being notified persons all their properties would be deemed to be automatically attached as a consequent thereto.
the contention of the appellants to the effect that their properties should have been attached only towards the liabilities incurred by the parties in respect of the transactions made during the statutory period can not be accepted as all the appellants being notified the attachment of the assets would be automatic.
however the contention of the appellants that the properties held by them otherwise are sufficient to meet their liabilities was required to be gone into as in our considered opinion there can not be a any dispute that the appellants have such a right.
a transaction of benami indisputably can be a subject matter of a lies in terms of section 41 of the act as and when such a question is raised the same may have to be dealt with by the special court appropriately.
however nexus between several persons in dealing with the matter may be established by the custodian.
as the said question has not been gone into by the learned judge special court it is necessary that the same be considered and appropriately dealt with.
in para 14 of the sur rejoinder the appellants denied the asset and liability position as arrived at by the custodian.
ii liabilities have been shown in relation to unperformed contracts.
it is interesting to note that the properties belonging to the mother of harshad mehta has since been released from attachment.
it is furthermore not in dispute that pursuant to or in furtherance of the directions issued by the learned special court the accounts of all entities be it corporate or individual were drawn up separately which approach had not been dis approved by the auditor appointed by the special court.
even in the rejoinder filed by the custodian e g paragraphs 14 20 21 and 22 before the special court such contentions have been raised.
a sur rejoinder thereto was filed on 15 october 2003 and in paragraphs 1 to 6 thereof the said statements were denied and disputed.
in arriving at the said finding no contention of the parties raised in their respective affidavits had been adverted to nor any material filed before it was analysed.
in our opinion the learned judge special court should have analysed the respective contentions of the parties in greater details and in particular in regard to assets and liabilities of the separate entities and having regard to the contentions raised by them that they are not part of the harshad mehta group and their individual liabilities can be met from the assets held and possessed by them separately.
allegedly therein it was shown that the individuals had received large loans advances credits from the harshad mehta group and there had been intermingling of the assets to the tune of crores of rupees.
before us mr desai had filed a chart for showing the same.
if the liabilities of the individual entities are not treated as that of the group for one reason or the other indisputably liability of those who have nothing to do with the dealings of harshad mehta either in their individual capacities or as directors of some company or otherwise must be dealt with separately.
his death has also forced upon him bankruptcy.
further contention of the custodian is that even dr hitesh mehta and dr pratima mehta have admitted that they had no knowledge about the transactions.
even in this behalf it was necessary for the special judge to assign sufficient and cogent reasons.
a question may further arise as to whether the learned judge was correct in considering the individual liabilities of the notified parties as the liabilities of the group.
if those individuals who had no connection with harshad mehta could not have been proceeded against for meeting the liabilities of harshad mehta jointly or severally a clear finding was required to be arrived at.
furthermore the question as regard liability of the parties should have been determined at the stage of section 9 a of the act.
he has proceeded on the basis that even if the assets and liabilities of all individuals is taken on an individual basis the liabilities would exceed assets in the case of each individual and corporate entity.
it does not appear that claims inter se between the entities within the so called group had ever been taken into consideration.
it is furthermore not in dispute that in a large number of cases the appellate authorities have set aside best judgment assessments.
but in this case the orders of assessment have been set aside.
deepika mehta rs 120 crores even after deducting the amount set aside by itat.
it exceeds rs 63 crores.
in any view of the matter the learned judge special court having not dealt with the question as regard the mode and manner of disbursements of the amount so far as the tax liabilities of the appellants are concerned elaborately the same requires fresh determination in the light of the decision of this court in harshad shantilal mehta.
1998 indlaw sc 732 supra.
in board of control for cricket in india and another v netaji cricket club and others 2005 4 scc 741 2005 indlaw sc 1243.
however the finalization shall be subject to the result of these appeals.
in the former event even if such a decree is set aside the interest of the bona fide purchaser in an auction sale is saved.
in janak raj v gurdial singh and anr.
but for such protection the properties which are sold in court auctions would not fetch a proper price and the decree holder himself would suffer.
in these appeals we are concerned with sale of eight residential flats in a building known as madhuli.
conclusion.
in view of our foregoing discussions we are of the opinion that i the contention of the appellants that they being not involved in offences in transactions in securities could not have been proceeded in terms of the provisions of the act can not be accepted in view of the fact that they have been notified in terms thereof.
as regard the tax liabilities of the appellants herein we would request the learned judge special court to consider the matter afresh in the light of the observations made hereinbefore.
