challenge in this appeal is to the order of a division bench of madras high court allowing the appeal filed by the respondent hereinafter referred to as the accused the accused was convicted for offence punishable under section 302 of the indian penal code1860 in short the ipc and sentenced to undergo imprisonment for life and to pay a fine of rs 10000 with default stipulation by principal district judge madurai.
he was also convicted for offences punishable under section 392 read with section 397 ipc and sentence to undergo rigorous imprisonment for 10 years and to pay a fine.
subsequently on the basis of the order of the high court such investigation was completed by p w 42 the accused is stated to have been arrested on suspicion on 26 4 2003 on the basis of the statement of the accused prosecution discovered many materials including a knife and a log allegedly used for killing.
initially p w 40 suspected the role of p w 1his wife p w 2p w 3from whose house certain incriminating material were recovered allegedly on the basis of statement of the accused as well as p w 4who was working as a cleaner in the vehicle of p w 1 subsequently however p w 42who took over investigation from p w 40 filed charge sheet only against the present appellant on the footing that p ws 1 to 4 had no role to play in the crime.
the prosecution relied upon only circumstantial evidence namely confessional statements of the accused leading to recovery of various incriminating materials.
c at the time of occurrence only the accused deceased and pw 9 were available in the premises and there was no other person.
d statement of the accused leading to recovery of incriminating materials such as knife rope clothes wooden log and other valuable articles such as computer gold ornamentsm dollar and the key chain with key belonging to the deceased.
learned counsel for the appellant submitted that the high court failed to notice that the circumstances highlighted clearly establish the chain of circumstances which established the prosecution version and the high court was not justified in directing acquittal.
in bhagat ram v state of punjab air 1954 sc 621 1954 indlaw sc 188it was laid down that where the case depends upon the conclusion drawn from circumstances the cumulative effect of the circumstances must be such as to negative the innocence of the accused and bring the offences home beyond any reasonable doubt.
in a case based on circumstantial evidence the settled law is that the circumstances from which the conclusion of guilt is drawn should be fully proved and such circumstances must be conclusive in nature.
further the proved circumstances must be consistent only with the hypothesis of the guilt of the accused and totally inconsistent with his innocence.
sc 79 1989 indlaw sc 31it was laid down that when a case rests upon circumstantial evidence such evidence must satisfy the following tests 1 the circumstances from which an inference of guilt is sought to be drawn must be cogently and firmly established 2 those circumstances should be of a definite tendency unerringly pointing towards guilt of the accused 3 the circumstances taken cumulatively should form a chain so complete that there is no escape from the conclusion that within all human probability the crime was committed by the accused and none else and 4 the circumstantial evidence in order to sustain conviction must be complete and incapable of explanation of any other hypothesis than that of the guilt of the accused and such evidence should not only be consistent with the guilt of the accused but should be inconsistent with his innocence.
1992 indlaw sc 107it was pointed out that great care must be taken in evaluating circumstantial evidence and if the evidence relied on is reasonably capable of two inferences the one in favour of the accused must be accepted.
in other words there must be a chain of evidence so far complete as not to leave any reasonable ground for a conclusion consistent with the innocence of the accused and it must be such as to show that within all human probability the act must have been done by the accused.
a reference may be made to a later decision in sharad birdhichand sarda v state of maharashtraair 1984 sc 1622 1984 indlaw sc 432 therein while dealing with circumstantial evidence it has been held that onus was on the prosecution to prove that the chain is complete and the infirmity of lacuna in prosecution can not be cured by false defence or plea.
however in almost all such decisions reference is made to the observation of the privy council in pulukuri kotayya v emperor air 1947 pc 67 1946 indlaw pc 23 it is worthwhile to extract such quoted observation it is fallacious to treat the fact discovered within the section as equivalent to the object produced the fact discovered embraces the place from which the object is produced and the knowledge of the accused as to this and the information given must relate distinctly to this fact.
information supplied by a person in custody that i will produce a knife concealed in the roof of my house does not lead to the discovery of the knife knives were discovered many years ago.
it leads to the discovery of the fact that a knife is concealed in the house of the informant to his knowledge and if the knife is proved to have been used in the commission of the offence the fact discovered is very relevant.
at one time it was held that the expression fact discovered in the section is restricted to a physical or material fact which can be perceived by the senses and that it does not include a mental fact now it is fairly settled that the expression fact discovered includes not only the physical object produced but also the place from which it is produced and the knowledge of the accused as to this as noted in pulukuri kottaya s case 1946 indlaw pc 23 supra.
7 thereupon only that portion of the information which relates distinctly or strictly to the fact discovered can be proved.
his evidence has to be considered in the background of what has been stated by pw 22 and cw 1 it has been accepted by the prosecution that great efforts were made by pw 40 to falsely implicate to pws 1 to 4 and for that purpose a departmental proceeding was initiated.
apart from the fact that there is niggling doubt about the so called confession in view of statement under section 164 of the code of p w 22 and the statement of c w 1a further doubt is raised regarding such aspect in view of evidence of c w 1 to the effect that he had seen such computer in the room of the deceased when they had gone to the room after the offence was reported.
i did not tell this even to the inspector of police after going to the police station.
if the accused had killed the deceased and stolen those golden jewellery there is no reason as to why he had also not taken ear rings from the deceased.
for the aforesaid purpose they have relied upon the evidence of p w 42 and the seizure witness p w 24 the accused had allegedly made earlier confessional statement before p w 40 on 26 4 2003 leading to discovery of several articles.
law is well settled that when the prosecution relies upon circumstantial evidence all the links in the chain of circumstances must be complete and should be proved through cogent evidence.
the appeal is dismissed.
