leave granted in slp crl.
devendra choubey accused no 4 has filed criminal appeal no 822 of 2012 the appellant mahesh accused no 3 has filed criminal appeal no 867 of 2013 the appellant beenu.
chandra prakash accused no 2 has filed criminal appeal no 589 of 2014 the appellant smt.
he deposed in court that on 25 11 2003when he returned home he found servant anil kumar pw 21 was weeping.
bhavna was dead.
after registration of the crime inquest was conducted over the dead body of bhavna on 26 11 2003 post mortem was conducted by dr naresh tiwari and dr m deodhar who gave their report which is marked as exhibit p18 spot map was prepared by the inquiry officer io bloodstained cloth of accused shashi tripathi was taken into possession along with broken bangles bloodstained cement mortar and plain cement mortar were also taken into possession.
chandra prakash were arrested on 29 11 2003 a bloodstained knife was taken into possession.
devendra choubey was taken into custody on 22 12 2003 and a suzuki motorcycle was also taken into possession.
a test identification was conducted by the executive magistrate in the sub jail bemetara on 13 12 2003 a similar identification parade of raju.
a sealed packet containing hair found in the grip of the deceased and another sealed packet containing bloodstained cloth of the deceased were taken into possession vide exhibit p35.
after committal the trial court framed charges u s 302 read with ss 34 and 120b of the ipc the prosecution examined 32 witnesses.
according to the prosecution the accused shashi tripathi is the step mother in law of deceased bhavna tripathi.
bhavna was married to her step son jitendra kumar in july2003 shashi tripathi used to be annoyed with bhavna tripathi on account of some domestic dispute.
bhavna was murdered on 25 11 2003 at about 1830 hours in the house where she resided with shashi tripathi.
dr m deodhar who conducted the postmortem opined that cause of her death was neurogenic and hemorrhagic shock.
4 incised wound on lower costal region left of size.
3  cm x 2 cm x 1 cm 5 incised wound on lower costal region right side on right epigestic region of size 3  cm.
7 incised wound on right supra mammary region near middle of size 4 cm x 1 cm x 1  cm 8 incised wound on right supra mammary region lateral aspect of size 3 cm x 1  cm x 1  cm 9 incised wound on radial aspect of left forearm near wrist joint of size 2.
cm x cm x  cm 10 incised wound on forearm left hand radial side dorsal aspect on lower 23rd region 11 incised wound on left forearm middle l3rd region radial side and posterior aspect of size 2.
he participated in the identification parade which was held in sub jail bemetara and identified the accused persons in the court by touching them.
we have carefully examined the manner in which the identification parade was conducted and the manner in which the boy anil kumar pw 21 identified the accused in court and we have no reason to doubt the identification of the accused which assumes importance in this case since the boy did not know the accused before the incident.
he deposed before the court that shashi didi accused brought him to village jevra from bilaspur.
he lived in the house of shashi didi.
he ate his food there and studied in a school.
his brother shivendra studies at calcutta.
he referred to bhavna as bhabhi.
he stated that shashi didi and bhavna sometimes used to quarrel.
about the assault he deposed that devendra caught bhavna and chandra prakash attacked her with knife 3 to 4 times and she fell down.
after the assault chandra prakash went to the tv room where shashi didi had kept some money in a rubber band on the table.
he further deposed that shashi didi took him upstairs to the terrace and asked him not to disclose the truth to anyone but to say that thieves came into the house and committed the crime.
devendra choubey accused no 4 by paying them money.
the credibility of the evidence of anil kumar pw 21 was attacked by the learned counsel for the appellants who submitted that the boy is a tutored witness who has been influenced by the police with whom he spent a lot of time.
he was brought to the house by shashi tripathi accusedwho apparently took care of him and sent to school and gave him food and residence.
he had no grouse against her neither any ulterior motive in identifying the accused who were not acquainted to him.
his presence in the house is entirely natural and we have no reason to discard his testimony.
the accused devendra kumar was arrested on 22 12 2003 and his identification parade was conducted on 26 12 2003 within four days there is no evidence on record to show that the child witness had an opportunity to see and study the features of the accused between their arrest and test identification parade to enable a tutored identification.
in any case the period between the arrest and the identification parade was not large enough to constitute inordinate delay.
as a general rule the substantive evidence of a witness is a statement made in court.
generally speaking the magistrate must make a note of every objection raised by an accused at the time of identification and the steps taken by them to ensure fairness to the accused so that the court which is to judge the value of the identification evidence may take them into consideration in the appreciation of that evidence.
his presence is not doubted since he resided with the family for whom he worked.
he became the unfortunate witness of a gruesome murder and fearlessly identified the accused in court.
in such a situation it is considered a safe rule of prudence to generally look for corroboration of the sworn testimony of witness in court as to the identity of the accused who are strangers to them in the form of earlier identification proceeding as observed by this court in budhsen s case 1970 indlaw sc 136 supra.
he did not even act as a guard because when the witness anil kumar pw 21 came to the house he was not even stopped by the accused from entering the house.
9 scc 696 2012 indlaw sc 343.
he was merely seen by the witness as standing outside the house when the witness came home.
having regard to the role attributed to him and the absence of incriminating factors we find that it is not safe to convict mahesh of the offence of murder with the aid of ss 34 and 120b.
