Appeals Nos 45 and 46 of 1959.
Appeal by special leave from the judgment and order dated March 25 1957 of the former Bombay High Court in Appeal No 16 of 1957.
H N Sanyal Additional Solicitor General of India section N Andley and J B Dadachanji for the respondents in C A No 45 of 59 and Appellants In C A No 4659.
Against this decision the sellers appealed.
Accordingly they directed the Sales Tax Officer not to enforce the demand for payment of sales tax with regard to the sales of cotton for Rs 68493 2 6 and sale of castor oil of the total value of Rs 647509 1 6.
Civil Appeal No 46 of 1959 has been preferred by the sellers against the appellate court s judgment in so far as it upheld the assessment of purchase tax under section 10b.
11 and 13 of the writ petition that these sales were made on FOB basis were not denied in the counter affidavit sworn by the Sales Tax Officer.
52 of the Exports Control Order the goods shall be the property of the licensee at the time of the export would therefore mean nothing more than that the property in the goods shall pass immediately before the ship goes beyond the territorial waters of the country or at the earliest when the ship leaves the port.
52 of the Exports Control Order carries with it an intention that the property should pass to the buyer at the time the goods cross the customs frontier.
b of section 8 has been furnished in respect of such goods and the purchasing dealer does not show to the satisfaction of the Collector that the goods have been despatched by him or by a person to whom he has sold the goods to an address outside the State of Bombay within a period of six months from the date of purchase by the dealer furnishing such certificate .
Admittedly such a certificate was furnished by 932 Ms Daulatram Rameshwarlal in respect of the castor oil which they sold to others and that in respect of these sales to them their sellers were allowed deductions.
It is therefore contended that  a person  in section 8b should be interpreted to include a registered dealer or anybody else.
