Civil Appeal No 50 of 1961.
He was caught hold of by other workmen and taken outside.
Rule 18 a is in these terms When the management desires to determine the services of any permanent workmen 826 receiving 12 as.
As far back as 1952 the Labour Appellate Tribunal had occasion to consider this matter relating to discharge by notice or in lieu thereof by payment of wages for a certain period without assigning any reason see Buckingham and Carnatic Co Ltd Etg.
It was of opinion that even in a case of this kind the requirement of bona fides is essential and if the terminataton of service is a colourable exercise of the power or as a result of victimisation or unfair labour praction the industrial tribunal would have the jurisdiction to intervene and set aside such termination.
Further it held that where the termination of service is capricious arbitrary or unnecessarily harsh on the part of the employer judged by normal standards of a reasonable man that may be cogent evidence of victimisation or unfair labour practice.
In the circumstances if the tribunal did not accept the evidence of the two witnesses 828 who were produced it cannot be said to have gone wrong.
Learned counsel for the appellant however urges that the employer was empowered to take action under r 18 a of the Standing orders and having taken action under that rule there was nothing for it to justify before the tribunal.
We have already said that this position cannot be accepted in industrial adjudication relating to termination of service of an employee and has not been accepted by industrial tribunals over a long course of years now and the view taken by industrial tribunals has been upheld by this Court in the two cases referred to above.
Learned counsel for the appellant however relies on the decision of this Court in Parshotam Lal Dhingra vs Union of India.
Articles 310 and 311 of the Constitution apply to government servants and it is in the 829 light of those Articles read with the Rules framed under article 309 that questions relating to termination of service of government servants have to be considered.
No such constitutional provisions have to be considered when one is dealing with industrial employees.
Further an employer cannot now press his right purely on contract and say that under the contract he has unfettered right to hire and fire his employees.
In this case the tribunal held that the exercise of power was colourable and it cannot be said that view is incorrect.
Learned counsel for the appellant also drew our attention to another decision of this Court in 830 The Patna Electric Supply Co Ltd Patna vs Bali Rai1.
