Appeal No 787 of 1964.
Appeal from the judgment and decree dated January 5 1961 of the Calcutta High Court in Appeal from Appellate Decree No 1012 of 1955.
AK Sen and D N Mukherjee for the appellant.
The facts necessary for the disposal.
Fifth Additional 172 Court Alipore on November 23 1949.
Before the Subordinate Judge a point was taken that after the coming into force of the Act of 1949 the Rent Controller alone had jurisdiction in respect of ejectment suits as the defendant appellant was a thika tenant.
Abdul Gaffur preferred a Second Appeal to the High Court and this was heard and disposed of by a single Judge of that court on July 21 1954 long after the Thika Tenancy Ordinance of 1952 and the Amending Act of 1953 had come into force.
5 of section 2 the definition of a thika tenant or violation of a condition consistent with the Act by a breach of which he was under the terms of a contract between himself and his landlord liable to be ejected iii refusal to agree to pay rent at such enhanced rate as might be determined under section 25 iv requirement 174 of the land by the landlord for his own occupation or for the purpose of building on the land or otherwise developing the land except during any period limited by a registered lease under which the tenant might be holding v failure on the part of the holding for his own residential manufacturing or business purpose for more than six consecutive months omitting the priviso and vi on the expiry of a registered lease in favour of the tenant.
Sub section.
By section 2 of this Ordinance the definition of thika tenant in the Calcutta Thika Tenancy Act 1949 was substituted by a new one namely 5 thika tenant  means any person who holds whether under a written lease or otherwise land under another person and is but for a special contract would be liable to pay rent at a monthly or at any other periodical rate for that land to that another person and has erected any structure on such land for a residential manufacturing or business purpose and includes the successor in interest of such person but does not include a person a who holds such land under that another person in perpetuity or b who holds such land under that another person under a registered lease in which the duration of the lease is expressly stated to be for a period of not less than twelve years or c who holds such land under that another person and uses or occupies such land as a khattal.
1 of this section which enatced that Save as provided in sub section 2 the provisions of the said Act as amended by this Ordinance shall apply to all cases pending before a Court or Controller on the date of the commencement of this Ordinance.
Sub section.
Sub section.
Sub section.
1 of section 5 made the Act as amended by the Ordinance applicable to all cases pending before a court or a controller.
Sub section.
2 of section 5 made a special provision for cases where a decree or order for possession had been made between the commencement of the Act and of the Ordinance and delivery of possession had not been given to the decree holder.
2 of section 5 of the Calcutta Thika Tenancy Amendment Ordinance were to be continued as if such sub sections.
Sub section.
2 of section 1 made the provisions of the Calcutta Thika Tenancy Act 1949 as amended by the Act of 1953 applicable to all suits appeals and proceedings pending on 21st October before any court or before the controller or before a person deciding an appeal under section 27 of the Act.
According to Craies on Statute Law Sixth Edition at p 391 If it is a necessary implication from the language employed that the legislature intended a particular section to have a retrospective operation the courts will give it such an operation.
According to Halsbury s Laws of England third edition Vol 36 page 413 article 627 Unless it is clearly and unambiguously intended to do so a statute should not be construed so as to interfere with or prejudice established private rights under contracts or the title to property or so as to deprive a man of his property without his having an opportunity of being heard.
Before the Act had come into force the landlord could not possibly know that his suit would be liable to be defeated unless he applied to the controller because there was no such authority functioning then.
182 We cannot speculate as to why the legislature thought fit to omit sections 28 and 29 from the Act of 1949.
As Abdul Gaffur came under the definition of a thika tenant by the Amending Act of 1953 we have to proceed on the basis that he was such a tenant in 1949 with the result that he could claim the benefit of section 4 of the Act.
Consequently the absence of a notice under section 4 would not stand in the way of the landlord nor could his suit be rejected on the ground that he had not applied to the controller.
All that the section lays down is that ejectment could not be had unless the existence of one of the grounds was proved.
As section 4 of the Act was prospective only it could not apply to this case.
Bhargava J I agree with the judgment of my brother Mitter J with the exception that I would like to reserve my opinion on the question whether section 4 of the Calcutta Thika Tenancy Act 1949 as amended up to 1953 is prospective or not.
