Appeal No 949 of 1966.
Appeal by special leave from the judgment and order dated September 11 1964 of the Madras High Court in Tax Case No 181 of 1962.
M C Chagla and B R Agarwala for the appellant.
CJ V Ramaswami and A N Grover JJ.
The case was twice re manded to the Tribunal.
The appellants had for a long time business relations with a firm styled Bhojaji Sobhachand carrying on business at Bombay as importers of yam and also as agents and adathias.
Sobhachand one of the partners of Bhojaji Sobhachand with 16 share in the profit and loss is the father of Seshmal Ramniklal and Lakshmichand partners of the appellants.
In the books of account of the appellants which were main tained according to the mercantile system there was a current sarafi account in respect of their transactions with the Bombay firm in which were credited the funds transmitted from Bombay in respect of their business transactions.
Entries relating to interest were posted till the end of Samvat Year 2006 in the account on the amount due at the foot of the account.
A bad and doubtful debt due to the taxpayer written off as irrecoverable in the books of account was properly allowable in computing the taxable profits from business profession or vocation where accounts were not kept on the cash basis if the debt was in respect of a loan made in the course of the taxpayer s business as a banker or money lender or when the taxpayer was carrying on any other business the debt was in respect of that other business.
A bad and doubtful debt due to an assessee in respect of banking or money lending business is allowable under section 102 xi if it is in respect of loans made in the ordinary course of such business.
In the interest of justice we direct that the question be reframed as follows  Whether on the facts and in the circumstances of the case the Tribunal erred in disallowing the debt of Rs 268385 written off by the assessee in their books of account as irrecoverable.
 The two branches of the question as reframed then are 1 Whether the debt or any part thereof is in respect of loans made 419 in the ordinary course of money lending business of the appellants and 2 whether the debt or any part thereof is in respect of the other business of the appellants.
The Tribunal s order is very brief  it gives no reasons in support of the conclusions.
The statement submitted by the Tribunal is also inadequate.
Counsel for the Revenue however contended that there are three important circumstances which appear from the order of the Appellate Assistant Commissioner and the Income tax Officer from which it may be inferred that the advances made by the appellants to the Bombay firm were not in respect of loans in the ordinary course of the business of the appellants nor in respect of their other business.
But the Tribunal has not raised any inference from these circumstances and has merely observed that charging of interest cannot make it a money lending account.
The order of the Court was delivered by Shah J.
The Judgment of the Court was delivered by Hegde J.
In the assessment of income tax of the appellant for the assessment year 1952 53 relevant to the account year Samvat 2008 the assessee claimed a deduction of Rs 268385 as bad debt due from the Bombay firm incurred by that firm in the course of business transactions.
The tribunal accordingly submitted a fresh statement of the case on the question referred.
Hence by its order dated April 7 1970 this Court directed the tribunal to submit a further statement.
On the other hand the narrations in the entries as they stand the failure to adjust interest in the account of the Bombay firm at the stage at which it became a debtor in Samvat year 2007 the manner in which the partner of the appellant firm tried to explain the position in March 1954 and the stand of the firm itself at all earlier stages support the case of the Department 12.
Having considered all the circumstances of the case we are of the opinion that the sums in question were not sent to the Bombay firm as loans made in the ordinary course of the money lending business of the assessee nor in respect of any other business of the assessee.
 423 It is true as contended by the learned Counsel for the asstssee that the conclusions reached by the tribunal are not supported by proper discussion of the material before it.
It is also true that the tribunal after catalogueing the arguments advanced at the bar has come to certain abrupt conclusions but all the tame it cannot be denied that the findings reached by the tribunal are findings of fact and those findings are supported by the evidence on record.
