Civil Appeal No 1231 of 1968.
Appeal by special leave from the judgment and order dated the 20th December 1962 of the High Court of Judicature at Bombay in Civil Appeal No 151 of 1960.
B D Bal with A G Ratnaparkhi for the appellant.
After the passing of the Bombay Public Trusts Act 1950 No 29 of 1950 briefly the Act an application under section 18 of that Act was filed by three persons Bhaskarrao Chimanrao Deshmukh Ramrao Sahebrao Deshmukh and Ramkrishna Tryambak Deshpande as constituted attorneys of Vasudeobuwa who was described in the application as the owner of the property.
After him the present Buwa Purshottam came to Gadi.
Although it is stated in the document that Balkrishnabuwa was carrying on the Malaki he at the same time states with regard to the Sansthan thus  the same was entrusted to me by Shri Guru Maharaj  x x x x x I therefore thought that I should entrust the work of the Sansthan to you and have appointed you to the said Sansthan.
vs Sm.
And in such circumstances proof of user by the public without interference would be cogent evidence that the dedication was in favour of the public.
Are the members of the public entitled to an entry in the temple  Are they entitled to take part in offering service and taking Darshan in the temple  Are the members of the public entitled to take part in the festivals and ceremonies arranged in the temple  Are their offerings accepted as a matter of right The participation of the members of the public in the Darshan in the temple and in the daily acts of worship or in the celebrations of festivals occasions may be a very important factor to consider in deter mining the character of the temple.
Examples do occur where the founder may grant property to his spiritual preceptor and his disciples in succession with a view to maintain one particular spiritual family and for perpetuation of certain rights and ceremonies which are deemed to be conducive to the spiritual welfare of the founder and his family.
     The residents of the place where the Bhajans are performed attend these Bhajans.
3 There has been no evidence of any hindrance or restriction in the matter of continuous worship by the public extending over a long period.
5 Gifts of land by members of the public from the Taluka and outside it in favour of the temple or of the Sansthan for the purpose of maintenance of the worship.
6 Collection of subscriptions were made from house to house by taking Maharaj and also for Gulal  ceremony.
531 8 Treating of the Sansthan by those who are connected with the management as intended for user by the public without restriction.
9 Absence of any evidence in the long history of the Sansthan to warrant that it had any appearance of or that it was ever treated as a private property.
