 Criminal Appeal No 133 of 1975.
Appeal from the Judgment and order dated 3 2 1978 of the Andhra Pradesh High Court in Crl.
A No 62873.
About three months before the occurrence the deceased gave birth to a female child in the house of the accused at Cherlopalle.
After the ninth day the mother and child according to customary practice were taken by the mother of the deceased to her house at Krishna Kalva.
Cherlopalle is about 25 miles from Krishna Kalva.
This time he also brought with him PW 8 an elderly gentleman from his village.
After dinner all of them went to sleep.
The house consisted of only one room.
Attracted by the cries raised by the PWs 1 to 3 the neighbourers P Ws 4 5 6 and others came there.
After holding the inquest the dead body was sent for postmortem examination.
He felt giddy and was about to lose consciousness.
He regained consciousness next morning.
He commented on the failure of the Police to seize the mat or bedding on which the deceased was sleeping.
He therefore acquitted the accused.
Accepting the evidence of P Ws 1 to 3 which was corroborated by the evidence of P Ws 4 and 5 who came to the scene soon afterwards the High Court convicted the accused under Section 302 and sentenced him as aforesaid.
He submitted that the version of the accused that the occurrence took place at about 10 pm was substantiated by what was mentioned in exhibit P 15 the wound certificate given by PW 13 the Medical officer in respect of the injuries which he found on the person of the accused.
He urged that the knife was not seized by the Police under any seizure Memo nor was the knife sent to any finger print expert.
He also contended that two views were possible on the evidence and the accused was entitled to the benefit of doubt.
Merely because the Medical Officer stated that the victim could have received the injury if she was standing it did not follow that the injury could have been received in the circumstances mentioned by the accused.
He probably attributed the refusal to reluctance on the part of his wife to accompany him straightaway.
However the formulae  of substantial and compelling reasons good and sufficiently cogent reasons and strong reasons and the search for them were abandoned as a result of the pronouncement of this Court in Sanwat Singh  Ors.
After Sanwat Singh vs State of Rajasthan this Court has consistently recognised the right of the Appellate Court to review the entire evidence and to come to its own conclusion bearing in mind the considerations mentioned by the Privy Council in Sheo Swarup s case.
As observed by Lord Denning in Miller vs Minister of pensions5 Proof beyond a reasonable doubt does not mean proof beyond a shadow of a doubt.
1 61 IA 389.
2 AIR 1971 SC 460.
3 Al.
R 4 Salmon J in his charge to the jury in R V Fantle reported in 5 370 The law would fail to protect the community if it admitted fanciful possibilities to deflect the course of justice.
If the evidence is so strong against a man as to leave only a remote possibility in his favour which can be dismissed with the sentence of course it is possible but not in the least probable  the case is proved beyond reasonable doubt but nothing short of that will suffice.
 this Court observed Neither mere possibilities nor remote possibilities nor mere doubts which are not reasonable can without danger to the administration of justice be the foundation of the acquittal of an accused person if there is otherwise fairly credible testimony.
Where the Trial Court allows itself to be beset with fanciful doubts rejects creditworthy evidence for slender reasons and takes a view of the evidence which is but barely possible it is the obvious duty of the High Court to interfere in the interest of justice lest the administration of justice be brought to ridicule.
