1264 6771 etc.
 The High Court has struck down the aforesaid provision only on the ground that it suffers from the vice of excessive delegation of legislative power inasmuch as no criteria or guide lines have been 954 provided by reference to which the power conferred on the Administrator to refuse permission or grant permission should be exercised and that the section confers an arbitrary uncanalised power upon the Administrator with the result that the licensed dealer is at his mercy while seeking permission to carry on money lending or banking business on the security of any article ornament or both in the same premises in which he carried on business as such dealer.
The High Court s reasoning in this behalf is to be found in its judgment at page 87 of the paper book and it runs thus The Administrator as is evident from this provision is given unlimited authority or power to refuse permission or to grant permission.
276 of the Act as it stood prior to its amendment by the Amending Act No 26 of 1969 constitutionally invalid on the ground of conferal of a very wide and vague power upon the Administrator to grant or renew a license to a dealer.
276 of the Act is clearly inapplicable.
 In Harakchand Banthria s case supra this Court has further pointed out that even though import of gold into India had been banned considerable quantities of contraband gold were finding their way into the country through illegal channels affecting the national economy and hampering the country s economic stability and progress that the Customs Department was not in a position to effectively combat the smuggling over the long borders and coast line that therefore anti smuggling measures had to be supplemented by a detailed system of control over internal transactions and that the Gold Control Act 1968 was passed for this purpose.
28 are meant to prevent the circumvention of other provisions of the Act.
51 of the Act requires that the Administrator should have regard to the policy and purposes of the Act in making his orders.
Having regard to this position which obtains in the case sec.
We approve the view taken in those cases As regards the analogy drawn by the High Court from the reasoning adopted by this Court in Harakchand Banthia s case supra while declaring unamended sec.
276 of the Act invalid we would like to point out that while conferring power on the Administrator in the matter of granting or renewing a license to a dealer the unamended sec.
214 Guj.
e and public interest  in cl.
276 this Court struck down sec.
