Civil Appeal Nos3677 3680 of 1986 Etc.
From the Judgment and Order dated 1031986 of the Karnataka High Court in WP Nos.
4053 to 4056 of 1985.
The Judgment of the Court was delivered by CHINNAPPA REDDY J.
In exercise of its powers under section 637 of the  the Central Government specified 50 as the number of All India Tourist Vehicle Permits  which may be granted by the Karnataka State Transport Authority.
By section 24 of Amending Act 47 of 1978 a proviso to section 637 was introduced.
By the time the proviso came into force 36 permits had been granted by the Karnataka State Transport Authority and 14 remained to be granted.
By an order dated February 1 1984 the Supreme Court directed the Karnataka State Transport Authority to dispose of these applications.
A number of appeals were preferred to the Karnataka State Transport Appellate Tribunal.
A large number of applicants filed writ petitions in the High Court.
637 the preference became operative only if other things were equal.
 The proviso to section 471 prescribes that other things being equal a registered cooperative society and a person possessing a licence for driving transport vehicles shall be given preference over individual owners in granting stage carriage permits.
 Section 68 enables the State Government to make rules for the purpose of carrying into effect the provisions of Chapter IV.
 Sections 68 C 68 D and 68 E provide for the preparation and publication of schemes of road transport service to be provided by State Transport Undertakings the procedure to be followed etc.
Desai J speaking for the court observed However when an application for a permit is made under Chapter IV the Undertaking has to compete with private operators who may as well make an application for permit.
471 H however provides that in the case of inter State route the Undertaking will have preference in the matter of stage carriage permit.
47 the application of the Undertaking for an inter State route shall be examined as application of any other private operator.
In an application under Chapter IV Corporation has to enter the arena like any other applicant face the competition and come up to the level of other private operators intending to obtain stage carriage permits and then in respect of the route in question claim preference.
 What has been said by the Court with reference to the preference 1017 provided for in section 471 H applies with equal force to the preference provided for by the proviso to section 637.
A question was raised before us about the vires of the fourth clause of the proviso to section 637.
Clauses i to iii of the proviso providing for preference to be given to applications for permits from the Indian Tourism Development Corporation the State Tourism Development Corporation and the State Tourist Department were not questioned but the preference provided for by clause iv and to be given to such operators of tourist cars or such travel agents as may be approved in this behalf by the Ministry dealing in tourism was questioned as an infringement of article 14 of the Constitution.
In the second place we have no indication as to the manner in which the approval of the Central Government is to be sought and granted and the considerations which are expected to weigh with the Central Government.
637 of the .
