Appeal No 1713NT of 1973.
Not present  The Judgment of the Court was delivered by SABYASACHI MUKHARJI J.
1957 2 Whether on the facts and in the circumstances of the case the Tribunal right ly held that the assessee did not validly assign Rs 150000 in favour of his sons and grand sons by his letter dated 11.
1957 3 Whether on the facts and in the circumstances of the case the Tribunal tight ly held that the sum of Rs 150000 was properly included in the assessee s net wealth 4 Whether on the facts and in the circumstances of the case the Tribunal right ly held that the assessee did not make valid gifts aggregating Rs67560 5 Whether on the facts and in the circumstances of the case the Tribunal right ly held that the sum of Rs6756012 was rightly included in the net wealth of the assessee The case relates to the assessment year 1957 58 and the relevant date of valuation was 31st March 1957.
A similar letter was written by Ved Prakesh thanking the assessee his father for the gift of Rs25000 made to him and Rs50000 gifted to his son.
34 and 5 were answered in the negative.
In the case of banking companies or other firms and companies who have overdraft facilities even if the sums are not in credit of the donor and are not with such companies or firms gifts might be possible by adjustment of the book entries.
In the case of Commissioner of IncomeTax Ahmedabad vs Digvijaysinghji Tin Factory  on the contrary it was held that the gifts were valid though not sufficient cash with firm avail able but proper book entries were made.
The Madras High Court in the case of Mrs Ida L Cham bers and Three Others vs Kelland Huxford Chambers was dealing with a case where C proprietor of a business who had invested a large amount of capital in it caused entries to be made in his account books crediting his wife and certain other members of his family with sums which were debited to his capital account.
C was not in a position to make gifts in cash of the amounts credited in favour of his wife and relatives.
Rangoon High Court in Abba Dada and Company vs Commis sioner of Income Tax Burma held that the mere book entries were not sufficient in that case to constitute valid gift.
Balance of the firm was only Rs 15.
Memo of gift recorded on stamp paper.
Cash Balance was only Rs7626.
But the Allahabad High Court in the case of Gopal Raj Swarup vs Commissioner of Wealth Tax Lucknow supra had to deal with the wealth tax.
In the impugned judgment the Allahabad High Court had followed the said decision.
The Tribunal held that section 10 of the was not attracted and the sum of Rs 150000 could not be included in the property passing on the death of M and the High Court on a reference affirmed the viewes of the Tribunal.
But in that case the question in the present form in which it arises before us in the instant case did not arise.
As the respondent is not appearing there will be no order as to costs.
