Civil Appeal No 1709 of 1988.
A bogus identi ty card in the name of Ashok Kumar TNo.
59 T with the sign a tures of the issuing officer was also prepared by the r e spondent although it was not his duty to prepare the ident i ty card.
 After a detailed enquiry against the respondent and t wo others the Inquiry Officer found all the three guilty of the charge framed against each of them.
 It was also observed that there was no denial of a reasonable opportunity for the respondent to set up prop er defence.
After reaching this conclusion the Tribunal pr o ceeded to examine the adequacy of penalty awarded to t he respondent.
An appreciation of the evidence as done in the preceding pages would sh ow that the applicant had entered the name of Shri Ashok Kum ar in the pay roll for May 1969 and so far as other eviden ce against him is concerned it is mostly of a circumstanti al nature.
 The Tribunal seems to suggest that the respondent w as not the only master mind to commit the fraudulent act a nd there were others too and as such he should not be mea s ured with a different yardstick.
16  The expression all courts in this connection includ es civil courts and High Court but not the Supreme Court.
 This proposition in Dhirajlal s case was explained a nd the statement of law in Bidyabhushan s case was affirmed in State of Maharashtra vs BK Takkamore  Ors  It was case of supersession of the Corporation.
An administrative or quasi judicial order bas ed on several grounds all taken together cannot be sustain ed if it be found that some of the grounds are non existent or irrelevant and there is nothing to show that the authori ty would have passed the order on the basis of the other rel e vant and existing grounds.
 The learned Judge also said at 227 Now it is settled by the decision of this Court in State of Orissa vs Bidyabhushan Mohapatra that if the ord er of a punishing authority can be supported on any finding as to substantial misdemeanour for which the punishment can be imposed it is not for the Court to consider whether the 33 charge proved alone would have weighed with the authority in imposing the punishment.
Accordingly two incremen ts with future effect of the appellant were ordered to be withheld.
A government servant who is aggriev ed by the penalty imposed can agitate in appeal revision or review as the case may be that the penalty was too seve re or excessive and not warranted by the facts and circu m stances of the case.
 The last contention that the respondent fails into t he category of a workman and the Tribunal could exercise t he powers of an industrial court for giving appropriate reli ef is unavailable in this case since the respondent had ma de his choice of forum and was even otherwise dealt with und er the Government Servants Conduct Rules which are undispu t edly applicable to him.
