1947 relating to Door No 3 Item 2 in Schedule A to the plaint covered an area of 8700 sq.
But an affirmative answer to either question will necessitate an answer to the other.
 After reference to certain other decisions of the Court it was observed If a lessor brings a suit for eviction he is to prove the existence of a lease the relationship of lessor and lessee between himself and the defendant and the determination of the lease.
Again in Manibhai Hathibhai vs Arbuthnot AIR 1947 Bom.
 Shri Iyer submits that the appellants  case here is on a stronger footing than in the two decisions cited above because here in the earlier proceedings before the Rent controller and the Court of Small Causes a specific point had been taken that the tenant was only a tenant of the land and not of the premises which belonged to him and that this contention had been specifically over ruled by the appellate court after a consideration of the relevant mate rial.
It was only this limited aspect eviction on the ground of non bona fide denial of title that was under consideration of the Court under section 102vii of the Act read with the proviso to section 101 and the Court s observa tions on the question of title were one on a collateral issue.
A tenant shall not be evicted whether in execution of a decree or otherwise except in 560 accordance with the provisions of this section or sections 14 to 16 Provided that nothing contained in the said sec tions shall apply to a tenant whose landlord is the Govern ment Provided further that where the tenant denies the title of the landlord or claims right of permanent tenancy the Controller shall decide whether the denial or claim is bona fide and if he records a finding to that effect the landlord shall be entitled to sue for eviction of the tenant in a Civil Court and the Court may pass a decree for evic tion on any of the grounds mentioned in the said sections notwithstanding that the Court finds that such denial does not involve forfeiture of the lease or that the claim is unfounded.
 It arose under the Madras Estates Land Act 1 of 1908.
3 Dhulabhai vs State  was concerned with the interpretation of the provision in the Madhya Bharat Sales Tax Act barring the jurisdiction of civil courts in matters entrusted to the jurisdiction of the special tribunals created under the Act.
2 Where there is an express bar of the jurisdic tion of the court an examination of the scheme of the particular Act to find the adequacy or the sufficiency of the provided may be relevant but is not decisive to sustain the jurisdiction of the civil court.
The trial Judge rejected the application holding that question of the applicability of the Act was res judicata since it had been finally decid ed by the High Court between the same parties in respect of the same land in the earlier proceeding for fixation of standard rent.
These documents were executed on January 7 1953 but the respondent contin ued in the possession of the house property throughout.
vs Smt.
7 We may lastly refer to the decision of this Court in State of Tamil Nadu vs Ramalinga Samigal Madam and Ors 1985 4 SCC.
2 No such order shall be liable to be questioned in any court of law.
