A V Viswanatha Sastri V Vedantachari and K Sundararajan for the appellant.
K R Choudhuri for respondent No 2 1959.
August 14.
1 Saving of rights of certain lessees and others.
2 of section 20 of the Abolition Act.
In other words the third proviso according to learned counsel 559 for the appellant merely enables the Government to exercise the right conferred on it by the second proviso and therefore the Government if it intends to avail itself of the right under the second proviso must comply with the conditions laid down in the third proviso.
In other words the true meaning of the second proviso is said to be that rights created after July 1 1945 are only voidable at the instance of the Government and that being the position the Government must do some overt act to terminate the transaction.
 The argument of the petitioners is that the words  such rights  in the third proviso have reference to the rights created after the 1st July 1945 mentioned in the previous proviso and on that construction the lease in favour of the petitioners could be terminated only in accordance with that proviso by giving three months  notice.
If the third proviso also applies to such leases as the petitioners contend then the lease can be terminated only if the Government is satisfied that it is in the public interest that it should be terminated and that further in such cases the lessee will also be entitled to compensation under section 202.
In other words while under the second proviso the Government can terminate the lease at its option and unconditionally under proviso iii that can be done only if it is in 1 ILR 1195.
 It is pointed out that the attention of the Madras High Court was not drawn to the rule framed by the Governor of Madras in exercise of powers conferred on him by section 67 1 and 2 of the Abolition Act.
Any order passed by the Board of Revenue under this rule shall be subject to revision by the Government.
In our view the scheme of the Act is to render ineffective all rights created after July 1 1945 for a period exceeding one year.
But assuming that the effect of the second proviso is to make the rights created after July 1 1945 only voidable and not void all that follows is that the Government must do something to avoid them.
In out opinion there is no substance in the principal point urged by learned counsel appearing for the appellant before us.
