concluding his arguments he submitted that the respondent has been released after compliance of the order passed by the high court by furnishing the bone of good conduct and security to the satisfaction of the additional court of metropolitan magistrate delhi and there is no report of any misconduct or breach of the bond of good conduct by the answering respondent since the date of the order of the high court therefore the order of the high court is not liable to be interfered with.
it is the specific case of the appellant herein that the high court has not afforded to the appellant an opportunity to file counter affidavit.
the court observed as under if any report is filed by the probation officer the court is bound to consider it.
it was further submitted that the high court should not have waived off the payment of fine amount by the accused respondent and that the high court ought to have taken into consideration that the respondent has been in jail for only three days and had not put in substantial period in custody.
the high court also failed to take into consideration that the respondent has been in jail for three days and had not put in substantial period in custody.
we however part with this case with heavy heart expressing our strong disapproval of the conduct and behaviour but direct that the second respondent to pay a sum of rs 10000 by way of cost to the appellant herein.
it was further submitted by learned senior counsel appearing for the appellant that the court shall not direct release of offender unless it is satisfied that the offender or his surety if any has a fixed place of abode or regular occupation in the place over which the court exercises jurisdiction or in which the offender is likely to live during the period for which he enters into the bond.
1 when any person is found guilty of having committed an offence not punishable with death or imprisonment for life and the court by which the person is found guilty is of opinion that having record to the circumstances of the case including the nature of the offence and the character of the offender it is expedient to release him on probation of good conduct then notwithstanding anything contained in any other law for the time being in force the court may instead of sentencing him at once to any punishment direct that he be released on his entering into a bond with or without sureties to appear and receive sentence when called upon during such period not exceeding three years as the court may direct and in the meantime to keep the peace and be of good behaviour provided that the court shall no direct such release of an offender unless it is satisfied that the offender or his surety if any has a fixed place of abode or regular occupation in the place over which the court exercises jurisdiction or in which the offender is likely to live during the period for which he enters into the bond.
learned senior counsel appearing for the contesting respondent submitted that the order of the high court does not require any reconsideration by this court and that the high court while extending the benefit of pob act had clearly recorded in the order that the counsel for the state of delhi is not averse to the grant of benefit of probation to the answering respondent and therefore the requirement under section 42 of the pob act has been waived off by the state and that the high court took into consideration the fact that the answering respondent has faced the agony of trial for over 12 years and has also undergone some period in custody and while maintaining the conviction of the answering respondent the benefit of probation was extended to him.
it was therefore submitted that the sentence imprisonment awarded by the metropolitan magistrate has been suspended under section 389 of the criminal procedure code by the court of additional sessions judge delhi in view of the pendency of the appeal against the order of conviction is a continuation of proceedings and therefore there is no conviction against the answering respondent so long as the same is not decided by the court of sessions.
it was also contended that before making any order under section 41 of the pob act the court shall take into consideration the report if any of the probation officer concerned in relation to the case which the high court has miserably failed to do so.
the appellate court held that no interference is required in the order passed by the trial court regarding point of sentence.
the trial court heard the respondent on sentence also and passed the following order convict in person with counsel heard on sentence.
the court is bound to call for a report as per section 4 of pob act but the high court has failed to do so although the court is not bound by the report of the probationer officer but it must call for such a report before the case comes to its conclusion.
before deciding to act under s 4 1it is mandatory on the part of the court to call for a report from the probation officer and if such a report is received it is mandatory on the part of the court to consider the report.
the second respondent in our opinion was not justified in suppressing the material fact that he was convicted by the magistrate on an earlier occasion.
the high court vide its order impugned in this appeal has observed that there is no allegation that the respondent is a previous convict.
in the case of ram singh and ors v. state of haryana1971 3 scc 914 1970 indlaw sc 513a bench of two judges of this court in paragraph 16 of the judgment observed as under counsel for the appellants invoked the application of probation of offenders act.
1979 crl.
the additional sessions judge new delhi also in civil appeal no 7 of 2002 annexure p 2 dismissed the appeal as there is no infirmity in the order of the trial court and uphold the conviction order passed by the trial court on the point of sentence.
he has faced trail since 1991 he is aged about 57 years.
the brief facts leading to the filing of the above appeal are as under.
the appeal is accordingly allowed with costs of rs 10000 to be paid by the second respondent to the appellant as indicated in paragraph supra.
if he withholds a vital document in order to gain advantage on the other side then he would be guilty of playing fraud on the court as well on the opposite party.
in the case of r mahalingam v g padmavathi and anr.
it was therefore submitted that the high court passed the said order in the presence of the counsel of all the parties.
held the requirement of s 41 was not fulfilled and therefore the case remanded.
a person whose case is based on falsehood can be summarily thrown out at any stage of the litigation.
we have no hesitation to say that a person whose case is based on falsehood has no right to approach the court and he can be summarily thrown out at any stage of the litigation.
we therefore have no hesitation in setting aside the order impugned and remit the matter to the high court for fresh disposal strictly in accordance with law.
appeal allowed.
thus the contesting respondent has come to the high court with unclean hands and withholds a vital document in order to gain advantage on the other side.
