finally it was suggested that we therefore suggest that we sign an agreement with you for the period from 1st september1998 until the matter is finally decided by you under the tender on the existing terms and conditions with the charter hire being provisionally paid on an ad hoc basis at 90 of the rate which was prevailing under the existing charter party.
it was suggested that an agreement may be signed between them for the period from 1st september1998 until the matter was finally decided by the appellant under the tender on the existing terms and conditions with the charter hire being provisionally paid on ad hoc basis at 90 of the rate which was prevailing under the existing charter party.
charter hire rate worked out by the committee for vessel jag praja for the period from 1st september1998 to 31st august1999 was communicated to the respondent.
notwithstanding the provisions of cl 4 hereof should the vessel be upon voyage at the expiry of the period of this charter charterers shall have the use of vessel at the same rate and conditions for such extended time as may be necessary for the completion of the round voyage on which she is engaged and her return to a port of redelivery as provided by the charter.
it appears that the respondent did not respond to the said suggestion by the appellant but all the same its vessel continued to be on charter with the appellant.
the name of the arbitrator was also communicated to the appellant.
it appears that since charter party dated 6th may1997 was coming to an end on 31st august1998the oil companies sought permission of the oil co ordination committee a wing of the ministry of petroleum and natural gas for further extension of the charter party.
it was pointed out that all the obligations of the owners as well as of the charterers during the period the vessel was in use continued to be discharged under the charter party dated 6th may1997 even after the expiry of the period of the charter party.
before we proceed to examine the rival stands we may note at the outset that neither the arbitral tribunal nor the high court have gone into the question whether the claim made by the respondent would otherwise fall within the ambit of the arbitration clause in the charter party or not.
what is in dispute is whether the arbitration agreement between the parties had got extinguished after 31st august1998i e the date of expiry of the extended period of the charter party.
it appears to us that even the question in regard to the effect and consequences of non delivery of the vessel in terms of the cl 4 1 and 23 would by itself be a dispute arising under the said charter party with.
the writ petition was ultimately disposed of on 20th august1999 it was only after a gap of about seven months that on 15th march2000the ioc informed the respondent about the evaluation of the tenders in terms of the order passed by the high court.
admittedly after 31st august1998re delivery of vessel did not take place and therefore in terms of clause 23the vessel continued to be hired on the same terms and conditions except the term as to the hire charges on which there was disagreement between the parties.
therefore the terms of a contract between the parties can be proved not only by their words but also by their conduct.
emphasis supplied.
it goes without saying that the learned tribunal shall deal with the matter uninfluenced by any observations in this order on the respective stands of the parties.
however the arbitral tribunal answered the said issue against the respondent.
the learned judge also felt that the tribunal had erred in totally excluding from its consideration cls 23 and 4 1 of the charter party dated 6th may1997whereunder the charter party was to come to an end on re delivery of the vessel.
we feel that it would be proper and expedient to constitute a fresh arbitral tribunal.
the learned arbitral tribunal overlooked this aspect of the matter.
the registry is directed to communicate this order to the learned members of the arbitral tribunal to enable them to enter upon the reference and decide the matter as expeditiously as practicable.
the learned tribunal found issue no 2 in the negative and issue no 5 in the affirmative.
january1999coupled with the fact that they continued to use the vessel manifestly goes to show that except for the charter rate there was no other dispute between the parties.
having come to the conclusion that an arbitration agreement existed between the parties the question which remains to be considered is whether the disputes between the parties should be referred to the same arbitral tribunal which had come to the conclusion that in the absence of any arbitration agreement it did not have jurisdiction to entertain and try the claims and counter claims.
correctness of this order of the high court is questioned in this appeal.
appeal dismissed.
resultantly the appeal being devoid of any merit is liable to be dismissed which we do leaving the parties to bear their own costs.
in this context it would be appropriate to refer to cls 4 and 23 of the charter party dated 6th may1997 these are in the following terms 4 delivery redelivery 4 1.
the vessel shall continue to be on charter to charterers in direct continuation from 2348 hrs 22 09 1996 to 30 06 1998 the vessel shall be re delivered by charterers to owners on dropping last outward pilot at any port on west coast of india at charterers option.
the state of gujarat anr 1974 indlaw sc 253.
it was also submitted that the view taken by the high court being a plausible view interference in exercise of extra ordinary jurisdiction u art 136 of the constitution is unwarranted.
rendered by the high court of judicature at bombay whereby the learned single judge has set aside the order passed by the arbitral tribunal holding that they did not have jurisdiction to entertain and try the claim and counter claim made by the parties.
kindly confirm in order to draw up a suitable agreement accordingly.
in our view the principle of sub silentio is clearly attracted in the present case.
it is no doubt true that the general rule is that an offer is not accepted by mere silence on the part of the offerree yet it does not mean that an acceptance always has to be given in so many words.
