before the deputy registrar and before mr justice shah proprietorship was claimed on the basis that the applicant was entitled to it as an importer 's mark.
on reading the above quoted paragraphs from the above judgment with which we agree it is clear that the effect of making the registration certificate applicable from retrospective date is based on the principle of deemed equivalence to public user of such mark.
for instance under s 23 of the trade marks act registration is to be prima facie evidence of the validity of the trade mark.
it does however facilitate a remedy which may be enforced and obtained throughout the state and it established the record of facts affecting the right to the mark.
registration itself does not create a trade mark.
priority in adoption and use of a trade mark is superior to priority in registration.
before concluding we may point out that we do not wish to express any opinion on the subsequent events which have taken place in this case.
in the present case there is no evidence from the side of the appellants indicating abandonment of the trade mark by m s although madan verma the director of m s kay aar biscuits p ltd has filed his affidavit enclosing the registration certificate he has nowhere stated that m s ltd has abandoned the trade mark.
even if it is found to be necessary to decide this question as to property in a trade mark i have already pointed out that the courts of equity in england granted relief in cases of infringement of trade marks on the basis of infringement of the right of property in the trade mark.
the first trade marks act in england was passed in 1875 even prior thereto it was firmly established in england that a trader acquired a right of property in a distinctive mark merely by using it upon or in connection with goods irrespective of the length of such user and the extent of his trade and that he was entitled to protect such right of property by appropriate proceedings by way of injunction in a court of law.
in many of those cases the dispute was between a foreign trader using a foreign mark in a foreign country on goods which were subsequently imported by indian importers and sold by them in this country under that very mark.
the reasonable inference that could be drawn from this description surely is that the goods were the property of kipre and co and so also the mark.
to summarise therefore a trader acquires a right of property in a distinctive mark merely by using it upon or in connection with his goods irrespective of the length of such user and the extent of his trade.
in india the mark caltex was a totally new mark for watches and allied goods.
there is no evidence that that mark was used by anyone else in this country before the applicant in connection with that class of goods.
according to this provision not only a person should claim to be the proprietor of a trade mark but he should prove that he had used it as such proprietor on his goods.
unquestionably the applicant 's user was not large but that fact makes no difference because so far as this country is concerned the mark was a new mark in respect of the class of goods in respect of which the applicant used it.
under para 4 of the said notification the benefit of exemption was not available for excisable goods bearing brand name or trade name registered or not of another person.
explanation ix brand name or trade name shall mean a brand name or trade name whether registered or not that is to say a name or a mark such as symbol monogram label signature or invented word or writing which is used in relation to such specified goods for the purpose of indicating or so as to indicate a connection in the course of trade between such specified goods and some person using such name or mark with or without any indication of the identity of that person.
in short it was a competition between a foreign trader and the indian importer for the proprietorship of that mark in this country.
this court has held that the object of the exemption notification was neither to protect the owners of the trade mark nor the consumers from being misled.
it was held that the word meghraj was printed on all the printed wrappers and therefore it was wrong to say that the appellants were not using the brand name meghraj on its products.
it was further held that the burden is on the assessee to satisfy the adjudicating authority that there was no such intention.
the effect of the relevant provision of the english acts was that registration of a trade mark would be deemed to be equivalent to public user of such mark.
he could do the latter after complying with the other requirements of the act including the filing of a declaration of his intention to use such mark.
to my mind it is clear that even prior to the passing of this act the owner of a trade mark could maintain an action for the infringement of a trade mark and that action could only be maintained on the assumption that he was the owner of the trade mark and he had a proprietary right in the trade mark.
explanation ix defined the word brand name or trade name.
applying the principle of deemed equivalence we may clarify that if the ssi unit wrongly affixes a trade mark of another person be it registered or not or if it uses the trade mark of an ineligible person then such default would not be eliminated by the above principle of deemed equivalence embodied in s 28 of the trade marks act1999 as that principle is based on a deeming fiction which fiction is confined only to the provisions of the trade marks act.
as regards the question whether there could be any property in a trade mark the learned judge further observed on the same page as follows again turning to s 54 of the specific relief act which deals with cases when a perpetual injunction may be granted the explanation to that section lays down that for the purpose of that section a trade mark is property.
prior to the acts one could become a proprietor of a trade mark only by user but after the passing of the act of 1875one could become a proprietor either by user or by registering the mark even prior to its user.
these are considerations which are relevant in disputes arising out of infringement passing of actions under the trade marks act.
it is confined to the provisions of the trade marks act.
then came the english trade marks act of 1875which was substituted later by later acts.
before concluding we may refer to the judgment of this court in the case of commissioner of central excise mumbai v bigen industries ltd 2006 197.
apparently in such a case there is no question of infringement of any right of property in a trade mark for which any relief is sought nor is there any question of passing off so that it might be necessary to enter into questions of nicety as regards whether there could or could not be any property in a trade mark.
as a matter of fact the statute enabled a person to have registered a mark not only which he had been using but also a mark which he proposed to use.
i have also pointed out that the statute which came to be enacted in england in 1875 and the subsequent statutes did nothing more than to embody the rights in relation to trade marks which were already laid down by the courts of equity.
he in fact used it in respect of watches.
he has not been examined even on the question of alleged transfer of the trade mark in favour of the appellants.
as between two competitors who are each desirous of adopting such a markit is to use familiar language entirely a question of who gets there first.
appellants were engaged in the manufacture of biscuits classifiable under sub heading 1905 11 of the central excise tariff.
ltd v. commissioner of central excise delhi 2005 189.
elt 257 2005 indlaw sc 799sc.
in in re century spinning and manufacturing co ltd. 49 bom lr 52.
air 1947 bom 445chagla j as he then was observed in this connection as follows the question is whether in india the trade marks act of 1940 has made any change in the legal rights of the owner of a trade mark.
gaw kan lye v saw kyone saing air 1939.
rang 343.
fb registration under the statute does not confer any new right to the mark claimed or any greater right than what already existed at common law and at equity without registration.
one more fact needs to be mentioned that on 30 6 2000 the registrar of trade marks appears to have issued registration certificate on 30 6 2000 registering the trade mark meghraj in favour of the appellants with effect form 30 9 91 it appears that issuance of this certificate was mentioned before the cegat which rejected the rectification application on 8 12 2000.
notification no 193 ce dated 28 2 93 was issued to help the ssi units to survive in the market dominated by brand name trade name.
this was precisely the view which was expressed by lord justice romer in 1905 1 k b 592 to which i have already referred in the earlier part of the judgment.
mr shah however contended that by an agreement exhibit f made between the respondent company and kipre and co private ltd in 1951.
it was clearly provided that the mark monarch belonged to the respondent company that kipre and co private ltd were only to manufacture the food products as ordered by the respondent company and that the food products so manufactured were to be bottled and packed by them for its use and benefit and that therefore in spite of kipre and co 's name appearing on the labels the respondent company was the true proprietor of the mark monarch and that therefore it was entitled to apply for its registration as proprietor thereof.
even so far as this country is concerned the trade marks act of 1940 does not seem to have made any change in the legal rights of the owner of a trade mark as established by the courts of chancery in england.
notification no 193 ce dated 28 2 1993 was subsequently amended by notification no 5994 dated 1 3 94 para 7 of notification no 193 ce as amended read as under para 7 the exemption contained in this notification shall not apply to the specified goods where a manufacturer affixes the specified goods with a brand name or trade name registered or not of another person who is not eligible for the grant of exemption under this notification.
this aspect is important since one of the arguments advanced by the appellants herein before the commissioner a was that the trade mark belonged to m s ltd which was registered ssi unit lying closed since 1 3 1993.
no explanation has been given as to why madan verma has not been examined by the appellants.
in our opinion it is not necessary in this case to go into details about facts in the various decided cases dealing with importer 's marks.
but that is not the case.
that was enough in the eyes of the courts of equity to entitle him to a relief by way of an injunction in case of an infringement of his mark by some other trader.
accordingly the commissioner a dismissed the appeals.
abandonment of the trade mark has to be proved by the appellants in the present case.
several authorities were cited and were considered and principles deduced and relied upon in that behalf.
we quote hereinbelow paras 27 and 30 of the said judgment which read as follows at any rate it must be remembered that in this case i am not dealing with a passing off action or an action for infringement of a trade mark which is alleged to be common property.
this argument was rejected by the commissioner a saying that the appellants were using the brand name meghraj on their products.
appeals dismissed.
before the commissioner ait was argued in the alternative that the logo belonged to m section kay aar biscuits p ltd.
that the same was registered ssi unit that m s kay aar biscuits p ltd was lying closed since 1 3 93 and therefore the appellants have been using that logo of m s kay aar biscuits p ltd who was eligible for exemption under notification no 193 ce as amended.
