Samanta purchased the leasehold interest of Banerji and thereafter on November 23 1900 it appears that Samanta bad surrendered his rights under the previous lease in favour of the Raja and taken a fresh lease of the same 300 bighas on a reduced rent.
On June 10 1901 Jugal Kishore Lal granted a lease of 96 bighas out of his 400 bighas to one D M Mathews.
dThat an enquiry be made and the quantity of coal cut and removed by the defendants from the plaintiffs  coal land as also the quantity of the coal rendered unworkable be ascertained and a decree for the value thereof by way of damages be granted to the plaintiffs against the defendants.
The defendants denied that they had encroached upon the plaintiff   coal land and stated that the suit was barred by limitation.
The learned Subordinate Judge held that the defendant had encroached upon the plaintiff  coal land that the suit was not barred by limitations and that they would be entitled to the reliefs prayed for.
Learned counsel for the appellant contends that the said boundary should be fixed solely with reference to the boundaries given in the lease of 1894 whereas learned counsel for the respondents contends that no plan has been annexed to the said lease and therefore the boundary could more satisfactorily and definitely be fixed with reference to the plans annexed to the subsequent lease deeds executed in favour of the successors in interest of the appellant and the respondents.
No plan was annexed to this lease deed.
The southern boundary of this leasehold is given as the northern boundary limit of the leasehold land of Girish Chandra Samanta and others and the western boundary is shown as the eastern boundary of Chatkari Jorh as per the map annexed.
It appears that Samanta purchased the interest of Banerji in the leasehold of 1894 and thereafter at the request of Samanta on November 23 1900 Durga Prasad Singh gave a fresh lease of the same holding to Samanta and incorporated a map in that lease ie exhibit 3b.
The plan exhibit 3b annexed to this lease deed shows the boundary line between the two leaseholds.
As the plan is a part of the lease deed it is clear from the plan that the northern boundary of the leasehold of Samanta is the said line.
One interesting feature is that a map has been referred to in each of the documents and the said map shows that the line drawn from point A to point B is the boundary between the two leaseholds.
But a perusal of exhibit I shows that there is no reference in regard to the western boundary to revenue records.
The map exhibit 3b annexed to the lease deed executed in favour of the respondents  predecessor in interest clearly demarcates the boundary line between the holdings of the appellant and the respondents and according to that plan the disputed extent falls within the boundary of the respondents  holding.
It is well settled that a map referred to in a lease should be treated as incorporated in the lease and as 499 forming part of the said document.
The appellant denied the said allegation and stated that the respondents all along knew and had been aware that the portion of coal land in question belonged to and was the property of the appellant.
He held that article 48 of the Limitation Act applied to the suit and that the appellant had failed to prove that the respondents had knowledge of the sinking of the quarries and pits in the encroached land.
On appeal the High Court accepted the finding.
The High Court accepted the finding.
Appeal dismissed.
