292 and certain provisions were made thereunder.
This paragraph was considered by the Labour Appellate Tribunal in appeal from the Sastry award and certain modifications were made thereunder by paras 164 and 166 of the Labour Appellate Tribunal decision in appeal.
Paragraph 292 as modified by the Labour Appellate Tribunal decision came up for interpretation before this Court in State Bank of India vs Prakash Chand Mehra.
1 As the words of para 292 of the Sastry award as modified by the Labour Appellate Decision are almost the same as the words of para.
5356 of the Desai award we may set out the two paragraphs in parallel columns for comparison Sastry award as modified by the Labour Appellate decision For workmen who enterd service of the bank before 31st January 1950 1.
The workman s basic pay as on 31st January 1960 shall not be reduced in any case.
3In the matter of adjustment all efficiency bars whether in the previously existing or in the scales fixed by us should be ignored.
c Such increments shall not however exceed four in number.
In addition the workman will be entitled to draw his normal increment for 1953on 1st April 1963.
901 ii Subject to rule i the adjusted basic pay in the scale provided in the Sastry award as modified shall not exceed what point to point adjustment would give him or the maximum in the scale provided by the Sastry award as modified.
iii In the matter of adjustment all efficiency bars whether in the previously existing scales or in the scales provided by the Sastry award as modified should be ignored.
ivSubject to rules i to iii a workman s basic pay in the scale provided by the Sastry award as modified shall be fixed in the following manner aA workman shall first be fitted into the scale of pay of Sastry award as modified by placing him at the stage in the Sastry award scale as modified equal to or next above his basic pay as on 1st January 1959 in the scale then in force in the bank concerned hereinafter called the Bank s scale.
bTo the basic pay into which he is fitted under clause a annual increment or increment in scale provided by the Sastry award as modified as from that stage onwards should be added at the rate of one increment for every completed three years of his service in the same cadre as on 1st January 1959.
c Such increments shall not however exceed four in number.
It will be seen from the above comparison of the provisions in the two awards that the substantial provisions of the Desai award are exactly the same as the provisions of the Sastry award as modified except i for changes necessitated by the fact that the Desai award was being given in 1962 and ii the provision in the Sastry award corresponding to sub cl.
 The dispute between the bank and the workmen in the present case was this.
The bank claimed that under cl.
The bank further claimed that this being the maximum permissible under cl.
a b and c of cl.
a b and c of cl.
iv but this will be subject to cls.
iv and cl.
i and ii.
The appellant bank s contention is that two further annual increments allowed under sub cl.
d cannot be permitted in view of cl.
iv will take effect and give two annual increments for 1960 and 1961 which are beyond the date which we have accepted as the right date for purposes of cl.
Once it is held and that we hold that basic pay under cl.
ii has to be worked out as on January 1 1959 the two increments provided by sub cl.
iv of the Desai award.
Therefore two increments under sub cl.
d must always be given.
This interpretation is in accord with what was decided by this Court in Prakash Chand Mehra s case1 and that decision in our opinion would govern the interpretation of para.
b and c of cl.
d which will bring his salary to Rs 112 as on January 1 1962.
We therefore allow CA 1008 and set aside the order of the labour court and dismiss the application of Ram Parkash.
CA 1008 allowed.
CA 1009 dismissed.
