In view of article 229 of the Constitution.
The High Court overruled the prayer made on behalf of the government to stay the operation of its decision till necessary orders were obtained from this Court.
But we were told that in view of the decisions of this Court in State of West Bengal vs Nripendra Nath Bagchi1 and State of Assam vs Ranga Mahammad2 the High Court must be held to have that right as those posts are included in the cadre of superior judicial service.
The only question that fell for decision in that case was whether the government of West Bengal was competent to institute disciplinary proceedings against an addl.
The rule laid down in that decision is of no assistance in determining the question as to whether the High Court has power to fill up some of the posts in the secretariat.
There is less chance of success for a person seeking advantage for himself if the Chief Justice and his colleagues with personal information deal with the matter than when a Minister deals with it on notes and information supplied by a secretary.
Neither Bagchi s case nor Ranga Mahammad s case is of any assistance to us in deciding the question whether the High Court has competence to fill some of the posts in the secretariat by transfer judicial officers under Its control.
Just as the High Court resents any interference by the executive in the functioning of the judiciary the executive has a right to ask the High Court not to interfere with its functions.
The cadre with which we are concerned in this case consists of three parts ie 1 presiding officers of district courts 2 the Registrar of the High Court and 3 the judicial officers working in the secretariat.
If there is no such agreement it is open to the government to send him back to his parent department at any time it pleases.
But it was beyond the powers of the High Court to post Shri KB Panda as the law secretary Shri T Misra as superintendent and legal remembrancer and Shri PK Mohanti as the deputy law secretary.
In the result these appeals are partly allowed and the order of the High Court holding that Shri BK Patro Shri KK Bose and Shri PC Dey had no authority to hold the posts they were holding on or after October 10 1966 is set aside.
RKPS Appeals allowed in part.
