243 The appellants wrote a letter on 20 February 1975 to the President with copies to the Prime Minister Chief Justice of India the Chief Minister of Haryana and the Chief Jus tice of Punjab and Haryana High Court.
In that letter they further stated as follows The learned Judge met the members of the Bar on 15 February 1975 in the Bar Room Bhiwani.
He also accepted the hospitality of the Technological Institute of Textiles Mills people who also took him for a sight seeing from Dadri to Pilani.
Chandrawati.
The letter in question was addressed by the deponent to the President of India with copies to others with the sole object of conveying the opinion that the public expression by the Hon ble Judge of his personal views on controversial political matters con cerning the merits and demerits of the present system of the Government was not in keeping with the well accepted role of proverbial aloofness of a Judge.
In order to prevent unwanted disclosure of its contents the communica tion in question was brought personally by two members of the Bar Association Bhiwani to Chandigarh in a closed cover addressed to the Chief Justice for being handed over to him for his personal attention.
have no relevance or relation to the functioning of the learned Judge of the High Court.
The Full Bench thereafter referred to paragraph 9 of the affidavit where the deponents said that if in view of this Hon ble Court the action of the deponent in addressing the letter in question constituted for any reason contempt of court no one would be more sorry than the deponent himself.
Therefore the deponent tender his apology to this Hon ble Court for the same and prays for its acceptance.
In the absence of any finding by the High Court that the appellants committed any contempt of court there was never any occasion for acceptance of apology.
However if the speech of any Judge is criticised and if it becomes a disputed question of fact as to whether any Judge did speak or not as is alleged by the writer the matter would have to be ascertained by the court on facts whether the Judge concerned did speak on the matters ascribed to him before the court would take any action against the persons who would criticise the Judge s speech.
The High.
