Upon that finding the plaintiff.
Since the view of the High.
LR351.
Explanation 2.
Nothing contained in the proviso to this section shall be construed as enabling a person who has separated himself from the coparcenary before the death of the deceased or any of his heirs to claim on intestacy a share in the interest referred to therein.
 The Hindu Succession Act came into force on June 17 1956 Khandappa having died after the commencement of that Act to wit in 1960 and since he had at the time of his death an interest in Mitakshara coparcenary property the pre conditions of section 6 are satisfied and that section is squarely attracted.
By the application of the normal rule prescribed by that section Khandappa s interest in the coparcenary property would devolve by survivorship upon the surviving members of the coparcenary and not in accordance with the provisions of the Act.
The interpretation of that Explanation is the subject matter of acute controversy between the parties.
The son daughter and a widow are mentioned as heirs in class I of the Schedule and therefore by reason of the provisions of section 8a read with the 1st clause of section 9 they take simultaneously and to the exclusion of other heirs.
Thus whatever be the share of the deceased in the coparcenary property since there are six sharers in that property each having an equal share the plaintiff s share therein will be 16th.
The next step equally important though not equally easy to work out is to find out the share which the deceased had in the coparcenary property because after all the plaintiff has a 16th interest in that share.
Explanation 1 which contains the formula for determining the share of the deceased creates a fiction by providing that the interest of a Hindu Mistakshara coparcener shall be deemed to be the share in the property that would have been allotted to him if a partition of the property had taken place immediately before his death.
One must therefore imagine a state of affairs in which a little prior to Khandappa s death a partition of the coparcenary property was effected between him and other members of the coparcenary.
Though the plaintiff not being a coparcener was not entitled to demand partition yet if a partition were to take place between her husband and his two sons she would be entitled to receive a share equal to that of a son.
see Mulla s Hindu Law Fourteenth Edition page 403 para 315.
Khandappa would have therefore got a 14th share in the coparcenary property on the hypothesis of a partition between himself and his sons Two things are thus clears  One that in a partition of the coparcenary property Khandappa would have obtained a 14th share and 767 two that the share of the plaintiff in the 14th share is 16th that is to say 124th.
So far there is no difficulty.
The learned trial Judge relying upon the decision in Shiramabai which was later overruled by the Bombay High Court accepted the former contention while the High Court accepted the latter.
The question is which of these two views is to be preferred.
In other words the assumption having been made once for the purpose of ascertaining the share of the deceased in the coparcenary property one cannot go back on that assumption and ascertain the share of the heirs without reference to it.
The assumption which the statute requires to be made that a partition had in fact taken place must permeate the entire process of ascertainment of the ultimate share of the heirs through all its stages.
Even assuming that two interpretations of Explanation I are reasonably possible we must prefer that interpretation which will further the intention of the legislature and remedy the injustice from which the Hindu women have suffered over the years.
SR Appeal dismissed.
1 AIR 1975 Bombay 257.
2 AIR 1974 Guj.
