The acquittal was reversed by the High Court of Andhra Pradesh and the appellant was convicted under Section 302 Indian Penal Code and sentenced to suffer imprisonment for life.
About three months before the occurrence the deceased gave birth to a female child in the house of the accused at Cherlopalle.
After the ninth day the mother and child according to customary practice were taken by the mother of the deceased to her house at Krishna Kalva.
Cherlopalle is about 25 miles from Krishna Kalva.
The accused used to visit his wife and often used to stay in the house of the deceased s mother.
On 18th December 1972 according to the case of the prosecution the accused once again requested his mother in law to send his wife to his house.
This time he also brought with him PW 8 an elderly gentleman from his village.
The accused and P W 8 went away.
After dinner all of them went to sleep.
The house consisted of only one room.
The accused the deceased her brother PW 1 her mother PW 2 and her grand mother PW 3 were all sleeping in the room.
They caught hold of the accused and tied him to a pole in front of the house by means of a rope.
Thereafter P W 9 prepared his own report exhibit P 4 and sent it alongwith exhibit P 1 and MO 1 to the Police Station at Renigunta.
When the Police officers went to the village they 366 found the accused tied to a pole.
After holding the inquest the dead body was sent for postmortem examination.
The Medical Officer P W 12 who conducted the autopsy found on the dead body a stab wound over the left axila 6 cms.
nearly horizontal.
The stab injury had gone through the third intercostal space and through the upper lobe of the left lung in an upward and medial direction.
There was no fracture.
In the Committing Court the accused was content with a bare denial but in the Court of Sessions he stated that he went to the house of his mother in law at about 10 pm.
P Ws 1 and 2 taunted him saying we are maintaining you and your wife yet you come at any time you like .
They insulted him.
He felt giddy and was about to lose consciousness.
P W 1 came upon him with a knife to stab him.
The High Court observed that the learned Sessions Judge had magnified the importance to be attached to minor discrepancies.
He submitted that the version of the accused that the occurrence took place at about 10 pm was substantiated by what was mentioned in exhibit P 15 the wound certificate given by PW 13 the Medical officer in respect of the injuries which he found on the person of the accused.
The High Court was well justified in commenting that the discrepancies on the basis of which the Trial Court rejected the evidence of P Ws 1 2 and 3 were of a minor character and that they have been unduly magnified by the learned Sessions Judge.
Merely because the Medical Officer stated that the victim could have received the injury if she was standing it did not follow that the injury could have been received in the circumstances mentioned by the accused.
below the arm pit on the left side.
We may also refer here to the comment of the learned Counsel for the appellant that realizing that the motive would assume considerable importance if the case was one based on circumstantial evidence the prosecution tried to make P W 3 depose as if she had witnessed occurrence.
We do not think that the comment is justified.
After Sanwat Singh vs State of Rajasthan this Court has consistently recognised the right of the Appellate Court to review the entire evidence and to come to its own conclusion bearing in mind the considerations mentioned by the Privy Council in Sheo Swarup s case.
This of course is not a new principle.
If the preponderance of probability is all one way a bare possibility of another view will not entitle the accused to claim the benefit of any doubt.
As observed by Lord Denning in Miller vs Minister of pensions5 Proof beyond a reasonable doubt does not mean proof beyond a shadow of a doubt.
1 61 IA 389.
