Civil Appeal Nos.
Appeals by Special Leave from the Judgment and order dated 20 1 1979 of the Madhya Pradesh High Court in Misc.
section K Gambhir for RR.
5 6 in CA 161779.
For the purpose of holding election to the .
They also prayed for the issue of an interim order staying the poll which had been fixed to be held on December 31 1978.
Aggrieved by the order passed by the High Court Ashok Kumar Mishra and Bhagwat Singh Thakur Petitioners No 1 and 5 respectively in the 494 petition before the High Court filed a petition for special leave to appeal to this Court and Purshottam Lal Sharma petitioner No 6 before the High Court filed another petition.
It was also alleged that on October 20 1978 34 persons mentioned in Annexure P 7 approached the Deputy Collector to entertain their claim for inclusion in the electoral roll and he refused to receive their applications.
It was contended that on account of noncompliance with Rule 43 of the Rules which was mandatory the entire election process held on the basis of the defective electoral roll .
The petitioners were not entitled to any relief under Article 226 of the Constitution on account of the inordinate delay involved in the presentation of the writ petition.
The period prescribed for preferring claims and objections under Rule 43 was 30 days.
It is not the case of the petitioners that they did not know immediately after the publication of such notice that in the said notice a period of 20 days had been mentioned in its preamble as the period within which the claims and objections could be preferred and in paragraph 7 thereof it had been stated that any such claim or objection filed beyond the prescribed period was liable to be rejected.
It was open to them to move the State Government under Rule 6 of the Rules to make an order directing the Collector to follow .
No such appeal was presented.
The final electoral roll was published on November 16 1978.
By that time the nominations had all been received.
They do not show that any 497 of the petitioners had raised any objection with regard to the date within which the claims and objections could be preferred to the electoral roll mentioned in the notice.
We have therefore to proceed on the basis that it was only on December S 1978 for the first time that the attention of the Collector was drawn to the said error and that the writ petition itself was presented on December 28 1978.
It is well settled that the power of the High Court under Article 226 of the Constitution to issue an appropriate writ is discretionary and if the High Court finds that there is not satisfactory explanation far the inordinate delay it may reject the petition if it finds that the issue of Writ will lead to public inconvenience and interference with rights of others.
The question whether in a given case the delay involved is such that it dissentients a person to relief under Article 226 is a matter within the discretion of the High Court which as in all matters of discretion has to exercise it judiciously and reasonably having regard to the surrounding circumstances.
On the facts and in the circumstances of the case we are of the view that the writ petition was rightly dismissed by the High Court as there was no satisfactory explanation for the delay in preferring it.
We therefore find it unnecessary to deal with the other points urged before us.
