By the said Judgment and decree the High Court of Andhra Pradesh had reversed the Judgment of the learned Subordinate Judge Masulipatam dated 19th November 1964 dismissing the suit of the plaintiffs respondents against the appellant.
Late Shri Raja Vasireddi Chandra Dhara Prashad was the husband of respondent No 1 and father of the respondents No 2 to 5 herein.
There was medical examination by the doctor on the life of the deceased on 27th December 1960.
Cheque for Rs 220 was dishonoured three times and finally encashed on 11th January 1961.
The Divisional Manager Masulipatam Branch denied liability on behalf of the appellant Corporation on 28th January 1961.
It was further stated that the said two cheques were encashed and the appellant had duly appropriated the amount and credited in the accounts towards the premium payable by the deceased.
It was further stated that the averments in the plaint that the defendant Corporation cashed the above two cheques and appropriated the amounts and credited these in the account towards premium payable for the proposal were false.
It was categorically stated that the cheques were not credited and adjusted towards the premium accounts.
During the trial before the learned Subordinate Judge five different issues were raised.
The respondents plaintiffs examined Shri RV Bhupala Prasad son of the deceased and the Corporation on its behalf examined Shri Jagannadhachari the Superintendent of the Corpo 355 ration branch at Guntur.
B 4 the review slip prepared by the Branch office Guntur and sent to the Divisional officer Masulipatam.
In his deposition he had stated that the Divisional Manager was the competent authority for accepting the proposal for Rs 50000.
Normally it took some time for the Divisional Manager to accept.
He further stated that the amount would be transferred into the first premium register after the proposal was accepted and the risk covered.
He had produced the account books namely deposit account book and the first premium account book of the Branch office at Guntur.
Shri Brahmandrao Ramiah Assistant Divisional Manager of the Life Insurance Corporation office at Madras was also examined as the second witness of the defendants.
He had further stated that the proposal form was sent from the office at Guntur to the Divisional office at Masulipatam and exhibit B 1 to B 4 and B 8 were sent in this connection.
He further stated that according to the financial powers Standing order it was the Divisional Manager who was competent to accept a proposal for Rs 50000 exhibit B 13 is the copy of the Standing order.
In this connection we may refer exhibit B 14 which is the Life Insurance Corporation of India s Proposal Review Slip regarding proposal in the case of the deceased.
The endorsement therein of the assistant Divisional Manager read as follows NOTES AND DECISION  may be accepted at OR WITH EDB Shri Brahmandrao Ramiah had further stated that the papers were scrutinised by him in addition to the scrutiny by the concerned clerks.
He stated that the endorsement marked as exhibit B 14 was initialled by him.
He further stated that the letters DM  were also written by him indicating that the papers should go to the Divisional Manager on exhibit B 4.
He reiterated that the order of acceptance would not be communicated to the party if all the formalities were not complied with this policy he stated was not accepted.
When the acceptance was complete and when there was no requirement necessary and if the full first instalment was 356 in deposit it would be adjusted towards premium amount he stated.
Underwriting and Revivals a Standard Section Head 2000 Sum Proposed lives and Supdt or JO 5000  do  revival on ASO 10000  do  original ADM 25000  do  terms DM 100000  do  Note Proposals on standard lives for more than Rs 100000 should be referred to the Central Underwriting Section Learned Subordinate Judge by his judgment dated 19th November 1964 held that there was no concluded contract.
He held that as per the prospectus of Life Insurance Corporation of India the risk under the Corporation policy commenced on the date of receipt of the first premium in full or the date of acceptance whichever was later and the second instalment of the premium falls due on a date calculated from such date of commencement of risk.
The Trial Court therefore held that there was no concluded valid insurance contract between the deceased and the Corporation.
The Trial Court further noted that it was significant that the case set out in the plaint and the basis of the claim made in the notices sent to the Corporation was not that the proposal was as a matter of fact accepted by the Divisional Manager on the other hand claim was that it should be deemed to have been accepted.
The Trial Court was of the opinion that the proposal must be accepted by the Divisional Manager and that alone could give rise to a valid contract of insurance which never happened in this case.
The Trial Court further expressed the view that the other averments in the claim that the deceased was assured and told by the local agent and the field officer of the Corporation that the payment of the first premium would amount to the acceptance of the proposal were not established and even if such a representation was made that did not alter the position as under the rules the payment of the premium could never amount to the acceptance of the proposal if the proposal was not otherwise accepted.
In the result the suit filed by the respondents plaintiffs was dismissed with costs.
The High Court by its judgment dated 14th April 1970 held after considering the standing order exhibit B 13 and the various documents produced for the first time on record that there was acceptance of proposal and like 358 other contracts the contract of insurance was complete by offer and acceptance.
The High Court was of the view that the plea that Divisional Manager was the only authority to accept had not been categorically taken in the written statement filed on behalf of the Corporation.
In our opinion the High Court was in error in appreciating the facts and the evidence in this case.
The mere execution of the policy is not an acceptance an acceptance to be complete must be communicated to the offeror either directly or by some definite act such as placing the contract in the mail.
The test is not intention alone.
Having regard to the clear position in law about acceptance of insurance proposal and the evidence on record in this case we are therefore of the opinion that the High Court was in error in coming to the conclusion that there was a concluded contract of insurance between the deceased and the Life Insurance Corporation and on that basis reversing the judgment and the decision of the learned Subordinate Judge.
