Money lending business not to be carried on in licensed premises No licensed dealer shall unless authorised by the Administrator so to do a carry on business as a money lender or banker on the security of any article or ornament or both b permit any other person to carry on money lending banking or any other business in the same premises in which he carried on business as such dealer.
 The High Court has struck down the aforesaid provision only on the ground that it suffers from the vice of excessive delegation of legislative power inasmuch as no criteria or guide lines have been 954 provided by reference to which the power conferred on the Administrator to refuse permission or grant permission should be exercised and that the section confers an arbitrary uncanalised power upon the Administrator with the result that the licensed dealer is at his mercy while seeking permission to carry on money lending or banking business on the security of any article ornament or both in the same premises in which he carried on business as such dealer.
276 of the Act is clearly inapplicable.
The main object in putting the Act on the Statute Book as indicated by its long title is to provide in the economic and financial interests of the community for the control of the production manufacture supply distribution use and possession of and business in gold ornaments and articles of gold and for matters connected therewith or incidental thereto.
28 are meant to prevent the circumvention of other provisions of the Act.
Therefore in our view the objective the policy and the Scheme of the Act together with the necessity to ensure prevention of circumvention of the other provisions of the Act afford more than sufficient guidance to the Administrator in the matter of exercising the power of discretion conferred on him under sec.
In fact sec.
51 of the Act requires that the Administrator should have regard to the policy and purposes of the Act in making his orders.
Having regard to this position which obtains in the case sec.
We may indicate that the same provision section 28 was challenged before the Patna High Court in Bihar State Bullion Merchants  Association vs Union of lndia1 and the Gujarat High Court in Ramanlal Purshottamamdas Chokshi vs Union of India  Others 2 and these High Courts have upheld its validity.
We approve the view taken in those cases As regards the analogy drawn by the High Court from the reasoning adopted by this Court in Harakchand Banthia s case supra while declaring unamended sec.
e and public interest  in cl.
276 this Court struck down sec.
The appeal succeeds but since the respondents have not appeared there will be no order as to costs.
SR Appeal allowed.
