it case for initiating any procee d ings for contempt against the respondents.
VA Bobde Shyam Mudaliar VM Tarkunde GL Sangh i AK Sanghi Mrs R Karanjawala Mrs Meenakshi Karanjawa la NM Popli and VJ Francis for the Petitioners.
The reli ef prayed for in the said writ petition was for the issue of a writ of mandamus directing the Union of India through t he Director General of Ordnance Factories to promote the appe l lants to the post of Chargeman II.
With regard to the plea based on Artic le 16 of the Constitution.
This was an argument neither pleaded as a ground for the petition nor was raised before the learn ed Single Judge.
 It is against this judgment that Civil Appeal No 441 of 1981 was preferred in this Court.
It appears that a lar ge number of persons have been promoted to those posts thou gh they have completed only two years of service.
We see no justific a tion for any such differential treatment being given to t he appellants.
If a large number of other persons similar ly situated have been promoted as Chargeman Grade II aft er completing two years of service there is no reason why t he appellants should also not be similarly promoted aft er completing the same period of service.
We are not suggesti ng that the appellants are entitled to be promoted to t he aforesaid posts even if they are found unfit to be promote d.
If the appellants are promote d they will naturally have to be promoted with effect from t he date on which they ought to have been promoted.
This order will dispose of the appeal.
There will be no order as to costs.
Almost analogous prayer had been made in Miscellaneo us Petition No 9357 of 1983 also namely that the responden ts may be restrained from promoting officers to the next high er posts on the basis of recommendations of certain Departme n tal Promotion Committees without complying with the dire c tions of this Court in its order dated 2nd February 198 1.
The reliefs prayed for in the above two civil miscellaneo us petitions are thus of an interim nature.
They are as hereunder i pass appropriate orders directing the respondents to implement in true letter and spirit the judgment of th is Hon ble Court dated 221981 in Civil Appeal No 441 of 1 98 1 ii issue appropriate directions commanding the responden ts to promote the appellants to the next higher posts of Chargeman Grade I Assistant Foreman and Foreman wi th effect from the date they are entitled to after giving th em the benefit of the directions of this Hon ble Court dat ed 221981 iii issue appropriate directions to the respondents to give all consequential benefits to the appellants includi ng payment of arrears.
 The aforesaid writ petitions came up for hearing befo re a bench of two learned Judges of this Court on 9th Septe m ber 1987.
It was also brought to our notice that similar ly placed 125 employees got the benefit of the circular dat ed 6th November 1962 in pursuance of an order passed by t he Madhya Pradesh High Court on 4th April 1983 in writ pet i tions filed by them.
Howeve r merely on completion of two years  service a Supervisor  A  could not claim automatic promotion.
On the other han d promotion depended inter alia on availability of posts a nd the incumbent being found fit by the Departmental Promoti on Committee for being included in the selection list.
He also brought to our notice a subsequent circular dated 20th January 1966 by the Direct or General of Ordnance Factories who had issued.
62 and 4416ANG dt.
Having heard learned counsel for the parties we fi nd substance in the submission made by the learned counsel f or the respondents.
vs Sh.
Soraasundararn Viswanath  Ors 198 8 3 SC Judgments Today 724 wherein it has been held It is well settled that the norms regarding recruitment a nd promotion of officers belonging to the Civil Services can be laid down either by a law made by the appropriate Legisl a ture or by rules made under the proviso to Article 309 of the Constitution of India or by means of executive instru c tions issued under Article 73 of the Constitution of Ind ia in the case of Civil Services under the Union of India a nd under Article 162 of the Constitution of India in the ca se of Civil Services under the State Governments.
If there is a conflict between the executive instructions and the rul es made under the proviso to Article 309 of the Constitution of India the rules made under the proviso to Article 309 of the Constitution of India prevail and if there is a co n flict between the rules made under the proviso to Artic le 309 of the Constitution of India and the law made by t he appropriate Legislature the law made by the appropria te Legislature prevails.
Since Rule 8 in t he instant case prescribed a procedure for making promotion t he said procedure could not be abrogated by the executi ve instruction dated 6th November 1962.
This right was co n ferred by Rule 7 which inter alia provides that subject to the exception contained in Rule 11 vacancies in the pos ts enumerated therein will normally be filled by promotion of employees in the grade immediately below in accordance wi th the provisions of Rule 8.
The requirements of rule 8 in brief have already been indicated above.
Rule 12 provides 104 that no appointment to the posts to which these rules app ly shall be made otherwise than as specified in these rule section This right of promotion as provided by the Rules was neith er affected nor could be affected by the circular.
The ord er dated 28th December 1965 which provided a minimum period of service of three years in the lower grade for promotion to the next higher grade and the circular dated 20th Janua ry 1966 which provided that promotions in future will be e f fected in accordance with the normal rules and not merely on completion of 2 years  satisfactory continuous service h ad the effect of doing away with the accelerated chance of promotion and relegating Supervisors A  in the matter of promotion to the normal position as it obtained under t he Rules.
In the case of Ramchandra Shankar Deodhar  Ors  supra the petitioners and other allocated Tehsildars fr om ex Hyderabad State had under the Notification of the R aj Pramukh dated September 15 1955 all the vacancies in t he posts of Deputy Collector in the ex Hyderabad State avai l able to them for promotion but under subsequent rules of July 30 1959 fifty per cent of the vacancies were to be filled by direct recruitment and only the remaining fif ty per cent were available for promotion and that too on div i sional basis.
The effect of this change obviously was th at now only fifty per cent vacancis in the post of Depu ty Collector being available in place of all the vacancies it was to take almost double the time for many other allocat ed Tehsildars to get promoted as Deputy Collectors.
In oth er words it resulted in delayed chance of promotion.
It wa s inter alia urged on behalf of the petitioners that t he situation brought about by the rules of July 30 1959 co n stituted variation to their prejudice in the conditions of service applicable to them immediately prior to the reorga n isation of the State and the Rules were consequently i n valid.
While repelling this submission the Constituti on Bench held All that happened as a result of making promotions to t he posts of Deputy Collectors divisionwise and limiting su ch promotions to 50 per cent of the total number of vacanci es in the posts of Deputy Collector was to reduce the chanc es of promotion available to the petitioners.
It is now we ll settled by the decision of this Court in State of Mysore vs GB Purohit that though a right to be considered for prom o tion is a condition of service mere chances of promoti on are not.
 It i s therefore clear that neither the Rules of July 30 195 9 nor the procedure for making promotions to the posts of Deputy Collector divisionwise varies the conditions of service of the petitioners to their disadvantage.
vs Union of India  Ors.
As regards the order of the Madh ya Pradesh High Court dated 4th April 1983 it may be point ed out that the said High Court in an earlier writ petiti on being Misc.
Petition No 596 of 1978 had disallowed t he relief for the petitioners of that writ petition bei ng treated as Chargeman II on completion of two years  servi ce as Supervisor A  by its order dated 16th April 1979 as is apparent from the said judgment dated 4th April 1983 b ut the subse 106 quent writ petitions which seem to have been filed after t he decision of this Court dated 2nd February 1981 in Civ il Appeal No 441 of 1981 were allowed in view of the aforesa id decision of this Court.
At this place it will be usef ul to refer to an affidavit dated 19th November 1983 of D P Gupta who is one of the appellants in Civil Appeal No 4 41 of 1981 filed in CMP Nos.
It indicates that approximately 125 diploma holders were r e cruited in 1962 550 in 1963 250 in 1964 150 in 1965 a nd 100 in 1966 the total number of such recruits being appro x imately 1175.
The said Annexure further indicates that o ut of the 1175 recruits about 625 were promoted to the post of Chargeman II in 1965 66 under the 2 year policy contained in circular dated 6th November 1962 and that approximately 5 50 diploma holders were denied promotion which resulted in discrimination.
It appears that the remaining 50 diploma holde rs recruited in 1963 and those who had been recruited in t he begning of 1964 or thereafter could not be promoted inasmu ch as by the time their cases could be considered for promoti on the subsequent order dated 28th December 1965 had come in to force and had also come into force the circular dated 20 th January 1966 which had superseded the circular dated 6 th November 1962 and had provided that in future promotions of all such individuals will be effected in accordance with t he normal rules and not merely on the completion of two yea rs satisfactory continuous service.
It cannot be disputed that the Director General of Ordnance Factories who had issued the circular dated 6 th November 1962 had the power to issue the subsequent circ u lar dated 20th January 1966 also.
In view of.
Apparently after t he coming into force of the 107 order dated 28th December 1965 and the circular dated 20 th January 1966 promotions could not be made just on compl e tion of 2 years  satisfactory service under the earli er circular dated 6th November 1962 the same having be en superseded by the later circular.
It is further obvious th at in this view of the matter Supervisors A  who had be en promoted before the coming into force of the order dat ed 28th December 1965 and the circular dated 20th Januar y 1966 stood in a class separate from those whose promotio ns were to be made thereafter.
They apparently did not fall in t he same category.
In this connection reference may also be made to the cou n ter affidavit of Sobha Ramanand Deputy Director Ordnan ce Factory Cells G Block Ministry of Defence filed in Wr it Petition Civil Nos.
It h as further been stated therein that after the newly creat ed posts were thus filled by promotion chances of promotion of those who were appointed subsequently diminished and f or want of sufficient number of 108 vacancies as Chargeman II they could not be promoted to th at post soon after the completion of 2 years  service.
There is a further averment in the said counter affidavit that pet i tioners were duly considered in their turn and their nam es were brought on the approved panel.
These writ petitions therefore deserve to be dismissed.
 In so far as Supervisors A  who claimed promotion as Chargeman 11 the following direction was accordingly giv en by the Madhya Pradesh High Court in its judgment dated 4 th April 1983 aforesaid All these petitioners are also entitled to be treated as Chargeman Grade II on completion of two years satisfacto ry service as Supervisor Grade A Consequently notion al seniority of these persons have to be refixed in Supervis or Grade A Chargeman Grade II Grade I and Assistant Forem an in cases of those who are holding that post  .
T he petitioners are also entitled to get their present sala ry re fixed after giving them notional seniority so that t he same is not lower than those who are immediately bel ow them.
We are further of the opinion that it is not a fit case for initiating any proceedings for contempt again st the respondents.
