It came to the conclusion that exhibit P 1 did not in law create a valid lease between the co owners and the tenants.
We therefore answer the first question posed by us in the affirmative.
He submitted that if the tenants had filed a suit for declaration that the order passed in the earlier proceedings as a nullity that would have been bound to fail.
Thirdiv even assuming the argument of learned counsel to be correct all that can be said is that in the second set of proceedings the tenants could have contended that it was not open to the Court of Small Causes to go into the question of title in view of the decision in the first set of proceedings.
It was only this limited aspect eviction on the ground of non bona fide denial of title that was under consideration of the Court under section 102vii of the Act read with the proviso to section 101 and the Court s observa tions on the question of title were one on a collateral issue.
We do not therefore think that the 1969 decision can be an effective answer to the appellant s contention based on the 1967 decision.
A tenant shall not be evicted whether in execution of a decree or otherwise except in 560 accordance with the provisions of this section or sections 14 to 16 Provided that nothing contained in the said sec tions shall apply to a tenant whose landlord is the Govern ment Provided further that where the tenant denies the title of the landlord or claims right of permanent tenancy the Controller shall decide whether the denial or claim is bona fide and if he records a finding to that effect the landlord shall be entitled to sue for eviction of the tenant in a Civil Court and the Court may pass a decree for evic tion on any of the grounds mentioned in the said sections notwithstanding that the Court finds that such denial does not involve forfeiture of the lease or that the claim is unfounded.
All that the Rent Controller has to do is to satisfy himself that the person seeking eviction or fixation of fair rent is a landlord who has prima facie  the right to receive the rents of the property in question.
Per contra he may reach the conclusion on the materials before him that the landlord has no title yet it seems if he finds that the applicant is otherwise a landlord and that the grounds on which the tenant s denial was based were not bona fide he will have to order eviction.
So also in an application under section 4 the jurisdiction of the Rent Controller is to determine a fair or standard rent for the premises.
Can it possibly be said that the finding of the revenue court on the issue of adop tion is binding on the parties in a subsequent suit in a civil court in which the validity of the adoption might fall to be decided There can be no doubt about the answer.
However if the property is an inam village whether the inam village is an inam estate is within his exclusive jurisdiction and in regard to it the jurisdic tion of the Civil Courts is clearly barred.
The trial Judge rejected the application holding that question of the applicability of the Act was res judicata since it had been finally decid ed by the High Court between the same parties in respect of the same land in the earlier proceeding for fixation of standard rent.
The Supreme Court however reversed the judgment of the High Court.
We are concerned with the jurisdiction of a civil court.
