Raja Ram Aggarwal Arvind Minocha HK Singh SK Bagga SC Patel and SK Gambhir for the Appellants.
Kapil Sibal Additional Solicitor General SP Goel A Subba Rao CVS Rao Mahabir Singh Bishambher Lal and KC Dua for the Respondents.
1.
Counsel state that the facts in all these appeals are identical and that the only facts neces sary or atleast on record before us on the basis of which the issue us is to be decided are these Each of the appellants petitioners hereinafter referred to compendi ously as assessees  is a registered dealer in the State of Haryana.
He purchased certain raw materials in the State without paying tax thereon in view of the provision con tained in section 24 of the Act.
He then manufactured certain goods in the State with the aid of said raw materials.
He then sold the manufactured goods to dealers who in turn exported those goods out of India.
On these facts it is claimed the assessee is not liable to pay the purchase tax on the raw materials imposed under section 91 of the Act.
This claim has been rejected by the taxing authorities and the High Court and hence these appeals.
The writ petitions have been filed directly in this Court in view of a learned single Judge of the High Court having decided the issue against the assessees as early as 2511.
1980 in CWP 122780 which was also affirmed by a Division Bench later 2.
The Act is a much amended one and Some of its provi sions have been recently amended with retrospective effect from 27th May 1971 a point of time when actually a prede cessor Act the Punjab General Sales Tax Act 1948 had been in force.
The provisions of the statute relevant for our purpose and their relevant amendments may be noticed first 347 1.
Section 2e a Originally section 2e defined export  to mean the taking out of goods from the State to any place outside it otherwise than by way of sale in the course of inter State trade or commerce.
 b Act 44 of 1976 added at the end of the above definition the following words wef.
141976 or in the course of export out of the territory of India.
Section 2p a section 2p defined the expression turnover  as includ ing the aggregate of the amounts of the sales and purchases   made by any dealer in any capacity during a given period.
Explanation 2 to the second defini tion provided 2 The proceeds of the sale of any goods on the purchase of which tax is leviable under this Act or the purchase value of any goods on the sales of which tax is leviable under this Act shall not be included in the turnover but the purchase value of the goods liable to tax under section 9 shall be included.
 b Act 13 of 1989 amended the Explanation by inserting in it after the words section 9 the words or section 24.
c Act 1 of 1990 has amended the above Explanation retrospectively to say that the words but the purchase value of the goods liable to tax under section 9 or section 24 shall be included shall be omitted and shall be deemed always to have been omitted with effect from 275.
So we have to proceed on the basis that the underlined words never were there in el.
The 1990 Act also inserted an Explanation 6 to the clause wef 313.
 348 111.
Section 6 Section 6 the charging section read as under 6.
Incidence of taxation 1 Subject to other provisions of this Act every dealer whose gross turnover during the year immediately preceding the commencement of this Act exceeded the taxable quantum Defined in section 7 shall be liable to pay tax under this Act on all sales and purchases effected after the coming into force of this Act.
Provided that this section shall not apply to a dealer who deals exclusively in goods specified in Schedule B Goods on which no tax is leviable section 6 read with section 15.
XXX XXX XXX The earlier Explanation however is omitted with the same retrospective effect.
We are therefore of the opinion that this alternative contention urged by the learned counsel for the assessee has to be accepted and it has to be held that since the sales effected by the assessees fall within one of the three exempted categories set out in section 91b there can be no levy of purchase tax under section 91 of the Act.
