 Civil Appeals Nos 188 to 190 of 1958.
August 14.
Thereupon the Board of Revenue passed an order on December 27 1955 declaring that the lease to the appellant had been granted subsequent to July 1 1945 and that as the lease was for a period exceeding one year it was not enforceable against the Government according to the second proviso to section 20 1 of the Abolition Act.
The appellant promptly filed writ petition No 1 of 1956 praying for the issue of a writ of mandamus directing the State of Andhra Pradesh to forbear from terminating his leasehold right in the slate quarries.
The principal question canvassed before us is that the termination of the appellant s lease by the order dated December 27 1955 was bad as it did not give three months  notice to the appellant or provide for any compensation as required by section 20 of the Abolition Act.
1 Saving of rights of certain lessees and others.
The long title and the preamble to the Abolition Act indicate it is urged that the object of the Act is to provide for the acquisition of the rights of landholders and that the policy of the Act is not to interfere with the rights of other persons in the estate.
The Abolition Act was enacted by the Madras Legislature in exercise of the legislative power con ferred on it by the Government of India Act 1935.
In other words the third proviso according to learned counsel 559 for the appellant merely enables the Government to exercise the right conferred on it by the second proviso and therefore the Government if it intends to avail itself of the right under the second proviso must comply with the conditions laid down in the third proviso.
In other words the true meaning of the second proviso is said to be that rights created after July 1 1945 are only voidable at the instance of the Government and that being the position the Government must do some overt act to terminate the transaction.
If the third proviso also applies to such leases as the petitioners contend then the lease can be terminated only if the Government is satisfied that it is in the public interest that it should be terminated and that further in such cases the lessee will also be entitled to compensation under section 202.
In other words while under the second proviso the Government can terminate the lease at its option and unconditionally under proviso iii that can be done only if it is in 1 ILR 1195.
The reason for conferment of such an unconditional right on the Government is well known for it was on that crucial date that the party which came into power later declared its intention to abolish all zemindaries and intermediary interest in land.
The argument is wholly untenable.
