this is an appeal on a certificate article 1331 of theconstitution from a judgment and decree passed by the appellate bench of the high court of calcutta.
modifying on appeal the judgment and decree passed by mr justice bose on the original side of that court.
on the 10th june 1891 he made and published his last will and testament whereby he dedicated to this family idol.
he appointed his two sons rajendra and jogendra executors of ms will and provided that his second wife golap sundari and the two sons rajendra and jogendra should perform the seva of the deity and on their death their heirs and successors would be entitled to perform the seva.
dwarka nath died on the 16th march 1892 leaving him surviving his widow golap sundari and his two sons rajendra and jogendra.
41 and 401 grey street and appointed his brother jogendra the sole executor thereof.
the said suit was compromised and on the 24th november 1910 a consent decree was passed whereby jogendra and golap sundari gave up their rights to the sevayatship and bhupendra jnanendra and nagendra became the sevaits of the idol a portion of the premises.
jogendra died on the 5th august 1911 leaving a will whereby he appointed his widow sushilabala the executrix thereof.
the arbitrator made his award dated the 12th october 1920 whereby he allotted premises No 41 a grey street exclusively to nagendra as his share of the family properties.
on the 23rd february 1927 nagendra executed a deed of settlement of the said premises by which he appointed his wife labanyalata and his wife 's brother samarendra nath mitter trustees to carry out the directions therein contained and in pursuance of the deed of settlement he gave up possession of the said premises in favour of the trustees.
nagendra died in june 1931 and the said premises were ultimately put up for sale in execution of the mortgage decree and were purchased on the 9th december 1936 by hari charan dutt.
on the 19th july 1948 the family idol of dwarka nath sree sree iswar sridhar jew by its next friend debabrata ghosh the son of nagendra filed the suit out of which the present appeal arises against the appellants as also against susilabala and the two sons of jogendra by her amongst others for a declaration that the premises nos.
41 a and 402 a grey street were its absolute properties and for possession thereof for a declaration that the consent decree dated the 24th november 1910 in suit No 969 of 1909 and the award dated the 12th october 1920 and the dealings made by the heirs of jogendra.
the idol filed on the 20th november 1950 cross objections against the decree for rs 19000 and interest thereon as also the dismissal of the suit in regard to the premises.
grey street which was directed against sushilabala and the two sons of jogendra the learned judges held that the cross objection against the co respondents was not maintainable and dismissed the same with costs.
41 grey street made by dwarka nath under the terms of his will was a partial dedication and that his sons rajendra and jogendra and his widow golap sundari who were appointed sevayats of the idol were competent to deal with premises.
grey street after making the due provision for the idol as they purported to do by the terms of settlement dated the 24th november 1910.
it was further contended that nagendra by virtue of the award dated the 12th october 1920 claimed to be absolutely entitled to the premises.
on my demise none of my heirs and representatives shall ever be competent to take the income of the said land No 401 and spend the samefor household expenses.
in respect of the said two properties will be paid for the purpose of the carrying on the daily and periodical sheba and the festivals etc of the said sri issur sridhar jew salagram sila thakur my said second wife srimati golap moni dasi and 1st sriman rajendara nath and 2nd sriman jogendra nath ghose born of the womb of my first wife on living in the said house.
the question whether the idol itself shall be considered the true beneficiary subject to a charge in favour of the heirs or specified relatives of the testator for their upkeep or that on the other hand these heirs shall be considered the true beneficiaries of the property subject to a charge for the upkeep worship and expenses of the idol is a question which can only be settled by a conspectus of the entire provisions of the will pande har narayan v surja kunwari 1921 l r 48 i a 143 145 146 1921 indlaw pc 56.
grey street to the idol as its permanent habitation with only the right given to the sevayats to reside in the said premises for the purposes of carrying on the daily and periodical seva and the festivals etc.
they are to be registered in the municipal records in the name of the deity the municipal bills have got to be taken also in his name and none of the testator 's representatives heirs successors executors administrators or assigns is to have any manner of interest in or right to the said premises or is to be competent to give away or effect sale mortgage etc.
