the high court allowed the two appeals acquitted the respondents and dismissed the application for revision preferred by the state.
the state of andhra pradesh has come up before this court in appeal by obtaining special leave under article 136 of the constitution.
in the year 1929 the andhra engineering co which was originally a partnership firm formed by one d l n raju was converted into a private limited company with its headquarters at visakhapatnam.
as the aeco did not have the necessary capital to undertake the work raju floated in the year 1933 a public limited company called visakhapatnam electric supply corporation ltd and another in the year 1936 called the anakapalli electric supply corporation ltd the aeco transferred its licences for the supply of electrical energy to the consumers of visakhapatnam to vesco and similarly transferred to aeco the licence to supply electrical energy to consumers at anakapalli.
some time later other industrial concerns the andhra cements ltd vi jayawada and the east coast ceremics.
rajahmurthy were started apparently by raju himself and the aeco was appointed the managing agent of each of these concerns.
the original managing agency agreement in favour of aeco with respect to vesco was for a period of 15 years i e from 1933 to 1948 and was later renewed for the remaining term of the currency of the licence granted by the government under the electricity act.
this person however did not shift to visakhapatnam on his becoming the managing director but continued to stay most of the time at rajahmundry.
according to the prosecution both these concerns were running smoothly and efficiently during the lifetime of d l n raju because he was personally attending to their affairs.
his successor however apart from the fact that be continued to be staying mostly at rajahmundry was also interested in several other ventures including a sugar factory at dewas in central india.
in 1944 this person resigned from his appointments and started his own business in radio and electrical goods in the name of d brothers.
ganeswara rao was also an old employee of aeco having been appointed a stenotypist in the year 1923 on an initial salary of rs p m eventually he became the head clerk therein.
the respondent No 1 even after his appointment on two posts connected with vesco continued to work with the aeco also whose business had by then been confined only to that of managing agents of the four companies floated by d l n raju.
his dual capacity enabled the respondent No i to earn the confidence not only of the directors of aeco but also of those of vesco.
the knowledge of the financial position of vesco obtained by them used to be derived essentially from the respondent No 1.
the explanations of the managing agents and the directors of vesco with respect to the items mentioned in the orders of the board used also to be placed by him before the shareholders.
there were no complaints about the management of the affairs of vesco or the aeco till the end of 1946 or the beginning of 1947.
till the year 1945 messrs c p rao co a firm of chartered accountants were the auditors of vesco but after the respondent No i became secretary.
according to the prosecution the respondent No i wanted to take advantage of this fact and conceived of a scheme for misappropriating as much money belonging to vesco as possible before the managing agency agreement of aeco came to an end in october 1948.
the approver who was originally an accounts clerk with the aeco was it may be mentioned appointed a cashier in vesco in 1946 at the instance of the respondent No i and was thus beholden to him.
according to the prosecution the respondent No i took both the approver and lakshminarayana rao in his confidence as also some other persons known and unknown for carrying out his nefarious purpose namely the misappropriation of the funds of vesco during the subsistence of aeco 's managing agency of vesco.
i continued to be the secretary of vesco and resident representative of the managing agents throughout the period of conspiracy.
again the vesco was shown as indebted to the andhra cement to the extent of rs 42 000.
i and some of his friends were in search of a rich and substantial man who would be amenable to them to fill the post of managing director of aeco.
he was assured that by consenting to become the managing director be would not be required to discharge onerous duties and that the respondent No i would look to all the affairs of vesco.
the vesco used to receive large amounts of money from high tension power consumers such as the railways k g hospital the port administration the andhra university etc.
another thing which the respondent No i initiated was opening a heading in the ledger called advance purchase of materials.
it may be mentioned that subba raju used to visit visakhapatnam twice a month and check up the account books.
subba raju was not satisfied with the nature of supervision exercised by c section raju over the affairs of vesco because he used to look only at the cash book entries of the days on which he paid visits to vesco 's office to which he used to go with previous intimation.
besides that c section raju 's management of andhra cements had landed it into a loss of rs 30 000.
because of all these things he had c section raju replaced towards the end of the year 1951 by one subbaramayya a retired finance officer from the madras electricity board both as a director of andhra cements and as a supervisor over the accounts of vesco.
in january 1952 he therefore brought one section g krishna aiyar who had vast experience in the maintenance of accounts of electrical undertaking 's having been chief accountant of the south madras electric supply corporation to undertake an investigation and then to act as financial adviser.
in the meantime on november 29 1951 there was a meeting of the general body at which the accounts were among other things to be considered.
there was a considerable uproar at that meeting because the respondent No 1 said that the auditor 's report had not been received.
that was also the feeling of a number of shareholders who wanted to see the original but one dutt who was chairman of the meeting after seeing exhibit p 234 said that the report seemed to be a genuine one.
section g krishna aiyar after his appointment in january 1952 made close enquiry and submitted an interim report.
on february 12 1952 the respondent No i wrote to the managing director admitting his responsibility and agreed to make good the amounts found short or such other amounts as would be found short up to the end of march 1952.
further scrutiny of the accounts was being carried out by krishna aiyar and in his subsequent report he pointed out that rs 2 38 000 which were shown as having been paid to the andhra power system had actually not been paid.
in fact in april 1952 the collector attached vesco properties for realising this amount.
on april 30 1952 the respondent No 1 by selling some of his property himself paid rs 50 000 to the andhra power system towards the sum due to it from vesco and had promised to pay the balance shortly thereafter.
on the next day the police placed an armed guard around the office of the respondent No i and seized a number of papers.
as a result of investigation they found that there was a total misappropriation of rs 3 40 000.
on may 13 1954 a chargesheet was filed against the two respondents as well as murti and the approver ramana.
od september 13 1954 ramana offered to make a full confession to the additional district magistrate independent who was empowered to grant pardon under section 337 of i he code of criminal procedure.
charge of conspiracy according to the high court can be validly made only when the prosecution establishes that every conspirator expected to receive a personal benefit from it and that the prosecution has not been able to establish that the respondent No 2 or the approver evidently had any such expectations since they did not in fact receive any corresponding benefit.
the approver 's evidence was held by the high court to be inadmissible because the pardon granted to him was illegal.
the high court has also held that his evidence is unreliable and further that the additional sessions judge was in error in allowing him to refresh his memory by referring to various documents in a manner not permitted by section 159 of the evidence act.
the high court has further stated that inadmissible evidence was taken on record by the additional sessions judge namely account books of billimoria brothers maintained in gujrati and further that the additional sessions judge was in error in allowing the prosecution to use those account books for establishing absence of entries with regard to certain payments alleged in the vesco books to have been made to them.
finally the high court held that the examination of the respondent under section 342 of the code was unfair for a number of reasons and that the additional sessions judge had failed to perform an important duty in that he did not call the attention of the respondents to the provisions of section 342 which enable an accused person to give evidence in his own behalf.
mr bhimasankaram appearing for the two respondents however has not sought to support the judgment of the high court on all these points.
the points which he urged are briefly these 1 that there was a misjoinder of charges and persons in that the various provisions of section 239 were clubbed together and an omnibus charge of conspiracy was framed which on its face was one likely to embarrass the respondents and make their task of defending themselves difficult.
the evidence of the approver was inadmissible because the pardon granted to him was illegal that in any case it is unreliable was so found even by the sessions judge and must therefore be rejected.
the first charge is in respect of the conspiracy alleged to have been entered into by the two respondents k v ramana the approver and others known and unknown to commit criminal breach of trust of the funds of vesco and in order to screen its detection to falsify the accounts of vesco and to use forged documents as genuine.
the second charge is for an offence of criminal breach of trust punishable under section 409 and the accusation therein is that the two respondents along with ramana misappropriated 69 items aggregating to a little over rs 3 20 000.
ramana made false entries on seven different dates in the account books between september 19 1947 and march 18 1952 and thus committed an offence under section 477 a i p c the fourth charge is that the two respondents along with the approver.
ramana forged six documents on different dates between march 28 1949 and november 12 1951 and thus committed an offence under section 471 read with section 467 i p c as we have pointed out earlier the respondent No i alone was convicted by the additional sessions judge in respect of the third and fourth charges.
mr bhimasankaram supports the reason given by the high court for coming to the conclusion that there was a misjoinder of charges.
the main reasons upon which the conclusion of the high court is based are firstly that there could be no clubbing together of the provisions of the various clauses of section 239 and secondly that the respondents were charged with more than three offences of the same kind and that this was in contravention of section 239 c. in coming to the conclusion that the provisions of various clauses of section 239 can not be applied cumulatively the high court has relied upon the decision in re vankavalapati gopala rao 1956 airandhra 21.
there the learned judges have held thus these clauses are mutually exclusive and they can not be simultaneously applied and to construe them as supplementing each other would be enlarging the scope of the exceptions.
a to g can be tried together in one case which certainly involves a bewildering multiplicity of charges and which would obviously set at naught the salutary principle contained in section 233.
section 233 provides that for every distinct offence of which any person is accused there shall be a separate charge.
section 2351 however goes a step further and permits the trial of a person for more offences than one if they are so connected together as to form the same transaction.
sub s 2 of section 235 deals with a case where an offence falls within two definitions and sub s 3 deals with a case in which a number of acts are alleged against an accused person different com binations of which may constitute different offences.
then we come to section 236 which provides that if a single act or series of acts is of such a nature that it is doubtful which of several offences the facts which can be proved will constitute the accused may be charged with having committed all or any of such offences and further provides that any number of such charges may be tried together.
it also permits that charges could be framed against an accused person in the alternative if the court thinks fit.
now if the respondent No 1 were alone tried upon the second third and the fourth charges the provisions of section 2351 could have been pressed in aid if the allegations were that the offences were so connected together as to form one and the same transaction and the validity of the trial would not have been open to any attack.
similarly if the second respondent were alone tried on the second charge his trial would not have been open to any objection if the allegation were that the offences were so connected together as to form the same transaction.
if the intention of the legislature was that the provisions of these clauses should be available only alternatively it would have used the word or and not and which has the opposite effect.
the opening words of the section show that it is an enabling provision and therefore the court has a discretion to avail itself cumulatively of two or more clauses.
section 234 can not also be regarded as an overriding provision because reading it that way will lead to the clear result that whereas several accused persons can be charged at the same trial with any number of different offences committed by them in the course of the same transaction they can not be tried also for offences of the same kind exceeding three in number and committed beyond a space of 12 months from the first to the last.
there are also other reasons which point to this conclusion which we will set out while considering the argument advanced by mr bhimasankaram.
bhimasankaram contended that s 239 must be read at least subject to sections 2341 and 2351 on the ground.
in this connection he relied upon the words within the meaning of section 224 occurring in cl.
but it would be open to the court to resort to those provisions even in the case of a joint trial of several persons permissible under section 239 s 236.
is not strictly germane to the question considered by the high court that is clubbing together all the provisions of the various clauses of section 239.
a large number of decisions of the different high courts and one of the privy council have been considered in this case.
where however several offences are alleged to have been committed by several accused persons it may be more reasonable to follow the normal rule of separate trials.
but here again if those offences are alleged not to be wholly unconnected but as forming part of the same transaction the only consideration that will justify separate trials would be the embarrassment or difficulty caused to the accused persons in defending themselves.
but we find it difficult to appreciate what seems to be the view of the high court that because each clause of section 239 enunciates a separate principle those principles are so to speak mutually exclusive and can not be cumulatively resorted to for trying several persons jointly in respect of several offences even though they form part of the same transaction.
the transaction in which all of them have participated is the same and the abetment by x y and z of the offence committed by a b and c would itself establish the connection of their acts with those of x y and z next let us take cls.
a and c c provides that persons accused of more than one offence of the same kind within the meaning of section 234 committed by them jointly within the period of twelve months could also be charged and tried together.
two persons a and b enter a house at night and first together commit the murder of a man sleeping there and then also his wife.
p c clearly was to prevent multiplicity of trials and not only would that object be defeated but an extraordinary result will ensue if the various clauses of section 239 are read disjunctively.
the decision in singarachariar 's case 1934 indlaw mad 352 c has really no bearing upon the point before us.
in that case the question was whether a person who was first tried for an offence under section 380 i p c for stealing a blank second class railway ticket from the booking office tried for it and acquitted could not be tried subsequently for the offence of forgery by making entries in that ticket and using it.
in d k chandra 's case 1951 indlaw mum 117 f b it was held that the provisions of sections 234 235 and 236.
being exceptions to section 233 must be strictly construed and that if joinder of charges did not fall under any of them it would be illegal and contrary to law.
the precise point which we have to consider here did not fall for consideration in that case i e whether the provisions of the various clauses of section 239 could be used together or not.
on the other band there is the decision of this court in the state of andhra pradesh v kandinmlla subbaiah which is to the effect that where several persons had committed offences in the course of the same transactions they could jointly be tried in respect of all those offences under section 239 of the code of criminal procedure and the limitation placed by section 234 of the code could not come into operation.
two of the accused persons preferred a revision application before the high court of andhra pradesh in which they challenged the charges framed against them.
but on appeal by the state of andhra pradesh to this court this court held that there was no misjoinder of charges that the introduction of a large number of charges spread over a long period was a question of propriety and that it should be left to the judge or the magistrate trying the case to adopt the course which he thought to be appropriate in the facts and circumstances of the case.
it is true that the question of reading the various clauses cumulatively did not specifically arise for decision in that case but the high court had held that the first charge was an omnibus charge containing as many as 203 offences and that it was in direct violation of sections 234 235 and 239 of the code of criminal procedure.
dealing with this matter this court held at p 200 no doubt sub s 1 of section 234 provides that not more than three offences of the same kind committed by an accused person within the space of 12 months can be tried at the same trial.
therefore where the alleged offences have been committed in the course of the same transaction the limitation placed by section 234 1 can not operate.
there remains the decision of this court in k v krishna murthy iyer v the state of madras in on which mr bhimasankaram strongly relied.
but in the case before us no objection was taken to multiplicity or misjoinder of charges before the learned additional sessions judge and it was only in the high court that the point was raised.
this is quite clear from the provisions of section 537 of the code as amended by act 26 of 1955.
the whole question has again been examined by this court recently in birichh bhuian v the state of bihar subba rao j who delivered the judgment of the court has stated the position thus even if we were to assume that there has been a misjoinder of charges in violation of the provisions of sections 233 to 239 of the code the high court was incompetent to set aside the conviction of the respondents without coming to the definite conclusion that misjoinder had occasioned failure of justice.
merely because the accused persons are charged with a large number of offences and convicted at the trial the conviction can not be set aside by the appellate court unless it in fact came to the conclusion that the accused persons were embarrassed in their defence with the result that there was a failure of injustice.
a similar view was expressed by the same high court in the case which was reversed by this court in the state of andhra pradesh v kandinalla subbaiah 1962 2 scr 194 and it was held that conspiracy to commit an offence being itself an offence a person can be separately charged with respect to such a conspiracy.
that the several instances of cheating being alleged to be in pursuance of that conspiracy were parts of the same transaction and therefore the joint trial of the accused persons for the different offences was not vitiated.
mr bhimasankaram then relying upon the decision in r v dawson 1960 2 w l r 435 contended that in any event it was not desirable to try the respondents at the same trial for as many as 83 offences and pointed out that these observations had received the approval of this court in the state of andhra pradesh v kandimalla subbaiah 1962 2 b c r 194.
again what was said by this court was that it is undesirable to complicate a trial by introducing a large number of charges spread over a long period but even so this was a question of propriety which should be left to the discretion of the judge or magistrate trying the case.
criminal conspiracy was however not an unknown thing before the amendment of the indian penal code in 1913.
but it does not follow that where crimes have been committed the liability to punishment already incurred under section 120 b by having entered into a criminal conspiracy is thereby wiped away.
in so far as the portion included in the bracket is concerned we agree with the learned counsel that it should not have found place there.
we do not think that either that or the other objection raised that is that the charge embraces within it all the offences said to have been committed by the respondents can properly.
the object in saying what has been set out in the first charge was only to give notice to the respondents as to the ambit of the conspiracy to which they will have to answer and nothing more.
even assuming for a moment that this charge is cumbersome in the absence of any objection by the respondents at the proper time and in the absence of any material from which we could infer prejudice they are precluded by the provisions of section 225 from complaining about it at any rate after their conviction by the trial court.
coming to the next point of mr bhimsankaram regarding the abuse of powers under section 342 his first contention was that long and involved questions were put to the respondents.
finally he said that the court did not perform its duty under section 342 4 of the code as amended as it failed to bring to the notice of the respondents that they may if they chose give evidence in their defence.
that is to say they have given their explantion regarding the circumstances appearing in the evidence set out in the questions and wherever that was not feasible they have said that they would do so in their written statements.
what the learned additional sessions judge has done is to err on the side of over cautiousness by putting every circumstance appearing in the evidence to the respondents for eliciting their explanations.
his object was to obviate the possibility of a complaint before the appellate court that they were denied the opportunity of explaining the circumstances appearing in evidence against them because of defective questions.
undoubtedly the learned additional sessions judge has questioned the respondents very fully and elaborately but to say that this bordered on cross examination is wholly unjustifiable.
the object of the learned additional sessions judge quite clearly was as already stated to leave no loophole for a complaint to be made before the appellate court of incomplete or insufficient examination under section 342 finally we are clear that it was not the duty of the court to draw the pointed attention of the respondents to the provisions of sub s 4 of section 342 and tell them that they may if they chose enter the witness box.
the new provision however does no more than lift the ban and does not impose a duty on the court to draw the attention of an accused person to its contents.
no complaint was made by the respondents even in appeal that they were ignorant of their right that had they known about it they would have given evidence on oath in their defence and that because of this they have been prejudiced.
the entries in the account books of vesco show that certain sums of money were paid to various parties crompton engineering co lumin electric co d brothers radio and electrical madras vizagapatam municipality p v ramanayya bros and andhra power system.
the high court has pointed out that the main evidence on which the prosecution rests its case that the amount represented by the entries against these various firms were in.
the prosecution be established by reference to section 34 of the indian evidence act which reads thus.
what it does is to make entries in books of account regularly kept in the course of business relevant in all proceedings in a court of law.
therefore when a sues b for a sum of money it is open to him to put his account books in evidence provided they are regularly kept in the course of business and show by reference to them that the amount claimed by him is debited against b the entry though made by a in his own account books and though it is in his own favour is a piece of evidence which the court may take into consideration for the purpose of determining whether the amount referred to therein was in fact paid by a to b the entry by itself is of no help to a in his claim against b but it can be considered by the court along with the evidence of a for drawing the conclusion that the amount was paid by a to b to this limited extent entries in the account books are relevant and can be proved.
cal 1024 upon which reliance is placed by the high court in support of its view is also to that effect.
similarly in ram prashad singh v lakhpati koer 1902 i l r 30.
lord robertson during the course of the hearing has observed that no inference can be drawn from the absence of any entry relating to any particular matter which observation supports the view taken in queen empress v girish chander banerjee 1884 i l r 10 c l 1024.
some of the facts in issue in this case are whether payments of certain sums of money were made to crompton engineering co and other firms or authorities.
similarly there is section 5 of the evidence act which reads thus it is the case of the prosecution that the alleged payments were never made by vesco to the various firms.
it may further be mentioned that the account books of vesco show certain payments made to billimoria co of kharagpur.
papers seized by the police include receipts purporting to have been signed by one j j billimoria on behalf of the firm.
the prosecution case is that these receipts are forged documents and the entries in the account books of vesco are false.
in coming to this conclusion it has relied upon the provisions of section 356 2a of the code of criminal procedure.
further 64 documents were missing from the records when they came to the high court and that this has caused serious prejudice to the respondent.
the complaint of mr bhimasankaram is that the approver should have been questioned about the various facts which were sought to be established through his evidence and it was only if and when he was in a difficulty that he should have been allowed to refer to the account books.
in our opinion where a witness has to depose to a large number of transactions and those transactions referred to are or mentioned either in the account books or in other documents there is nothing wrong in allowing the witness to refer to the account books and the documents while answering the questions put to him in his examination.
that is precisely what happened in this case and we do not think that the additional sessions judge adopted a procedure which was either a violation of law or was an abuse of the power of the court.
further according to him the evidence of the approver was found by the additional sessions judge to be unreliable and therefore the first condition referred to in sarwan singh v the state of punjab was not satisfied.
section 337 1 as it stood before its amendment by act 26 of 1955 read thus.
