the appellant had filed a suit on october 24 1942 for the recovery of rs 2 lakhs and interest thereon from the date of suit and for costs originally against the state of travancore now the state of kerala the respondent and three others who however were not made parties in the appeal before the high court.
it was stated that according to the practice prevailing in the erstwhile state of travancore the cultivators could enter into unoccupied waste lands belonging to the janmies with the object of cultivating and improving them and as they held the lands under them by paying rent the consent of the jemies to such occupation was implied.
january 1918 in the district court at quilon for a declaration of its title to those properties.
thereafter the suit filed by the illom was dismissed on 28 6 1109 february 10 1934.
it may here be mentioned that while the suit of the illom i e o s No 126 of 1096 m e was pending in the district court quilon the government of travancore had initiated proceedings in ejectment against the appellant by l c case.
o s 156 of 1103 m e 1927 28 a d in the district court at quilon against the respondent to establish his right and title to the said 160 acres and in the adjoining cherikkal lands in his possession.
against that order a civil miscellaneous appeal No 206 of 1110 m e 1934 35 a d was filed in the high court of travancore.
the high court issued a commission for inspecting the properties and the commissioner in his report part 13 of ext.
112 of 11 00 m e an order was passed for dispossessing the appellant on july 24 1939 ext.
the respondent state contended that the appellant encroached on the suit lands that proceedings were taken against him in l c case.
112 of 11 00 m e and he was evicted in due course that the trespass by the appellant was of recent origin that the allegation that the entry was made in the belief that the land belonged to the illom was false that the revenue and forest departments did not harass the appellant but they took steps for dispossessing him only in accordance with the law that the commissioner 's report was not correct in that all the improvements noted by the commissioner were not made by the appellant but by other independent squatters that after due notice an order of forfeiture had been passed in l c case.
112 of 1100 m e and the appellant was therefore not entitled to claim any value for improvements as it was his duty to remove any building before he was evicted.
several issues were framed but it is not necessary to refer to them except to say that the suit was decreed only for rs 3000 being the value of the appellant 's bungalow taken possession of by the respondent.
it was observed by the trial court that though there is no specific evidence to show when exactly the possession of the appellant had commenced the evidence however indicated that it must have started close to the year i 100 m e and that in any case the claim of the appellant that possession was from 1030 m e was not true inasmuch as from the year 1067 m e when the act was passed possession without permission was penal and it could not be imagined that the appellant was left in peace for all these long years.
all this according to the trial court would show that the appellant was aware that he was remaining on government lands without title.
in the circumstances the question that had to be considered was whether without an order of forfeiture being passed the respondent could forfeit the improvements.
it then said if the possession commenced only about the year 1100 it certainly can not be under any bona fide claim of title for even on.
accordingly the high court found that at no time the occupation of the land by the appellant was under a bona fide claim of title.
the contention of the appellant that the trees which are the subject matter of the appeal should have been forfeited by an order passed under section 9 of the act and in the absence of such.
to him was also negatived as the court held that the words any crop or other product raised on the land occurring in section 9 of the act would not include trees.
in its view these words take in what is familiarly known in law as emblements which according to black 'section law dictionary mean such products of the soil as are annually planted served and saved by manual labour as cereals vegetables grass maturing for harvest or harvested etc but not grass on lands used for pasturage.
in this view it held that compensation for trees which are to be dealt with under the general law can not be decreed in favour of a mere trespasser who had no rights therein.
the learned advocate for the appellant has reiterated the submissions made before the trial court and the high court and contends that there is no order forfeiting the improvements as required under section 9 of the act and if section 9 does not apply and there is no right of forfeiture as contemplated under section 9 then the appellant is entitled to compensation under the general law.
apart from this contention towards the end of his argument the learned advocate for the appellant sought to make out a fresh case namely that as the appellant was not served with a notice to quit as required under section 9 of the act but was forcibly evicted without giving him an opportunity of cutting and taking away the trees etc.
it may be stated that the finding that the possession of the appellant commenced after his application for registration was rejected in 1919 and the improvements if any must have been effected only thereafter with full knowledge that the title to the lands was in dispute between the illom and the government is unassailable.
a and also to the fact that after the application for registration was rejected the appellant tried to get himself impleaded in the suit filed by the illom against the state which application was also rejected and so the claim that his possession was bona fide or that he was a bona fide trespasser has no validity.
it is however urged before us that the high court was in error in thinking that the appellant did not occupy the lands as a trespasser with a bona fide claim of title because it was his case that he trespassed upon the land with a bona fide intention to improve the land and as such he can still be considered as a bona fide trespasser entitled to improvements under the general law.
before dealing with this aspect we will first consider the question whether trees are included within the meaning of section 9 so as to entitle the appellant to a notice of forfeiture there under.
section 9 of the act is in the following terms any person unauthorised occupying any land for which he is liable to pay a fine under section 6 and an assessment or prohibitory assessment under section 7 may be summarily evicted by the division peishkar and any crop or other product raised on the land shall be liable to forfeiture and any building or other structure erected or anything deposited thereon shall also if not removed by him after such written notice as the division peishkar may deem reasonable be liable to forfeiture.
an eviction under this section shall be made in the following manner namely by serving a notice on a person reported to be in occupation or his agent requir ing him within such time as the division peishkar may deem reasonable after receipt of the said notice to vacate the land and if such notice is not obeyed by removing or deputing a subordinate to remove any person who may refuse to vacate the same and if the officer removing any such person shall be resisted or obstructed by any person the division peishkar shall hold a summary enquiry into the facts of the case and if satisfied that the resistance or obstruction still continues may issue a warrant for the arrest of the said person and on his appearance may send him with a warrant in the form of the schedule for imprisonment in the civil jail of the district for such period not exceeding 30 days as may be necessary to prevent the continuance of such obstruction or resistance provided that no person so committed or imprisoned under this section shall be liable to be prosecuted under sections 176 179 and 181 of the travancore penal code in respect of the same facts.
in these circumstances the question that would arise for determination is whether the trees come within the description of other product raised on the land.
