the high court after deciding various issues remanded the cases to the compensation officer under the act after over ruling most of the contentions pressed before it by the appellant.
shri achutananda purohit appellant was the intermediary in respect of vast forests and other lands comprised in the estate of jujumura in the district of sambalpur.
the appellant has received around rs 300000 but much more according to him is due and this controversy can be settled by examining his specific points.
of course when there is joint ownership section 24 stipulates that the compensation shall be determined for the estate as a whole and not separately for each of the shares therein.
against the background of law just projected we may set out shri purohit 's points which if we may say so are substantially the same as have been argued by him in revision before the high court with partial success.
for convenience of reference we may extract the statement by the high court of the contentions urged before it and repeated before us by the appellant.
3 assuming that in spite of the directions of the court the compensation offi cer is entitled to follow the procedure laid down in section 262bv the expression subject to the approval of the chief conservator of forests does not refer to the appraisement made by the d f o but refers to his appointment.
4 assuming that section 262 b v would have full force what it contemplates is that the appraisement must be made by the d f o and it is subject to the approval by the chief conservator of forests.
the slab system of calculation of compensation in the act providing smaller multiples for estates yielding larger income is unconstitutional.
the meat of the matter the primary question agitated in the appeal lopping off the fringe issues of lesser import consists in the statutory methodology and functionaries prescribed by the act for quantifying the compensation and the compliance therewith by the statutory machinery in the case of the appellant.
but before examining this essential issue we may dispose of the minor points pressed so that the deck may be cleared for dealing with what deserves to be dealt with.
the policy of the law of agrarian reform postulates the extinguishment of ancient privileges and cornering of land resources and the socioeconomic yardstick is different from what applies to ordinary purchases of real estate and this is manifest in the special provisions contained in article 31a and article 31b of the constitution.
here there is good reason to depart from the old rule of full compensation and it perhaps legitimates the reduced rate of recompense.
the contention is that on the date of vesting which was well over two decades ago the purchasing power of the rupee was much higher than its present value.
it is more or less a world phenomenon that the erosi on in value of the unit of currency has been taking place but this invisible devaluation owing to the inflationary spiral does not affect the quantum of monetary compensation prescribed by statute.
the appellant challenges the slab system of compensation provided in the act which awards smaller multiples for estates yielding larger incomes on the score of violation of the fundamental rights under the constitution.
point No 6 in the list of contentions earlier reproduced is also bereft of force and we may make short shrift of it.
the confusion that vitiates the argument is prompted by a circular letter of government regarding non deductibility of income tax due to the state from the amount of compensation lying to the credit of estate holders.
we have examined the circular letter and are satisfied that it has no relevance to a situation like the present and it deals with a totally different matter.
the statutory scheme of compensation for forest lands consists of machinery for assessment of the net income which is multiplied on a sliding scale and the method of challenge to the determination by the aggrieved owner of state.
gross asset when used with reference to an estate means the aggregate of the rents including all cesses which were payable in respect of the estate for the previous agricultural year b by the raiyats or any other persons cultivating the land other than the land settled with the intermediary or intermediaries under sub s 1 of section 7 and includes.
in the present case the appellant did submit the 'd return to the compensation officer and adduced some evidence to substantiate it.
the compensation officer passed an order adverse to the appellant where upon he filed an appeal to the collector which was rejected.
the said order the relevant portion of which we are concerned runs thus he would immediately call upon the divisional forest officer to make appraisement within three months from the receipt of the record.
it is open to the petitioners to give evidence that after the date of vesting many of the trees and forest produce have been removed.
but in such a case the materials must be brought to the notice of the petitioners who would be entitled to cross examine the witnesses connected therewith and may give rebutting evidence.
then followed three revision petitions to the high court which led to the order of remand now attacked before us in the present appeals.
having heard the appellant at some length we see no flaw in the high court 's order on this aspect of the matter.
nor is it right to contend as the appellant did that the compensation officer 's jurisdiction was created by the order of remand by the high court.
it follows that after the present second remand the re appraisal of the annual net income can not be done solely by the forest officer without securing the approval of the chief conservator.
nor can the compensation officer by pass the chief conservator on the misunderstood strength of the high court 's first order of remand.
substantially this is what has been done by the learned judge when allowing the revisions and remitting the case back to the compensation officer.
the take over of the forests of the appellant was effected as early as 1960 and 16 years have passed without the intermediary being out of the litigative woods.
