this appeal by special leave is from the judgment and order of the high court of andhra pradesh dated 15th april1986.
on or about th of april 1948 sail nawaz jung the then ruler of mukkalla state south yeman in arabia settled some of the properties with which the appeal is concerned by a registered tamleeknama in favour of his son sultan awaz and his grandson galib bin awaz.
andhra pradesh requested for the requisition of the property named as sail gulshan with a vast extent of land and palaces with roads and surrounded by a compound wail measuring 19 acres and 10 guntas situated in the heart of hyderabad city near sarojini devi hospital.
in this appeal we are concerned with the claim for compensation for the said acquisition by one abdul khader who was a flower picker.
his claim for compensation for requisition was settled by sharing the rent in or about 1969 the appellant is one of the owners of the property in question deriving their title and right from the said sail nawaz jung.
hereinafter called the central act the gazette notification for the acquisition was issued on 12th march1970 the controversy in this case relates to the question whether abdul khader was a protected tenant under the andhra pradesh telangana area.
the purpose of the said act as the preamble states was inter alia to enable the land holders to prevent the excessive sub division of agricultural holdings and empower government to assume in certain circumstances the management of agricultural lands to provide for the registration of co operative farms and to make further provision for matters incidental thereto.
chapter iv of the andhra pradesh act deals with protected tenants and s 34 of the said act provides who is to be considered as a protected tenant and uses the expression that a person shall subject to the provisions of sub ss 2 and 3be deemed to be a protected tenant in respect of the land if he has fulfilled the conditions mentioned in clauses a and b of sub s 1 of s 34 of the said act.
sub s 2 of s 34 of the said act also deals with to be deemed to be a protected tenant in respect of any landfor certain purposes.
s 37 deals with persons not entitled under s 34 to be deemed in certain circumstances as protected tenants.
sub s 2 of s 40 of the said act indicates who are the heirs who would be entitled to hold the tenancy on the death of the protected tenant and on what terms.
sub s 3 of s 40 of the said act provides that if a protected tenant dies without leaving any heirs all his rights shall be so extinguished.
the explanation to sub s 3 of s 40 of the said act provides who should be deemed to be the heirs of a protected tenant.
no order of the tahsildar tribunal or collector or of the board of revenue or government made under this act shall be questioned in any civil or criminal court.
s 9 deals with the payment of compensation and provides that the amount of compensation payable under an award shall subject to any rules made under that act be paid by a competent authority to the person or persons entitled thereto in such manner and within such time as may be specified in the award.
the main question centres around the right of abdul khader respondent no 1 herein to the compensation awarded by the arbitrator it is therefore necessary to refer to the relevant portion of the said order which inter alia stated as follows by perusal of the tenancy register of 1958 it is evident that sri mohd abdul khader is not a genuine protected tenant.
i suspect that somebody has tampered the register and entered the name of sri mohd abdul khader.
separate enquiry in this connection is going on in this office to know under what circumstances such entry has been made and copy also issued without knowledge of the tahsildar.
hence i suspect the entry and order to cancel the copy of the tenancy issued in favour of sri modh.
1the learned single judge vaidya j held inter alia as follows whether the petitioner abdul khader is a protected tenant or whether he has any prima facie interest in the suit property are matters entirely within the sole jurisdiction of the arbitrator who has to be appointed under s 8 of the central act.
in the appeal of abdul khader the proceedings of revenue divisional officer while questioning entry of the name of abdul khader in the register is a genuine one or net and while it is stated that it was entered in the register in such suspicious way by giving serial no 1 a between serial nos 1 and 2 of register being exhibit a 106 and exhibit a 107it ultimately held that abdul khader was a protected tenant under section 37a of the andhra pradesh act.
the order was passed by the district revenue officer who held that abdul khader was not a protected tenant.
he held further that khasra pahani which is the basic record of occupancy period after spot inspections does not find the name of abdul khader and further held that all entries except this entry in the protected tenancy register prepared under section 37a of the andhra pradesh act was supported by an enquiry.
in civil revision petition no 1006 of 1972 which was filed by abdul khader as against others justice r ramachandra raju of the andhra pradesh high court on or about 19th august1974 held that abdul khader was not a protected tenant and directed deletion of entry made in the final record of tenancies as a spurious one.
the learned judge observed inter alia as follows i am told by the counsel for both the parties that the lands in question were already acquired for military purpose under the requisition and acquisition of immovable property act1952 and that sri m s sharma the additional chief judge city civil court hyderabad has already been appointed as arbitrator under the act for determining the compensation and the persons entitled to it.
not only that in the writ petition filed by the present petitioner in this court it was held that it is not necessary to go into the question whether the petitioner is a protected tenant or whether he has any prima facie interest in the property because they are the matters entirely within the sole jurisdiction of the arbitrator who has to be appointed under s 8 of the act.
under these circumstances the c r p is dismissed with a direction that the entry made in the final record of tenancies that the petitioner was the protected tenant for the lands in question which is spurious as found by both the revenue divisional officer and the district revenue officer should be deleted.
the matter was brought to this court by a special leave application and this court in special leave petition civil no 10 of 1975 on or about 30th january 1975 held that since the question whether the petitioner in that case namely abdul khader was a protected tenant had been left open by the high court to be decided by the arbitrator u s 8 of the central act special leave petition was rejected with those observations.
there was an award by the arbitrator holding that as this court had left it open to decide whether abdul khader was a protected tenant.
aggrieved by the aforesaid award the appellant claiming as one of the owners of the property filed a statutory appeal to the high court.
in the meantime abdul khader filed an application on or about 21st of october1984 for adducing additional evidence to mark kaulnama dated 2nd of december1950 for the first time and oubuliatnama dated 2nd december1950 as exhibits in deciding the protected tenancy rights.
the appellant filed the objection reserving the right of raising the jurisdiction of the arbitrator to go into the question whether abdul khader was a protected tenant in the light of the act 21 of 1950 three civil appeals were filed before this court against the order of the high court on 15th may1985 this court passed the order on 19th august1985 the said order is important and reads as follows special leave are granted.
dr chitale learned counsel for the appellants submitted that the high court should be directed to consider the issues relating to the jurisdiction of the arbitrator appointed and functioning under the requisitioning and acquisition of immovable property act195 i to decide whether a person is protected tenant of an agricultural land or not in the light of ss 99 and 102 of the andhra pradesh telangana area.
tenancy and agricultural land act1950 we have heard the learned counsel for the respondents on the above question.
the high court shall decide the question of jurisdiction referred to above in light of the submissions to be made by both the parties.
shri subba rao learned counsel for the respondents submits that the appellants should not be permitted to withdraw from the authorities concerned more than 40 per cent of the total compensation awarded in respect of the lands in question pending disposal of the appeal before the high court.
we direct that the appellants shall withdraw not more than 40 per cent of the compensation pending disposal of the appeal before the high court.
the remaining 60 per cent shall be disbursed in accordance with the directions to be given by the high court after hearing all the parties concerned.
other c m ps were filed for clarification of the second part of the order dated 19th august1985 and this court on 29th november1985 in cmps.
it was observed that the high court was at liberty to consider the claims to be made by both the parties and pass any fresh order with regard to the disbursement of the remaining 60 of the compensation.
