while he was posted at surat as deputy engineer he was transferred to ukai subdivision under the order of the superintending engineer dated 29th march1974 pursuant to the order of transfer he was relieved from his duties at surat on 30th march1974 to enable him to join at ukai.
he made representation to the additional chief engineer for cancelling his transfer order on the ground that his mother aged 70 years was ailing and it would cause great inconvenience to him if he was required to join at ukai.
his representation was rejected and he was directed to join at ukai but he did not do so instead he filed a civil suit at baroda challenging validity of the order of transfer.
the learned single judge granted a declaration in respondent 's favour holding the order void and illegal but having regard to recalcitrant attitude of the appellant and his continued conduct of disobedience of the orders of his superior authorities he refused to grant consequential reliefs regarding reinstatement or payment of back wages.
the respondent as well as the appellant board both preferred letters patent appeals against the order of learned single judge.
the appellants were directed by means of interim order of this court to continue to pay salary to the respondent which was being paid to him regularly.
we refused to accede to his request as oral heating had already been completed and the matter had been adjourned only to enable the respondent 's counsel to obtain instructions.
we are constrained to note that instead of utilizing the opportunity granted to him for filing written submissions the respondent has misused adjournments for the purposes of raising frivolous objections for getting the case transferred to some other bench.
in the instant case on the conclusion of the oral hearing we had expressed our opinion on 28 1 1988 in the open court that we were inclined to allow the appeal and set aside the order of the high court and dismiss the writ petition but taking a sympathetic view we requested sh.
the opportunity granted to the respondent has however been misused by raising mischievous and frivolous objections instead of filing written submissions.
but he did not join at ukai till the impugned order of discharge was issued on may 271974 the. chief engineer who discharged the respondent 's services exercised his power under service regulation no 113which runs as under 113 the continued absence from duty or overstay m spite of warning to return to duty shall render the employee liable to summarily discharge from service without the necessity of proceedings under the gujarat electricity board conduct discipline and appeal procedure.
the above rule provides that if an employee of the gujarat electricity board continues to remain absent from duty or overstays the period of sanctioned leave and in spite of warning he fails to return to duty he renders himself liable to be discharged summarily from service without complying with the procedure prescribed for taking disciplinary action under the gujarat electricity board conduct discipline and appeal procedure.
the chief engineer discharged the respondent from service as he had continued to remain absent from duty w e f. march 301974 to may 271974.
the division bench of the high court held that no warning as contemplated by service regulation no 113 had been issued to the respondent nor he had been afforded any opportunity of showing cause before the impugned order of discharge was passed and consequently the order of discharge was null and void being contrary to service regulation no 113 itself.
instead he made a representation to the additional chief engineer on 8 4 1974 after the transfer order.
the transfer order was not stayed and as the respondent did not join his duties he continued to be absent without sanction of any leave.
in this situation the superintending engineer by his letter dated 18th april1974 directed the respondent to show cause as to why action should not be taken against him for disobeying the order of transfer and also for unauthorised absence from duty in breach of service regulation.
to shri a s pohani junior engineer ukai 37gurunagar society near jakat naka surat 3.
you have been relieved on 30 3 1974 a n on account of your transfer from surat to ukai but you have not reported to ukai till today and remained on unauthorised absence on relief which is breach of s r no 112 and 113 please submit your explanation as to why action should not be taken against you for disobeying order of superior and breach of s r no 112 and 113 within 7 days from receipt of this letter.
there is no dispute that the respondent received the aforesaid letter as he sent a reply to the superintending engineer on april 201974a copy of which was annexed as annexure j by the petitioner to his petition before the high court.
by that letter respondent stated that he was waiting for the decision of his representation made for reconsideration of his transfer from surat to ukai and therefore the question of his remaining on unauthorised leave was misconceived.
no government servant or employee of any public undertaking has a right to be absent from duty without sanction of leave merely on account of pendency of representation against the order of transfer.
since the respondent continued to be absent from duty the superintending engineer by a registered post acknowledgment due letter dated april 241974 informed the respondent that his request to postpone his transfer was rejected and he was directed to join his duty at ukai and on his failure to do so disciplinary action would be taken against him.
ultimately the chief engineer of the board took action against the respondent and discharged him from service with effect from 31 3 1974 by his letter dated may 271974.
in fact the superintending engineer had by his letter dated 18th april1974 clearly reminded the respondent that his unauthorised absence was in breach of service regulation no 113 and called upon to show cause why action should not be taken against him but in spite of these letters the respondent failed to join his duties.
the division bench of the high court has held that since no warning was issued to the respondent action taken under service regulation no 113 was not in accordance with law.
the object and purpose of the warning as contemplated by the regulation is to remind the delinquent employee that his continued unauthorised absence from duties was liable to result in discharge of his service.
