in these matters relating to admission to professional courses in medicine engineering pharmacy nursing etc in educational institutions which are claimed to be minority educational institutions the petitioners have questioned the applicability of the scheme framed by this court in j p unni krishnan v state of a p 1993.
the hearing of the matters was therefore adjourned to march 181994on which date the questions requiring consideration by this bench have been reframed to highlight the several aspects of the claims put forward by the petitioners.
since the process of selection of candidates for admission for the next academic session is to commence soon it is necessary to pass an interim order governing admission to the professional courses in minority educational institutions for the next academic session.
for admission in the last academic session 1993 94an interim order in the following terms was made by a bench comprising honourable the chief justice and one of us justice b p jeevan reddy on may 141993 in writ petition nos 350 and 355 of 1993.
we have heard shri soli j sorabjee learned senior counsel for the petitioners in these two writ petitions.
there will be an interim order in the following terms i fifty per cent of the total intake in the petitioners educational institutions shall be permitted to be filled up by candidates selected by the agencies of the state government on the basis of a competitive examination test.
the remaining fifty per cent of the intake may be regulated by the petitioners to admit candidates belonging to the particular religious or linguistic minority.
however the selection shall be made strictly on the basis of merit among the candidates seeking admission to the institutions.
such merit shall be determined oh the basis of the academic performance at the qualifying examination or on the basis of any objective test that the institution might itself apply to determine such relative and competing merits or on the basis of performance of the results of the selection tests that the state government may itself hold for selecting candidates for admission to technical colleges in the state.
candidates so selected on the basis of merit amongst the minorities shall however abide by such condition in the matter of payment of tuition and other fee as may be permitted by the state government.
thereafter the matter was considered by the constitution bench in its order dated august 1819932 in that order the writ petitions placed before the bench were categorised into five categories namely1 unaided minority educational institutions2.
it was directed that the order dated may 141993would not apply to educational institutions falling in categories 4 and 5 and the institutions referred to in paragraph 18 of the order dated august 181993 the order dated may 141993was made applicable to the institutions falling in categories 12 and 3 with the modification that following were added in continuation of the said order in continuation it is made further clear that whether any of the petitioner institutions is a mei or not is a matter for the government to verify and determine.
the nris if any admitted to an extent not exceeding 5 of the total seats shall be out of the payment seats to be filled under after completing the admissions each of the colleges shall submit to the competent authority to the university to which it is affiliated and to the government concerned statements containing full particulars of the students admitted under cl ii of para 2 of this order.
the fees charged in the government colleges and that the admission to these institutions is made on the basis of an all india common entrance test separately conducted by the petitioner and admissions are made on the basis of merit as determined in the said test and further that in view of the reputation of these institutions thousands of students apply for and appear in the entrance test every year.
similarly as regards writ petition no 482 of 1993it was observed that according to the petitioner in that case the medical college run by it at vellore in the state of tamil nadu is a well reputed institution admission to which is made on the basis of all india entrance test conducted by the petitioner and that the admissions are made on the basis of merit and the fee charged by it is not more than the fees chargeable in similar governmental institutions and that there has never been any complaint about the working of this institution and it was observed that this fact was not disputed by shri seetharaman learned counsel for the state of tamil nadu.
in the order dated august 181993the following directions were given in respect of the institutions covered by the aforesaid writ petitions nos 284 of 1993 and 482 of 19932 having regard to the above circumstances we permit the petitioners.
this information should be furnished to the competent authority to the university to which the said colleges are affiliated and to the secretary education department government of karnataka tamil nadu.
it shall also be open to the competent authority university and the government of karnataka tamil nadu to bring any such irregularity to the notice of this court by way of an interlocutory application for appropriate orders in that behalf.
dealing with writ petition no 598 of 1993the court after noticing that an agreement was entered into between the institution and the government of kerala according to which while 85 of the seats were to be filled by the government and the remaining 15 of the seats were left for the management to fill up in its discretion observed that since the basic principle in unni krishnan as well as the order dated august 181993 is that merit shall be the guiding principle in the matter of admission a plea for discretionary quota could not be countenanced and it was directed that the said writ petition shall also be governed by the order dated may 141993as modified by addition.
by order dated october 719933 the constitution bench having regard to the fact that the year 1993 being a year of transition and adjustment and also in view of the orders of the government of india permitting admission of foreign students to the extent of as much as 50 of the seats as well as the time that had already elapsed permitted the private professional colleges to admit non resident indians and foreign students up to a maximum extent of 15 of the intake capacity of that year.
indlaw sc 2264 unnikrishnan j p v. state of a p 1993 4 scc 111 1993 indlaw sc 1168 concerned to adjudge the merit of these candidates having regard to the relevant factors.
in the aforesaid order dated october 719933with reference to the minority educational institutions in the state of kerala such as those covered by writ petition no 598 of 1993 it has been observed the system obtaining in kerala appears to be altogether different which was unfortunately not brought to our notice on august 181993 there are only two private engineering colleges in the state said to be minority educational institutions.
it is therefore directed that the admission for the academic session commencing in 1994 to the professional courses in the institutions which are claimed to be minority educational institutions shall be made on the following basis i in the institutions referred to in writ petitions nos 284 of 1993 and 482 of 1993 admission shall be made as per the directions given in the order dated august 1819932for the academic session commencing in 1993.
in the institutions referred to in writ petition no 598 of 1993 and similar minority educational institutions in the state of kerala which are governed by an agreement with the government of kerala the admissions shall be made in accordance with the terms of those agreements.
in respect of the seats which are left for management to fill in its discretion merit shall be the guiding principle.
it is enough to record that shri vellapally learned counsel for the state of kerala disputes the minority character of these institutions.
in rest of the minority educational institutions falling in categories 12 and 3 indicated in paragraph 5 of the order dated august 1819932admission shall be made in accordance with the directions contained in the order dated may 141993 in writ petitions nos 350 and 355 of 1993 as modified by order dated august 1819932but the directions would not apply to the institutions referred to in paragraph 18 of the order dated august 1819932 in this context we would like to impress upon the managements of the institutions concerned that while assessing the merit of a candidate for admission the objective should be to promote the excellence of the institution as a vehicle of general secular education.
insofar as non resident indians and foreign students are concerned the permissible limit would be only 5 of the total intake for a given year as per the direction contained in paragraph 6 of the order dated may 141993 as modified by order dated august 1819932 the admission against these seats shall be made on the basis of merit.
but it would be open for the management of the institution to adjudge the merit of the candidates having regard to the relevant factors.
