this civil appeal by special leave is directed against the judgment and decree dated 29th november1977 rendered by a single judge of the gujarat high court in second appeal no 348 of 1973which arose out of regular civil suit no 921 of 1966 filed in the court of joint civil judge baroda civil court by the appellant herein as plaintiff against respondents 1 and 2 herein.
defendants 1 and 2 for redemption of suit properties which were mortgaged as security for certain monies borrowed by the plaintiff from defendant l under two deeds of mortgage executed in the year 1961.
that suit was resisted by the defendants each of them having filed separate written statements which in sub stance did not differ from each other.
the defence in those written statements was that defendant l and his family members had become tenants of the suit properties in the year 1959 1960 and had continued to be such tenants at the time of mortgage deeds executed in respect of those properties in the year 1961 and thereafter.
the issue relating to their claim that they were tenants of the said properties the agricultural lands as urged therein had to be referred by the civil court to the mamlatdar under section 85 a of the bombay tenancy and agricultural lands act1948 the bt al act for recording his finding thereon and the suit had to be stayed pending receipt of the finding thereon so that the suit may be finally disposed of on the basis of such finding.
the civil court notwithstanding the defence of the defendants taken in their written statements that the suit had to be stayed for obtaining the finding on their claim of tenancy under the bt al act framed the issues in the suit on the basis of the pleadings of the parties and after trial recorded its findings thereon.
such findings were firstly that the defendants had failed to prove that the suit properties were sold in favour of defendant l subsequent to the giving of security of those properties in his favour under the mortgage deeds secondly that the defendants had failed to prove the past tenancy of the suit properties on its view that what was pleaded by them in the written statements was tenancy prior to the date of filing of the suit and thirdly that the mortgages of the suit properties were mortgages by conditional sale.
court it also made a preliminary decree in favour of the plaintiff for redemption of the suit properties.
though the defendants filed an appeal in the court of the district judge baroda against the said preliminary decree that appeal came to be dismissed on august 171972 affirming the judgment and decree of the civil court.
a learned single judge of the high court who heard the second appeal while upheld the concurrent findings of the courts below that the deeds of mortgage executed by the plaintiff in respect of the suit properties in favour of defendant l were mortgages by conditional sale and the defendants had failed to prove that there was sale of the suit properties in their favour subsequent to the coming into existence of the said mortgages found that the defendants had raised in their written statements the plea that they were tenants not only prior to the date of suit but also at the time of the filing of the suit and having regard to that plea the suit ought to have been stayed by the civil court and the issue of tenancy should have been referred to the mamlatdar for obtaining a finding from him thereon both under section 85 a of the bt.
consequently the learned single judge set aside the judgments and decrees of the trial court and the appellate court relating to the issue of tenancy raised by the defendants in the suit and remanded the case to the civil court trial court directing it to refer the issue of such tenancy to the mamlatdar baroda for his determination and to stay all further proceedings in the suit till he got the finding from the mamlatdar on that tenancy issue and thereafter to proceed to dispose of that suit in the light of that finding and the other findings recorded by the appellate court district judge.
specific case pleaded by the plaintiff in the plaint as regards possession of the suit properties held by tenants was that their possession which was with the plaintiff was given to defendant l on the execution of the deeds of mortgage by conditional sale in his favour.
in any event it was not the case of the plaintiff that defendant l was a tenant of the suit properties and hc surrendered his possession of the suit properties either expressly or impliedly and the possession so obtained by the plaintiff was re delivered to defendant l in pursuance of the mortgages by conditional sale executed in his favour.
however the arguments addressed before us on behalf of the plaintiff appellant in support of the appeal by learned senior counsel mr s k dholakia were these that defendant l respondent l although was in possession of the suit properties.
according 10 him a mortgagee in possession being a person who can not be deemed to be a tenant under section 4 of the bt al act it was not open to the defendants to claim that they were the tenants of suit properties and if that be so question of raising issue of tenancy by the civil court in the suit before it did not arise at all nor was it necessary to refer such issue to the mamlatdar under section 85 a of the bt al act and stay the suit till receipt of the finding on such issue as was directed by the high court in its judgment under appeal.
in support thereof he sought to place reliance on the decisions of this court in shah mathuradas maganlal and co v. nagappa shankarappa malaga and others 1976 indlaw sc 400 and gambangi appalaswamy naldu and others v behara venkataramanayya patro.
in this regard support was sought from the decision of this court in raizada topandas and another v m s gorakhram gokalchand 1963 indlaw sc.
hence the judgment and order of the high court according to him was liable to be interfered with and set aside.
however learned counsel appearing for the defendants respondents sought to refute the arguments advanced on half of the plaintiff appellant.
questions which arise for our consideration and decision in the light of the aforesaid arguments of learned counsel for the contesting parties admit of their formulations thus 1 does the lease hold of a tenant lessee in a property merge in mortgage security if the same property is given by the landlord lessor to the tenant lessee as a mortgage security under a mortgage by conditional sale as would debar the tenant from desisting the suit of the landlord mortgagor for recovery of possession of such property by obtaining a decree for redemption of the mortgage.
2 when a plea of tenancy is raised with regard to suit property an agricultural land by a defendant who claims to be a tenant of such property under the bt al act and seeks a reference of that issue by the civil court to the mamlatdar under that act for obtaining a finding thereon can the civil court decide such issue by itself and proceed to decide the suit on the basis of the finding thereon.
85a 1 if any suit instituted in any civil court involves any issues which are required to be settled decided or dealt with by any authority competent to settle decide or deal with such issues under this act hereinafter referred to as the competent authority.
the civil court shall stay the suit and refer such issues to such competent authority for determination.
section 85a as it came into force after it was amended by gujarat act no 5 of 1973 w e f 3rd march1973.
85a i. if any suit instituted whether before or after the specified date in any civil court involves any issues which are required to be settled decided or dealt with by any authority competent to settle decide or deal with such issues under this act hereinafter referred to as the competent authority.
interests of the lessee and the lessor in the whole of the property become vested at the same time in one person in the same right because of section 11 ld of the t p act.
what is enunciated in section 111 d of the t p act can not be doubted is the doctrine of merger.
lease hold held by a tenant or a lessee being a lesser estate and the right of reversion of the landlord lessor being a higher estate the lessee 's lease hold right in respect of the property merges in reversion when that right of reversion i e. the landlord 's lessor 's right of reversion comes to the tenant or lessee which happens when the landlord having a right to sell his reversion to the tenant holding the lease hold sells the whole of it to the tenant lessee but in view of the arguments advanced on behalf of the plaintiff appellant what has to be seen is if the landlord of a property the lease hold of which is already with the tenant gives that very property as mortgage security to the tenant lessee by executing a mortgage by a conditional sale for the amount borrowed by him from the latter does merger of lease hold right in that mortgage security occur.
if that be so merger of lease hold estate in reversion can not arise inasmuch as there can not be any inconsistency or incompatibility in one person being the tenant and also the mortgagee of the same property for in that event instead of the tenant paying rent to the landlord he may adjust it against the amount claimable by him as a mortgagee from the landlord.
moreover if a lessee of a property takes a mortgage of the sum property from the landlord it would be unreasonable to attribute to a tenant the intention to surrender the tenancy and to invoke the sophisticated doctrine of implied surrender as has been held by the gujarat high court in patel atmaram nathudas v babubhai keshavlal 1974 indlaw guj 88.
