the respondents entered into an agreement with sudhir kumar sen on november 31948 to render technical know how to the indian company to be formed which would manufacture bicycles and market them under raleigh 's indian trade marks.
pursuant thereto a company called sen raleigh limited came into existence which manufactured cycles with technical assistance by the respondents raleigh industries of u k and marketed the bicycles with a brand name and trade marks belonging to the respondents.
an agreement dated december 201976 was entered into between the appellant as registered user and the respondent in respect of 12 trade marks for a period of 5 years.
on march 281978joint application by sen raleigh and the appellant duly signed by the respondent as proprietor and sen raleigh limited as registered user came to be made before the registrar of trade marks.
on october 241980sen raleigh was nationalized and got vested in the appellant corporation by publication of the notification under idr act.
on march 51982the respondent wrote a letter to the appellant that in the absence of a new agreement they were instructing their advocate to prevent the appellant by restraint proceedings to use the trade mark effective from april 11982.
on march 241982the appellant made an application under sections 3246 and 56 of the act against the respondents in the high court of calcutta in suit no 26692 pleading inter alia that the respondents had failed to provide technical assistance by passing the technical know how to sen raleigh after november 11976 neither the appellant nor sen raleigh were registered users of the trade mark after november 11976.
a continuous period of 5 years or longer had passed and the trade mark had not been bona fide used by the respondent.
simultaneously an application for registration of three trade marks an their favour was filed by the appellant on march 251982.
by proceedings dated june 131984the registrar of trade marks informed the appellant that the registered user 's applications were abandoned since the appellant failed to comply with the statutory requirements.
the learned single judge dismissed the application by his judgment dated september 131990 holding inter alia that any proprietor mentioned in s 461b of the act extends to bona fide user other than registered users.
after termination of the collaboration and user agreement between the appellant and the respondents it was likely to cause confusion and deception amongst the trade and public.
on appeal the division bench in appeal no 1391 confirmed the same holding that on and from october 251980the respondent had allowed and permitted the appellant to manufacture bicycles etc according its specifications and to pass off the goods under their trade marks.
non registration of the user agreement by sen raleigh and the appellant was due to the default of the latter.
the appellant had not taken any steps to withdraw registered user applications and as such should not be permitted to take such a contradictory stand of applying for rectification at the same time.
shri raju ramchandran learned senior counsel for the appellant raised three fold contentions.
it is his pivotal contention that undisputedly when the respondent was not in urge of trade mark as a registered proprietor or its agent sen raleigh as permitted user for a period of 5 years immediately preceding the date of the application u s 46 for removal of the trade mark from the register there was no bona fide user thereof in relation to those goods by the proprietor himself.
the harmonious construction should be put up in such a way that s 482 and s 466 by of the act could be permitted to have their full play in their operational structure.
the construction put up by the high court renders sub s 2 of s 48 otiose or surplus age which interpretation is impermissible.
he further contended that the special circumstances enumerated in sub s 3 of s 46 must be such that the respondents had intended to use the registered trade mark.
the respondents did not prove that they were prevented to use the same for 5 years or more preceding the date of the application.
the division bench or the learned single judge did not record any finding as to the period up to which the bicycles could be imported into india and the period during which the ban was imposed but for which the respondent had an intention to import bicycles but were prevented to do so due to the ban.
in the absence of such a findings the high court was wrong in law in refusing to rectify the trade mark and striking it off the register.
in normal circumstances when it is established that the trade mark was not used either by the registered proprietor or the permitted user the public interest of supply of the quality of the goods marketed by the appellant should be taken into factual consideration for removal of the trade mark from the register.
shri ashok desai learned senior counsel for respondents resisted the contentions.
the operation of s 482 must be construed in such a way that the bona fide user even by a non registered user so long as there exist a rational connection between the proprietor of the trade mark and passes off the goods in the market manufactured by the appellant is construed to be a bona fide user for and on behalf of the registered proprietor namely the respondents.
admitted position is that the respondent being the registered proprietor until it is proved that its trade mark was not used to pass off the goods manufactured by the appellant and that the appellant had discontinued the user and 5 years lapsed thereafter the non use of the trade mark continues thereafter the rectification application u s 46 1b would be ordered.
the special circumstance is that the appellant filed an application for registration u s 481 and continued it till it was abandoned.
the discretion exercised by the court must be judged in the light of the facts and circumstances the appellant having used the trade mark it does not lie in the mouth of the appellant to contend that he is not a permitted user or a bona fide user of the trade mark.
subject to the provisions of section 47a registered trade mark may be taken off the register in respect of any of the goods in respect of which it is registered on application made in the prescribed manner to a high court or to the registrar by any person aggrieved on the ground either a xxx xxx xxx xxx b that up to a date of one month before the date of the application a continuous period of five years or longer had elapsed during which the trade mark was registered and during which there was no bona fide use thereof in relation to those goods by any proprietor thereof for the time being.
sub s 3 envisages that an application shall not be entitled to rely for the purpose of clause b of sub s 1 or for purpose of sub s 2 on any non use of a trade mark which is shown to have been due to special circumstances in the trade and not to any intention to abandon or not to use the trade mark in relation to the goods to which the application relates.
s 48 provides for registered users which reads thus 48 registered users 1 subject to the provisions of section 49a person other than the registered proprietor of a trade mark may be registered as the registered user thereof in respect of any or all of the goods in respect of which the trade mark is registered otherwise than as a defensive trade mark but the central government may by rules made in this behalf provide that no application for registration as such shall be entertained unless the agreement between the parties complies with the conditions laid down in the rules for preventing trafficking in trade marks 2 permitted use of a trade mark shall be deemed to be use by the proprietor thereof and shall be used by a person the proprietor for the purpose of s 46 or for any other purpose for which such use is material under this act or any other law.
it would thus be apparent that subject to section 46for a registered trade mark up to date within one month before the date of making application for rectification for a continuous period of 5 years or longer if registered trade mark had not been use during that period there was no bona fide user in relation to those goods by the proprietor thereof for the time being.
sub s 2 of s 48 give defence to permitted user in relation to a registered trade mark.
it would therefore be clear that a permitted use of the trade mark should be done under sub s 1 of section 48 it.
the high court recorded a finding and it is not disputed across the bar that the appellant had entered into an agreement with sen raleigh which was a permitted user and used the trade mark till november 11976 and thereafter by registered user agreement dated december 201976 used trade mark for a period of 5 years.
on admitted position and in the facts and circumstances we are of the view that the appellant was a ago user of the trade mark of the respondent in passing off the bicycles under the trade mark of the respondent who admittedly is a registered proprietor.
