the appellant is a trust which wanted to establish a self financing engineering college and submitted an application during 1994 95 to the university of kerala as well as to all india council for technical education hereinafter called the aicte.
there was an inspection by a team of professors of the university and it recommended favourably when it stated that the facilities provided by the appellant would be sufficient for establish ing an engineering college.
the aicte sent a communication on 30 4 1995 stating that on the basis of the observations made by the expert committee and the recommendations made by the central regional committee state level committee and central task force as per the provisions of the aicte regulation dated 30 1 1994the aicte was granting conditional approval for establishing an engineering and technical college.
the appellant sent a reminder to the government on 26 8 1995 for permission for starting the college for the academic year 1995 96 and ultimately the government refused permission by informing the appellant by a letter dated 16 8 1996 as follows.
in inviting your attention to the reference cited i am to inform you that government regret their inability to comply with your request.
thereafter the appellant filed writ petition o p no 4612 of 1996 for quashing the said order and for a direction to sanction and establish an engineering college.
the learned single judge of the high court by his judgment dated 14 1 1997 allowed the writ petition quashed the above said order of the government dated 16 8 1996 and directed the mahatama gandhi university to consider the appellant 's application for permanent affiliation without reference to the above letter of the government and pass appropriate order within 8 weeks from the date of the receipt of a copy of the judgment.
against the said judgment of the learned single judge the commis sioner and secretary of the government higher education department filed writ appeal no 1024 of 1997 the division bench of the high court allowed the appeal and set aside the order of the government and dismissed the writ petition.
the division bench however observed that the appellant was at liberty to make a fresh application to the government of kerala for according sanction for setting up the engineering college or to request the government to consider the earlier application for a future academic year.
iyer contended that the division bench erred in reversing the well considered judgment of the learned single judge and according to him after the coming into force of the aicte act1987the statutes conferring power on the state or university to the extent they were inconsistent with the central act were void.
in so far as institutions imparting technical education were concerned the university or the state government had no independent role to play except to the extent provided in the above said enactment in the present case the aicte had made inspections and was satisfied that the necessary infrastructure was available and that the appellant would be able to conform to the required standards of the education.
therefore the aicte consti tuted a task force and obtained its opinion and thereafter granted its approval on 13 11 1995 subject to various conditions.
according to the learned senior counsel it was indeed not necessary for the appellant to have applied to the state government for any further sanction to establish the college.
sri t l viswanatha iyer also contended that though the state government stated in its counter affidavit filed in the high court that the policy of the government was not to grant approval to self financing engineering colleges to be established such a policy could not come in the way of the appellant in view of what this court has stated in similar circumstances in thirumuruga kirupan variyar thavathiru sundara swamigal medical education charitable trust v state of tamil nadu others1996 3 scc 15 1996 indlaw sc 858.
the government had clarified in the counter affidavit filed in the high court that the government was not in a position to take a decision to start new engineering colleges without properly assessing the necessity of more engineering graduates from the state and without exploring the possibility of employment opportunities in the country as a whole.
even though the appellant trust was not seeking aid from the government and even assuming that it was financially self sufficient it would not be in the interests of the students employment to permit new engineering colleges to be established.
whether in view of the judgment of this court in state of tamil nadu another v adhiyaman educational research institute others1995 4 scc 104 1995 indlaw sc 1631the provisions of the aicte act1987 occupied the field and it was not necessary to obtain the further approval of the government or other authority.
but in the context of s 10k regarding approval for starting a technical institution certain aspects of the judgment need to be highlighted.
for the purposes of performing its functions under the act the council may a undertake survey in various fields of technical education collect data on all related matters and make forecast of the needed growth and development in technical education b coordinate the development of technical education in the country at all levels c allocate and disburse out of the fund of the council such grants on such terms and conditions as it may think fit to i technical institutions and ii universities imparting technical education in coordination with the commission d promote innovations research and development in established and new technologies generation adoption and adaptation of new technologies to meet developmental requirements and for overall improve ment of educational processes e formulate schemes for promoting technical education for women handicapped and weaker sections of the society f promote an effective link between technical education system and other relevant systems including research and development organisations industry and the community g evolve suitable performance appraisal systems for technical institutions and universities imparting technical education incorpo rating norms and mechanisms for enforcing accountability h formulate schemes for the initial and in service training of teachers and identify institutions or centres and set up new centres for offering staff development programmes including continuing education of teachers i lay down norms and standards for courses curricula physical and instructional facilities staff pattern staff qualifications quality instructions assessment and examinations j fix norms and guidelines for charging tuition and other fees.
the clause in s 101 which is important in the present case is subcl k of s 101 and it provides that the council might grant approval for starting new technical institutions and for introduction of new courses or programmes in consultation with the agencies concerned.
regulation 2 states that these regulations will be applicable to proposals relating to a grant of approval of the council for establishment of new technical institutions including universities or university depart ments and deemed universities and for technical institutions function ing on the date of commencement of these regulations at degree and diploma levels b grant of approval of the council for introduction of any course or programme in the technical institutions and technical departments or universities or deemed universities c grant of approval of the council for existing intake capacity of seats and for increase in the annual intake capacity of seats in courses and programmes.
the bureau rc shall invite comments recommendations on the applications referred to in sub regulation 3 from the follow ing namely.
i the state government concerned ii the affiliating university state board of technical education iii bureaus mpcd iv bureau bos v bureau ra vi the regional office.
sub cls 8 9 of regulation 8 are important and read as follows reg 88 if there is a disagreement in the recommendations made by the state government university or the regional committee the central task force shall invite representatives of the respective agencies for further consultations before making final recommenda tion 9.
on the recommendation of the central task force the council shall decide the question of grant of approval as sought for in the application.
provided that the council may for reasons to be communicated to the applicant allow the approval with such restrictions or modifications as it may deem necessary.
as stated earlier the above provisions of the aicte act came up for consideration in state of tamil nadu v adhiyaman educational research institute1995 4 scc 104 1995 indlaw sc 1631.
in the above matter the state of tamil nadu granted permission on 17 4 84 to all private managements to start private engineering colleges without financial commitment to government but subject to conditions.
the government of tamil nadu granted permission to the trust for the academic year 1987 88 to start an engineering college.
the university also granted permission on 21 11 87 for the academic year 1987.
the learned single judge and the division bench held in favour of the trust and quashed and orders of the government and the university.
they were preconstitutional or a post constitutional laws they would be repugnant to the aicte act passed by parliament under entry 66 of list.
i in the above case this court referred to the various provisions of the aicte act and on the question of repugnancy held as follows.
hence on the subjects covered by the statute the state could not make a law under entry 25 of list iii after the forty second amendment.
we shall now refer to the above judgment dealing with the question of approval for establishing technical institutions under s 10k of the aicte act.
thus in the two passages set out above this court clearly held that because of s 10k of the central act which vested the powers of granting approval in the council the t n act of 1976 and the university act1923 could not deal with any questions of approval for establishment of technical institutions.
we have already pointed out under point 1 that in the tamil nadu case s 10k of the aicte act was referred to and the power of approval for establishing a technical institution was considered in our opinion even if there was a state law in the state of kerala which required the approval of the state government for establishing technical institutions such a law would have been repugnant to the aicte act and void to that extent as held in the tamil nadu case.
the only provision relied on before us by the state government which according to its learned senior counsel amounted to a statutory requirement of approval of the state government was the one contained in cl 97 of the kerala university first statute.
in case affiliation is granted the fact shall be reported to the senate at its next meet ing.
it will be noticed that cl 97 of the statute required that before the university took a decision on affiliationit had to ascertain the views of the state government.
the commission was to inspect the site verify the title deeds as regards the proprietary right of the management over the land and buildings if any offered building accommodation provided if any assets of the management constitution of the registered body and all other relevant matters sub cl 2 of cl 9 stated that the affiliation shall depend upon the fulfilment by the management of all the conditions for the satisfactory establishment and maintenance of the proposed institutional courses of studies and on the reports of inspection by the commission or commissions which the university may appoint for the purpose.
as held in the tamil nadu case the central act of 1987 and in particular s 10k occupied the field relating the grant of approvals for establishing technical institutions and the provisions of the central act alone were to be complied with.
as pointed out in the tamil nadu case there were enough provisions in the central act for consultation by the council of the aicte with various agencies including the state governments and the universities concerned.
in case of difference of opinion as between the various consultees the aicte would have to go by the views of the central task force.
