interpretation and or application of the provisions of the gujarat town planning and urban development act1976 for short the act and the rules framed thereunder known as the gujarat town planning and urban development rules1979.
for short the rules is in question in this appeal which arises out of a judgment and order dated 27 12 2006 passed by a division bench of the high court of gujarat at ahmedabad in letters patent appeal no 1611 of 2006 arising out of a judgment and order dated 23 11 2006 passed by a learned single judge of the said court in sca no 7092 of 2001.
the government of gujarat in exercise of its power conferred upon it u s 65 of the act made a scheme in respect of the town of umra surat on 1 06 1999.
appellant was a tenant under the said respondent in respect of plot no 178 admeasuring 1067 sq m. he used to run a business of marble and stone therein.
in respect of the proceedings initiated for the purpose of re allotment of the land despite a public notice the appellant did not file any objection.
the scheme was notified in the year 1999 respondent no 1 herein which is the statutory agency in terms of the act for the purpose of implementation of the scheme issued a notice u s 67 of the act upon the respondent no 4 on or about 15 01 2000 as he did not respond thereto a notice u s 68 of the act was served on him on 31 03 2000 stating as per the said approved preliminary scheme the plot no 157 is allotted to you.
therefore as per the gujarat town planning and urban development rules1979 rule 33 the undersigned in exercise of powers conferred below s 681 and 82 of the bombay provincial municipalities act and below the s 68 notice under the gujarat town planning and urban development act this is to inform you that as shown in the sketch on the reverse the premises marked should be vacated within 7 days from receipt of the notice and had over the possession to the surat municipal corporation.
if you fail to do so then on completion of the stipulated time limit as per the rule 33 of the gujarat town planning and urban development rules1979 the said land and the occupation on the same will be summarily evicted and your occupation will be removed and if you obstruct interfere on it after taking away the possession you trespass then as provided under rule 33 of the gujarat town planning and urban development rules1979.
the action as per the s 188 of the indian penal code will be initiated against you before the criminal court pleased take note of the same.
the validity and or legality of the said notice was questioned by the appellant by filing a writ petition in the high court of gujarat inter alia contending that the purported final allotment of plot no 165 in favour of the respondent no 3 and allotment of final plot no 157 in favour of the respondent no 4 were made without issuing any notice as envisaged u ss 52 and 53 of the act.
a learned single judge of the high court dismissed the said writ petition inter alia opining that the interest of landlord and tenant being common and in absence of any inter se dispute between them even if any portion of the land which remained in possession of the tenant was included in the scheme the proper remedy would be to claim compensation to that extent holding it appears that in the said decision the apex court while considering the scheme on the touch stone of the mandatory procedure to be followed by the authority under the bombay town planning rules has given directions to provide alternative accommodation based on the earlier decision in case of jaswantsingh mathurasingh and upheld the scheme.
such is not the issue in the present case nor there is any complaint by the tenant that any special notice was not served or that the mandatory procedure for finalization of the scheme is not followed.
at least on ground that the tenant is in occupation it would not be a case for interference with the scheme which is sanctioned and made a part of the statute.
suffice it to say that the tenant will be at liberty to resort to appropriate proceedings against the landlord for the inter se rights and also for entitlement of the compensation.
but if the area of original plot no 178 is included in the final scheme and in exchange of the original plot held by keshav gramini of 178 and 177the final plot is already allotted and as observed earlier it was even otherwise in the ownership of the original holder and it is only on account of inter se dispute the other persons are lawfully occupying the land the tenant can not insist that his landlord must be allotted the land of final plot no 157 simultaneously when he is to be evicted or deprived of the portion of the land of original plot no 178 therefore in my view considering the peculiar facts and circumstances of the present case the decision of the apex court in case of mansukhlal1991 indlaw sc 975 supra can not be made applicable to the present case.
mr u u lalit learned senior counsel appearing on behalf of the appellant in support of this appeal inter alia would submit i. the provisions of ss 52 and 81 being imperative in character no acquisition of land is permissible without service of any notice upon the persons interested which would include a tenant in occupation and carrying on business thereon.
appellant having a right over the remaining 200 sq m of the land of original plot no 178 should be allowed to continue thereupon and final allotment made in favour of the respondent no 3 to that extent should be cancelled.
lalit in support of his contention strongly relied upon a decision of this court in mansukhlal jadavji darji and others v ahmedabad municipal corporation and others 1992 1 scc 384 1991 indlaw sc 975 and jaswantsingh mathurasingh and another v ahmedabad municipal corporation and others 1992 supp 1 scc 5 1991 indlaw sc 972.
prashant g desai learned counsel appearing on behalf of the respondent no 1on the other hand would submit.
ii respondent no 1 corporation merely being interested in the implementation of the scheme is entitled to obtain vacant possession from him so as to enable it to deliver it to the respondent no 3 in whose favour plot no 165 has been finally allotted.
i after giving notice in the prescribed manner and in the prescribed form to the persons affected by the scheme define and demarcate the areas allotted to or reserved for any public purpose or for a purpose of the appropriate authority and the final plots ii after giving notice as aforesaid determine in a case in which a final plot is to be allotted to persons in ownership in common the shares of such persons.
for the purpose of preparing the preliminary scheme and final scheme the town planning officer shall give notice in form h of the date on which he will commence his duties and shall state the time as provided in rule 37 within which the owner of any property or right which is injuriously affected by the making of a town planning scheme shall be entitled u s 82 to make a claim before him.
such notice shall be published in the official gazette and in one or more gujarati newspapers circulated within the area of the appropriate authority and shall be pasted in prominent places at or near the areas comprised in the scheme and at the office of the town planning officer.
the town planning officer shall before proceeding to deal with the matters specified in section 52publish a notice in form h in the official gazette and in one or more gujarati newspapers circulating within the area of the appropriate authority.
for eviction under section 68the appropriate authority shall follow the following procedure viz. a the appropriate authority shall in the first instance serve a notice upon a person to be evicted requiring him within such reasonable time as may be specified in the notice to vacate the land.
b if the person to be evicted fails to comply with the requirement of the notice the appropriate authority shall depute any officer or servant to remove him.
before embarking upon the rival contentions we may also notice that the provisions of the bombay town planning rules1955.
it makes it obligatory on the part of the officer to give notice of the date on which he will commence his duties and shall state therein the time within which the owner of any property or rights which is injuriously affected by the making of the town planning scheme shall be advertised in one or more newspapers published in the regional language and circulating within the jurisdiction of the local authority and shall be posted in prominent places at or near the area comprised in the scheme and at the office of the town planning officer.
sub rule 4 makes it imperative upon the town planning officer to give all persons affected by any particular of the scheme sufficient opportunity of stating their views and shall not give any decision till he has duly considered their representations if any.
sub rule 5 provides for recording a brief minute setting out the points at issue and the necessary particulars if during the proceedings it appears to the town planning officer that there are conflicting claims or any difference of opinion with regard to any part of the scheme.
a town planning scheme therefore envisages calling for objection from the persons concerned for three purposes i in regard to draft scheme ii lodging of any claim for payment of compensation iii participation in the matter of allotment of final plots.
it is also not in dispute that the appellant filed an objection in regard to the draft scheme but did not eventually pursue the same.
a person interested in continuing to keep possession over a property and or a part of the amount of compensation must lay his claim before the appropriate authority at the appropriate stage.
if in absence of any such claim filed by the appellant the authorities have proceeded to finalise allotment of final plot in favour of the respondent nos 3 and 4 herein it is too late in the day to contend that the entire scheme should be re opened.
nos 177 and 178 he was therefore in his own right entitled to final allotment of some plot.
he may in a given case disentitle himself from obtaining an equitable relief particularly when he allows a thing to come to an irreversible situation.
the bangalore development authority act1976 provides that every person whose name appears in the assessment list or land revenue records shall be served with notice see sureshchandra c mehta v state of karnataka and others 1994 supp 2 scc 511 1993 indlaw sc 538.
in west bengal housing board etc v. brijendra prasad gupta and others etc air 1997 sc 2745it was opined that the authority is not required to make a roaming enquiry as to who is the person entitled to notice.
in the former case the vesting of the land may be held to be an act of acquisition whereas in the latter it would be distribution of certain benefits having regard to the purpose sought to be achieved by a statute involving town planning.
