challenge in this appeal is to the order of a division bench of madras high court allowing the appeal filed by the respondent hereinafter referred to as the accused the accused was convicted for offence punishable under section 302 of the indian penal code1860 in short the ipc and sentenced to undergo imprisonment for life and to pay a fine of rs 10000 with default stipulation by principal district judge madurai.
the deceased is one mayurani a sri lankan student who was residing in the first floor of the house belonging to one solsimalai p w 1 the accused is also a sri lankan student studying in a different college but staying in the second floor of the same premises.
on opening the window he noticed that mayurani was lying in a pool of blood with her face covered with a bag.
subsequently on the basis of the order of the high court such investigation was completed by p w 42 the accused is stated to have been arrested on suspicion on 26 4 2003 on the basis of the statement of the accused prosecution discovered many materials including a knife and a log allegedly used for killing.
initially p w 40 suspected the role of p w 1his wife p w 2p w 3from whose house certain incriminating material were recovered allegedly on the basis of statement of the accused as well as p w 4who was working as a cleaner in the vehicle of p w 1 subsequently however p w 42who took over investigation from p w 40 filed charge sheet only against the present appellant on the footing that p ws 1 to 4 had no role to play in the crime.
the prosecution relied upon only circumstantial evidence namely confessional statements of the accused leading to recovery of various incriminating materials.
p 12 dated 22 9 2003 made before p w 42 and subbiah and p w 24led to recovery of m dollar m 0 38 and key chain with key chain in m 0 39 from the toilet in the room of the accused.
the trial court found the respondent guilty and recorded conviction and imposed sentence as aforestated.
d statement of the accused leading to recovery of incriminating materials such as knife rope clothes wooden log and other valuable articles such as computer gold ornamentsm dollar and the key chain with key belonging to the deceased.
the high court found that the circumstances highlighted were not sufficient to fasten the guilt on the accused and directed acquittal.
learned counsel for the appellant submitted that the high court failed to notice that the circumstances highlighted clearly establish the chain of circumstances which established the prosecution version and the high court was not justified in directing acquittal.
in bhagat ram v state of punjab air 1954 sc 621 1954 indlaw sc 188it was laid down that where the case depends upon the conclusion drawn from circumstances the cumulative effect of the circumstances must be such as to negative the innocence of the accused and bring the offences home beyond any reasonable doubt.
we may also make a reference to a decision of this court in c chenga reddy and ors v. state of a p 1996 10 scc.
further the proved circumstances must be consistent only with the hypothesis of the guilt of the accused and totally inconsistent with his innocence.
sc 79 1989 indlaw sc 31it was laid down that when a case rests upon circumstantial evidence such evidence must satisfy the following tests 1 the circumstances from which an inference of guilt is sought to be drawn must be cogently and firmly established 2 those circumstances should be of a definite tendency unerringly pointing towards guilt of the accused 3 the circumstances taken cumulatively should form a chain so complete that there is no escape from the conclusion that within all human probability the crime was committed by the accused and none else and 4 the circumstantial evidence in order to sustain conviction must be complete and incapable of explanation of any other hypothesis than that of the guilt of the accused and such evidence should not only be consistent with the guilt of the accused but should be inconsistent with his innocence.
sir alfred wills in his admirable book wills circumstantial evidence chapter vi lays down the following rules specially to be observed in the case of circumstantial evidence 1 the facts alleged as the basis of any legal inference must be clearly proved and beyond reasonable doubt connected with the factum probandum 2 the burden of proof is always on the party who asserts the existence of any fact which infers legal accountability 3 in all cases whether of direct or circumstantial evidence the best evidence must be adduced which the nature of the case admits 4 in order to justify the inference of guilt the inculpatory facts must be incompatible with the innocence of the accused and incapable of explanation upon any other reasonable hypothesis than that of his guilt 5 if there be any reasonable doubt of the guilt of the accused he is entitled as of right to be acquitted.
pradeshair 1952 sc 343 1952 indlaw sc 89wherein it was observed thus it is well to remember that in cases where the evidence is of a circumstantial nature the circumstances from which the conclusion of guilt is to be drawn should be in the first instance be fully established and all the facts so established should be consistent only with the hypothesis of the guilt of the accused.
a reference may be made to a later decision in sharad birdhichand sarda v state of maharashtraair 1984 sc 1622 1984 indlaw sc 432 therein while dealing with circumstantial evidence it has been held that onus was on the prosecution to prove that the chain is complete and the infirmity of lacuna in prosecution can not be cured by false defence or plea.
the conditions precedent in the words of this court before conviction could be based on circumstantial evidence must be fully established.
these aspects were highlighted in state of rajasthan v rajaram 20038 scc 180 2003 indlaw sc 630state of haryana v jagbir singh anr 200311 scc 261 2003 indlaw sc 807.
law is well settled that the prosecution while relying upon the confessional statement leading to discovery of articles under section 27 of the evidence act has to prove through cogent evidence that the statement has been made voluntarily and leads to discovery of the relevant facts.
the scope and ambit of section 27 of the evidence act had been stated and restated in several decisions of this court.
however in almost all such decisions reference is made to the observation of the privy council in pulukuri kotayya v emperor air 1947 pc 67 1946 indlaw pc 23 it is worthwhile to extract such quoted observation it is fallacious to treat the fact discovered within the section as equivalent to the object produced the fact discovered embraces the place from which the object is produced and the knowledge of the accused as to this and the information given must relate distinctly to this fact.
7 thereupon only that portion of the information which relates distinctly or strictly to the fact discovered can be proved.
