the present appeal arises out of the judgment and order dated 01 07 2002 passed by the high court of bombay at goa in criminal appeal No 6 of 2000 convicting the accused appellant section 302 of the indian penal code for short the the ipc and sentencing him to undergo life imprisonment for the offence by setting aside the order of acquittal passed by the trial court.
facts giving rise to the present appeal may be stated first so as to enable us to appreciate the arguments raised by the parties more effectively.
it is also the case of the prosecution that as a result of the aforesaid stab injuries given to the deceased he expired on the same day i e on 19 04 1988.
he was informed that the deceased had died as a result of stab injuries received and therefore he was to take necessary steps.
on receipt of the aforesaid message pw 21 along with asi tabit mamlekar went to the scene of offence.
on enquiring from her pw 21 learnt that her name was yeshoda who was later on arrayed as accused No 3.
two juvenile girls named sarita and sharmila who are the sisters of the appellant were found in the house.
while the said religious ceremony was being performed accused No 2 started uttering insults while standing in the kitchen.
accused No 3 told the appellant not to do anything in the ceremony and insulted the family members of rauji.
pw 1 also alleged that on 19 04 1988 the deceased rauji returned from his duty at about 6 30 p m and thereafter went to purchase some articles.
it was also alleged that when pw 8 tried to intervene the other three accused started assaulting her with fists and slaps.
in the meanwhile residents of the locality had gathered in the courtyard and told the accused persons not to assault rauji.
pw 1 however intervened and removed the said piece of cement block from the hand of accused No 3 but.
on the basis of complaint made by pw 1 an fir was registered and the accused came to be arrested.
the trial court framed charges against all the accused persons for the offence under sections 302 323 143 147 and 149 of the ipc.
since there were two juvenile offenders there cases were segregated and the trial against accused nos 1 2 and 3 was conducted during the course of which a number of eye witnesses were examined on behalf of the prosecution.
the trial court passed an order on 04 08 1998 acquitting all the accused persons from the offences under sections 302 323 143 147 and 149 of ipc.
being aggrieved by the aforesaid judgment and order of acquittal the state filed an appeal in the high court against accused nos.
he submitted that although the incident in question had taken place at about 8 45 p m the same came to be reported to the police at 3 00 a m he also submitted that the police officer pw 21 who received the information about the incident started investigation without recording either any general diary for short g d entry or the fir and therefore the fir which has been proved in the trial court is hit by the provisions of section 162 of the criminal procedure code for short the crpc.
he also submitted that the high court has not given any reason for setting aside the appeal against acquittal which was passed after appreciating the entire evidence on record.
a scuffle started between the nephew and the uncle in which the accused persons also received injuries and therefore the right of private defence of the appellant was available and in that view of the matter the order of conviction and sentence is liable to be set aside.
he next submitted that there was no evidence on record as to when the fir reached the magistrate and that none of the courts below considered the said aspect.
he submitted that since there was violation of the provisions of section 162 of the crpc the accused appellant is liable to be acquitted.
ms a subhashini learned counsel appearing for the respondent state however strenuously submitted that none of the aforesaid submissions could be accepted by this court as it is a foolproof case of conviction of the appellant section.
it was submitted by her that the trial court examined the evidence in the present case in a very summary and cryptic manner and thereby arrived at a wrong conclusion that the accused persons were required to be acquitted.
she has drawn our attention to the findings recorded by the high court while setting aside the order of acquittal observing that the evidence of eye witnesses namely pws.
counsel for the respondent has therefore taken us through the evidence of pws. 1 2 8 and 18 and on the basis thereof submitted that their evidence clearly prove and establish the role of the appellant herein in stabbing the deceased with the knife which he had brought from the other room with the intention of killing the deceased and therefore it is a clear case of conviction.
in the light of the aforesaid submissions of the counsel appearing for the parties we have given our in depth consideration to the facts of the present case.
at this the deceased became annoyed and the appellant removed the fuse of the electricity which act of his plunged the entire house into darkness.
the said fact is proved by the evidence of pws. 2 8 18 and the complainant herself pw 1.
he gave instructions to his subordinate and also to the people around that nobody should touch any article lying at the scene of occurrence.
he stated that he made preliminary enquiry and brought yashoda and her two daughters to the police station and sent two other officers in search of accused nos 1 and 2 who were not found in the house.
he also stated that he got the complaint registered at the police station which was lodged by pw 1 and that on the next day he again went to the scene of offence and seized the properties involved in the crime which were sealed.
p c he next submitted that no evidence having been led by the prosecution about the time when the fir reached the magistrate therefore there is also violation of the provisions of section 157 of the cr.
the issue with regard to the initiation of the investigation without recording the fir was succinctly addressed by this court in the case of state of u p v bhagwant kishore joshi 1964 3 scr 71 1963 indlaw sc 268 observed as follows 17.
what is investigation is not defined in the code of criminal procedure but in h n rishbud and inder singh v state of delhi 1954 indlaw sc 14 this court has described the procedure for investigation as follows thus under the code investigation consists generally of the following steps 1 proceeding to the spot 2 ascertainment of the facts and circumstances of the case 3 discovery and arrest of the suspected offender 4 collection of evidence relating to the commission of the offence which may consist of a the examination of various persons including the accused and the reduction of their statements into writing if the officer thinks fit b the search of places of seizure of things considered necessary for the investigation and to be produced at the trial and 5 formation of the opinion as to whether on the material collected there is a case to place the accused before a magistrate for trial and if so taking the necessary steps for the same by the filing of a charge sheet section this court however has not said that if a police officer takes merely one or two of the steps indicated by it what he has done must necessarily be regarded as investigation.
no doubt section 5 a of the prevention of corruption act was enacted for preventing harassment to a government servant and with this object in view investigation except with the previous permission of a magistrate is not permitted to be made by an officer below the rank of deputy superintendent of police.
it was a very cryptic information received by him regarding the death of a person residing within the jurisdiction of his police station pursuant to an incident taking place on 10 04 1988 between 8 30 p m to 8 45 p m and therefore it appears that there was not enough information available to him either to get a g d entry recorded or to get an fir lodged.
in order to verify the information received pw 21 went to the place of occurrence and found the entire house in total darkness.
he went around the house and saw blood marks on the walls of the verandah and also in the courtyard and came to learn about the incident by using torch light.
after reaching the police station and at the request of pw 1 the fir was recorded at 3 00 a m in the morning.
there is no evidence to show that at that point of time pw 21 seized any articles or interrogated any witnesses or took any other action in initiating or in furtherance of investigation.
the ratio of the decision in bhagwant kishore joshi 1963 indlaw sc 268 supra is applicable to the facts of the present case as the police officer merely visited the spot and place of occurrence and made some survey which can not be regarded as investigation.
in animireddy venkata ramana and others v public prosecutor high court of andhra pradesh 2008 5 scc 368 2008 indlaw sc 354 this court while considering a similar case observed as follows 10.
the deceased died in the bus at about 10 30 p m on 23 6 1998 while travelling to his village home from tuni.
the conductor of the bus sent an information to the depot manager of the state road transport corporation at tuni.
when an information is received by an officer in charge of a police station he in terms of the provisions of the code was expected to reach the place of occurrence as early as possible.
they reached the place of occurrence in another bus at about 1 a m the deceased and the injured were only then shifted to tuni hospital.
even assuming that pw 21 the investigating officer could have entered the aforesaid information received from psi of panaji police station in the general diary yet they said entry could not have been held or treated to be an fir.
the information received by him was very cryptic and without any detail about the incident in question and therefore in any case there was no possibility of recording an fir at that stage.
the place of occurrence was in total darkness and even the persons belonging to the complainant side were not available therefore bringing them to the police station where there was sufficient light and recording the complaint at 3 00 a m can not in any manner cast any doubt on the veracity of the prosecution case.
in that view of the matter it can not be said that the fir was in any manner hit by the provisions of section 162 of crpc.
so far contention that there was violation of section 157 of the crpc is concerned the same is also without any basis for the defence never cross examined pw 21 on the aforesaid issue.
in that view of the matter we do not agree with the counsel appearing for the appellant that delay in transmitting the fir to the magistrate stands proved in the present case.
it is to be noted that pws 7 and 13 were the injured witnesses and pw 10 was another eyewitness and was the informant.
when the eyewitnesses are stated to be interested and inimically disposed towards the accused it has to be noted that it would not be proper to conclude that they would shield the real culprit and rope in innocent persons.
but if after careful analysis and scrutiny of their evidence the version given by the witnesses appears to be clear cogent and credible there is no reason to discard the same.
however a perusal of record clearly shows that the doctor who conducted the postmortem pw 7 stated in his evidence that there were in total 16 injuries when external examination was done by him and the knife m o 11 could have caused the injuries No 1 2 3 and 4.
he further stated that the death was caused due to hemorrhage and shock as a result of stab injury.
he further stated that injury No 1 was sufficient to cause death in the ordinary course of nature.
reference in this regard may be made to the decision of this court in state of u p v krishna gopal 1988 4 scc 302 1988 indlaw sc 76 anwar v state of haryana 1997 9 scc 766 1997 indlaw sc 2447 ravi kumar v state of punjab 2005 9 scc 315 2005 indlaw sc 170 munivel v state of t n 2006 9 scc 394 2006 indlaw sc 118.
all the contentions raised by learned counsel appearing for the appellant were considered by us in the light of evidence on record.
there is cogent and reliable evidence on record to prove and establish that the accused has committed the act of stabbing as a result of which the deceased had died.
before dwelling further into the factual matrix of the case on the basis of which the high court convicted the appellant section 302 ipc it would be useful to briefly recapitulate the law on the point.
both the expression intent and knowledge postulate the existence of a positive mental attitude which is of different degrees.
for the purpose of fixing punishment proportionate to the gravity of this generic offence the code practically recognises three degrees of culpable homicide.
placing strong reliance on the aforesaid decision this court in the case of abdul waheed khan v state of a p 2002 7 scc 175 2002 indlaw sc 1777 observed as follows at page 184 13.
the distinguishing feature of the mens rea requisite u cl 2 is the knowledge possessed by the offender regarding the particular victim being in such a peculiar condition or state of health that the internal harm caused to him is likely to be fatal notwithstanding the fact that such harm would not in the ordinary way of nature be sufficient to cause death of a person in normal health or condition.
