karanth expired on 9 12 1997 yakshagana ballet dance as developed by dr karanth was performed in new delhi on or about 18 9 2001 respondent filed a suit for declaration injunction and damages alleging violation of the copyright in respect of the said dance vested in her in terms of the said will stating that dr karanth developed a new distinctive dance drama troop or theatrical system which was named by him as yaksha ranga which in his own words mean creative extension of traditional yakshagana and thus the appellants infringed the copyright thereof by performing the same at new delhi without obtaining her prior permission.
it was stated that dr karanth had composed seven verses or prasangas for staging yaksharanga ballet apart from bringing in changes in the traditional form thereof on its relevant aspects namely raga tala scenic arrangement costumes etc.
plaintiff respondent admittedly claimed copyright in respect of literary and artistic works in her favour in terms of clauses 11 and 12 of the said will dated 18 6 1994which read as under 11 since i left the house suhasa i have been living in a specially built house manasa of smt.
she had joined my service as copyist and later she secured an employment in life insurance corporation of india.
and in this occasion i must also acknowledge with gratitude that she diligently cared and nursed my wife leela karanth during her prolonged illness till her last day.
in recognition of her devotion and sincere affection towards me in 1986 i have dedicated one of my novels namelyantida aparanji to her.
i have also placed on record her invaluable services to me in my memoirshunchu mansina hathu mukhagalu 1991 edition.
in my opinion very long enduring and a signal service she has done to me and to my literary works is in writing a bibliography of all my books a highly meritorious and scholarly work involving so much of pains taking research that it has been acclaimed and rated as the first of its kind in kannada and highly appreciated by critics and scholars.
apart from this she has collected and edited all my stray writings from 1924 onwards up to date in eight sumptuous volumes which are being published by mangalore university.
such painstaking service in this direction has brought to light several of my hitherto untraced forgotten and unknown writings and thereby giving them extended or renewed lease of life.
for all these services i hereby declare that after my death copyrights in respect of all my literary works shall vest with smt.
and i have distributed all copper and bronze vessels and utensils among my children while leaving my former home suhasa keeping only bare essential and necessary things and articles.
whatever movable properties books fittings furniture utensils etc belonging to me into this house manasa and my car and cash money in hand after my death shall go to smt.
any outstanding due to me and bank deposits and whatever assets or properties not mentioned above that is residuary after my death shall belong to smt.
plaintiff respondent inter alia prayed for passing a judgment and decree against the defendants appellants granting the following reliefs 1 a declaration that the plaintiff is the exclusive copyright holder in respect of yaksharanga ballets namely bhishma vijaya kanakangi nala damayanthi panchavati gaya charitha chitrangadha abhimanyu vadha and for consequential permanent injunction restraining the defendants their agents employees etc from staging or performing any of the above said 7 ballets or prasangas or any parts thereof.
1000 00 2 directing the defendants to pay to the plaintiff damages of rs 15000 towards infringement of her copyright on account of stating or performing abhimanyu vadha on 18 9 2001 at new delhi.
4 directing the defendants to pay future interest on rs 15000 at 15 p a till payment of the entire amount.
appellants in their written statement however denied and disputed any copyright of the said dance in dr karanth alleging that whatever work he had done was in the capacity of a director of the kendra with the assistance finance and staff provided by the organization of mahatma gandhi memorial college trust in respect whereof a committee was formed under him by the board of trustees.
it was furthermore contended that dr karanth was appointed as the president of the executive committee of yakshagana kendra for a period of three years by the appellant and while holding the said post only he expired.
appellants aggrieved thereby and dissatisfied therewith preferred an appeal before the karnataka high court which was marked as r f a no 271 of 2004.
by reason of the impugned judgment and order dated 5 12 2007the said appeal has been dismissed.
rajiv dhavan learned senior counsel appearing on behalf of appellants in his usual fairness conceded.
i the copyright in the literary work has been assigned by reason of the said will in favour of the respondent in terms of clause 12 of the will.
ii dr karanth has made substantial changes in the original traditional form of the yakshagana dance.
additions made in the form of the said dance including the prasangas fell within the purview of originality in respect whereof copyright could be claimed.
i keeping in view of the findings of the learned trial judge it ought to have been held that no cause of action arose against the appellants in this case as the institution had performed the said dance at new delhi in the memory of dr karanth without charging any fees.
the form of injunction granted in favour of the plaintiff respondent is not in terms of the provisions of the copyright act1957 as the appellant as an institution or otherwise is entitled to use the same in terms of clauses ai and l of sub section 1 of section 52 thereof.
mr g v chandrashekhar learned counsel appearing on behalf of the respondent on the other hand would support the impugned judgment.
section 2qq defines performer to include an actor singer musician dancer acrobat juggler conjurer snake charmer a person delivering a lecture or any other person who makes a performance.
section 13 which occurs in chapter iii of the act provides that subject to the provisions thereof and the other provisions of the said act copyright shall subsists throughout india in the following classes of works that is to say a original literary dramatic musical and artistic works b cinematograph films and c sound recording.
22 term of copyright in published literary dramatic musical and artistic works.
in sub section 1references to the author shall in the case of an anonymous work of joint authorship be construed.
in sub section 1references to the author shall in the case of a pseudonymous work of joint authorship be construed.
before adverting to the submissions made by the learned counsel for the parties we may notice the issues framed in the suit which are i does plaintiff prove that late dr shivaramaji karanth had acquired copyright in respect of seven yakshagana prasangas and also in respect of yakshagana dramatic or theatrical form i e bhishma.
indisputably in view of the submissions made at the bar respondent had acquired copyright in respect of seven yakshagana prasangas as also in respect of yakshagana dramatic or theatrical form as a residuary legatee in terms of clause 12 of the will dated 18 6 1994.
however we may notice that whereas the trial court has proceeded on the basis that clause 12 of the will shall apply in the instant case the high court opined that clause 11 thereof is attracted stating no doubt by reading para 12 of the will in isolation one can certainly arrive at the conclusion that the bequest made in favour of the plaintiff is in the nature of residuary bequest.
p 1 i have already referred to para no 11 of the will while dealing with the topic dramatic works vis vis literary work and therefore if the will is read in its entirety and if we take into account the benefits that flow from the bequest made by dr karanth in favour of the plaintiff it is not as if the plaintiff received the bequest only in respect of the things which form the residuary as mentioned in para 12 of the will but the plaintiff also was given the copyrights in respect of literary works and all books as well as the right to print republished and mark the literary works as well as the books.
the new encyclopaedia britannica vol iv 15th edition provides the following information about dramatic literature.
we however do not mean to suggest that any act of literary work will be outside the purview of the will dated 18 6 1994 our exercise in this behalf was only for the purpose of clarifying the provisions of the act with reference to the findings arrived at by the high court.
the learned trial judge on issue no 4 opined that plaintiff had not been able to prove actual loss or damage particularly having regard to the fact that dr karanth had associated himself with the appellants for a long time.
the learned trial judge recognized the equitable interest vested in the plaintiff respondent.
we may notice at this stage that the form of injunction granted both by the learned trial judge as also by the high court in favour of the plaintiff respondent.
as far as the restraint order passed by the trial court by granting permanent injunction to the plaintiff is concerned the same is modified by ordering that if the appellants desire to stage any of the seven yakshagana prasangas in the manner and form as conceived in all respects viz. costumes choreography and direction by dr karanth the appellants can do so only in accordance with the provisions of the copyrights act1957 in view of copyright in seven prasangas vesting with the plaintiff.
for the said purpose it must be noticed as to what is a copyright and in respect of the matters the same can not be claimed or otherwise the same is lodged by conditions and subject to statutory limitation.
