these appeals are preferred by four accused against the common judgment of the high court of chhattisgarh at bilaspur confirming the judgment of the additional sessions judge bemetara district durg convicting the appellants u s 302 read with ss 34 and 120b of the indian penal code hereinafter referred to as ipc and sentencing each of them to undergo imprisonment for life with a fine of rs 1000 and in default to undergo additional rigorous imprisonment for three months.
devendra choubey accused no 4 has filed criminal appeal no 822 of 2012 the appellant mahesh accused no 3 has filed criminal appeal no 867 of 2013 the appellant beenu.
chandra prakash accused no 2 has filed criminal appeal no 589 of 2014 the appellant smt.
he deposed in court that on 25 11 2003when he returned home he found servant anil kumar pw 21 was weeping.
when he went inside he found his daughter in law bhavna and wife shashi lying in the courtyard.
after registration of the crime inquest was conducted over the dead body of bhavna on 26 11 2003 post mortem was conducted by dr naresh tiwari and dr m deodhar who gave their report which is marked as exhibit p18 spot map was prepared by the inquiry officer io bloodstained cloth of accused shashi tripathi was taken into possession along with broken bangles bloodstained cement mortar and plain cement mortar were also taken into possession.
chandra prakash were arrested on 29 11 2003 a bloodstained knife was taken into possession.
devendra choubey was taken into custody on 22 12 2003 and a suzuki motorcycle was also taken into possession.
after committal the trial court framed charges u s 302 read with ss 34 and 120b of the ipc the prosecution examined 32 witnesses.
no defence witness was examined after the statements of the accused were recorded u s 313 of the criminal procedure code1973.
bhavna was murdered on 25 11 2003 at about 1830 hours in the house where she resided with shashi tripathi.
dr m deodhar who conducted the postmortem opined that cause of her death was neurogenic and hemorrhagic shock.
the sole eyewitness was a boy of 13 years of age anil kumar pw 21who worked as a servant with the family.
he participated in the identification parade which was held in sub jail bemetara and identified the accused persons in the court by touching them.
he deposed before the court that shashi didi accused brought him to village jevra from bilaspur.
about the assault he deposed that devendra caught bhavna and chandra prakash attacked her with knife 3 to 4 times and she fell down.
after the assault chandra prakash went to the tv room where shashi didi had kept some money in a rubber band on the table.
he further deposed that shashi didi took him upstairs to the terrace and asked him not to disclose the truth to anyone but to say that thieves came into the house and committed the crime.
she also seems to have had a scuffle with bhavna which is apparent from the fact that her hair was found in the grip of the deceased during investigation.
it is obvious that accused nos 2 and 4 did not enter the house to commit a robbery and had a single mission namely to kill bhavana.
the credibility of the evidence of anil kumar pw 21 was attacked by the learned counsel for the appellants who submitted that the boy is a tutored witness who has been influenced by the police with whom he spent a lot of time.
he was brought to the house by shashi tripathi accusedwho apparently took care of him and sent to school and gave him food and residence.
there was no reason for the sole eye witness anil pw 21 to implicate anybody falsely.
the incident occurred within the four walls of the house of the accused shashi tripathi and the only witness was the boy anil.
it must be remembered that the boy comes from a rural back ground and was 13 years of age when the incident occurred.
mahesh and chandra prakash were arrested on 29 11 2003their identification parade was conducted on 13 12 2003 within a fortnight or so.
in any case the period between the arrest and the identification parade was not large enough to constitute inordinate delay.
state of u p 1970 2 scc 128 1970 indlaw sc 136 where this court made the following observations 7 now facts which establish the identity of an accused person are relevant u s 9 of the indian evidence act.
the evidence of mere identification of the accused person at the trial for the first time is from its very nature inherently of a weak character.
it is accordingly considered a safe rule of prudence to generally look for corroboration of the sworn testimony of witnesses in court as to the identity of the accused who are strangers to them in the form of earlier identification proceeding.
there may however be exceptions to this general rule when for example the court is impressed by a particular witness on whose testimony it can safely rely without such or other corroboration.
they are generally held during the course of investigation with the primary object of enabling the witnesses to identify persons concerned in the offence who were not previously known to them.
this serves to satisfy the investigating officers of the bona fides of the prosecution witnesses and also to furnish evidence to corroborate their testimony in court.
keeping in view the purpose of identification parades the magistrates holding them are expected to take all possible precautions to eliminate any suspicion of unfairness and to reduce the chance of testimonial error.
they must therefore take intelligent interest in the proceedings bearing in mind two considerations i that the life and liberty of an accused may depend on their vigilance and caution and ii that justice should be done in the identification.
generally speaking the magistrate must make a note of every objection raised by an accused at the time of identification and the steps taken by them to ensure fairness to the accused so that the court which is to judge the value of the identification evidence may take them into consideration in the appreciation of that evidence.
the number of persons mixed up with the accused should be reasonably large and their bearing and general appearance not glaringly dissimilar.
in such a situation it is considered a safe rule of prudence to generally look for corroboration of the sworn testimony of witness in court as to the identity of the accused who are strangers to them in the form of earlier identification proceeding as observed by this court in budhsen 's case 1970 indlaw sc 136 supra.
this court has not laid down the requirement in general that all identification parades must be under the supervision of a magistrate as in budhsen 's case 1970 indlaw sc 136 supra the learned counsel for the appellants also relied upon the judgments of this court in subash and shiv kumar vs state of u p 1987 3 scc 331 1987 indlaw sc 28887and mohd abdul hafeez vs state of andhra pradesh air 1983.
on a careful conspectus of the facts and the law we are of the view that the prosecution has failed to prove the guilt of mahesh beyond reasonable doubt.
