The High Court accepted the finding.
It is settled law that a map referred to in a lease should be treated as incorporated in the lease and as forming part of the document: see Darapali Sadagar vs Najir Ahamed (1).
On June 10, 1901, Jugal Kishore Lal, that is, the predecessor in interest of the appellant demised a plot of 96 bighas carved out from his leasehold to Mathews under a deed exhibit C(1).
Appeal dismissed.
We cannot therefore hold that the findings of the courts are vitiated by an error of law by the burden of proof having been wrongly thrown on the appellant.
It appears that Samanta purchased the interest of Banerji in the leasehold of 1894 and thereafter at the request of Samanta, on November 23, 1900, Durga Prasad Singh gave a fresh lease of the same holding to Samanta and incorporated a map in that lease, i.e., exhibit 3(b).
No plan was annexed to this lease deed.
The learned Subordinate Judge held that the defendant had encroached upon the plaintiff ' coal land, that the suit was not barred by limitations and that they would be entitled to the reliefs prayed for.
The question is, on whom the burden to prove the said knowledge lies? The answer will be clear if the article is read as follows: A person having the right to the possession of a property wrongfully taken from him by another can file a suit to recover the said specific moveable property or for compensation therefore within three years from the date when lie first learns in whose possession it is.
The southern boundary of this leasehold is given as the northern boundary limit of the leasehold land of Girish Chandra Samanta and others and the western boundary is shown as the eastern boundary of Chatkari Jorh as per the map annexed.
He denied that he had any knowledge of the said two facts.
To summarize: the question is whether the disputed extent is part of the respondents ' holding or that of the appellant 's holding.
On June 15,1900, his son, Raja Durga Prasad Singh, granted coal and coal 494 mining rights in respect of 400 bighas out of 592 bighas to one Jugal Kishore Lal.
These documents to which the defendants ' predecessors were parties contain a clear admission that the boundary line between the two leaseholds i.e., between appellant 's and that of the respondents ' is the line between 497 A and B shown in plan exhibit 3(b).
It is common case that article 48 of the Limitation Act governs the period of limitation in respect of the present suit.
This appeal by certificate granted is directed against the judgment of the High Court of Judicature at Patna dated April 23, 1953, confirming that of the Subordinate Judge, Dhanbad, dated November 30, 1946.
