Sub section
The Agreement of Partnership dated the 6th day of December 1918 is hereby revoked and the affairs of the Firm shall be regulated and governed by the Regulations agreed upon orally and reduced into writing in this Deed and the terms and conditions of the revoked deed shall not in future apply to the "Firm" ' except such as have been repeated in this Deed.
of the firm.
Where any such claim is made, an assessment shall be made on the basis of the income, profits and gains of the said period, and, if an amount of tax has already been paid in respect of the income, profits and gains of the previous year exceeding the amount payable on the basis of such assessment, a ref und shall be given of the difference: Provided. . . .
(4) was applicable.
(20) All the partners hereby agree that they in their individual capacity are and shall be Partners also along with Hemchand Veerjee Sait in a Partnership business in Soaps and Umbrellas carried on in Calicut and Madras under the name and style of Sait Nagjee Purushotham and Co., Soap and Umbrella Merchants and in Bombay under the name and style of Shah Nagjee Purushotham & Co., the terms and conditions whereof are embodied in an Agreement of Partnership dated 30 5 1939 signed by all the Partners.
(3) and (4) of section 25.
Krishnajee died in 1933 and Bhagwanjee retired about that time.
C2 was executed by Nagjee, Narayanjee and Manecklal.
(4) is on succession to a person who, on April J., 1939, was carrying on any business on which tax was at any time charged under the Act of 1918.
The Firm shall continue to do business in the manufacture and sale of soaps under the name of the "Vegetable Soap Works" and in umbrellas under the name of "Sait Nagjee Purushotham & Co. Soap and Umbrella Merchants as aforesaid with I lead Office at Calicut and branch at Madras under the same name and branch at Bombay under the name of "Sha Nagjee Purushotham & Co." 2.
(3) of that section will throw useful light on the matter 96 in question and so we set both these sub sections out below: section 25 (3) Where any business, profession or vocation on which tax was at any time charged under the provisions of the Indian Income tax Act, 1918, . . is discontinued, then, unless there has been a succession by virtue of which the provisions of sub section (4) have been rendered applicable no tax shall be payable in respect of the income, pro fits and gains of the period between the end of the previous year and the date of such discontinuance. . (4) Where the person who was at the commencement of the Indian Income tax (Amendment) Act, 1939 carrying on any business, profession or vocation on which tax was at any time charged under the provisions of the Indian Income tax Act, 1918, is succeeded in such capacity by another person, the change not being merely a change in the constitution of a partnership, no tax shall be payable by the first mentioned person in respect of the income, profits and gains of the period between the end of the previous year and the date of such succession Both these sub sections gave a further right to the assessee but with that right we are not concerned and shall, there fore, make no more reference to it.
SARKAR J.
The preamble was as follows: ". .
1947 or February 13, 1948, by an instrument executed on February 7, 1948.
The other instrument, which is marked as annexure C II was between 99 Nagjee, Narayanjee and Maneklal.
Satyanarayana Rao, J. held that as the unit had disintegrated into its component parts so as to annihilate the unity of the business, each part which was thus divided was not identical with the whole, even though all the parts taken together constituted the whole and that, when the unifying principle of that whole no longer existed, the parts gained their individuality and became separate and distinct.
In my judgment, these appeals must be allowed.
" The terms relevant to our purpose were: 1.
Looked at from the point of view of Hindu Law, all these results may be said to follow.
By cl.
Though we are directly concerned with sub sec.
Under the Act of 1918 tax was assessed, computed and levied on the income of the year of assessment but under the Act of 1922 the scheme of assessment of income and tax was modified.
The appellant then moved the Tribunal to refer a, certain question to the High Court at Madras under section 66(1) of the Act but that application was rejected.
In 1937, one Hemchand a stranger to the family was admitted as a working partner.
The Appellate Assistant Commissioner agreed with this conclusion.
ceased to be partners either by retirement or death, and 103 Whereas the remaining partners (1) Nagjee. (2) Narayanjee. and (3) Maneklal. settled the claims in full of the partners who ceased to exist and agreed to carry on and continue and are continuing the existing partnership business under the name and style of 'Sait Nagjee Purushotham & Co. ' Bankers, Piece goods and Yarn Merchants, hereinafter called the 'Firm '; and Whereas it is thought advisable and prudent to reduce into writing the terms and conditions agreed upon orally by them the Partners agree and have agreed to the following terms and regulations stipulated hereunder.
Taking annexure C 1 first, the material portions of this document are as follows: "This agreement of Partnershipbetween (1)Nagjee. (2) Narayanjee(3) Maneklal and (4) Hemchand(hereinafter called the partners) witnesseth asfollows: Whereas Partners 1 to 4 have been carrying on a business as partners from the beginning of Samvat 1994 (=October November 1937) in 101 the manufacture and sale of Soaps under the name of 'The Vegetable Soap Works ' Proprietor Sait Nagjee Purushotham & Co., and in the manufacture and sale of umbrellas in Calicut with branches at Madras and Bombay under the name and style of Sait Nagjee Purushotham & Co., Soap and Umbrella Merchants at Calicut and Madras and in the name of Sha Nagjee Purushotham & Co., at Bombay hereinafter called the Firm; And whereas it is thought advisable to reduce the terms of the said partnership into writing for the proper and better conduct of the business; The Partners have agreed and also hereby agree to the following: (1) The Firm shall continue to be as of old namely Sait Nagjee Purushotham & Co., Soap and Umbrella Merchants.
It was said that this was a succession to business within the meaning of sub sec.
The word "firm" in annexure C I refers to the partnership brought into existence by it.
The appeals, therefore, fail and they are accordingly dismissed with costs.
(8)It is always understood by the Partners herein that the Firm of Sait Nagjee Purushotham 102 & Co., Bankers, Piece goods and Yarn mer chants, Calicut, the partners whereof are the: Partners 1 to 3 herein shall advance as, heretofore all funds that are necessary for the conduct of this Partnership Such advances shall be deemed as loan by the firm of Sait Nagjee Purushotham & Co., Bankers, Piece goods and Yarn Merchants to the., Firm . . . (9) Until otherwise determined by Partners.
Sometime in the year 1932 or thereabout, the firm had started the manufacture and sale of soaps under the name of "The Vegetable Soap Works" Proprietors Sait Nagjee Purushotham & Co. and perhaps the manufacture and sale of umbrellas in Calicut with branches at Madras and Bombay under the name and style, at Calicut and Madras, of "Sait Nagjee Purushotham & Co. Soap and Umbrella Merchants", and at Bombay of "Sha Nagjee Purushotham & Co.".
The High Court held on reference that the firm constituted under the deed of 1918 was dissolved in 1939 and the firms constituted under the two deeds of 1939 were dissolved in 1943.
