There was also a provision in the Covenant by which the assets and liabilities of the covenanting States became the assets and liabilities of the new State.
Then followed three second appeals to the High Court by the State.
This was of course subject to any law passed by the New State provided that law was within its competence and after the Constitution came into force did not transgress the limitations contained therein.
Eventually when the State refused to refund the amount, the suit was filed, out of which appeal No. 887 has arisen, in January 1952.
The respondent however was not able to export the entire quantity of 15,000 maunds for which the permit was granted; he could only export 4,572 maunds and 20 seers of chuni before December 2, 1947.
" The three learned Judges who heard the reference were unanimously of the opinion that the expression "Government of the corresponding State" used in article 295(2) of the Constitution with reference to Rajasthan meant not only the Government of the United State of Rajasthan, but also the United State of Rajasthan including its component units.
The appeals of the State to the District Judge were substantially dismissed while the appeal in the fourth suit by the plaintiff was substantially allowed.
The United State of Rajasthan eventually became the Part B State of Rajasthan on January 26, 1950 when the Constitution came into force.
It would be noticed that the decision that the new sovereign had not recognised the rights in States other than Patiala was based on the fact that Ordinance No. 1 repealed all laws in all States other than Patiala and applied the Patiala laws to the entire territory.
By May 15, 1949, the United State of Rajasthan was formed including the Matsya Union into which the former State of Dholpur had merged on March 17, 1948.
The appeals therefore fail and are hereby dismissed.
The first was whether excise could be levied on the cloth manufactured and the second was whether income tax could be levied on the income of the Mills, in view of the agreement between the Mills and the former Ruler of Jodhpur.
When this merger took place it is not in dispute that the exis ting laws were to continue till they were repealed or altered by the new State.
In this view of the matter we consider that it is unnecessary to decide whether the particular words used in article 295(2) include not only the United State of Rajasthan as it was just before January 26, 1950 but also the 183 old States which came to be merged into it through the process to which we have already referred.
This Court also negatived the argument which was urged in that case that part of the Covenant was an interim Constitution and head that the Covenant was in whole or in part an act of State and could not be treated as an interim Constitution.
Otherwise we see no sense or purpose in continuing the old laws till they are altered or repeated if the intention was that the obligations and liabilities flowing from the continuance of the old laws would notwithstanding the Covenant not be assumed by the new State.
