The High Court has affirmed the finding of the authority and held that section 15 was applicable to the case, because the wages prescribed by the award did amount to wages as defined by section 2(vi) of the Act.
March 24, 1964.
The true legal position is that when industrial disputes are decided by industrial adjudication and awards are made, the said awards supplant contractual terms in respect of matters covered by them and are substituted for them.
Appeal dismissed (1) A.I.R. 1951 Cal. 29.
Section 2(vi) as it stood at the relevant time, provides, inter alia, that wages means all remuneration, capable of being expressed in terms of money, which would, if the terms of the ,contract of employment, express or implied, were fulfilled, be payable.
We are not inclined to hold that even under the unamended definition of wages, rates of remuneration prescribed by an award could not be included.
The appellant raised two pleas against the respondents ' claim.
The terms in question need not be express and can be implied; but they must be terms which arise out of the contract of employment, and since an award made by an Industrial Tribunal cannot be said to amount to a contract of employment, the wage structure prescribed by the award cannot fall within the definition prescribed by section 2(vi).
In spite of the award and the agreement, the appellant paid its employees only As.
This question has to be answered in the light of the definition prescribed by section 2(vi) before it was amended in 1958.
It urged that section 15 of the Act was inapplicable, because the rates of wages fixed by the award did not fall within the definition of wages prescribed by section 2(vi) and it also argue,, that the claim of the respondents was barred by limitation.
This question appears to have been considered by the Bombay and the Calcutta High Courts.
In dealing with the question of construing the unamended definition of the term "wages", it is essential to bear in mind the scope and character of the powers conferred on Industrial 'Tribunals when they deal with industrial disputes under the provisions of the Indus trial Disputes Act.
The respondents contended before the payment of wages authority that the refusal of the appellant to pay to them wages at the rate awarded, in substance, amounted to an illegal deduction from their wages and on that basis, they asked for an order from the authority directing the appellant to pay to the respondents the said prescribed wages.
Mr. Setalvad for the appellant contends that before it is held that the wages prescribed by the award fall under section 2(vi), it must be shown that they constitute part of the terms of the contract of employment, either express or implied.
