If the other method is adopted, tax will not be payable .
He relies on the decision of this Court in State of Uttar Pradesh vs Kunwar Sri Trivikram Narain Singh(1).
The source of the pension was a liability undertaken by the Government for extinguishing the proprietary rights of the Jagirdar and when the immediate source of the income was not land or rent collections from land, it is difficult to hold that the receipt of the assessee was agricultural income within the meaning of Section 4(3)(viii) of the Income tax Act.
He says that if the assessee 's predecessor had received ) 706 compensation for relinquishing his title to the lands in dispute, that would have been a capital receipt and not taxable.
Mr. Sastri sought to distinguish those cases on the ground that the allowance here varied from year to year.
A.V. Viswanatha Sastri and S.P. Varma, for the respondent.
During the previous year of the assessment year 1949 50, the assessee received a sum of Rs. 36,396/ on account of the aforesaid pension.
The income of the trust appropriated by the appellant as remuneration is not received by him as rent or revenue of land; the character of the income appropriated as remuneration due is again not the same as the character in which it was received by the appellant as trustee.
Shah, J., observed: "The appellant has no beneficial interest in the lands which are the subject matter of the trust: nor is he given under the trust a right to receive and appropriate to himself the income of the properties or a part thereof in lieu of any beneficial interest in that income.
It seems to us that in this case the source of income is clearly the arrangement arrived at in 1837 and, therefore, it is not agricultural income as defined in the Act.
Mr. Sastri, relying on Perrin vs Dickson(1) contends that an annuity is not always taxable as income.
Appeal allowed.
Appeal from the judgment and decree dated July 27, 1959 of the Allahabad High Court in Income tax Reference No. 307 of 1957.
Another passage from the speech of Viscount Simon is also relevant.
It observed that "the language of the letter and this conduct of the parties can only lead to the inference that, by this settlement contained in the letter of 7th July, 1837, Babu Har Narain Singh and his successors were granted in perpetuity a right to one fourth of the land revenue collections themselves and not merely a right to receive u sum of money calculated on that basis." The High Court accordingly answered the question in the negative.
