Sub rule (2) then lays down that the working day of an adult shall be so arranged that inclusive of intervals for rest it shall not spread over more than twelve hours on any day.
(3) Nothing in this rule shall be deemed to affect the provisions of the ." The controversy in the present case is a narrow one.
Overtime under section 14 is only payable when the workman works in excess of the number of hours constituting a normal working day.
Appeal by special leave from the Award dated September 20, 1963 of the Central Government Industrial Tribunal, Bombay in Reference CG IT 25 of 1962.
They contended that, regard being had to the number of actual work hours, the case of shore crew at the Prince 's and Victoria Docks and the Butcher Island could not be compared with that of the crew at the Alexandra Docks or the Flotilla Crew.
He may go up to 9 hours on any day without paying any overtime provided he does not exceed 48 hours in the week.
(2). . . . "56.
The section so read lays down : "Where an employee. . . works on any day in excess of 9 hours, the employer shall pay him for every hour or for part of an hour so worked in excess at the overtime rate. . . " Under Rule 25 (1) (b) this overtime rate is double the ordinary rate of wages.
When the two shift system began, each shift of 12 hours was broken up into 8 hours ' duty, 2 hours ' variable recess and 2 hours ' overtime.
That is done by the Rules.
Since fixation of minimum wages must take into account the work load also, provision must not only be made for prescribing the minimum wage but to correlate it to a specified amount of work.
If he takes work during the extra 4 hours or fails to specify the hours of rest he must pay overtime.
It means a break in the work during which a workman, though present on duty, is not called upon to display either physical activity or sustained attention.
The only difference is that a worker must not be made to work for more than 5 hours at a stretch before he has had an interval for rest of half an hour at the least.
A working day may extend to 12 hours but the number of hours of work cannot exceed 9.
The appellants are the workmen of the Bombay Port Trust, who are and have been represented in this dispute by the Bombay Port Trust Employees ' Union.
or more specified intervals.
We are concerned with two sections and two rules.
According to their resolution the recess is fixed as near the middle of the work as possible, depending on the tides.
The distinction between intervals of rest and hours of work is thus made clear.
Section 13 only authorises Government to fix the number of hours which shall constitute a normal working day, inclusive of on, .
This determines what is a normal working day and what is meant by an interval of rest.
" Rule 24.
These provisions are subject to 641 one more check which we may now mention.
