(a) of cl.
He would not be entitled to any increments under sub cls.
We make no order as to costs in the circumstances.
(c) Such increments shall not however exceed four in number.
(i) and (ii).
(b) read with sub cl.
(a), (b) and (c) of el.
3.In the matter of adjustment all efficiency bars, whether in the previously existing or in the scales fixed by us should be ignored.
5.348.
C.A. 1009 dismissed.
(a) is subject to cl.
(iv)Subject to rules (i) to (iii) a workman 's basic pay in the scale provided by the Sastry award as modified shall be fixed in the following manner (a)A workman shall first be fitted into the scale of pay of Sastry award as modified by placing him at the stage in the Sastry award scale as modified equal to, or next above his basic pay as on 1st January, 1959 in the scale then in force in the bank concerned (hereinafter called the Bank 's scale).
(d) After adjustments are made in, accordance with clauses (a),(b) and (c) supra, two further annual increments.
Therefore under sub cl.
(a) the annual increments in the new scale as from that stage onwards should be added at the rate of one increment for every completed three years of service in the same cadre as on 31st January 1950, up to a limit of 12 years ' service; hereafter one increment for every four years of service up to another 8 years service, and after that one increment for every five years of service.
(i) and cl.
(iv) his salary will be fixed at Rs. 100.
The bank further claimed that this being the maximum permissible under cl.
(ii) of the Desai award, the adjusted basic pay in the new scale was not to exceed what point to point adjustment would give an employee on January 1, 1962.
(i) and the basic pay to be fixed on January 1, 1959, has to be fixed by reading sub cls.
(iv), but this will be subject to cls.
His place of posting was Phagwara in area ITT.
His basic pay as on January 1,1959 was Rs. 106.
(1) As the words of para 292 of the Sastry award as modified by the Labour Appellate Decision are almost the same as the words of para.
C.A. 1008 allowed.
(b) and (c) of cl.
(iv) and the two increments under sub cl.
The thirteenth stage in the Desai award scale is Rs. 182 for that area.
It is true that the Desai award said that certain changes were being made; but these changes were considered necessary having regard to the lapse of time.
(a) of el.
(iv), and the main dispute in the present case is about this subclause.
(ii) the adjusted basic pay is to be as on January 1, 1962.
The workman 's basic pay as on 31st January 1960 shall not be reduced in any case.
Here again the workmen were divided into two groups, namely, those who entered service before January 1, 1959 and those who entered service on or after January 1, 1959.
901 (ii) Subject to rule (i), the adjusted basic pay in the scale provided in the Sastry award as modified shall not exceed what point to point adjustment would give him or the maximum in the scale provided by the Sastry award as modified.
