In the circumstances noted above we are unable to allow him to raise this point at this stage.
The High Court did not deal with the question whether the company 's tea was imported into the limits of the Panchayat for consumption, use or sale because it felt that sufficient facts had not been found by the Standing Committee.
Accordingly.
Before we deal with these points it is necessary to set out the relevant statutory provisions.
Appeal against levy of any tax or fee A person desiring to make an appeal under sub section (5) of section 124, shall do so within sixty days from the date of publication of the notice under rule 4.
But r.4 has to be read alongwith r.21, and if so read, it would mean that before the octroi duty can start being levied, r.21 must be complied with.
The learned counsel for the appellant says that the approval of the Collector on January 14, 1964, relates back and, therefore, the levy of octroi from April 1, 1963, was regularised.
The Panchayat Samiti, however, rejected the appeal by its resolution dated September 4, 1963.
The scheme of the Fees Rules is first to prescribe general rules and then to deal individually with various taxes.
On June 1, 1959, the Bombay Village Panchayat Act, 1958 (Bombay Act III of 1959) hereinafter referred to as the Act came into effect in Vidharba region, and by virtue of this Act the appellant was deemed to be a Panchayat under the Act.
(b) The Panchayat shall then notify to the public the proposal together with that Part of these rules 218 which relates to that tax or fee by beat of drum in the village and by means of a notice affixed in the office of the panchayat and, at the village chavdi or chora, specifying a date, not earlier than one month after the date of such publication, on or after which the panchayat shall take the proposal into consideration.
Mr. Sen raised another point not dealt with by the High Court.
A Panchayat shall, with the approval of the Collector or of any officer authorised by the Collector not below the rank of Mamlatdar Tehsildar, Naib Tehsildar or Mahalkari, fix octroi limits and the number and location of octroi Nakas within 219 the limits of its jurisdiction.
Under r.3(d) what the panchayat does is to consider objections and suggestions and then finally make the choice as regards two things, i.e., the tax or fee to be imposed and the rate at which it is to be levied.
It shall be competent to a panchayat to levy all or any of the following taxes and, fees at such rates as may be decided by it (but subject to the minimum and maximum rates which may be fixed by the State Government) and in such manner and subject to such exemptions as may be prescribed, namely: . . . . . . . . . (ii) octroi. . . " Section 124(5) provides for appeals in these terms: "Any person aggrieved by the assessment, levy or imposition of any tax or fee may appeal to the Panchayat Samiti.
Procedure for levying tax or fee.
B. R. Agarwala and section B. Nerkar, for respondent No. 1.
Rule 71 which deals with tax on professions also contains a reference to rr. 3 and 4.
