Sub section
If the Court or Controller holds that the person is such a thika tenant.
Section 29 on the other hand was made applicable to all proceedings including proceedings in execution which were pending at the date of the commencement of the Act.
It expressly states that notwithstanding anything contained in any other law for the time being in force or in any contract, a thika tenant shall be liable to ejectment on ground specified and not otherwise.
If any such pending suit or proceeding related to any matter in respect of which the Controller was competent to pass orders, the suit or proceeding would be transferred to the Controller who would deal with it in accordance with the provisions of the Act just as if the Act had been in operation on the date of the commencement of the suit or proceeding.
Section 28 enactect that: "Where any decree or order for the recovery of possession of any holding from a thika tenant has been made before the date of commencement of this Act but the ' possession of such holding has not been recovered from the thika tenant by the execution of such decree or order, the Court by.
Sub section (2) of section 1 provided that the Act was to come into force immediately on the Calcutta Thika Tenancy (Amendment) Ordinance, 1952 ceasing to operate: provided that the provisions of the Calcutta Thika Tenancy Act, 1949 as amended by this Act were subject to the provisions of section 9 to apply and be deemed to have always applied to all suits, appeals and proceedings (a) before any court, or (b) before the Controller, or (c) before a person deciding an appeal under section 27 of the said Act, on the date of the commencement of the Calcutta Thika Tenancy (Amendment) Ordinance, 1952 i.e., 21st October, 1952.
Referring to the notice of ejectment served in this case, he said: "Not any one of the grounds as enumerated in section 3 was called in aid or could be called in aid".
Section 2 defined a thika tenant ' as meaning any person who under the system commonly known as "thika" "thika masik utbandi", "thika masik", "thika bastu", or under and other like system held land under another person whether under a written lease or otherwise and was, or but for a special contract would be, liable to pay rent at a monthly or any other periodical rate, for that land to such other person and had erected any structure on such land and was entitled to use it for residential purposes or for manufacturing or business purposes and included the suc cessors in interest of such person.
The language of the section leaves no room for doubt as to this.
Mitter, J. This is an appeal by a certificate granted by the High Court at Calcutta from a judgment and decree in Second Appeal passed by that court in January, 1961.
The legislature clearly meant section 4 to be prospective because according to its language "the landlord who wishes to eject the thika tenant (1) (2) 39 Times Law Reporter 31. 181 must give at least one month 's notice in writing" or three months ' notice as the case may be.
