The other is that a case is only an authority for what it actually decides.
But it was beyond the powers of the High Court to post Shri K.B. Panda as the law secretary, Shri T. Misra as superintendent and legal remembrancer and Shri P.K. Mohanti as the deputy law secretary.
(1) ; (2) ; 161 namely, whether the power to transfer District Judges is included in the 'control ' exercisable by the High Court over District Courts under article 235, or in the power of 'appointment of persons to be and the posting and promotion, of district judges ' which is to be exercised by the Governor under article 233, albeit in consultation with the High Court.
Nos. 6.25; 627,629 and 630 of 1967 respectively).
On that account, there appears to have been some friction between the High Court and the gov ernment for some years past.
In the result these appeals are partly allowed and the order of the High Court holding that Shri B.K. Patro, Shri K.K. Bose and Shri P.C. Dey had no authority to hold the posts they were holding on or after October 10, 1966 is set aside.
district and sessions judge.
That part of the High Court 's order is clearly unsustainable.
The reference to the cadre was merely incidental.
It is not the case of the parties that he was placed at the disposal of the government for any definite period.
To hold otherwise would be to contravene article 229 of the Constitution.
the power to appoint the Registrar of the High Court is exclusively that of the Chief Justice.
As mentioned earlier, member, sales tax tribunal, was an ex cadre post.
It was also not disputed that they had been validly appointed to those posts.
If there is no such agreement it is open to the government to send him back to his parent department at any time it pleases.
The Orissa Superior Judicial Service (senior branch) is a combined cadre consisting of officers holding purely judicial posts as well as posts which are essentially administrative in character.
Shri P.C. Dey.
In Orissa, as in most of the other States, that practice continued till the decision of tiffs Court in the State of Assam vs Ranga Mahammad and others(1).
Thereafter, he was, posted as superintendent and legal remembrancer.
A decision is only an authority for what it actually decides.
The High Court insisted that ordinarily judicial officers should: not hold those posts for more than three years.
It is at this stage the petitions which have given rise to those appeals were filed by some of the advocates practising in one or the other of the sessions divisions mentioned above, praying for a writ of mandamus against the government as well as the concerned officers to implement the transfers ordered by the High Court on October 10, 1966 and also a writ of quo warranto against Shri B.K. Patro, Shri K.K. Bose and Shri P.C. Dey requiring them to show cause under what authority they were holding the posts of the law secretary the superintendent and legal remembrancer and member sales tax tribunal, respectively.
Neither Bagchi 's case nor Ranga Mahammad 's case is of any assistance to us in deciding the question whether the High Court has competence to fill some of the posts in the secretariat by transfer judicial officers under Its control.
We are sure if any change is required the same will be effected by mutual understanding between the High Court and the government.
It was not the case of the contesting respondents that Shri P.C. Dey, Shri K.K. Bose and Shri B.K. Patro had not the necessary qualifications to hold the posts they were holding.
Therein this Court held that power to transfer judges presiding over courts vested with the High Court under article 235 of the Constitution.
In that cadre, no officer holding any post under the government was included.
There is less chance of success for a person seeking advantage for himself if the Chief Justice and his colleagues, with personal information, deal with the matter, than when a Minister deals with it on notes and information supplied by a secretary.
Therefore, these appeals were filed after obtaining special leave from this Court.
In other words, the period during which a judicial officer should serve in an executive post must be settled by agreement between the High Court and the government.
the State government or the High Court.
Though we hold that the orders of the High Court posting Shri B.K. Panda as law secretary, Shri T. Misra as superintendent and legal remembrancer and Shri P.K. Mohanti as deputy law secretary were excess of its powers, we do not set aside the mandamus issued by it for the reasons mentioned earlier.
