Section 5 (1) of the Act runs as follows": " A Special Court shall try such offences or classes of offences or cases or classes of cases, as the State Government may, by general or special order in writing, direct".
"It must appear not only that a classification has been made but also that it is based upon some reasonable ground some difference which bears a just and proper relation to the attempted classification"(1).
Agent for the respondent in Case No. 297: Sukumar Ghose.
Sections 6 to 15 set out in details the procedure which the Special Court has to follow in the trial of cases referred to it.
It was held that the statute violated the equal protection clause.
Appeals dismissed.
This principle, however, does not mean that every law must have universal application for all persons who are not by nature, attainment or circumstance, in the same position.
Company vs Ellis (3), "to carry the presumption to the extent of holding that there must be some undisclosed and unknown reason for subjecting certain individuals or corporations to hostile and discriminatory legislation is to make the pro tection clauses of the Fourteenth Amendment a mere rope of sand.
The argument is that although there is no apparent reason why an offence of theft in a dwelling house by a stranger should require speedier trial any more than an offence of theft in a dwelling house by a servant should do, the State government may nevertheless select the former offence for special and discriminatory treatment in the matter of its trial by bringing it under the Act.
Article 21 of the Constitution only guarantees that "no person shall be deprived of his life or personal liberty except in accordance with the procedure established by law.
The meaning, scope and effect of 334 article 14 of our Constitution have been discussed and laid down by this Court in the case of Chiranjit Lal Chowdhury vs The Union of India and Others (1).
A.A. Peerbhoy and J.B. Dadachanji for Habib Mohammad (Intervener).
40 306 There is no doubt that the West Bengal Special Courts Ordinance, 1949, which was later replaced by the impugned Act (West Bengal Special Courts Act X of 1950, to be herein after referred to as "the Act"), was a valid Ordinance when it was promulgated on the 17th August, 1949.
As already pointed out, wide latitude must be allowed to a legislature in classifying persons and things to be brought under the operation of a special law, and such classification need not be based on an exact or scientific exclusion or inclusion.
It is too indef inite and there can hardly be any definite objective test to determine it.
But I am not here to consider that.
It is true that the presumption should always be that the legislature understands and cor rectly appreciates the needs of its own people and that its discriminations are based on adequate grounds (2); but as was said by Mr. Justice Brewer in Gulf Colorado etc.
"It merely requires that all persons subject to such legislation shall be treated alike under like cir cumstances and conditions both in the privileges conferred and in the liabilities imposed." "The inhibition of the amendment was designed to prevent any person or class of persons from being singled out as a special subject for discriminating and hostile legislation.
Anwar Ali Sarkar, who is the respondent in Appeal No. 297, along with 49 other persons, were the accused in what is known as Dum Dum Factory Raid case, where crimes of the utmost bru tality were committed by an armed gang of men on the factory of Messrs. Jessop and Company at Dum Dum.
That is not a question which can be answered in the abstract.
The classification permissible, however, must be based on some real and substantial distinction bearing a just and reasona ble relation to the objects sought to be attained and cannot be made arbitrarily and without any substantial basis.
B. Sen, for the appellant in Case No. 298.
The order in question laid down that it would be unlawful for any person to engage in laundry business within the corporate limits "without having first obtained the consent of the Board of Supervi sors except the same to be located in a building constructed either of brick or stone.
The Act is intituled "An Act to provide for the speedier trial of certain offences ", and the preamble declares that "it is expedient to provide for the speedier trial of cer tain offences ".
I, therefore, agree with Harries, C.J. that this part of section 5(1) is valid.
It has, on the other hand, acted under that part of the section which authorises it to direct" cases" to be tried by the Special Court, for by the notifications it has directed certain specific cases identified by their individual numbers in the records of the particular than as to be tried by the Special Court.
Accordingly a Special Bench was constituted, consisting of the Chief Justice and four other Judges who heard both these cases.
If a law deals equally with members of a welldefined class, it is not obnoxious and it is not open to the charge of denial of equal protection on the ground that it has no application to other persons.
Article 14 provides: "The State shall not deny to any person equality before the law or the equal protection of the laws within the territory of India." Then follow articles 15 and 16, the former prohibiting discrimination on grounds of religion, race, caste, sex, place of birth, or any of them and the latter providing for equality of opportunity in matters of public employment.
The Code of Criminal Procedure has by the process of classification prescribed different modes of procedure for trial of different of fences.
Citing the case of Sunday Lake Iron Co. vs Wakefield, Rogers vs Alabama and Concordia Fire Ins.
Chakravartti and Das JJ.
All persons are not, by nature, attainment or circumstances, equal and the varying needs of different classes of persons often require separate treatment and, therefore, the protecting clause has been construed as a guarantee against discrimi nation amongst equals only and not as taking away from the State the power to classify persons for the purpose of legislation.
this question in the affirmative, while other cases answer it in the negative.
It was conceded during the hearing of these rules by the State Government that al though in the case of Anwar Ali the notification was issued a day before the coming into force of the Constitution, the provisions of the Constitution of India, which came into force on the 26th of January, 1950, applied to his case also.
F.N. Balsara (2).
As pointed out by Chakravarti J. the necessity of a speedy trial is too vague and uncertain a criterion to form the basis of a valid and reasonable classification.
Briefly stated, the trial is to be without any jury or assessors, and the court has to follow the procedure that is laid down for trial of warrant cases by the Magistrate under the Criminal Procedure Code.
V. Rajaram Iyer, Advocate General of Hyderabad (R. Ganapathy Iyer, with him) for the State of Hyderabad.
FAZL ALl J.
Bombay and Another vs
On the 28th of August, 1951.
MUKHERJEA J.
It may even be that it would be more truly done.
Section 3 empowers the State Government by notification in the official gazette to constitute Special Courts, and section 4 provides for the appointment of spe cial judges to preside over such courts.
Every classification is in some degree likely to produce some inequality, and mere production of inequality is not enough.
Agent for the appellant in Case No. 297: P.K. Bose.
The procedure for committal in the sessions cases is omitted altogether; the court 's powers of granting adjournment are restricted and special provisions are made to deal with refractory accused and also for cases which are transferred from one 318 Special Court to another.
" In the face of all these considerations, it seems to me difficult to condemn section 5 (1) as violative of article 14.
the Special Bench made the rules absolute and held that section 5 (1) of the West Bengal Special Courts Act was void to the extent that it empowers the State to direct any case to be tried by the Special Court.
But that predicates a position where the words are plain and unambiguous.
There is nothing wrong therefore if the State discontinues trial by jury in any district with regard to all or any particular class of offences; but as has been pointed out by Mr. Justice Chakra varti of the Calcutta High Court, it cannot revoke jury trial in respect of a particular case or a particular ac cused while in respect of other cases involving the same offences the order still remains.
I shall first deal with the section in so far as it authorises the State government to direct "of fences", "classes of offences" and "classes of cases" to be tried by a Special Court.
I propose only to note the points urged before us and shortly state my conclusions thereon.
" It is, in substance, modelled upon the equal pro tection clause, occurring in the Fourteenth Amendment of the American Constitution with a further addition of the rule of "equality before the law", which is an established maxim of the English Constitution.
In such cases it may be possible to attack the legislation on the ground of improper delegation of authority or the acts of the officers may be challenged on the ground of wrongful or mala fide exercise of powers; but no question of infringement of article 14 of the Constitution could possibly arise.
In order to pass the test, two conditions must be fulfilled, namely, (1) that the classification must be founded on an intelligible differentia which distinguishes those that are grouped together from others (1) ; (2) ; 335 and (2) that that differentia must have a rational relation to the object sought to be achieved by the Act.
It is the function of the legislature alone, headed by the government of the day, to determine what is, and what is not, good and proper for the people of the land; and they must be given the widest lati tude to exercise their functions within the ambit of their powers, else all progress is barred.
Amongst other important changes, reference may be made to the provision of section 13 of the Act which empowers the Special Court to convict an accused of any offence if the commission of such offence is proved during trial, although he was not charged with the same or could be charged with it in the manner contemplated by section 236 of the Criminal Procedure Code, nor was it a minor offence within the meaning of section 238 of the Code.
Section 5, whose constitutionality is impugned, runs thus: 290 "5(1) A Special Court shall try such offences or classes of cases, as the classes of offences or cases State Government may by general or special order in writing, direct.
