In fact, the Tribunal also accepted them as being comparable 'and that is why, in its conclusion, the Tribunal held that, in its opinion, it would be appropriate under the circumstances of the case to fix the minimum wage in the Company on the basis of the minimum wage prevailing in other industries in that region.
These elements are basic wage, dearness allowance and production bonus.
At that time, the year 1962 63 was still running and the accounts for that year could not possibly have been closed and made available.
The pleading makes it clear that the claim for six months ' wages was not based on the Full Bench Formula, but on the ground that certain clerical staff was being paid bonus which, in effect, amounted to about six months ' basic wages, because the bonus was calculated ;in their case by taking into account the consolidated wages, including dearness allowance, while in the case of the workmen, the dearness allowance element of the wages was being ignored and bonus was calculated only by taking into account basic wages.
In all these circumstances, we think that the revised wages should take effect from 13th December, 1962.
Consequently, we are unable to hold that the Tribunal has committed any error and that, in this respect, any interference by us is called for.
Learned counsel had to admit that no specific plea was taken by the Company in this behalf and at least no evidence at all was led to show that these concerns are not comparable with the Company.
The principle for fixation of minimum wages that should ordinarily be adopted was laid down by this Court in the case of French Motor Car Co. Limited.
The Titaghur Paper Mill No. 3 started production only in April, 1960, while the J.K. Paper Mills at Rayagada started production in 1961 62.
The Tribunal should not have proceeded to make the alternative calculation on some other basis so as to arrive at a lower figure of Rs. 73 p.m. as the wage covering the basic wage and the dearness allowance, in addition to Rs. 11 p.to.
The nature of work is such that the total number of workmen employed does not exceed 125 which is a very small number as compared ' with the number of workmen employed by the Company.
Appeal by special leave from the Award, dated January 11, 13, 1964 of the Industrial Tribunal, Orissa, Cuttack in Industrial Dispute Case No. 8 of 1962.
That situation was envisaged as occurring whenever the particular concern in question happens to be already paying the; highest wages in its particular line of business.
Finally it was urged that even the casual and badIi workers should be allowed bonus on the same basis as the permanent workers.
Further, the Tribunal was expected to decide the dispute only as referred to it and, at the time of reference at least, there was not and there could possibly not be a claim for higher bonus on the basis of the application of the Full Bench Formula.
The second matter in the appeal related to bonus covered by item No. 2 of that Schedule.
The Company has always treated the total wage of a workman as consisting of these three elements in the proportion of 3:3: 1.
The idea of fixing such wage in the light of cost of living at a particular juncture of time and of neutralising the rising prices of essential commodities by linking up scales of minimum wages with the cost of living index cannot, therefore, be said to be alien to the concept of a minimum wage.
It was held that such a case: "there should be greater emphasis on the region part of the industry cum region principle, though it would be the duty of the industrial court to see that for purposes of comparison such other industries in the region are taken into account as are as nearly similar to the concern before it as possible.
The demand made by the workmen was for bonus equivalent to six months ' wages, and the argument was that, if the Tribunal had worked out the surplus available on the correct basis, that surplus would have certainly justified grant of profit bonus at the rate of six months ' wages.
This principle will remain effective with the modification that these workers will be entitled to the increase of Rs. 23 p.m. substituted by us for the increase of Rs. 12 allowed by the Tribunal.
The reference was made by the Government on the 4th October, 1962.
Further, there is one very significant circumstance, viz. that this dispute was raised by the workmen 'before the expiry of the year 1962 63.
There is some clerical staff which does not get any dearness allowance at all and it is only in those cases.
The break up of this wage into the three 'elements is of some importance in this case because of the principle on which the 674 profit bonus is paid by tiffs Company.
That reference under section 10(2) of the Act, however, failed due to some technical defect.
" In the light of these views which were brought to the notice of the Tribunal, the Tribunal proceeded to consider the minimum wages paid by three Collieries, Orient Colliery, Ibe Colliery and Himgiri Rampur Colliery, the Rourkela Steel Plant, the Cement Factory at Rajgangpur and the Indian Aluminum Company, Hirakud which the Tribunal found were situated not very far away from the place where the Company had its factory.
The 'tribunal, in this connection, has quoted the pleading of the workmen in their written statement before it.
are being.compared with the Company for the purpose of fixation of the minimum wage Consequently, we do not think that there is any justification for departing from the figure of Rs.95 which is the average minimum wage payable by those industries (1) [1963] Supp.
It appears to us that an Industrial Tribunal has the discretion, in appropriate cases, of making a direction linking the dearness allowance element of a wage to the Price Index; but, at the same time, the Tribunal is entitled to choose the alternative course of fixing the wage at the prevailing Price Index and leaving the labour to raise a fresh demand and, if necessary, a fresh industrial dispute for further rise in wages, in case there is marked variation in the Price Index and the wage fixed in the award becomes out dated.
in the same region.
On this finding, it is clear that the region cure industry principle laid down in the ease of French Motor Car Co. Ltd. (1) could not have been applied by the Tribunal when fixing the wages in the Company.
The Tribunal rejected this demand on the ground that, under the Agreement of 1959, the workmen and the Company had agreed specifically to exclude these classes of workers in regard to payment of bonus.
