Where, immediately before the appointed day, the State of Bombay is subject to any liability in respect of any actionable wrong other than breach of contract, that liability shall, (a) if the cause of action arose wholly within the territories which, as from that day, are the territories of the State of Maharashtra or the State of Gujarat, be a liability of that State; and (b) in any other case, be initially a liability of the State of Maharashtra but subject to such financial adjustment as may be agreed upon between the States of Maharashtra and Gujarat or, in default of such agreement, as the Central Government may by order direct." The learned counsel for the State of Maharashtra contends that the liability to pay arrears of pay was not a liability arising out of a contract but was a liability in respect of an actionable wrong other than a. breach of contract.
" The plaintiff filed a written statement.
He also examined himself and some witnesses.
He was dismissed by the Inspector General of Prisons by his order dated February 2/4, 1955.
(4) (5) (May 29, We are here concerned with a choice between section 60 and section 61, which lay down two broad categories.
I. N. Shroff, for respondent No. 1.
In the plaint the plaintiff alleged that copy of the enquiry report was never supplied to him, and consequently he had not been given reasonable opportunity within the meaning of article 311 of the Constitution.
It seems to us that the High Court came to a correct conclu sion.
The Enquiry Officer made a report and on or about January 7, 1955, the following notice was issued to him calling upon him to show cause why he should not be dismissed from service "To Shri Bhaishanker A. Joshi, Accountant, Rajkot Central Prison (Under suspension) Charges framed against you under this office No. C/ 14 dated 27 3 54 and in particular the charges of having accepted illegal gratification from prisoner Ratilal Jivan have been established to the satisfaction of Government.
On March 7, 1954, he was served with a charge sheet.
It seems to us, however, that some elements of relationship between a public servant and Government are based on contract within the meaning of section 60 of the Bombay Reorganisation Act, 1960.
(2) For the purposes of this section there shall be deemed to be included in the liabilities which have accrued or may accrue under any contract (a)any liability to satisfy an order or award made by any court or other tribunal in proceedings relating to the contract; and (b any liability in respect of expenses incurred in or in connection with any such proceedings.
That is the only purpose of the enquiry held by competent officer and the report he makes as a result of the said enquiry".
The second appeal was heard by the High Court of Gujarat (Miabhoy, J.) who directed that the decree passed by the lower appellate court "be varied so as to show that the appellant (plaintiff) continued to be in Government service till the date of the suit only and there will be a decree for Rs. 2,690 919 being arrears of pay due to the appellant (plaintiff) upto the date of the suit.
There will be a further provision in the decree that the liability arising out of the declaration that the appellant is in Government service is the liability of the State of Gujarat and that the liability for the payment of the arrears of pay is the liability of the State of Maharashtra".
