any requirement as to residence within the State or Union territory prior to employment or appointment to an office in that State or Union territory.
P. A. Choudhury, K. Rajendra Chaudhuri and C. section Sreenivasa Rao, for the interveners.
The second clause then specifies a prohibition against discrimination only on the grounds of religion, race, sex, descent, place of birth, residence or any of them.
All non domicile employees so relieved shall be provided employment in the Andhra region without break in service and by creating supernumerary posts, if necessary.
The first clause emphasises that ware shall be in India equality of opportunity for all citizens in matters of employment or appointment to any office under the late.
Y. P. Petitions allowed.
Parliament can make any law which prescribes.
Section 3 of the Act gave the power to make Rules in respect of certain classes of employment in certain areas.
The Rules were made on March 21, 1959.
M. C. Setalvad and R. N. Sachthey, for respondent No. 2.
They challenge the Act, the Rules and the proposed action as ultra vires the Constitution.
It is said that the period 118 is to be extended by another 5 years.
" 117 The Government of Andhra Pradesh then passed an order (G.O.Ms. 36, G.A. (SR) Dept.) on January 21, 1969 relieving before February 28, 1969 all non domicile persons appointed on or after November 1, 1956 to certain categories of posts reserved for domiciles of Telengana under the Andhra Pradesh Public Employment (Requirement as to Residence) Rules, 1959.
(3)Nothing in this article shall prevent Parliament from making any law prescribing, in regard to a class or classes of employment or appointment to an office under the Government of, or any local or other authority within, a State or Union territory, any requirement as to residence within that State or Union territory prior to such employment or appointment.
These supernumerary posts were to be treated as temporary addition to the strength of the office concerned and were to be adjusted against future vacancies in corresponding posts as they arose.
