In, appeal the Appellate Assistant Commissioner agreed with the Income tax Officer.
The Incometax Officer disallowed that claim holding that "these transactions were mere accommodations which can have no bearing to the regular business carried on by the assessee.
[After receipt of the second supplementary statement of case from the Tribunal the appeal was finally heard by J. C. Shah, C.J., K. section Hegde and A. N. Grover, JJ.
did not arise, in the course of the appellants ' business as chemists and druggists nor in the course of their money lending business.
The question referred was, therefore, answered in the affirmative and against the asses see.
The Tribunal will submit the statement within three months from the date on which the papers reach the Tribunal.
The assessee firm then applied to the Tribunal to refer the following question to the High Court of Madras "Whether on the facts and in the circumstances of the case the disallowance of the bad debt of Rs. 2,68,385 is right in law ?" The Tribunal rejected the application, but pursuant to an order made by the High Court of, Madras under section 66(2) submitted a statement of the case on the following question "Whether on the facts and in the circumstances of the case, the Tribunal was right in law in holding that the debt of Rs. 2,68,385/ was not one incurred in the course of money lending business of the assessee ?" In the opinion of the High Court the debt of Rs. 2,68,385/ due to the appellants was not a bad and doubtful debt in its money lending business not a debt representing loss sustained in the other business.
The appeal fails and is dismissed.
Two minors, Ramniklal Sobhachand and Lakshmichand Sobhachand were admitted to the benefits of the partnership.
The Tribunal 's order is very brief : it gives no reasons in support of the conclusions.
A bad and doubtful debt due to an assessee in respect of banking or money lending business is allowable under section 10(2) (xi) if it is in respect of loans made in the ordinary course of such business.
The tribunal has found that the monies sent by the assessee to the Bombay firm were not loans made in the ordinary course of its money lending business, nor in respect of any other business of the assessee.
The Judgment of the Court was delivered 'by] Hegde, J.
reframed the question as follows "Whether on the facts and in the circumstances of the case the Appellate Tribunal erred in disallowing a sum of Rs. 2,68,385/ written off by the assessee in their books of accounts as irrecoverable ?" By its order dated July 29, 1969 this Court called upon the Tribunal to submit a supplementary statement of case on the reframed question.
