There is, therefore, 'abundant authority in support of the view that an order is final within the meaning of article 133 of the Constitution, under section 109 Code of Civil Procedure or section 205 of the Government of India Act, 1935, if it amounts to final decision on the rights of the parties in dispute in the suit or proceeding; if after the order is made, the suit or proceeding still remains to be tried, and the rights in disputes have to be determined, the order is interlocutory.
" In Abdul Rahman vs
In appeal the Additional Sessions Judge held that the complaint was competent only in respect of the offence under section 205 read with section 114.
This issue was tried as a preliminary issue and as it raised the question of the vires of the Bombay prevention 'of Ex communication Act, 1949, the State of Bombay was impleaded as a party defendant in the suit.
G.C. Certificate revoked.
Against that order an appeal was preferred to the Judicial Committee which was held not maintainable.
Appeals from the judgment and order elated October 9, 1968 of the Madras High Court in O.S.A. No. 25 and 27 of 1968.
Petitions Nos.
" The suit filed by the plaintiffs is a civil proceeding, and the suit involves some claim or question respecting property of not less than twenty thousand rupees.
The expression "final order" it has been held by a long course of authorities, occurring in section 205 of the Government of India Act, 1935, section 109 of the Code of Civil Procedure and article 133(1) of the Constitution means a final decision on the rights of the parties in dispute in a suit or proceeding; if the rights of the parties in dispute in the suit or proceeding remain to be tried, after the order, the order is not final.
The trial court decided the issue against the appellant and the order was confirmed in appeal by the High Court of Bombay.
That is a matter not in dispute.
In Abdul Rahman 's case(1) a suit was instituted by D.K. Cassim and Sons claiming damages against the appellant Abdul Rahman.
(2) (3) (4) (5) L.R. 60 I.A. 76.
Counsel for the appellant strongly relied upon a recent judgment of this Court in Mohanlal Maganlal Thakkar vs State of Gujarat(3) and contended that the view expressed in the earlier cases is superseded.
