Even then we think that the time gap is too short for original offenders to have disposed of the property to these appellants Or to have left the goods in their custody till such time as the original offenders could have taken them away.
G.C. Appeal partly allowed.
, These are 14 appellants who appeal against their conviction under section 395 of the Indian Penal Code and sentences of 5 years ' rigorous imprisonment and fine of Rs. 1,000/ passed on them.
It is only when the accused cannot be connected with the crime except by reason of possession of the fruits of crime that the presumption may be drawn.
Therefore we think that a sentence of three years ' rigorous imprisonment will meet the ends of justice in this case.
The houses of 20 persons were searched and large quantities of the stolen goods were found in their houses.
721 Appeal by special leave from the judgment and order dated January 24, 1967 of the High Court of Mysore in Criminal Appeal .No.
Searches took place between July 30, 1962 and August 17, 1962.
committed.
The evidence strengthens the other evidence already against him.
In our opinion, the law advocated by Mr. Chari is not correct.
In what circumstances the one presumption or the other may be drawn, it is not necessary to state categorically in this case.
In two cases only the time gap is about 19 days.
In this appeal, the only contention raised by Mr. A. section R. Chari is that the presumption that they were dacoits ought not to have been drawn since the circumstances do not admit the drawing of such a presumption in the case, According to Mr. Chari, the presumption to be drawn ought to have been one under section 41 1 722 of Indian Penal Code or at the most tinder section 412 of the Indian Penal Code but not of complicity in the crime of dacoity.
Shyamala Pappu and section P. Nayar, for the respondent.
(It is, impossible to think that within the short time available, these goods could have been easily disposed of to receivers of stolen property or could be placed in the custody of friends till such time as the original offenders could take them away.) The time gap in some cases is as short as two days and in some others it is not more than five days.
The police investigated the case and arrested the 20 persons who were accused in the case as being the culprits involved in this incident.
It all depends upon the circumstances under which the discovery of the fruits of crime are made with a particular accused.
