(b) of section 147.
Income tax Officer, A Ward, Muzaffarpur.
From the report submitted by the Income tax Officer to the Commissioner, it is clear that he could not have had reasons to believe that by reason of the assessee 's omission to disclose fully and truly all material ' facts necessary for his assessment for the accounting year in question, income chargeable to tax has escaped assessment for that year; nor could it be said that he as a consequence of information in his possession, had reasons to believe that the income chargeable to tax has escaped assessment for that year.
Name and address of the assessee M/S. Chugamal Rajpal, Muzaffarpur.
Hence proper investigation regarding these loans is necessary.
Further the report submitted by him under section 151(2) does not mention any reason for coming to the conclusion that it is a fit case for the issue of a notice under section 148.
Sd/ section P. Chaliha, 30 4 66.
(Inv.)15/ 65 66/1953 2017 dated Patna 24 9 65, it appears that these persons are name lenders and the transactions are bogus.
(a) or cl.
Lakha Singh Lal Singh.
G.C. Appeal allowed.
Appeal by special leave from the judgment and order dated January 17, 1967 of the Patna High Court in C.W.J.C. No. 952 of 1966.
The notice is being issued after obtaining the necessary satisfaction of the Commissioner of IncomeTax, Bihar and Orissa, Patna.
To Question No. 8 in the report which reads "Whether the, Commissioner is satisfied that it is a case for the I issue of notice under section 148", he just noted the word "yes" and affixed his signatures thereunder.
(a) or (b) of section 147 147(a) 7.
Whether the Board is satisfied that it is aSecretary, Board of Revenue.fit case for the issue of notice under section 148.
Section 139(2) says : "In the case of any person who, in the incometax Officer 's opinion, assessable under this Act, whether on his own total income or, on the total income of any other person during the previous year, the Income tax Officer may, before the end of the relevant assessment year, serve a notice upon him requiring him to furnish, within thirty days from the date of service of the notice, a return of his income or the income of such other person during the previous year, in the prescribed form and verified in the prescribed manner and setting forth such other particulars as may be prescribed." (proviso is not necessary for our present purpose) When this appeal came up for hearing on the last occasion, as we found the affidavit filed by the Income tax Officer to 'be vague and indefinite, we directed the learned Counsel for the Department to produce before us the records of the Incometax Officer to show that the, Income tax Officer had complied with the requirements of section 148 and section 151(2) of the Act.
