(z) To take or otherwise acquire and hold shares in any other association or company having objects altogether or in part similar to those of the Federation.
Further, the definition of "commercial establishment" is wider than that of "shop".
Secondly, it should be premises wherein (a) any trade, business or profession is carried on, or (b) any work in connection with or incidental or ancillary thereto is carried on.
The title of the Act is Delhi Shops and Establishments Act, 1954.
In R. K. Mittal 's case, this Court was considering the activity of this Federation in the context of 'industry ' as defined in s.2(j) of the .
These services are material services.
It deals with the trade or busi ness in general to secure the interest of the country.
V.P.S. Appeal allowed.
There is no, doubt that the registered office of the Federation is premises.
Mr. Rao, learned Counsel for the appellants strongly relies on the aforesaid decision.
It undertakes regular publication of periodicals, bulletins, Reviews etc.
It has set up Tribunals for arbitration in disputes arising between individual traders or business concerns in the course of trade, industry or other business matters.
(k) To attain those advantages by united action which each member may not be able to accomplish in its separate capacity.
(z4) (4) The income and property of the Federation, whencesoever derived, shall be applied solely towards the promotion of the objects of the Federation as set forth in the Memorandum of Association; and no portion thereof shall be paid or transferred directly or indirectly, by way of dividend, bonus, or otherwise by way of profit to the members of the Federation.
As regards the preliminary objection, it is true that before the High Court, it was not argued that the activity of the Federation amounts to the carrying on of any business or trade in the premises in question.
" It will be seen that "any business, trade" is an element common to the definitions of "commercial establishment" and "industry" given in the respective statutes.
From the judgment and order dated the 8th February, 1967 of Le Delhi High Court in Civil Writ No. 531 D of 1964.
These publications are available on payment of subscription or price even to individual businessmen or traders who are not members of the Federation.
It is well settled that a systematic activity can be a business activity even if no dividends are declared or profits shared.
In the matter.
It shall apply in the first instance.
The definitions of "commercial establishment", "establishment" and "shop" given in sub sections (5), (9) and (27) of section 2 are material for our purpose.
Alternatively, it was contended that the case fell within part (b) of the definition of "commercial establishment" inasmuch as its activities were connected with trade and business, generally.
" " Shop" means any premises where goods are sold, either by retail or wholesale Or where services are rendered to customers, and includes an office, a stoic room, godown, warehouse or workhouse, or work place, whether in the same premises or otherwise, used in or in connection with such trade or business but does not include a factory or commercial establishment.
therein, the Memorandum of Association, Articles of Association and the other material placed before the court were closely examined.
