As already stated under section 46 (2), the Collector, on receipt of the certificate from the Income tax Officer, has to proceed to recover the certified demand as if it were an arrear of land revenue.
This argument appears to us to be well ,founded.
The defaulting assessee might have paid up the dues in which case there would have been no occasion for sale.
No application was made to the High Court for leave to appeal to this Court from the decision of that High Court but on the 2nd September 1955 the present petition was filed in this Court under article 32 of the Constitution for the relief hereinbefore mentioned.
There is the same or similar correlation between the basis of classification and the object sought to be achieved by the Indian Incometax Act.
A cursory perusal of the two sections will show at once that the procedure prescribed by section 13 of the Bombay City Land Revenue Act, 1876 for the recovery of arrears of land revenue was harsher and more drastic than the procedure laid down in section 157 of the Bombay Land Revenue Code, 1879 in that a defaulter residing in the City of Bombay could be kept in detention for a day for every rupee of the arrears which might considerably exceed the maximum period of six months which is the period 904 limited by the Code of Civil Procedure for the detention of a judgment debtor in civil jail.
The objects of the two Acts in this behalf are in pari materia and the same considerations must apply to both.
The assessee did not appear in person on the appointed day but on the next day, the 17th June 1955, an Advocate acting on behalf of the assessee wrote a letter to the Additional Collector purporting to show cause why the assessee should not be arrested and sent to the civil jail.
Under Article 32 of the Constitution of India for a Writ in the nature of Habeas Corpus.
It is next said that the proviso to the sub section invests the Collector with all the powers a Civil Court has under the Code of Civil Procedure for the purpose of the recovery of the amount due under a decree.
Each State in its wisdom has devised a machinery which it has considered appropriate and suitable for the recovery of its own public demand.
897 If the State laws are discriminatory that vice cannot be imputed to section 46(2).
The sale proclamation was issued on the 15th January 1955.
Their needs, as understood by their own Legislature, are different from those of the people of other States.
It is said that the income tax demand being a Union demand there should be uniformity in the punishment to be, meted out to defaulters and it can be done easily by suitably amending section 46(2) so as to provide for the detention of all defaulters for the same period in all cases in all States.
The contention is that section 46(2) which sanctions such discrimination is clearly violative of the equal protection clause of the Constitution and has, therefore, become void under article 13 (1).
The first objection formulated by learned counsel for the petitioner must, therefore, be rejected.
Further, the law was amended on the 8th October, 1954 when the proviso to section 13 quoted above was replaced by the following proviso: "Provided that such imprisonment shall cease at any time upon payment of the sum due and that it shall in no case exceed (i) A period of six months when the sum due is more than Rs. 50; and (ii)A period of six weeks in any other case.
I of 1886) does not insist on imprisonment at all.
Two private limited companies, namely, Indestro India Ltd., and Indestro Eastern Ltd., also carry on business and have their respective offices in the same premises.
Adoption of an existing machinery devised for a particular purpose cannot, if there be no vice of unconstitutionality in the machinery render it unconstitutional if it is made to subserve a purpose closely akin or similar to the purpose for which it bad been devised.
In the view we have taken about the merits of the petition it is not necessary for us to consider the question of its maintainability after the dismissal of the petition under article 226 or to make any pronouncement, on this occasion, on the scope and ambit of article 32 of the Constitution in that situation.
Article 14 is invoked in two ways.
No payment 891 having been made, the Additional Collector attached the goodwill and tenancy rights in the said premises by a warrant of attachment issued on the 24th March 1954.
By that time section 13 had been amended and the warrant of arrest was issued on the 7th June 1955, that is to say, long after the amendment of the section.
The contentions put forward on behalf of the assessee not being considered satisfactory the Additional Collector on the 30th June 1955 issued a warrant for the arrest of the assessee under section 13 of the Bombay City Land Revenue Act, 1876.
In respect of his own business of Indestro Sales and Service Co., the assessee was assessed to income tax for the years 1943 44 to 1947 1948 and 1951 1952 by the Third Income tax Officer, C 1 Ward, Bombay, at and for Rs. 40,178 4 0.
Therefore, the disparity that prevailed between the original proviso to section 13 of the Bombay City Land Revenue Act, 1876 and the proviso to section 157 of the Bombay Land Revenue Code,, 1879 is now removed, The (1) ; 905 disparity between the two provisions as they originally stood being thus eliminated, the vice of unconstitutionality is also removed and section 13 of the Bombay City Land Revenue Act, 1876, as it now stands, cannot be assailed as repugnant to article 14 of the Constitution.
A Collector in the State of Madras in recovering the certified amount of income tax has to proceed under section 48 of the Madras Revenue Recovery Act, 1864 (Madras Act II of 1864).
