P. B. R. Appeal dismissed.
The Inspector of Police P. W. 15, however, stated that P. W. 3 did not state before him that she saw the accused making a gesture as if he was stabbing the deceased.
The upper lobe of the left lung had been cut through and through,, and had collapsed.
below the arm pit 1.75 cms x 0.5 cm.
vs State of U.P. & Anr.(1).
On 18th December, 1972, according to the case of the prosecution the accused once again requested his mother in law to send his wife to his house.
We do not think that the comment is justified.
The injury must have been caused in the manner suggested by the prosecution that 368 is, when the deceased was lying on her right side.
The appellant was acquitted by the learned Additional Sessions judge, Chittoor of an offence under Section 302, Indian Penal Code.
The deceased intervened and interposed herself between P.W. 1 and the accused.
The learned Counsel for the appellant advanced the usual argument submitted in all cases where an order of acquittal is reversed, namely, that where two views of the evidence are possible, the accused is entitled to the benefit of the doubt arising from the two views and that where the Trial Court has taken a possible view and acquitted the accused, the High Court should not interfere with the order of acquittal merely because another view is also possible.
The High Court observed that the learned Sessions Judge had magnified the importance to be attached to minor discrepancies.
At one time it was thou ht that an order of acquittal could be set aside for "substantial and compelling reasons" only and Courts used to launch on a search to discover those "substantial and compelling reasons".
She received a stab injury.
Thereafter, P. W. 9 prepared his own report exhibit P. 4 and sent it alongwith exhibit P. 1 and M.O. 1 to the Police Station at Renigunta.
After Sanwat Singh vs State of Rajasthan, this Court has consistently recognised the right of the Appellate Court to review the entire evidence and to come to its own conclusion, bearing in mind the considerations mentioned by the Privy Council in Sheo Swarup 's case.
The appeal is dismissed.
They replied that she had only delivered a child recently and that she would be sent to her husband 's house in the fifth month.
There was no fracture.
Attracted by the cries raised by the P.Ws. 1 to 3, the neighbourers P. Ws. 4, 5, 6 and others came there.
P. W. 13 the Medical officer who examined the accused found several abrasions and contusions on the person of the accused.
P.W. 1 put his foot on the hand in which the accused was holding the knife.
The High Court was also right in holding that the medical evidence supported the prosecution version and not the defence version.
He referred to the evidence of me Doctor who stated that the injury found on the deceased could have been caused even if she was standing.
It is, therefore, essential that any view of the evidence in favour of the accused must be reasonable even as any doubt, the benefit of which an accused person may claim, must be reasonable. "A reasonable doubt", it has been remarked, "does not mean some light, airy, insubstantial doubt that may flit through the minds of any of us about almost anything at some time or other, it does not mean a doubt begotten by sympathy out of reluctance to convict; it means a real doubt, a doubt founded upon reason"(4).
We may also refer here to the comment of the learned Counsel for the appellant that realizing that the motive would assume considerable importance if the case was one based on circumstantial evidence, the prosecution tried to make P. W. 3 depose as if she had witnessed occurrence.
They caught hold of the accused and tied him to a pole in front of the house by means of a rope.
The learned Sessions Judge thought that when there were two divergent versions given by the prosecution and the defence and when two views were possible, the benefit of doubt should be given to the accused.
We have perused the relevant evidence as well as the judgments of the Sessions Judge and the High Court.
In Khem Karan & Ors.
He regained consciousness next morning.
