The final electoral roll was published on November 16, 1978.
5 6 in CA 1617/79.
It was also alleged that on October 20, 1978, 34 persons mentioned in Annexure P 7 approached the Deputy Collector to entertain their claim for inclusion in the electoral roll and he refused to receive their applications.
One of the grounds on which the appellants challenged the validity of the electoral roll, the calendar of events and the declaration of results of election was that the entire election process had become vitiated on account of the defect in the notice issued under Rule (1) of the Rules notifying that claims and objections should be preferred within a period of 20 days from the date of the publication of that notice when sub rule (3) of Rule 4 of the Rules prescribed that such claims and objections could be preferred within 30 days from the date of publication of that notice.
The writ petition itself was filed on December 28, 19?8 when the poll had to take place on December 31, 1978.
It was only on December 5, 1978 for the first time that a letter was addressed by petitioner No. 6 to the Collector drawing his attention to the error that had crept into the notice published under Rule 4(1) of the Rules.
In paragraph 7 of the notice, it was mentioned that claims and objections received beyond the prescribed period would not be considered.
The claim of petitioner No. 5 was rejected as no evidence in support of his claim was produced before the Deputy Collector.
The period prescribed for preferring claims and objections under Rule 4(3) was 30 days.
became a nullity and that therefore, the declaration of results of all the 44 successful candidates was liable to be quashed.
Civil Appeal Nos.
Aggrieved by the order passed by the High Court, Ashok Kumar Mishra and Bhagwat Singh Thakur (Petitioners No. 1 and 5 respectively in the 494 petition before the High Court) filed a petition for special leave to appeal to this Court and Purshottam Lal Sharma (petitioner No. 6 before the High Court) filed another petition.
The final publication of the electoral roll under Rule 8 of the Rules was done on November 16, 1978.
We are not, therefore, impressed by the argument that the petitioners were entitled to the issue of the writ prayed for as of right and the delay in filing the petition should have been ignored.
It was also notified that claims or objections which had not been preferred as required under the Rules within the prescribed period would be rejected.
It was also open to them to file a writ petition immediately after the publication of the said notice questioning its legality.
G. L. Sahu and Miss Maya Ra for the Appellant (In CA 1640A/79) an R. 54 in CA 1617/79.
They further pleaded that the authorities would have taken action to correct the error in the notice issued under Rule 4(1) of the Rules granting 20 days ' time to prefer claims and objections if it had been brought to their notice by the petitioners immediately after it was noticed by them.
After November 25, 1978, a large number of nominations were received by the Returning officer.
No satisfactory reason for the delay was set out in the petition.
The allegation that 34 persons had approached the Deputy 495 Collector requesting him to receive their applications for inclusion of their names in the electoral roll on October 20, 1978 was denied.
On special leave being granted, the above petitions were registered as appeals.
The Collector published the notice under Rule 4(1) of the Rules on September 30, 1978 and also called upon interested persons to prefer claims and/or objections thereto within a period of 20 days.
