Since the award has been already signed, I do not think anything further can be added to this award".
Similarly, the same words "to each employee" after the figure "100" were omitted.
It may be mentioned that only from that point of view viz. to grant flat increase of Rs. 150/ and of Rs. 100/ to the employees in the category of Draftsmen and the other categories respectively that a burden statement was called for from the company and the same was submitted (vide exhibit C 51).
However, this is not clearly mentioned anywhere in the award due to accidental slip or omission.
When the award is sent for publication, a necessary corrigendum be made in the award and the aforesaid words after the figures Rs. 150/ and Rs. 100/ be added.
The fitment has also to be done only after the flat increase is added to the present basic salary of each employee.
I do not think that any problem would arise for interpretation of the award.
Further, it appears that the Tribunal intended to grant the increase of Rs. 150/ to each draughtsman and Rs. 100/ to all other workmen in their basic pay.
In the said award, Your Honour has observed, at the end of Para 22, 'In view of the increase that is being allowed in the basic pay, I do not propose to revise the existing scheme of Dearness Allowance '.
Dearness allowance became payable at 10% of the basic wage subject to a minimum of Rs. 50/ and house rent allowance at 30% of the basic salary.
The same has been made clear in paragraph No. 23, but it appears that the words "to each employee" after the figure "Rs. 150/ " were omitted.
In the result both the appeals are dismissed without any order as to costs.
We also agree with him that Civil Appeal No. 2299 of 1979 should also be dismissed in so far as it relates to the award dated December 20, 1978.
Thereafter the Tribunal made an order on the same day in the following terms: "There can be no doubt that a flat increase of Rs. 150/ to each of the employees in the category of Draftsmen and 181 of Rs. 100/ to each employee in the other categories has been granted under my award.
The application before the Tribunal was filed under Rule 31 of the Bombay Industrial Disputes Rules 1957, which is as follows: "A Board, Court, Labour Court, Tribunal or Arbitrator may, at any time, suo moto or on an application made by any of the parties concerned, may correct any clerical mistake or error arising from an accidental slip or omission in any proceedings, report, award or as the case may be, decision".
(ii) Employees who have completed 4 years of service as on 1st January, 1976, 2 increments.
There was no separate dearness allowance until January, 1977 when it was introduced for the first time.
V. M. Tarkunde, P. H. Parekh, section R. Deshpande and Miss Manik Tarkunde for the Respondents in CA 2299 and Appellants in CA No. 2300/79.
It must be a mistake or error amenable to clerical correction only.
They served a Charter of Demands in July, 1974, on the appellant, and as their demands were not accepted and conciliation proceedings proved fruitless, the State Government made a reference of the dispute under section 10(1) (d), Industrial Tribunal, Maharashtra for adjudication.
House rent allowance was also paid.
A similar statement was prepared on the basis of the employees ' strength as in September, 1978.
If the pay of an employee does not coincide with any step in the revised pay scale, and falls between two steps in the reclassified pay scales, the basic pay of that employee shall be fixed at the step higher in the revised scale.
Asstt./ Canteen Asstt.
Fitment: If as on 1st January, 1976, an employee is drawing a salary less than the beginning of the respective grade, he should be first stepped up to the beginning of the grade.
The result of the foregoing discussion is that Civil Appeal No. 2299 of 1979 has to be dismissed in its entirety.
The dearness allowance, it was claimed, should be granted on a slab system.
And that is confirmed by what was stated in paragraph 23 of the award: "Considering this outgoing the flat increase of Rs. 150/ in the category of Draughtsman and Rs. 100/ in the case of the other categories would be fair.
I shall now consider Civil Appeal No. 2300 of 1979 filed by the workmen.
The cost of living had gone on increasing from 1972 onwards and, as the Tribunal has found, the dearness allowance and house rent allowance made no appreciable impact in neutralising the increasing cost.
Graduate) VIII Sr.
Again, if the flat increase is Rs. 65/ per month to the individual workmen of all categories, the additional load would total Rs. 4,97,772/ .
CHINNAPPA REDDY, J. We have had the advantage of perusing the judgment prepared by our learned brother Pathak, J. we agree with 180 him that Civil Appeal No. 2300 of 1979 should be dismissed.
