After the amendment of the CHS Rules, only Assistant Professors possessing five years experience were eligible for appointment as Associate Professor.
" R. 8 (3) provides that 50% of the vacancies in Supertime Grade II to be filled in by promotion of General Duty officers Grade I and Specialists Grade II officers in the ratio of 2:3 and the remaining 50% of the vacancies to be filled by direct recruitment in the manner specified in the Second Schedule.
Since Dr. Bose was holding the Clinical post of Radiologist, he was not in direct line of and eligible for promotion to the 32 post of Associate Professor.
R.8 provided for the future maintenance of the Service.
That according to the provisions of the CHS Rules, all posts of Lecturers, Assistant Professors and Associated Professors were required to be filled through the UPSC before the Rules came to be amended with effect from 18 9 1971.
It is also urged that the status of Associate Professor of Radiology (ex officio) which the appellant holds in the Irwin Hospital is akin to that of honorary Professor or Associate Professor in the Willing don Hospital or the Safdarjang Hospital and the mere designation of the appellant as Associate Professor of Radiology (ex officio) by the University of Delhi does not give him a right to hold the post of Professor of Radiology in Maulana Azad Medical College.
R. 8 provides that after appointments have been made to the Service under rs. 7 and 7A, future vacancies shall be filed in the manner provided there under.
As stated above, r. 8 (2) provides that every vacancy in the Specialists ' Grade shall be filled by direct recruitment in the manner specified in the Second Schedule.
This appeal by special leave from a judgment and order of the Delhi High Court dated January 9, 1979 raises a question of some complexity.
Supertime Grade I (Level II) Rs.
An Associate Professor in the medical college or a teaching institution can only be promoted from amongst persons holding the post of Assistant Professor having at least five year 's teaching experience in the concerned speciality by the Departmental Promotion Committee.
servant.
(Qualifications relaxable at Commission 's discretion in the case of candidates otherwise well qualified).
It is necessary to emphasise that the recruitment rules nowhere provide that the teaching experience gained by a Specialist in a teaching hospital in the capacity of an Associate Professor (ex officio) shall not count towards the requisite teaching experience.
During the course of his studies there, he held the appointment of Registrar in Radiotherapy at the Liverpool Radium Institute from August 1957 to December 1958.
The two general hospitals under the Central Health Service are the Willingdon Hospital & Nursing Home, New Delhi and the Safdarjang Hospital, New Delhi.
servants) A post graduate degree in the concerned specially mentioned in Part A of Annexure II or equivalent.
The Union Public Service Commission while advertising the post of Professor Radiotherapy which has fallen vacant, must, as it rightly did, invite the appellant for an interview for being considered for appointment to that post.
(2) and (2A) of r.8 and paragraphs 2(b) and 3 of Annexure I to the Second Schedule of the Central Health Service (Amendment) Rules, 1966.
The result therefore is that the appeal must succeed and is allowed with costs.
It is said that the President of India was pleased to direct that the conferral of such teaching designations would not entitle the Specialists to claim seniority or eligibility for promotion merely by virtue of these honorary designations, nor would it entitle the incumbent any special benefit with regard to any teaching 42 allowance which may be given to the teachers in a medical college.
NON TEACHING POSTS Specialists ' Grade (now Specialist Grade II) All vacancies in this Grade (Rs. 1100 1800) are filled by direct recruit through the UPSC.
Several Officers who were in former Category 'C ' were placed in General Duty Officers Grade I. R.8.
In the vacancy caused thereby, Dr. Shinghal who was Specialist in Ophthalmology attached to the Willindon Hospital, was offered the post of Chief Opthalmologist cum Associate Professor of Ophthalmology, Medical College, Simla.
The Ministry of Health was of the view that although the appellant had the essential qualification prescribed for teaching post the teaching experience gained by him while holding the post of Radiologist cum Associate Professor of Radiology (ex officio) in the Irwin Hospital since October 9, 1964 cannot be taken into consideration.
The whole controversy turns on the question whether such a person is eligible for appointment as a Professor or Associate Professor of the concerned speciality, and that depends on whether for purposes of sub rs.
On January 14, 1963 the appellant was appointed as a Lecturer in Radiology in Maulana Azad Medical College, New Delhi, a post placed in Category `E ' of the Central Health Service and continued to work in that capacity till October 8, 1964.
* * * * * * * * For Professors/Additional Professor, in medical colleges or tea 39 ching institutions, at least 6 years experience as Associate Professor/ Assistant Professor/Reader in a medical college or teaching institution after the requisite post graduate degree qualifica tion out of the aforesaid 12 years ' standing.
