The District Magistrate was requested by the said letter that orders may be passed suspending the exhibition of films in the Cinema till the final decision of the court is made in favour of either of the parties.
It was further held by The Acting Chief Justice that the effect of the licence was that "it renders privilege the building of the cinematographs used therein and the privilege must necessarily follow the title in such building and the cinematograph.
Krishan Kumar was a party respondent in the Special Leave Petition also.
On 583 September 26, 1980, the Superintendent of Police, Jammu City, reported to District Magistrate that on verification by the Sub Inspector deputed for the purpose, it had been found that the cinematographs were being conducted in the Apsara Theatre by persons other than the licensee and the Police had challaned the licensee under Section 6 of the Act.
Civil Appeals No. 2611 and 2611 A of 1981.
That writ petition was dismissed by the High Court on May 9, 1978, S.L.P. Civil No. 3490 of 1978 filed by Todar Mal against the High Court 's order dismissing his writ petition was rejected by this Court on November 13, 1978.
In being served with the order of injunction, Ved Gupta wrote to the District Magistrate on September 24, 1980 that it had become impossible for him to operate the Cinema licence in view of the temporary injunction issued by the District Court and since it is only the licensee who is held responsible under the Act and the Rules for due compliance with all the terms and conditions of the licence and answerable to the licensing authority for all commissions and omissions in the Cinema premises, he may be saved from any prosecution or other action under law in the capacity of licensee of the Apsara Theatre in respect of any illegal acts or offences committed by others in the said premises.
M/s Apsara Theatre represented by Krishan Kumar preferred a Letters Patent Appeal L.P.A No. l of 1981 against the judgment of the learned Single Judge.
On April 19, 1979.
What was done thereunder is to suspend the exhibition cinematograph films in the Theatre by persons other than the licensee.
578 D.D. Thakur, S.N. Kacker and R.P. Bhatt, for respondent in 2611/81.
The learned Acting Chief Justice has further expressed the view that except only the power of revocation, embodied in Section 6 F of the Act and an implied power to suspend a licence pending the proceed ings for such revocation, the District Magistrate had no jurisdiction or power to suspend the licence of the Theatre under any other circumstances.
Civil Appeal No. 261 l A of 1981, which is directed against the order passed in C.M.P. No. 454 of 1981? is disposed of as infructuous 594 in view of our having set aside the judgment of the Division Bench on the merits.
But, the Acting Chief Justice was of the view that where the licensed premises including the cinematographs used therein belonged to a partnership and one of the partners had obtained a licence in his separate name, the other partners automatically acquired an interest in the licence.
" On a careful reading of this Section, it will be seen that far from supporting the view taken by the learned Acting Chief Justice, this provision goes to show that the holder of a licence may be a person different from the owner of the cinematograph or a partner of the cinematography.
That Rule reads: "88(v).
The learned Judges took the view that Rule 23 of the Jammu and Kashmir High Court Rules, 1975, squarely covered the situation that had arisen before them.
It was contended inter alia by the petitioner that there had been a gross violation of the principles of natural justice inasmuch as the petitioner firm and its partners had not been given any notice or afforded hearing before the impugned order was passed.
They had no legal right whatever to conduct the cinema shows in the Theatre without a licence in contravention of the law.
In other words, a licence is liable to be revoked not merely when the licensee is convicted of an offence under Section 6 or Section 6 E of the Act but also in the event of conviction of such offence of any person belonging to the class of persons other 590 than the licensee enumerated therein.
(3) If there is no such majority, then the decision shall be in accordance with the decision of the senior Judge except in the case of an appeal from a decree where such decree shall be confirmed" 586 In the opinion of the Division Bench, the present case was governed by sub rule (3) of Rule 23, and, consequently, the decision in the case had to be in accordance with the opinion of the senior Judge.
Such being the case, we are, unable to appreciate why the learned Acting Chief Justice has devoted a considerable part of his judgment to a discussion of the aforesaid question as to whether the licence belonged to Ved Gupta alone or whether it was the property of the firm.
" The construction of the Cinema Theatre appears to have been, completed by the middle of June 1969.
From Annexure B, it would appear that the permission so granted was in favour of Ved Ved Gupta in his individual capacity and not as the representative of any firm.
He filed a writ petition in the High Court of Jammu and Kashmir, challenging the legality and validity of the orders passed by the District Magistrate and the appellate authority, namely, the State Government.
There was, thus, a clear 591 prohibition against the licensee from transferring, assigning, subletting or otherwise transferring the licence without the permission of the licensing authority and also against his allowing any other person to exhibit films in the licensed place without obtaining such permission.
Another ground put forward by the petitioner was that the District Magistrate had no power to suspend the licence under any of the provisions of the Actor the Rules and that the only power vested in the licensing authority was to revoke the licence under Section 6.F of the Act and that too only if the conditions precedent mentioned in the said Section were found to exist.
The learned Single Judge of the High Court Dr. Anand, J), by a well considered judgment rejected the contentions of the petitioners and dismissed the writ petition.
That Section is in the following terms: "6 F. Power to revoke licence Where the holder of a licence or a person in charge of a cinematography, or management thereof or an owner or partner thereof or an employee thereof, has been convicted of an offence under Section 6 or Section 6 E of this Act, or under Section 15 of the Jammu and Kashmir Entertainments Duty Act, 1959, the licence may be revoked by the licensing authority.
The impugned order is obviously one passed by him in the discharge of the said function.
In the absence of any legal right or legitimate expectation being 593 available to the petitioners, there was no obligation on the part of the District Magistrate to afford them a hearing before passing the impugned order.
On the date of the institution itself, the District Judge, Jammu, issued an order of temporary injunction restraining defendants 1 to 7 from interfering with the possession and the running of the Theatre Apsara by the plaintiffs.
While the firm and the partners may have a right to share in the profits of the business which may be conducted in the Theatre on the strength of licence issued to Ved Gupta, they have no right or interest in the licence which was granted to Ved Gupta in his personal and individual capacity.
Strangely, after the expiry of nearly two years thereafter, Krishan Kumar submitted an application to the District Magistrate requesting that the names of himself and of Todar Mal should also be included as licensees in the licence for Apsara Theatre, issued to Ved Gupta.
Thereupon, Todar Mal preferred an appeal against the said order passed by the District Magistrate.
The District Magistrate was requested by the said letter that exhibition of cinematographs in the Theatre may be suspended till the final decision was rendered by the Court in favour of either of the parties.
