S.R. Appeal allowed.
He had stated that the purpose of review slip was to enable the Divisional Manager to asses the risk and take a decision.
The respondents filed a suit in the Subordinate Court of Sub Judge being original suit No. 2 of 1964 on 10th January, 1964.
It was further stated that the averments in the plaint that the defendant Corporation cashed the above two cheques and appropriated the amounts and credited these in the account towards premium payable for the proposal were false.
Mere delay in giving an answer cannot be construed as an acceptance, as, prima facie, acceptance must be communicated to the offeror.
The Trial Court therefore held that there was no concluded valid insurance contract between the deceased and the Corporation.
The High Court took the view that exhibit B 13 dealing with Chapter III of the Financial Powers did not categorically deal with the acceptance of proposals.
He had filled a proposal for insurance for Rs, 50,000 on 27th December, 1960.
Written statement was filed on behalf of the appellant.
XLV page 986 wherein it has been stated as: "The mere receipt and retention of premiums until after the death of applicant does not give rise to a contract, although the circumstances may be such that approval could be inferred from retention of the premium.
A report described as "All the Friend 's report" was duly sent to the appellant with regard to that proposal; and all the preliminaries were completed and it was further alleged that the deceased was assured and told by the local agent and the Field officer of the Corporation that the payment of the first premium would amount to the acceptance of the proposal and advised the deceased to pay the first premium in full.
See in this connection statement of law in MacGillivray & Parkington on Insurance Law, Seventh Edition page 94 paragraph 215.
In our opinion, the High Court was in error in appreciating the facts and the evidence in this case.
This appeal is by a certificate granted on 18th September, 1970 by the High Court of Andhra Pradesh under Article 133(1) (a) of the Constitution as it stood at the relevant time against the Judgment and decree of the High Court dated 16th April, 1970.
He had further stated that the proposal form was sent from the office at Guntur to the Divisional office at Masulipatam, and exhibit B 1 to B 4 and B 8 were sent in this connection.
It was categorically stated that the cheques were not credited and adjusted towards the premium accounts.
In the premises, the plaintiffs claimed the said amount along with interest at six per cent per annum from the date of refusal of payment till the date of payment of the demand.
He further stated that according to the financial powers Standing order, it was the Divisional Manager who was competent to accept a proposal for Rs. 50,000 exhibit B 13 is the copy of the Standing order.
Chapter III of the Standing order dealt with the powers of the different authorities for, inter alia, 'Underwriting and Revivals of Policy '.
We cannot accept the High Court 's criticism with the averment in the written statement that there was not sufficient pleading that there was no concluded contract and non acceptance of the proposal was not sufficient averment that the Divisional Manager was the only competent authority to accept the proposal.
The short facts leading to this case are: One Late Raja Vasireddi Chandra Dhara Prasad (hereinafter referred to as a 'deceased ') died intestate on 12th January, 1961.
The appeal must, therefore, be allowed.
Considering the evidence and the averments, the Learned Subordinate Judge came to the conclusion that the accounts do not show the position alleged by the plaintiffs respondents that the amounts paid were appropriated towards the premium and the Trial Court was of the opinion that encashing of the cheques and the want of any further action to be done by the deceased did not themselves create a contract of insurance between the deceased and the Corporation.
Cheque for Rs. 220 was dishonoured three times and finally encashed on 11th January, 1961.
The purpose of review slip exhibit B 4 was to enable the Divisional officer to assess the risk and take a decision according to the deponent.
