737 It is urged by Shri Jain who appears on behalf of the appellant that by reason of section 14(4) of the Amending Act, the appellant was entitled to continue in the service of the Panchayat on the same terms and conditions on which he was employed by the Panchayat Samiti until he was absorbed in Government service.
S.R. Appeal dismissed.
On January 21, 1974 he was promoted as a Head Clerk on an ad hoc basis.
Section 13 of the Amending Act deleted section 33 of the Act.
A plain consequence of this deletion was that the Panchayat Samitis were divested of their power to make appointments to the Panchayats.
The appellant was appointed as a clerk by the Loharu Panchayat Samiti in 1963, long before the Amending Act came into force on June 13, 1973.
There will be no order as to costs.
The appointment of the appellant to the post of a Head Clerk being without the authority of law, the Government was not bound to absorb him in the post of a Head Clerk.
Civil Appeal No. 1433 of 1977 Appeal by Special leave from the Judgment and Order dated the 16th February, 1.977 of the Punjab and Haryana High Court in Civil Writ Petition No. 752 of 1977.
On April 1, 1975, the appellant was appointed as a Head Clerk.
Sections 35(1) of the Act empowers the State Government to place at the disposal of a Panchayat Samiti such of its servants as are required for the implementation of the schemes connected therewith and for such other duties and functions as may be assigned to them by the Panchayat Samiti from time to time.
Sub section (4) of section 14 of the Amending Act provides that persons employed by a Panchayat Samiti before April 1, 1973 and who were in service at the commencement of the Amending Act shall continue to service on the same terms and conditions on which they were employed by the Panchayat Samiti", until they are absorbed in the Government service or retire in such manner as may be prescribed.
the Panchayat.
He was confirmed in that post in course of time.
Even assuming for the purposes of argument that the right to be considered for promotion is a term and condition of service, what is relevant for our purpose is not whether the appellant was entitled to be considered for promotion but, whether the Panchayat Samiti had the right to appoint him to the post of Head Clerk on the date on which it purported to do so.
It could not, therefore, have appointed the appellant as a Head Clerk, as it purported to do, in January 1974 on an ad hoc basis or in April 1975 on a regular basis.
The Punjab Panchayat Samitis, Zilla Parishads (Haryana Amendment) Act, 1973 introduced extensive amendments in the Act of 1961.
But, as a result of the deletion of section 33 of the Act by the Amending Act of 1973, the Panchayat Samiti lost its power to make appointments to the Panchayat.
For these reasons, the appeal fails and is dismissed.
In pursuance of this power, the appellant was appointed as a clerk on June 1, 1963 by the Panchayat Samiti, Loharu, which is respondent 3 in this appeal.
