It does not impose any blanket or 956 absolute prohibition upon a dealer from carrying on money lending, banking or any other business in the same premises in which he carries on business as a dealer but he is prevented only from carrying on business as money lender or banker on the security of any article, ornament or both unless authorised by the administrator.
28 in the manner done and in our view the analogy drawn by the High Court from the reasoning adopted by this Court while dealing with unamended sec.
28 is part and parcel of the entire scheme of Gold Control as envisaged by the Act and the object of the enactment and the scheme affords sufficient guidance to the Administrator in the matter of exercising his discretion under that section.
No rules have been framed prescribing the conditions or circumstances under which the Administrator could refuse permission or grant permission.
(g) A did not provide any objective standard or norm and because such indefinite, uncertain and vague expressions or concepts had been used in some of the clauses under sec.
It cannot be disputed that sec.
27(6) on the ground that it conferred a very wide and vague power on the Administrator.
It may be mentioned that after this provision was struck down by this Court Parliament has carried out the necessary amendment in the Act.
28 of the Act valid.
28 by reference to which the Administrator is required to exercise his power.
Money lending business not to be carried on in licensed premises No licensed dealer shall unless authorised by the Administrator so to do, (a) carry on business as a money lender or banker on the security of any article, or ornament, or both, (b) permit any other person to carry on money lending, banking or any other business, in the same premises in which he carried on business as such dealer.
27(6) of the Act invalid we would like to point out that while conferring power on the Administrator in the matter of granting or renewing a license to a dealer the unamended sec.
28 cannot be struck down on the ground of excessive delegation of legislative power and its validity has to be upheld.
We may indicate that the same provision (section 28) was challenged before the Patna High Court in Bihar State Bullion Merchants ' Association vs Union of lndia(1) and the Gujarat High Court in Ramanlal Purshottamamdas Chokshi vs Union of India & Others (2) and these High Courts have upheld its validity.
(e) and 'public interest ' in cl.
" The High Court has struck down the aforesaid provision only on the ground that it suffers from the vice of excessive delegation of legislative power inasmuch as no criteria or guide lines have been 954 provided by reference to which the power conferred on the Administrator to refuse permission or grant permission should be exercised and that the section confers an arbitrary, uncanalised power upon the Administrator with the result that the licensed dealer is at his mercy while seeking permission to carry on money lending or banking business on the security of any article, ornament or both in the same premises in which he carried on business as such dealer.
We approve the view taken in those cases As regards the analogy drawn by the High Court from the reasoning adopted by this Court in Harakchand Banthia 's case (supra) while declaring unamended sec.
S.R. Appeal allowed.
Even the restriction in the case of a third person in carrying on business as a money lender, banker or any other business in the same premises is not absolute in as much as the Administrator can authorise the third person to carry on the business in the licensed premises of the dealer and while implementing such limited restrictions or granting relief against the same he will be guided by the policy and purposes of the Act and by the prime consideration that circumvention of the other provisions of the Act shall not be premitted.
28 are meant to prevent the circumvention of other provisions of the Act.
Therefore, in our view the objective, the policy and the Scheme of the Act together with the necessity to ensure prevention of circumvention of the other provisions of the Act afford more than sufficient guidance to the Administrator in the matter of exercising the power of discretion conferred on him under sec.
It is true that no express rule prescribing the conditions or circumstances under which the permission can be granted or refused (1) 955 has been framed nor any particular guide line has been expressly indicated in sec.
27(6) of the Act, as it stood prior to its amendment by the Amending Act No. 26 of 1969, constitutionally invalid on the ground of conferal of a very wide and vague power upon the Administrator to grant or renew a license to a dealer.
No such vague or indefinite expressions or concepts are to be found in sec.
Section 28 of the Act runs thus: "28.
28 by reference to which the power conferred upon him thereunder could be exercised by the Administrator, but that is not decisive of the matter.
The challenge to the other provisions of the Act at the instance of persons engaged in gold trade, i.e, manufacturers, shroffs and dealers in gold was rejected by the High Court.
