Tukia 's conviction under section 302 of the Indian Penal Code was therefore jusified.
At bottom, it is a question of fact in every case and however similar the circumstances, facts in one case cannot be used as a precedent to determine the conclusion on the facts in another.
91 to 93 of 1954.
There was evidence that they all ran away together: not simply that they ran away at the same moment of time when discovered, but that they ran away together.
The petition was heard by Ali Khan and Reddy, JJ.
The former considered that the convictions should be maintained but was of opinion that the sentence in each case should be commuted to imprisonment for life.
Tukaram had not given any written complaint to me.
Opposite the column headed "Name and address of the complainant or informant" is entered "Tukaram s/o Panda Sheolka".
Accordingly there must have been a prior meeting of minds.
The Inquest Report shows eight injuries.
minal Appeals Nos.
Rasikabai says that the "accused" raised their axes and sticks and threatened her when she called out to them, but that again is an all embracing statement which we are not prepared to take literally in the absence of further particulars.
We know nothing of what they said or did before the attack not even immediately before.
Pandurang, Tukia and Bhilia, who were sentenced to death, applied here for special leave to appeal.
Subhana does not say that the other two struck any particular blow.
On a careful consideration of the evidence we think Rasika and Subhana are telling the truth and that they can be relied on.
He is Mahadappa (P.W. 9).
Rasika Bai shouted out to the assailants not to beat Ramchander but they threatened her and then ran away.
We accordingly set aside the sentence of death and alter it to one of ten years ' rigorous imprisonment.
They say they saw all five accused striking him, the three appellants Pandurang, Tukia and Bhilia with axes, the other two, who have not appealed, with sticks.
Rasikabai adds that he also hit Ramchander on the bead.
They heard Ramehander 's cries from the direction of the river bank and rushed there.
Now nobody tells us who carried the report to the Police Station.
It requires a pre arranged plan because before a man can be vicariously convicted for the 1095 criminal act of another, the act must have been done in furtherance of the common intention of them all: Mahbub Shah vs King Emperor(1).
