That appears plainly from the definition or "net wealth" which speaks of "the aggregate value. of all the assets" belonging to the assessee on the valuation date.
In this view of the matter, we approve of the opinion expressed by the Andhra Pradesh High Court in Vedrevu Venkappa Rao (supra) 311 and in Commissioner of Wealth Tax, A.P. I vs Pachigolla Narasimha Rao(1) and the Calcutta High Court in Dipti Kumar Basu vs Commissioner of Wealth Tax, West Bengal(2) and hold that the view taken by the Orissa High Court in Commissioner of Wealth tax vs Vysyaraju Badreenarayana Moorthy Raju (Orissa) (supra) and by the Karnataka High Court in A. T. Mirji vs Commissioner of Wealth Tax, Karnataka(3) cannot be accepted.
In other words, it would be the estimated open market value of the rights in the property which constitute the asset.
The reasons for defining the valuation date in terms of the last day of the income tax "previous year" stop there.
In each of the assessments, the Wealth Tax Officer included a sum of Rs. 1,50,000 estimated as the accrued interest on the assessee 's money lending investments.
Under section 3 of the Wealth Tax Act, wealth tax is charged for every assessment year in respect of the net wealth of the assessee on the corresponding valuation date.
That being so, the conclusion is inescapable that even though the accounts of the assessee are maintained on cash basis interest due on accrual basis, though not realised, on the outstandings of the money lending business are liable to be included in the net wealth of the assessee.
" 310 The computation of the net wealth of an assessee calls for a determination of his assets and debts as on the valuation date.
(q) of s.2 indicates that broadly Parliament has fixed upon the last day of the "previous year", as defined under the Income Tax Act, as the valuation date.
There is an obvious advantage in adopting as the valuation date the last day of a period which is also the relevant period under the Income Tax Act.
Of all the assets, wherever located, belonging to the assessee on the valuation date. is in excess of the aggregate value of all the debts owed by the assessee on the valuation date. " According to the scheme of the Wealth Tax Act, the net wealth of an assessee has to be determined as it obtains on a particular date.
(I) of s.7 as the estimated price, which, in the opinion of the Wealth Tax Officer, the asset would fetch if sold in the open market on the valuation date.
The Wealth Tax Officer sought support from a judgment of the Andhra Pradesh High Court in Vedreva Venkappa Rao vs Commissioner of Wealth tax(2) A.P.
