The proviso to section 47(1) for example, provides that other conditions being equal, an application for a stage carriage permit from a cooperative society or a person holding a valid licence for driving transport vehicles shall as far as may be, be given preference over applications from individual owners.
Section 63(7) is the provision with whose interpretation and vires we are primarily concerned in this case.
The Tribunal by its order dated February 28, 1985 set aside the grant of the two permits in favour of the Karnataka State Road Transport Corporation, set aside the grant of three out of eleven permits to the Karnataka State Tourism Development Corporation and instead granted three permits to private operators and increased the number of permits granted to the Indian Tourism Development Corporation from one to three.
In the first place, clause (d), it is seen, provides for a preference, not to operators of tourist vehicles but to operators of tourist cars and travel agents.
In the result we set aside the orders of the State Transport Appellate Tribunal and the High Court and direct the State Transport Appellate Tribunal to hear the appeals in the light of what we have said.
It is as follows: "(7) Notwithstanding anything contained in sub section(1) but subject to any rules that may be made under this Act, any State Transport Authority may, for the purpose of promoting tourism, grant permits valid for the whole or any part of India, in respect of such number of tourist vehicles as the Central Government may, in respect of that State, specify in this behalf, and the provisions of Sections 49, 50, 51, 57, 58, 59, 59 A, 60, 61 and 64 shall, as far as may be, apply in relation to such permits: Provided that preference shall be given to applications for permits from (i) the India Tourism Development Corporation; (ii) a State Tourism Development Corporation; (iii) a State Tourist Department; (iv) such operators of tourist cars, or such travel agents, as may be approved in this behalf by the Ministry of the Central Government dealing in tourism.
Section 47(1 H) prescribes that notwithstanding anything contained in the section, an application for stage carriage permit from a State Transport undertaking for operating in any inter State route shall be given preference overall other applications, provided, of course, the authority is satisfied that the State Transport Undertaking would be able to operate in the inter State route without detriment to its responsibility for providing efficient and adequate road transport services in any notified area or notified route.
A "public service vehicle" is defined in section 2(25) as "any motor vehicle used or adapted to be used for the carriage of passengers for hire or reward, and includes a motor cab, contract carriage, and stage carriage".
Section 47(1 A) enables the State Government to reserve a certain percentage of stage carriage permits for the Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes.
Shri Shanti Bhushan, learned counsel for the Karnataka State Road Transport Corporation, Dr. Chitley, learned counsel for some of the private operators, Shri Datar, learned counsel for the Karnataka State Tourism Development Corporation, Shri Sampat and Shri Javali, learned counsel for other private operators submitted that the State Transport Appellate Tribunal and the High Court were wrong in distinguishing the decision of this court in Sher Singh 's case and that the true position was that on a correct interpretation of the proviso to sec.
Sections 46, 47 and 48 deal with the grant of stage carriage permits.
It was also urged that the fourth sub clause of the proviso offended article 14 and had to be struck down.
The writ petitions were rejected by the High Court on the ground that the preference contemplated by the proviso to section 63(7) contemplated exclusion of the 'non preferred ' class if sufficient number of applicants from the preferred classes were available.
In the judgment under appeal, the High Court attempted to distinguish the decision of this Court in Sher Singh 's case on the ground that any other interpretation would have wiped out the difference between Chapter IV and Chapter IV A.
Section 63(1) stipulates, broadly, that a permit granted by the Regional Transport Authority of any one region shall not be valid in any other region, unless the permit has been countersigned by the Regional Transport Authority of that other region, and a permit granted in any one State shall not be valid in any other State unless countersigned by the State Transport Authority of 1014 that other State or by the Regional Transport Authority concerned.
It is difficult to agree with these submissions.
It was on that ground again, it was so stated by the Tribunal, that some of the appellants 1012 before the Tribunal had to be denied the grant of permits though otherwise they would have been entitled to the grant of permits having regard to their expertise, experience and resources.
" What has been said by the Court with reference to the preference 1017 provided for in section 47(1 H) applies with equal force to the preference provided for by the proviso to section 63(7).
and should be financially sound or that they should be owning and operating five vehicles as tourist taxies of either indigenous make or acquired from elsewhere regardless of the period in the car hire business or that they should be ex Defence Service personnel, who satisfy certain prescribed conditions.
