Such delivery may be in the same way as goods sold may be delivered.
It was ' held that there was no valid gift.
Rs.25,000 Hari Prakash Gupta .
In the case of banking companies or other firms and companies who have overdraft facilities, even if the sums are not in credit of the donor and are not with such companies or firms, gifts might be possible by adjustment of the book entries.
On 20th November, 1956, the assessee had a substantial credit balance exceeding the sum of Rs.50,000 which he purported to give to his son.
The questions involved before the Allahabad High Court in the reference under section 27(1) of the Act were as follows: (1) Whether, on the facts and in the circumstances of the case, the Tribunal right ly held that the assessee did not make valid gifts aggregating Rs. 1,50,000 on 1.1.
There this Court held that when the property was gifted by a donor the possession and enjoyment of which was allowed to a partnership firm in which the donor was a partner, then the mere fact of the donor sharing the enjoy ment or the benefit in the property was not sufficient for the application of section 10 of the , until and unless such enjoyment or benefit was clearly referable to the gift, i.e. to the parting with such enjoy ment or benefit by the donee or permitting the doner to share them out of the bundle or rights gifted in the proper ty.
Cash Balance was only Rs.7626.
On the same day i.e. on ist January, 1957, Om Parkash Gupta wrote to the assessee, his father, thanking him for the gift of Rs.25,000 made in his favour and the gift of Rs.50,000 in favour of his son Pravin.
It was his contention that Tika Ram & Sons carried on the business of banking and hence the gifts were valid.
Section 123 of the said Act deals with how transfers are effected and stipulates, inter alia, that for the purpose of making a gift of movable property as in this case, the transfer must be effected either by a registered instrument signed by the donor and attested or by delivery.
There the assessee was the karta of a Hindu undivided family.
C 's wife withdrew various sums of money from time to time from the interest account and whenever C desired to retransfer amounts to his capital account he obtained let ters of consent from her.
Such delivery may be made in the same way as goods sold may be delivered.
This Court in the case of Badri Prasad Jagan Prasad vs Commissioner of Income Tax, U.P., (judgment by one of us) had occasion to refer to the effect of book entries but this question which is present before us in the present appeal was not before this Court in that case.
