"So we will consider your offer to buy our land.
"Whatever befalls the earth befalls the sons of the earth.
The hotel was porposed to be built away from the frontage of the plot in Belvedere Road and was to be a low rise structure, the highest point of which would not exceed 75 feet.
This is a fairly well known method adopted in such situations.
But perhaps it is because I am a savage and do not understand.
He pointed out that even if four acres out of the eight acres of Begumbari land was given to the Taj Group, there would still remain sufficient land for accommodation of the facilities.
On appeal, a Division Bench of the High Court confirmed the judgment of the learned Single Judge.
There was no report that the existing multistoreyed buildings had any adverse affect on the migratory birds or the animals.
On August 30, 1982, Shri J.R.D. Tata wrote to the Prime Minister pointing out that their Hotel management had discussed the matter at length with represen tatives of the Wild Life fund who were satisfied that the proposed hotel would cause no disturbance to the birds.
All things are connected.
The note suggested that the Hastings House property may be offered to the I.T.D.C. and the Begumbari property may be offered to the Taj Group and that at a later stage a suitable Committee might be appointed to negotiate with the two groups of hotels.
It was on September 10, 1981 that the Cabinet finally took the decision to lease the Begumbari land to the Taj Group.
The India Hotels Co. Ltd. will find out in consultation with and with the concurrence of the Animal Husbandry and Veterinary Services Department of this Government and the authorities of the Alipore Zoological Garden the period of time required for reconstruction of the essential structures standing on the land proposed to be leased out to the said company.
In R.D. Shetty vs International Airport Authority (supra).
The Chief Town Planner also visited the site at the request of the Secretary, Metropolitan Development Depart ment.
Dr. L.M. Singhvi, learned counsel for the appellants made the following submission before us; The Begumbari land was statutorily vested in the Managing Committee of the Zoological Garden and that the Committee could not be di vested by an executive decision without proper procedure being followed.
The yardstick of price in the open market would be wholly inept, because in view of the State Policy, there would be no question of any resin being sold in the open market.
He had again gone thoroughly into the project with special reference to its possible impact on the birds or environment and had also visited Calcutta in that connection.
On April 23, 1982, Late Smt.
In fact, as the grounds of the zoo between the lake and Belvedre Road are covered with high trees, the climbing or descent angle which the birds have to negoti ate to get over the trees is already steeper that it will be between the lake and the proposed hotel.
"I agree.
245 would have to be shifted to the main Gardens resulting in unhealthy atmosphere for the zoo animals and also hampering the beauty of the zoo Gardens.
Earlier we have extracted the report of Public Undertakings Committee.
You may think now that you own Him as you wish to own our land; but you cannot.
He also pointed out that all precautions would be taken in the matter of illumination of the hotel and lay out of the surroundings so that no disturbance would be caused to the flight path of the birds or animals.
It was the suggestion for the All India Tourism Conference presided over by the Union Minister for Tourism that State Government should make plots in good locations available at concession al rates for construction of hotels in order to promote the Tourist Industry.
That the land must be restored to the Government if hereafter required.
He expressed the apprehension that if four acres of land were to be given for construction of a hotel, then the entire hospital and the dumping ground would have to be removed and the southern boundary of the hotel would come very close to the residential block.
According to the learned counsel, the 'nett sales ' method of calculating the compensation payable to the Government for the lease of the land had totally sacrificed the State 's interests.
"Dr. B. Biswas, a renowned ormitholo gist, who recently retired as Professor Emeri tus of the Zoological Survey of India, whom the Taj Management consulted, confirmed that a 75 feet high building on the location would not worry birds landing on the lake or climb ing out of it.
This resolution was forwarded to the Chief Minister and considered by his as evident from the note of the Chief Minister and the suse quent reversal of the Managing Committee 's resolution at the instance of the Chief Minster and on his assurances.
The conditions were mentioned as: "1st.
There are some old buildings and vacant land in the eight acre plot of land.
Where is the thicket? 241 Gone.
238 red man.
It would be impossible, according to the Committee to accommodate these essential services within the campus of the main Zoo.
The WEBCON submitted further reports.
The Bengal Parks Act, 1904 was enacted "to protect public parks and gardens in Bengal from injury and to secure the public from molestation annoyance while resorting to such parks and gardens.
Whatever befalls the earth befalls the sons of the earth.
