Sub section
(2) An employee belonging to Class I or Class II appointed to the service of the Corporation on or after 1st September, 1956 shall retire on completion of 58 years of age, but the appointing authority may direct such employee to retire on completion of 55 years of age or at any time thereafter, if his efficiency is found to have been im paired.
Explanation: The compensation payable to an employ ee under this sub section shall be in addition to and shall not affect any pension, gratuity, provident fund money or any other benefit to which the employee may be entitled under his contract of service.
The observation made by Pathak, J. in the course of his judgment that "there is no danger of an order made by the Central Government under the second limb of sub section (2) in respect of transferred employees.being struck down on the ground that it violates the equality provisions of Part III of the Constitution because similar action has not been taken in respect of newly recruited employees" is signifi cant.
The petitioners in the above case, i.e., Ram Lal Wadhwa & Anr.
NOTE: For the purpose of this Clause, the expression "Government Service" includes service rendered in ex company, and ex State Railways, and in a former provincial Govern ment.
" Sub section (1) of section 11 of the Act provided that every whole time employee of an insurer whose controlled business had been transferred to and vested in the Corpora tion and who was employed by the insurer wholly or mainly in connection with the controlled business immediately before the appointed day, i.e., September 1, 1956, would on and from the appointed day become an employee of the Corpora tion, and would hold his office therein by the same tenure, at the same remuneration and upon the same terms and condi tions and with the same rights and privileges as to pension and gratuity and other matters as he would have held the same on the appointed day if the Act had not been passed, and would continue to do so unless and until his employment in the Corporation was terminated and until his remunera tion, terms and conditions were duly altered by the Corpora tion.
In many cases the insurers had permitted their employees to continue in their service even beyond 60 years depending upon their efficiency and physical capacity.
(2) Notwithstanding anything con tained in sub section (1) or in any contract of service, the Central Government may, for the purposes of rationalising the pay scales of employees of insurers whose controlled business has been transferred to and vested in it or for the purpose of reducing the remuner ation payable to employees in cases where in the interest of the Corporation and its policyhold ers a reduction is called for, alter the terms of service of the employees as to their remuneration in such manner as it thinks fit; and if the alteration is not acceptable to any employee the Corporation may terminate his employment on giving him compensation equivalent to three months ' remuner ation unless the contract of service with such employee provides for a shorter notice of termination.
v The State of Haryana & Ors.
N.P.V. Appeals allowed.
The relevant part of the amended regulation 19 which was noti fied on 19.6.1965 read thus: "19(1).
Leave and retirement In the matter of leave and retire ment, Development Officers shall be governed by the Life Insurance Corporation of India (Staff) Regulations, 1960, as amended from time to time.
In the Settlement which was arrived at between the management and the Class III and Class IV em ployees recruited after 1st September, 1956 it was agreed that there should be no discrimination as regards the age of retirement between the employees belonging to Class III and Class IV categories amongst the transferred employees and the Class III and Class IV employees recruited after 1st September, 1956.
On such amalagamation servants of the railway companies, whose railways were taken over, became the employees of the Indian Railway Administration.
" The above regulation fixed the age of retirement of an employee at 55 years while empowering the authority to extend the service of an employee, at its discretion, every year upto 60 years of age.
or after April 1, 1966 and the remaining twenty per cent by train examiners from grade 'D '.
1977 by the Life Insurance Corporation of India (hereinafter referred to as 'the Corporation ') which pro vides that an employee belonging to Class I or Class II appointed to the service of the Corporation on or after 1st September, 1956 shall retire on completion of 58 years of age but the competent authority may, if it is of the opinion that it is in the interest of the Corporation to do so, direct such employee to retire on completion of 50 years of age and at any time thereafter on giving him three months ' notice or salary in lieu thereof.
For that reason, it is open to the Central Government under sub section to ignore the guarantee contained in sub section (1) of section 11 in favour of the employees, or anything contained in the , or any other law for the time being in force or any award, settlement or agree ment for the time being in force.
Clause (b) of sub section (2) of section 49 of the Act in particular conferred power on the Corporation to make regulations as regards the method of recruitment of employ ees and agents of the Corporation and the terms and condi tions of such employees or agents.
When the Corporation was established they were about 27,000 in number and we are informed today that there are only about 22% of those employees in service.
All the transferred employees were entitled to remain in service till they completed 60 years of age but the appointing authority was empowered to retire any such transferred employee on completion of 55 years of age or at any time thereafter if his efficiency was found to have been impaired.
220 The Respondent in that case, that is, A. Pitchumani while he was entitled before December 23, 1967 to continue in service till he attained the age of 60 years as he had joined the service of the Madras and Southern Mahratta Railway Company on August 16, 1927, i.e., prior to March 31, 1938 and satis fied the other conditions mentioned in clause (b) of rule 2046 could not have the benefit of that clause on and after December 23, 1967 since in the Madras and Southern Mahratta Railway Company where he was formerly working there was no rule similar to clause (b) as regards the age of retirement.
From the Judgment and Order dated 17.8.1985 of the Allahabad High Court in C.M. Writ No. 6849 of 1984.
Clause 13 of the above Order, which related to the age of superannuation read as follows: "13.
By these Rules the provincia lised teachers were treated as failing under a Cadre sepa rate and distinct from teachers in the State Cadre governed by the 1955 Rules.
Classification of employees into two categories for purposes of fixing the age of superannuation depending upon their dates of entry into service when the necessity for doing so arises on account of certain historical reasons is not unknown.
Sub regulation (2) of regulation 19 which affected the employees belonging to Class I and Class II appointed to the service of the Corpo ration on or after 1st September, 1956 was substituted by a new sub regulation which was notified on September 3, 1966.
In Manindra Chandra Sen vs Union of India & Ors.
It, therefore, became necessary to transfer the services of the existing employees of the insurers to the Corporation because without the services of those employees it was almost impossible for the Corporation to run the life insur ance business in India which involved management of the various offices situated in different parts of India, serv icing of lakhs of insurance policies, the administration of the assets taken over from the insurers and several other activities connected with the life insurance business.
