N.P.V. Appeal dismissed.
Clause (12) is significant which gave to the licensor the right to enter upon the premises and inspect the same at any time.
On or about 9th November, 1970, the respondent herein filed an ejectment proceeding against the appellant under section 41 of the .
From the Judgment and Order dated 17.11.1980 of the Bombay High Court in Special Civil Appeal No. 251 of 1977.
It was a possible view.
They filed ejectment proceedings against one 1060 Sugrabhai Mohammed Husain, their tenant and obtained a decree.
In our opinion the background of the facts of this case and the background of the entire document negate the contention of the appellant that it was a lease and not a licence.
It was futher held that a person continuing in occupation of such premises after revocation of the licence was still liable to pay compensation or damages for its use and occupation.
The respondent approached the High Court under Article 227 of the Constitution.
The agreement is described as an agreement of 'leave and licence ' entered into between the respondent on the one hand and the appellant on the other wherein the respondent had been described as the 'licensor and the appellant had been described as the licensee ' and the recitals therein recite that the licensor was seized and possessed of and was otherwise well entitled as the monthly tenant of the workshop premises situated at 231, Ripon Road, Cooperative Building, Bombay, being the premises in dispute, and whereas the licensee had approached the licensor to allow him to occupy and use the said premises for the purpose of carrying out his business of workshop for a period of five years and whereas the licensor had agreed to allow the licensee to use the premises under the said leave and licence of the licensor for a period of five years from 1st of September, 1965 till 31st of August, 1970, that agreement was being executed.
This decision was approved in appeal by this Court in Sohan Lal Naraindas vs Laxmidas Raghunath Gadit, where this Court reiterated that the test of exclusive possession was important point.
This decision was remanded back to the High Court and it was directed that the appellant should be heard afresh in accordance with law because in a previous decision Vaidya, J. by the judgment dated 9th of December, 1975 as mentioned hereinbefore had allowed the appellant 's appeal.
The main question involved in this appeal is whether the appellant was a licensee or a tenant and also incidentally the question whether the Court of Small Causes, Bombay had jurisdiction to deal with the eviction petition in this case.
The contention of the respondent that he was a tenant was negatived by the Small Cause Court, Bombay.
The Bombay Rent Act was amended by Maharashtra Act 17 of 1973.
To put precisely if an interest in immovable property entitling the transferee to enjoyment was created, it was a lease; if permission to use land without exclusive possession was alone granted, a licence was the legal result.
This Court referred to the well known decision in the case of Errington vs Errington, ; where Lord Denning reviewing the case law on the subject summarized the position as follows: "The result of all these cases is that, although a person who is let into exclusive possession is, prima facie, to be considered to be tenant, nevertheless he will not be held to be so if the circumstances negative any intention to create a tenancy." The Court of Appeal in England again in Cobb vs Lane, considered the legal position and laid down that the intention of the parties was the real test for ascertaining the character of a document.
In the aforesaid view of the matter this appeal must fail as we find no ground to interfere with the decision of the High Court.
The learned Judge rejected the contention of the appellant that he was a tenant and having found that the period of licence had come to an end, he passed an order of eviction against the appellant.
we are of the opinion that this was a licence and not a lease as we discover the intent.
This Court allowing the appeal held that in order to get the advantage of section 15A of the Bombay Rent Act, the occupant must be in occupation of the premises as a licensee as defined in section 5(4A) on the 1st of February, 1973.
The appeal fails and is dismissed.
The respondent refused to do so.
