A "non journalist newspaper employee" means any person employed to do any work in, or in relation to, any newspaper establishment, but does not include any such person who is a working journalist, or is employed mainly in a managerial or administrative capacity or being employed in a supervisory capacity, performs, either by the nature of the duties attached to his office or by reason of the powers vested in him, functions mainly of a managerial nature as stated in section 2(dd) of the Act.
But we are concerned in this case with the narrow question whether the six law reports which are being published by the Ist respondent are newspapers within the meaning of the Act and whether the employees engaged in their production or distribution are entitled to the benefit of the orders made by the Central Government on the basis of the recommendations of the Palekar Tribunal.
Any other class of printed periodical work as may, from time to time, be notified in this behalf by the Central Government in the Official Gazette may also be a newspaper.
Chapter IIA of the Act deals with similar conditions of service of non journalist newspaper employees.
Section 13AA which was inserted by Act 6 of 1979 provides for the constitution of a Tribunal for fixing or revising rates of wages in respect of working journalists where the Central Government is of opinion that the Board constituted under section 9 for the purpose of fixing or revising rates of wages in respect of working journalists under the Act has not been able to function effectively.
The said question arose in that form in view of the language of Entry 54 of List II of the Seventh Schedule to the Constitution which read as follows: "54.
It was urged before the High Court on behalf of the Ist respondent, All India Reporter Limited, that the law reports publised by it were not newspapers as defined in the Act and therefore the order made by the Central Government on the basis of the recommendations of Justice Palekar were not applicable to its establishment.
Tax on the sale or purchase of newspapers and on advertisements published therein.
We find it difficult to agree with the above decision since the High Court of Orissa omitted to take into consideration that information about recent decisions of courts of record could be news in which the public was interested.
The only question which remains to be 782 considered is whether they contain public news or comments on public news.
They are binding on all the courts throughout India.
The Act was enacted on 20th December, 1955 with the object of regulating certain conditions of service of working journalists and other employees employed in the newspaper establishments.
S.L. Appeal allowed.
The expression "working journalist" is defined by section 2(f) of the Act as a person whose principal avocation is that of a journalist and who is employed as such, either whole time or part time, in or in relation to, one or more newspaper establishments and includes an editor, a leader writer, news editor, sub editor, feature writer, copy tester, reporter, correspondent, cartoonist, news photographer and proof reader, but does not include any such person who is employed mainly in a managerial or administrative capacity, or being employed in a supervisory capacity, performs, either by the nature of the duties attached to his office or by reason of the powers vested in him, functions mainly of a managerial nature.
Justice Palekar made his recommendations on 12.8.1980.
From the Judgment and Order dated 22.4.83 of the High Court of Bombay in Writ Petition No. 2388/82.
We are of the view that the law reports published by the Ist respondent are newspapers and the employees employed by the Ist respondent in their production or publication of the said law reports should be extended the benefit of the orders passed by the Central Government on the basis of the recommendations made by the Palekar Award.
The expression "newspaper" is defined by section 2(b) of the Act as follows: " "Newspaper" means any printed periodical work containing public news or comments on public news and includes such other class of printed periodical work as may, from time to time, be notified in this behalf by the Central Government in the Official Gazette." 779 A "newspaper employee" is defined by section 2(c) of the Act as any working journalist, and includes any other person employed to do any work in, or in relation to, any newspaper establishment.
784 Strong reliance was placed on behalf of the Ist respondent on the decision of the High Court of Orissa in P.S.V. Iyer vs Commissioner of Sales Tax, Orissa, AIR 1960 Orissa 221 in which the question that arose for consideration was whether a law journal Cuttack Law Times, which was a non official monthly journal containing the decisions of the Orissa High Court, the Orissa Board of Revenue and also of the Supreme Court was a newspaper and if it was a newspaper whether it was competent for the Legislature of the State of Orissa to levy sales tax on the sale of the said journal.
Even apart from Article 141 of the Constitution the decisions of the Supreme Court, which is a court of record, constitute a 783 source of law as they are the judicial precedents of the highest court of the land.
However on 15.7.1981 and 3.8.1981 the Deputy Labour Commissioner, Nagpur wrote to the 1st respondent asking it to file its written statements in the matter of non implementation of the Palekar Award as the orders of the Central Government made under section 12 of the Act were popularly called.
We find it also difficult to agree with the submission made on behalf of the Ist respondent that since the law reports are going to be preserved by the lawyers as reference books after getting them rebound subsequently they should be treated as books.
The law reports which are being published by the Ist respondent are reports of recent decisions of the Supreme Court of India and of the High Courts in India which are supplied to it by its agents appointed at New Delhi and other places where High Courts are situated.
Chapter II of the Act deals with certain conditions of service of the working journalists.
Aggrieved by the decision of the High Court the appellants have filed this appeal by special leave.
The High Court accepted the plea of the Ist respondent and declared that the law reports were not newspapers within the meaning of section 2(b) of the Act and that the demand made by the Deputy Labour Commissioner to comply with the order made by the Central Government on the basis of the recommendations of Justice Palekar was unsustainable by its judgment dated 22nd April, 1983.
