They have to prepare lengthy original notes in complicated matters.
The entitlement to these higher pay scales depends upon seniority cum merit or merit cum seniority.
It would be violative of principles of equal pay for equal work.
" In Randhir Singh, the petitioner was a driver constable in the Delhi Police Force under the Delhi Administration.
These employees who are in the service of the different Nehru Yuvak Kendras in the country and who are admittedly performing the same duties as Class IV employees, must therefore get the same salary and conditions of service as Class IV employees.
The criterion of selection shall be merit with due regard to seniority.
" In support of these conclusions the High Court relied upon two decisions of this Court: [i] Randhir Singh vs Union of India; , and [ii] P. Savita vs Union of India, [1985] Suppl. 1 SCR 101.
O. Chinnappa Reddy, J. observed that the classification of officers into two grades with different scales of pay based either on academic qualification or experience on length of service is sustainable.
Rs. 150 350 was recommended for Bench Secretaries as against Rs.200 400 for Section Officers.
Even then we give importance to the fact that only best from Upper Division/Lower Division Assistants are preferred for the post.
evaluation of duties and responsibilities of the respective posts.
The Bench Secretaries Grade 1 are in a higher pay scale than Bench Secretaries Grade II.
More often functions of two posts may appear to be the same or similar, but there may be difference in degrees in the performance.
The question is whether it is permissible to have two pay scales in the same cadre for persons having same duties and having same responsibilities.
Writ Petition No. 4211 of 1983.
Therefore, the responsibilities of the two posts cannot be said to be equal.
Section Officers have to bear more responsibilities in their Sections.
Art.39(d) of the Constitution proclaims `equal pay for equal work for both men and women ' as a Directive Principle of State Policy.
The High Court as usual supported their claim, but the Government did not.
It shall be made by selection committee appointed by the Chief Justice.
Can it be said that it would be violative of the right to equality guaranteed under the Connstitution? It was argued for the respondents that it offends the constitutional principle of "equal pay for equal work".
S.L. Appeal allowed.
the pay scale recommended by the Pay Rationalisation Committee, the nature of duties and responsibilities and the fact that every Hon 'ble Judge will have one Private Secretary in the scale of Rs.500 1,000 we feel that the Bench Secretaries cannot be given the same scale of pay which is being given to Superintendents or the Section Officers.
To consider all such grievances.
vs UOI, WP No. 1230 of 1987 disposed of dt. 10.2.1988; Jaipal and Ors.
It was found that the nature PG NO 293 of work of Section Officers was quite different and more onerous than that of Bench Secretaries.
Bench Rs.400 15 48 3 10 Rs.500 25 Secre 475 EB 20 700 EB 40 tary 575 EB 25 900 EB 50 750 1000 2.
Name Pay No. of No. of No. of Pay No.
It has a rational nexus with the object thereof.
There is super time scale in other like services.
In order to give effect to the said Government order the Chief Justice framed rules called the Allahabad High Court Officers and Staff (Conditions of Service and Conduct) Rules, 1976 ("The Rules ).
For appointment on these posts a limited competitive examination is held from amongst Upper Division Assistants, PG NO 296 Lower Division Assistants with ten years of service preferably Law Graduates.
Section Officers have to prepare a lengthy and original notes in complicated and important matters.
article l4 permits reasonable classification founded on different basis.
article 14 of the Constitution enjoins the State not to deny any person equality before the law or the equal protection of the laws and article 16 declares that there shall be equality of opportunity for all citizens in matters relating to employment or appointments to any office under the State.
They demanded that they should at least be put at par with Section Officers if not on higher scale.
The entitlement to higher pay scale depends upon selection based on merit cum seniority.
The selection is based on merit with due regard to seniority.
It is said that it would be violative of the Constitutional right of "equal pay for equal work".
On February 1, 1973, the Pay Commission submitted its report.
It was also admitted by the Delhi Administration in that case that the duties of driver constable of the Delhi Police Force were onerous.
The reason given by the Pay Commission is as follows: "Bench Secretary 26.38 Fifty two posts of Bench Secretaries are in the pay scale of Rs.400 750 and ten posts in the scale of Rs.500 1,000.
The report did not accept the claim of Bench Secretaries for giving them pay scale equal to Section Officers or Private Secretaries.
These equality clauses of the Constitution must mean something to every one.
Rule 8(E) provides procedure for appointment of Bench Secretaries Grade II.
As to the Pay Commission recommendations the High observed: "Rejection of petitioner 's demand for equating them PG NO 297 at least with Section Officers by comparing them with absence of administrative control exercised by Section Officer in the Secretariat was ignoring history of Bench Secretaries being a different class both before and after independence and the nature of duties performed by them .
They were intended to bring about a socio economic transformation in our society.
So long as such value judgment emphasise that equal pay for equal work is a concomitant of Article 14 of the Constitution.
So long as they are performing the same duties, they must receive the same salary and conditions of service as class IV employees.
It was also asked to recommend as far as possible equal emoluments for identical duties and responsibilities.
Article 39(d) of the Constitution proclaims "equal pay for equal work" .
In 1979, the State Government appointed another Pay Commission.
