Section 27 provides for finality of t he orders of the Tribunal.
An administrative or quasi judicial order bas ed on several grounds, all taken together, cannot be sustain ed if it be found that some of the grounds are non existent or irrelevant, and there is nothing to show that the authori ty would have passed the order on the basis of the other rel e vant and existing grounds.
Civil Appeal No. 1709 of 1988.
Section 28 excludes the jurisdicti on of courts except the Supreme Court, or any Industrial Trib u nal, Labour Court, concerning service matters.
" The learned Judge also said (at 227): "Now it is settled by the decision of this Court in State of Orissa vs Bidyabhushan Mohapatra, that if the ord er of a punishing authority can be supported on any finding as to substantial misdemeanour for which the punishment can be imposed, it is not for the Court to consider whether the 33 charge proved alone would have weighed with the authority in imposing the punishment.
He was found guilty of t he charge framed against him.
In the circumstances of the case howeve r, we make no order as to costs.
The appellant was a low paid class IV Governme nt servant.
But the Court in a case in which an order of dismissal of a public servant is impugned, is n ot concerned to decide whether the sentence imposed, provid ed it is justified by the rules, is appropriate having rega rd to the gravity of misdemeanour established.
A bogus identi ty card in the name of Ashok Kumar T.No.
The Tribunal thus could exercise on ly such powers which the Civil Court or the High Court cou ld have exercised by way of judicial review.
The Tribunal upon consideration of the matter agre ed with the findings recorded by the Inquiry Officer that t he respondent was the master mind behind the scheme to defra ud the project.
Consequently, the SLP of the respon d ent is dismissed.
If it is his case that he is not t he government servant who has been in fact convicted, he c an also agitate this question in appeal, revision or review.
T he public service and posts may be in connection with t he affairs of the union or of any State.
The said fictitious identity card was used by o ne Suraj Singh, cleaner T. No. 210 K of Beggi Tunnelling Div i sion for the purpose of withdrawing the pay of Ashok Kuma r.
The High Court observed: "That the findings in respect of charges l(a) and l(e) 29 should be set aside as being opposed to the rules of natur al justice, but the findings in respect of charges l(c) a nd l(d) and charge 2 need not be disturbed.
The Inquiry Officer framed charge against the responde nt in the following terms: "That the said Shri Parma Nand, while working as Time Keeper in Time Keeping Sub Division of Beas Sutlej Li nk Project, Sundernagar during the month of May 1969 failed to maintain absolute integrity and devotion to duty in as mu ch as he falsely marked the attendance of Shri Ashok Kuma r, Token No. 59 T in the Pay Roll of Control Survey Divisi on for the month of May 1969, which resulted in fictitio us drawal of Rs.238 90 as pay of the said Shri Ashok Kumar.
15 and Joint Administrative Tribun al under sec.
The Act thus excludes the jurisdiction, power and a u thority of all Courts except the Supreme Court and confe rs the same on the Tribunal in relation to recruitment a nd service matters.
If it is found that there was legal ev i dence before the Tribunal even if some of it was irrelevan t, a superior court would not interfere if the finding can be sustained on the rest of the evidence.
Section 27 provides for execution of orders.
Court to consid er whether that ground alone would have weighed with the a u thority dismissing the public servant.
In pursuance of the provisions of the Act, the Centr al Government has established the Central Administrative Trib u nal with a Bench at Chandigarh whose order has been cha l lenged before us.
The Tribunal cannot interfere with the findings of t he Inquiry Officer or competent authority where they are n ot arbitrary or utterly perverse.
Under these circu m stances, the evidence that the applicant was the only mast er mind who sought to defraud the project of the funds cann ot be termed to be direct.
It will be th en left to Government to decide whether, on the basis of the se charges, the punishment of dismissal should be maintain ed 'or else whether a lesser punishment would suffice." The Supreme Court reversed this order on the ground th at if the dismissal could be supported on any finding as to substantial misdemeanour for which the punishment cou ld lawfully be imposed, it was not for the.
This position becomes further clear by secs.
On the other hand, an order bas ed on several grounds some of which are found to be non exis t ent or irrelevant, can be sustained if the court is sati s fied that the authority would have passed the order on t he basis of the other relevant and existing grounds, and t he exclusion of the irrelevant or non existent grounds cou ld not have affected the ultimate opinion or decision.
Shah, J. observed ( at 665 666): " . . in our view the High Court had no pow er to direct the Governor of Orissa to reconsider the order of dismissal.
M.K.D. Namboodary for the Petitioner in SLP (Civil) N o. 6998 of 1988.
Where the court finds that the penalty i m posed by the impugned order is arbitrary or grossly exce s sive or out of all proportion to the offence committed or not warranted by the facts and circumstances of the case or the requirements of that particular government service t he court will also strike down the impugned order.
