His case was based on the allegations that he was discharging same duties and performing similar functions as "Senior Speech Therapist", "Senior Physiotherapist", "Senior Occupa tional Therapist", "Audiologist" and "Speech Pathologist".
P.S.S. Petition dismissed.
The Corporation is a company which has been incorporated under the .
They cannot claim wages payable to their counterparts in government service.
The Court held that the principle of "equal pay for equal work" has no mechanical application in every case of similar work.
(Under Article 32 of the Constitution of India).
The accuracy required by the job and the dexterity it entails may differ from job to job.
The discrimination complained of must be within the same estab lishment owned by the same management.
The petition ers have been treated as construction workers and they are being paid the minimum wages admissible to such workmen.
The principal claim of the petitioners therefore fails and is rejected.
He claimed pay scale admissible to "Senior Speech Pathologist", "Senior Physiotherapist", "Senior Occupational Therapist", "Audiologist", and "Speech Pathologist".
Apart from giving training, the Corporation also ensures marketing support to the artisans and craftsmen by purchasing their products at remunerative prices and sell them through the marketing network of the Corporation.
In the result, the petition fails and is dismissed.
The two jobs by the mere nomen clature or by the volume of work performed cannot be rated as equal.
The Corporation has clearly stated that there are no regular employees of the petitioners ' categories in its establishment and, as such, the question of payment to the petitioners, the pay admissible to regular employees does not arise.
Reference may be made to: (i) State of U.P. vs J.P. Chaurasia, ; and (ii) Meva Ram Kanojia vs All India Institute of Medical Sciences and Anr., ; In Chaurasia case the question arose whether it was permissible to have two different pay scales in the same cadre of Bench Secre taries of the Allahabad High Court who were for all practi cal purposes performing similar duties and having same responsibilities.
The petitioners are carpenters 1st and 2nd grade employed at the Wood Working Centre of the Himachal Pradesh State Handicrafts Corporation (the "Corpo ration").
Nonetheless, for the purpose of preserv ing and promoting traditional arts and crafts, the Corpora tion has been kept alive.
exhibit P. 2 was issued by the Deputy Commissioner in the exercise of his powers under the H.P. Financial Rules.
It is said that the village artisans and craftsmen make different items on a piece rate basis and in some cases, they execute the work in their own homes.
It is important to emphasize that equal pay for equal work is a concomitant of Article 14 of the Constitution.
In the instant case, the petitioners are employed by a company incorporated under the .
But the Court held that the principle of equal pay for equal work cannot be invoked invariably in every kind of service particularly in the area of professional services.
In this petition under Article 32 of the Constitution, they are seeking enforcement of their fundamental right to have "equal pay for equal work".
Perhaps, for the first time, this Court in Randhir Singh vs Union of India, ; has innovated that it is a constitu tional goal capable of being achieved through constitutional remedies.
Evidently the petitioners are claiming wages payable to the carpenters in Government service.
