Delivery in drums was only to facilitate their transport in small quantities.
In the aforesaid view of the matter, the appeals are allowed and the orders of the Tribunal are set aside.
It is only that degree of secondary packing which is necessary for assessable articles to be in the condition in which it is generally sold in the wholesale market which can be included at the factory gate which should be included in the value of the article.
It was perfectly conceivable that the whole sale dealer who took delivery might have his depot at a very short distance only from the factory gate or might have such transport arrangements available that damage or injury to the cigarettes could be avoided.
There was no evidence that there was any necessity of pack ing or putting these in drums prior to their sale.
Drums had been supplied by the buyers.
In 10% of the sales, the "vehicle" of removal was drums.
The Tribunal held that at the time of removal the goods were delivered from the factory in packed condition and the containers were not returnable by the buyer, there fore, the value had to be included in the assessable value.
The explanation to the said sub section defines the expression "packing" as the wrapper, container, bobbin, pirn, spool, reel or warp beam or any other thing in which or on which the excisable goods are wrapped, contained or wound.
There was evidence that 90% of the goods were deliv ered at the time of removal without being put in drums.
Learned Attorney General emphasised that it is a well settled principle of construction that in taxing statutes one has only to look merely at what is clearly stated.
In this connection, it is necessary to refer to the observations of this Court in Collector of Central Excise vs Indian Oxygen Ltd., (supra).
It was found that these corrugated fibreboard containers are employed for the purpose of avoid ing damage or injury during the transit.
The same were allowed by the Collector (Appeals).
It has to be borne in mind that the measure of excise duty is price and not value.
In the premises, the value of the drums irrespective of whether these where supplied by the assessee or not, is not inclu dible in the assessable value of the goods.
For articles to be goods, these must be known in the market as such and these must be capable of being sold or being sold in the market as such.
This conclusion, in my opinion, is sufficient to dispose of the present appeals.
Shri Harish Salve, arguing for the appellants, con tended that the cost of packing referred to in section 4(4)(d)(i) is such cost incurred by a manufacturer and not the cost of packing borne by the buyer.
This Court rejected the contention on behalf of the assessee in that case, that section 4 also levied excise on the basis of a conceptual value which must exclude post manufacturing expenses and post manufacturing profit by observing that the contention proceeded on the assumption that a conceptual value governed the assessment of the levy.
The completely manufactured product was stored in tanks.
It was reiterated that the old section 4 and new section 4 determine the value on the basis of price charged or chargeable by the particular assessee.
From these tanks, the goods were, to the extent of 90%, removed directly and placed in tankers.
On 2nd July, 1983, a notice in respect of a consignment was issued to show cause as to why value of the drums should not be included in the value of the goods.
The Asstt.
So it is open to Parliament to prescribe any measure by reference to which the charge is to be levied and this is what is done under section 4.
Where the manufacturer supplies his own container or drum but does not charge the customer therefore, then the price of the goods will also include the cost of the con tainer.
It has been so held by this Court in Bombay Tyre International 's case (supra).
Learned Attorney General emphasised that the language of clause (d) of sub section (4) of section 4 of the Act made it clear beyond doubt that in cases where the Act provides for excise duty with reference to value of the excisable goods, while determining the value of such goods, the cost of packing where the excisable goods are delivered at the time of removal in packed condition, would have to be included in the assessable value of the excisable goods.
In the case of Union of India vs Godfrey Phillips Ltd., , this position was clarified by the majority judgment.
Similar ly, in my opinion, drums even though these were ancillary or incidental to the supply of fusel oil and styrene monomer, these were not necessary to complete the manufacture of fusel oil or styrene monomer; the cost of such drums cannot, therefore, be included in the assessable value thereof.
In those cases, the corrugated fibreboard containers, according to Pathak, J., were not necessary for selling the cigarettes in the wholesale market.
If this question is answered in the affirmative, then, in respect of the goods so sold, the cost of packing, whether incurred by the manufacturer or by the supplier, has to be automatically included in the assessable value if necessary, by addition to the sale price, except only where the packing is of durable nature and returnable to the manufacturer.
ivil Appeal Nos.
450 452 of 1985A dated 4th July, 1985, 473/184A and 474/84A both dated 21st June, 1984 passed by the Customs, Excise & Gold (Control) Appellate Tribunal (hereinafter referred to as 'the Tribunal ').
It is also the case of the appellant that the said fusel oil/Styrene Monomer manufac tured by it is sold in bulk and delivered to the customers at the appellant 's factory.
The said sub section does not contemplate, accord ing to the appellant, the inclusion of the cost of packing in the value of goods when the packing is supplied by a customer to a manufacturer on its own cost.
Clause (ii) deals with duties of excise, sales tax and other taxes, if any, payable on such goods.
It states, inter alia, that manufacture includes any process incidental or ancillary to the comple tion of manufactured product.
In A.K. Roy 's case (supra), it was held by this Court that though in that case that the fact that the assessee had effected sales to whole sale dealers only to the extent of 5 to 10% of its produc tion and that 90 95% of its production were only retail sales would not affect the question of determination of the assessable value of the excisable goods with reference to its value in the wholesale market.
But as a matter of fact, delivery in drums was only to facilitate their transport in small quantities.
Collector in those appeals had included the costs of such drums in the value of styrene monomer.
For the purpose of such supply of cylinders, certain rentals were charged by the respondent and also to ensure that these cylinders were returned prop erly, certain amounts of deposit used to be taken from the customers.
There was no evidence that there was any necessity of packing or putting them in drums prior to their sale.
It is only that degree of secondary packing which is necessary for the assessable article to be placed in the condition in which it is sold in the wholesale market at the factory gate which can be in cluded in the assessable value of the article.
It was conceivable that the wholesale dealer who takes delivery might have its depot at a very short distance only from the factory gate or may have such transport arrangements available that damage or injury to the cigarettes could be avoided.
In the aforesaid view of the matter, I am of the opinion that these appeals have to be allowed and the orders of the Tribunal set aside.
I agree with my learned Brothers that both these appeals be allowed.
It was contended that in any event under the Act and the Rules, the duty of excise is payable by the manufacturer on the manufactured goods.
Explanation.
The Tribunal was in error in holding that as at the time of removal, goods were delivered from the factory in packed condition and the containers were not returnable to by the buyer, the value of the drums is to be included.
Citing several previous authorities of this Court he contended on the following lines: "It is not all packing that is liable to be included under section 4(4)(d)(i).
vs Union of India & Ors., ; and Bhor Industries Ltd., Bombay vs Collec tor of Central Excise, Bombay; , In order, therefore, to be manufacture, there must be activity which brings transformation to the article in such a manner that different and distinct article comes into being which is known as such in the market.
The case of the appellant is that the said fusel oil is a com pletely manufactured article and after completion of its manufacture, it is stored in storage tanks duly approved for this purpose.
The Tribunal, therefore, it was urged, ought to have held that the value could not be included in the assessable value of the fusel oil/Styrene Monomer.
See in this connection, the observations of this Court in Bombay Tyre 's case at pages 368,377,379,382 and 383, where this Court emphasised that in both the old section 4 and the new section 4, the price charged by the manufacturer on a sale by him represents the measure.
Thus, the clear implication of the use of the word "cost" is that only packing cost of which is incurred by the assessee, i.e., the seller, is to be included.
The relevant provi sion of section 4 of the Act deals with the manner as to how the value is to be computed and section 4(4)(d) stipulates as follows: ""value" in relation to any excisable goods, (i) where the goods are delivered at the time of removal in a packed condition, includes the cost of such packing except the cost of the packing which is of a durable nature and is returnable by the buyer to the assessee.
Reliance may be placed to the observations of this Court at pp.
On the facts of this case, there is evidence that 90% of the monomer was delivered at the time of removal without being put in drums.
There the drums had been supplied by the buyer.
From these tanks the goods were removed directly and placed in vehicles for their movement for 90% of the sales, the vehicle of removal was tankers and 10% of the sales, the vehicle of removals was drums.
According to the learned Attorney General, the fact that 90% of the goods were supplied in tankers and not in containers had no relevance at all and the 10% represent ed the entire quantity of excisable goods delivered in packed condition.
The Assistant Collector included the value of the drums in the assessable value of the said fusel oil/Styrene Monomer.
R.S.S. Appeals allowed.
There is no presump tion as to tax.
It is not all packing which is liable to be included under clause 4(4)(d)(i) in the assess able value of the goods.
