We, however, make it clear that what we have stated above does not affect in any way what the High Court has stated in the penultimate paragraph of the Judgment dated 24.3.1988 which reads thus: "It is open for the opposite parties to con sider the claim of the petitioner for continu ation in service or the fresh appointment and no observations in this regard are being made by this Court.
T.N.A. Appeal allowed.
Again the term was extended upto 30th of August, 1985 by an order dated 1st June, 1983.
The High Court further issued a direction to the effect that the respondent was entitled to salary upto the period he was entitled to remain in service.
It seems that when the writ petition was decided, our attention was not drawn towards the interim order dated 10.7.1986 passed by learned single Judge in which it was provided that one post will be kept vacant and in case the petitioner suc ceeds in his petition it would be made avail able forthwith to the petitioner by way of his appointment.
The Judgment of the Court was delivered by VENKATARAMIAH, CJ.
Under that scheme the ex military officials were appointed on Contract basis for a fixed term which could be extended from time to time subject to the suitability of the official concerned but not beyond 58 years of age.
the date of assumption if it is not terminated earlier by giving a one month 's notice by the Hon 'ble Gover nor or on paying one month 's salary in lieu thereof or by giving one month 's notice, by the Officer.
During the extended period of the contract conditions of service of officers shall remain same as are mentioned under their Appointment Order.
From the Judgment and Order dated 26.7.1988 of the Allahabad High Court in Review Application No. 27(W) of 1988.
It is on this basis that the High court had while setting aside the order of termination by its order dated 24.3.1988 directed that the respondent was entitled to salary upto the period he was entitled to remain in service and further observed that it was open for the opposite parties to consider the claim of the respondent for continu ation in service or of fresh appointment and no observations in this regard were made by the Court.
Pursuant to the said scheme the State of Uttar Pradesh appointed the respondent as the Secretary, Zila Sainik Board, Unnao on 20th of August, 1979.
