The original rule 21 was substituted by new rule 21 by the issue of impugned notification on 26 6 1985 which provides that a holder of a quarry lease or any other mineral conces sion granted under the Rules shall pay royalty in respect of minor minerals provided in column 2 of the Schedule, removed or consumed by him or by his agent, manager, employee, contractor or sub lessee from the leased area at the rates specified in column 3 of the said Schedule.
(iii) no royalty shall be charged from Nimbha das of village potters if their annual produc tion is not exceeding two lakhs bricks and they supply at least one lakh bricks to the Rural Housing Board or Panchayats.
We do not, therefore, find any substance in any of the contentions urged before us.
" It is seen from section 15 that the State Government is empowered to make rules for regulating the grant of quarry leases, mining leases or other mineral concessions in re spect of minor minerals and for purposes connected there with.
The compe tent officer may grant such Parwana in the following priorities: (a) Individual families to Khanias belonging to the Scheduled Castes or the Scheduled Tribes, who do physical work I of excavating minor mineral in the area applied for. 415 (b) Individual families of 'Khanias ' who do physical work in excavating minor minerals in the area applied for.
It is under this notification the rate of royalty in respect of black trap and Hard Murrum was increased from Rs. 4 to Rs.7 per metric tonne.
The rule also provides that the holder of a Parwana granted under the Rules shall pay royalty at the rate of 50 per cent of the rate of royalty specified in the said Sched ule and that no royalty shall be charged from Nimbhadas of village Potters who manufacture upto one lakh bricks per year.
It empowers the Central Government to enhance or reduce the rate of royalty prescribed by the Second Schedule in respect of any mineral subject to the condition that the Central Government shall not enhance the rate of royalty in respect of any mineral more than once during any period of three years.
In exercise of the said power under section 15 the Government of Gujarat promulgated the Gujarat Minor Minerals Rules, 1966 which are referred to as the Rules as stated above.
Since many of the contentions raised by the parties in respect of the constitutionality of section 15 of the Act and the validity of Rules made thereunder had been considered and the contentions urged by the petitioners against the said rule in those petitions had been rejected, in the present case the petitioners have confined their case only to the following points which according to them had not been considered in the said decision.
Rule 33 B of the Rules reads thus: "33.B. Grant of quarrying Parwana On an application made to the competent officer, he may grant a quarrying Parwana to extract and remove from the specified area within his jurisdiction the minor mineral from a plot not exceeding 2,000 square meters, as may be specified by the competent officer.
that the impugned notification in question was in contravention of clause (b) of Article 304 of the Constitution.
The contention of the learned counsel was that under Entry 50 of List II of the 7th Schedule to the Constitution, the royalty recovered by the State Government had to be used only for mineral development and could not be used for any other purpose.
