The High Court thought that though the conviction under section 161 I.P.C. and section 5(2) of the Prevention of Corruption Act is to be maintained, no separate sentence need be award ed under section 161 I.P.C.
N.V.K. Appeal dismissed.
The appellant produced the currency notes.
The words 'unless the contrary is proved ' which occur in this provision make it clear that the presumption has to be rebutted by 'proof ' and not by a bare explanation which is merely plausible.
From the Judgment & Order dated the 27.10.1979 of the Madras High Court in Crl.
The plea of the appellant was that PW 1 had returned the amount due to him and there had been no demand for a bribe as there had been no occasion for doing so.
The recovery of the currency notes from the appellant proves the guilty conduct of the appel lant in view of the presumption arising under section 4(1) of the Prevention of Corruption Act which has not been rebutted.
At the trial, the prosecution witnesses supported the case.
This conduct of the appellant is clearly incon sistent with the transaction of loan or return of money by PW 1. 338 This Court observed in Dhanvantrai Balwantrai Desai vs State of Maharashtra, AIR 1964 SC 575 as under: "Where any gratification (other than legal gratification) or any valuable thing is proved to have been received by an accused person the court is required to draw a presumption that the person received that thing as a motive of reward such as is mentioned in section 161, I.P.C. Therefore, the Court has no choice in the matter, once it is established that the accused person has received a sum of money which was not due to him as a legal remuneration.
PW 3, the Principal of the training school issued exhibit P 2 show cause notice to the PW 1, Venkataswamy, the canteen contractor, as to why his licence for running the canteen should not be cancelled.
He had thereafter received the amount of Rs. 100 from PW 1.
PW 6 has stated at the time of the seizure the explanation offered by the appellant was that PW 1 had returned the loan and that he had given the money for the Dipawali.
A fact is said to be proved when its existence is directly established or when upon the material before it the Court finds its existence to be so probable that a reasonable man would act on the supposition that it exists.
He took charge of the office on 6.10.1975 and had been residing in a house opposite the training school.
The order made was not disclosed to PW 1 and till 22.10.1975, the file itself was kept by the appellant in his personal custody.
The appellant had been sentenced to undergo R.I. for 15 months under section 5(2) read with section 5(1)(d) of the Prevention of Corruption Act with no separate sen tence under section 161 I.P.C.
The recovery of the currency notes from the appellant was not challenged.
This appeal is directed against the judgment dated 27.10.1979 of the High Court of Madras con firming the conviction of the appellant under section 161, I .P.C. and under section 336 5(2) read with section 5(1)(d) of the Prevention of Corrup tion Act.
It is accordingly dismissed.
Unless, there fore, the explanation is supported by proof, the presumption created by the provision cannot be said to be rebutted.
