It cannot, therefore, be contended, as the petitioners have done, that the respondent has no jurisdiction to determine the question as to whether the premises were at one time let out as a whole and then let out in parts as contended by the applicants.
The second lease deed (Ext.
1947 relating to Door No. 3 (Item 2 in Schedule A to the plaint) covered an area of 8700 sq.
The rent for the premises was Rs. 150 per month.
The Supreme Court dismissed the appeal.
He may reach a conclusion, on the merits, that the landlord has title; yet he cannot order eviction if the tenant 's action in 562 denying the title was bona fide.
P 2), dated 3.10.
(2) Where there is an express bar of the jurisdic tion of the court, an examination of the scheme of the particular Act to find the adequacy or the sufficiency of the provided may be relevant but is not decisive to sustain the jurisdiction of the civil court.
O.S.A. 62 of 1973 was, therefore, allowed to that extent.
In respect of item 2 the fair rent claimed was Rs.3266.50 as against Rs.200 p.m. payable under the lease deed.
This view was confirmed by the High Court.
Turn 551 ing now to C.S. No. 54 of 1969 (which was disposed of along with C.S. No. 87 of 72 by a common judgment dated 23.10.1972), the contention urged on behalf of the tenants was that, since the subject matter of the lease under exhibit P 1 was only a vacant site, the Rent Controller had no juris diction to fix the fair rent in respect thereof and that, therefore, the claim in the suit for arrears of rent, based on the Rent Controller 's order in respect of the premises covered by exhibit P 1 had to fail.
XXX XXX XXX (4) in Mathura Prasad Bajoo Jaiswal & Ors.
One practical test would be to determine if that particular matter would not be a matter in respect of which the civil court would have jurisdiction.
After putting up the buildings, he applied for determination of standard rent under the Bombay Rents, Hotel and Lodging House Rates Control Act, 1947.
If by an erroneous interpretation of the statute the court holds that it has no jurisdiction, the decision will not, operate as res judicata.
These documents were executed on January 7, 1953, but the respondent contin ued in the possession of the house property throughout.
We, therefore, answer the first question posed by us in the affirmative.
In the circumstances, the Court of Small Causes, in the appeals now being referred to (H.RA.
However, so far as item No. 1 was concerned, the Appellate Bench vacated the decree passed by the trial court.
The application under section 4 could not, therefore, have been summarily rejected even assuming that the question of title could be said to have been substantially in issue and decided in the previous proceedings.
Denial of title of the landlord is itself one of the grounds on which eviction can be sought [section 10(2)(vii) ].
After referring to the terms of the sale deed (exhibit P 3), the superstructure constructed on the land was held to have been conveyed to the vendee under the sale deed dated 30 7. 1953 and to have thus vested in the LIC.
The Corporation had formerly filed a petition H.R.C. 867/1963 in respect of these two buildings for fixation of fair rent.
Thereafter, it cannot be within the exclusive jurisdiction of the Reve nue court, and the decision of such a dispute by a revenue court cannot be binding in a civil court.
It belonged to several co owners.
It was pleaded that the decrees passed by the Court of Small Causes operated as res judicata barring the respondent from pleading that the sale deed was merely a nominal transac tion.
It was sought to be argued on behalf of the petitioners that the respondent had no jurisdiction to determine the question as to whether the premises were at one time let out as a whole and then let out in parts as was sought to be contended by the applicants . .
This plea was upheld by the learned Single Judge but was rejected in appeal.
This is not the main relief for which the application is filed.
The order of the Rent Controller in respect of item 2 was also upheld.
In 1953 the plaintiff applied for a ryotwari patta in respect of this land after abolition of the Estate but the Addition al Settlement Officer, by order dated 25th June, 1954, took a decision that land was not a ryoti land but had been registered as a poramboke (village communal land) and, therefore, no one was entitled to ryotwari patta in respect of that land.
The tenants filed revision petitions against the order of the Court of Small Causes but these were dismissed on 20.11.1968.
If there is any dispute which arises between the parties as to whether the particular application falls within the jurisdiction of the tribunal, it is the tribunal which is competent to decide that dispute and determine whether the particular matter falls within its jurisdiction.
In conse quence, it was held, the LIC could not maintain the suit for recovery of rent based on the order made by the statutory tribunal under the Rent Control Act and claim the difference between the so called fair rent and the contract rent.
It has long been held that a question of title in a Small Cause suit can be regarded as incidental only to the substantial issue in the suit and cannot operate 8as res judicata in a subsequent suit in which the question of title is directly raised . .
Y. Lal Appeal dismissed.
Last ly, the 1969 decision of the Court of Small Causes was only concerned with the question whether there was denial of the L.I.C. 's title by the tenants and, if so, whether it was bona fide.
If at all, he says, it was this decision that constituted res judicata and the Court of Small Causes, in H.R.A. 534/66 arising out of H.R.A. 3310/64 (which we shall refer to as the 'second set of proceedings ') could not have considered the issue again or taken a different view.
That the Rent Controller 's jurisdic tion on this issue is limited is clear from the proviso to section 10(1) of the Act.
It held that there was a valid tease between the quondam owners and the tenants under Exts.
All that the Rent Controller has to do is to satisfy himself that the person seeking eviction or fixation of fair rent is a "landlord" who has, prima facie, ' the right to receive the rents of the property in question.
But his decision is not final on the issue that opens up his jurisdiction and cannot preclude an owner from contending, in a civil court, that he should not be asked to pay rent for his own property to some one else.
Our attention has been drawn to Expla nation VIII to section 11 in the Code of Civil Procedure recently inserted by the Code of Civil Procedure (Amendment) Act, 1976.
The Division Bench observed: " . .
571 For the reasons mentioned above, we are of the opinion that the High Court reached the correct conclusion and that this appeal has to fail.
The first lease (Ext.
It will not be open to the civil court to re determine the rent payable by the tenant to the landlord because that is a matter squarely and exclusively within the jurisdiction of the Rent Controller and, therefore, impliedly excluded from the purview of the civil court.
In order to decide whether the denial of the landlord 's title by the tenant is bona fide, the Rent Controller may have to go into the tenant 's contentions on the issue but he is not to decide the question finally.
Under the said Act, he pointed out, a petition for fixation of fair rent under section 4 could be filed by either a landlord or a tenant: (Raval & Co. vs Rarnachandran, ; This is 554 what the LIC purported to do when it filed H.R.C. Nos. 3310 and 33 11/64.
It may be mentioned here that the tenant filed C.S. 87 of 1972 claiming protection under the Madras City Tenants ' Protection Act but this suit and further appeals therefrom have been dismissed.
So also, in an application under section 4, the jurisdiction of the Rent Controller is to determine a fair or standard rent for the premises.
The rent as per lease deed was Rs.200 per month.
He gave an express finding that the building No. 2.
He, therefore, allowed the appeal and set aside the order of eviction passed against the tenants.
1947 and related to Door No. 2 (Item No.1 in Schedule A to the plaint).
534/66), did not treat the earlier decision as res judicata but came independently to the same conclusion that item No. 1 belonged to the LIC.
At any rate, it is not open to one of the parties to contend that the decision given by the Court of Small Causes, which has become final between the parties, is a total nullity which can be completely ignored.
The landlady denied any relationship of tenant and landlord between the applicant and herself.
If he fails to prove this, the plaint is not returned because the suit is one which the Court has no jurisdiction to entertain; but the suit is dismissed as revealing no cause of action . .
We think that this contention is well founded.
But we think Sri .Parasaran is right in the third con tention urged by him before us which goes to the root of the matter.
