(2) , 157, 159.
Item 3 is bequeathed to respondent 5 and item 4 to respondents 2, 3 and 4.
After the will was written the scribe took it to the adjoining room where Lakshmamma was lying in bed.
We would now indicate briefly the evidence led by the appellant on the question about the valid execution of the will.
(2) Williams on " Executors and Administrators" Vol. 1, 13th Ed., P. 92.
As a result of these findings the learned judge declared that Lakshmamma was the full owner of half the share in the scheduled properties and that respondent I under the will had only a life interest in respect of the said half share in items 1 and 2.
Appeal dismissed.
As in the case of proof of other documents so in the case of proof of wills it would be idle to expect proof with mathematical certainty.
It would, however, appear from the application (exhibit VI) made to the Sub Registrar inviting him to come to Kalbagal 's house to register the will that it was not the appellant but the witness himself who had brought the Sub Registrar.
The appellant thus claimed that Lakshmamma was entitled to make a will and asked .or a declaration in that behalf and consequential reliefs so as to give effect to the terms and dispositions of the will.
He then went to Mandya by.
She was not able to get up and leave the bed.
Against this decree respondent I preferred an appeal in the High Court of Mysore; and the appellant filed cross objections.
" Although the rule of Roman Law ", it is observed in Williams, " that " Qui se scripsit haeredem " could take no benefit under a will does not prevail in the law of England, yet, where the person who prepares the instrument, or conducts its execution, is himself benefited by its dis positions, that is a circumstance which ought generally to excite the suspicion of the court, and calls on it to be vigilant and zealous in examining the evidence in support of the instrument in favour of which it ought not to pronounce, unless the suspicion is removed, and (1) Jarman on " Wills" Vol. 1, 8th Ed., P. 50.
A power of attorney was accordingly prepared and duly executed and registered.
The witness has then referred to the fact that the will was read out by the scribe to Lakshmamma and she consented to it, whereupon it was signed by her and subsequently attested by the two attesting witnesses.
In cross examination, however, it appeared that his statement that he was present when the will was written may not be accurate.
In this case, the evidence about the instructions given by the testator was very clear; and there was not the slightest reason for disbelieving the statement of Gooneratne that he had drawn the will faithfully in accordance with the details of instructions given to him.
