Amendment of section 9 of Haryana Act 20 of 197.3 For clauses (b) and (bb) of sub section (1) of section 9 of the principal Act, the following clause shall be substituted, namely: "(b) purchases goods, other than those specified in Schedule B. from any source in the State and uses them in the State in the manufacture of any other goods and either disposes of the manufactured goods in any manner otherwise than by way of sale in the State or dispatches the manufactured goods to a place outside the State in any manner otherwise than by way of sale in the course of inter State trade or commerce or in the course of export outside the territory of India within the meaning of subsection (1) of section 5 of the Central Sales Tax Act, 1956;or.
R.S.S. Appeals & Petitions allowed.
349 Provided that this sub section shall not apply to a dealer who deals exclusively in goods specified in Schedule B. (2) Every dealer to whom sub section (1) does not apply shall be liable to pay tax on all sales and purchases effected on the expiry of thirty days after the date on which his gross turnover during any year first exceeds the taxable quantum.
section 9(1) is a charging section.
XXX XXX XXX The earlier Explanation, however, is omitted with the same retrospective effect.
1971: "section 6 Incidence of taxation (1) Every dealer whose gross turnover during the year immediately preceding the coming into force of the provisions of this section exceeded the taxable quantum shall be liable to pay tax on all sales and purchases effected after the coming into force of the provi sions of this section.
The, definition also excludes from its purview "the sale proceeds of goods on which purchase tax is leviable under this Act" and "the purchase value of any goods on the sales of which tax is leviable under this Act".
These provisoes make a marked contrast between sates failing under sub sections (1) and those falling under subsection (3) of section 5 of the C.S.T. Act.
It said: "According to section 5(1) of the , a sale or purchase of goods can qualify as a sale in the course of export of the goods out of the territory of India only if the sale or purchase has occasioned such export or is by a transfer of documents of title to the goods after gods have crossed the customs frontiers of India.
" (d) An amendment of 1986 expanded the proviso to section 24(I)(b) by adding "utensils and metal handicrafts" to "scientific goods and guar gum", as in section 9(1) proviso.
The second was to omit the words "sub section (1) of" at the end of clause (b).
The appellant had agreed to sell his goods only to the S.T.C. and there was no provity of contract between him and the foreign buyer.
The section originally read thus: "section 9 Liability to pay purchase tax Where a dealer pur chases goods other than those specified in the Schedule B from any source in the State and (a) uses them in the State in the manufacture of (i) goods specified in Schedule B; or (ii) any other goods and disposes of the manufac tured goods in any manner otherwise than by way of sale whether within the State or in the course of inter State trade or commerce or in the course of export out of the territory of India; 350 (b) exports them in the circumstances in which no tax is payable under any other provision of this Act, there shall be levied, subject to the provisions of section 17, a tax on the purchase of such goods at such rate as may be notified under section 15.
Provided that this section shall not apply to a dealer who deals exclusively in goods specified in Schedule B. Goods on which no tax is leviable: section 6 read with section 15.
After careful consideration we think that this argument was rightly accepted by the High Court.
But the 1990 amendment has omitted this Explanation retrospectively.
(b) section 6 was amended by Act I of 1990 to read as follows with retrospective effect from 27.5.
But Shri Agarwal submitted that the sales made by the assessees can only fall within one of three categories.
However, to avoid confusion both the clauses may be set out here: (b) purchases goods, other than those specified in Schedule B, from any source in the State and uses them in the State in the manufacture of any other goods and either disposes of the manufactured goods in any manner otherwise than by way of sale in the State or despatches the manufactured goods to a place outside the State in any manner otherwise than by way of sale in the course of inter State trade or commerce or in the course of export outside the territory of India within the meaning of subsection (1) of section 5 of the Central Sales Tax Act, 1956;or; (bb) purchases goods, other than those specified in Schedule B except milk, from any source in the State and uses them in the State in the manufacture of any other goods and either disposes of the manufactured goods in any manner otherwise than by way of sale in the State or despatches the manufac tured goods to a place outside the State in any manner otherwise than by way of sale in the course of inter State trade or commerce or in the course of export outside the territory of India within the meaning of sub section (1) of section 5 of the ; or".
(2) Every dealer to whom sub section (1) does not apply shall, subject to other provisions of this Act, be liable to pay tax under this Act on the expiry of thirty days after the date on which his gross turnover during any year first exceeds the taxable quantum; Provided that this sub section shall not apply to a dealer who deals exclusively in goods specified in Schedule B. Provided further that . .
If, on the other hand, the goods were sent 363 to the port by the assessee subsequent to and independent of the sale made by him, then, for the purpose of that trans port, the assessee.
These provisions read thus.
