AND I.A. No. 1 of 1989 in S.L.P. No. 12288 of 1984.
We have heard counsel for the original parties as also the alienees.
Under orders of this Court security has been furnished for mesne profits.
While each of the parties had taken such stand in the litigation a compromise was brought about on 21.8.1987 between the father and his two sons and the same was filed in this Court.
Subbamma adopted one K.V Seshiah.
This amount shall be deposited in the Registry of this Court within the time indicated and Sudarshan Gupta shall be free to withdraw the amount.
We declare and clarify that none of the sale deeds is valid and none of the alienees has any interest in the aforesaid property.
The alienees have made an attempt to hold out that there were agreements for sale prior to the compromise for which there is no acceptable evidence.
The following Order of the Court was delivered: 540 The special leave petition under Article 136 of the Constitution is directed against the affirming judgment of the Andhra Pradesh High Court in a suit for title and injunction.
The sale deeds indicate that a sum of Rs. 1 lakh had been received earlier and a net amount of Rs.77,124 out of the consideration money under these documents has been paid before the registering authority.
Respondent No. 2 and his counsel Mr. Ram Kumar have accepted the fact that the parties have signed the compromise petition which contain terms which they had accepted and all parties have accepted the document of compromise to be genuine.
The alienees shall deliver vacant possession of the property by 30th of April, 1991, to Seshiah and in the event of failure to do so the Trial Court is directed by our present order to deliver vacant possession of the entire property in suit including those which are covered by the sale deeds in favour of the alienees to Seshiah within one month therefrom.
The factum of compromise is not in dispute.
The terms of the compromise stipulated payment of Rs. 1 lakh by the father to each of his two sons in lieu of relinquishment of their interest.
The alienees have no right created under the alleged sale deeds.
In view of the fact that there was the allegation of payment of Rs. 1 lakh to Sudarshan Gupta which we have not investigated and to meet the further allegation that some improvements have been made to the property which too we have not gone into, we direct that the mesne profits shall be set off against the same.
Petition No. 15001 of 1989.
We are in accord with the principle indicated in the said decision and are of the view that as the compromise petition is genuine and lawful the same has to be acted upon.
