Appeals against the decision of a learned Single Judge were dismissed by the Karnataka High Court on October 6, 1989, by a Division Bench of that High Court.
Under the first proviso to Section 11 A it was prescribed that where the said declaration (under Section 4 of the Land Acquisition Act) has been published before the commencement of the Land Acquisition (Amendment) Act, 1984, the award must be made within a period of two years from such commencement.
Special Leave Petition Nos.
The petitioners were the owners of certain lands which were acquired by the respondents under the provisions of Sections 17 and 19 of the Bangalore Development Act, 1976 (hereinafter referred to as "the Bangalore Act").
823 24 of 1990.
In our view, the said interim orders have a direct bearing on the question raised and the non disclosure of the same certainly amounts to suppression of material facts.
In these two writ petitions, the Karnataka High Court granted interim stay of further proceedings in respect of the acquisition of the said lands.
These petitions were dismissed by a learned Single Judge of that High Court on November 29, 1988.
Curiously enough, there is no reference in the Special Leave Petitions to any to the stay orders and we came to know about these orders only when the respondents appeared in response to the notice and filed their counter affidavit.
The relevant dates which have to be borne in mind in this connection, are as follows: The notification making the declaration under Section 4 of the Land Acquisition Act in respect of the lands in question was made on September 20, 1977.
Section 11 A of the Land Acquisition Act, which section was included in the said Act in 1984 as set out hereinafter, very briefly states, provides that the Collector must make his award within two years from the date of the publication of the declaration and that if no award is made within that period, the entire proceedings for acqui 565 sition of the land shall lapse.
It was, inter alia contended by the petitioners that as the awards in these cases has not been made within two years of the notification making the declaration under Section 4 of the Land Acquisition Act, the entire acquisition proceedings had lapsed.
Under the provisions of Section 36 of the Bangalore Act, where the acquisitions, otherwise than by agreement, it will be regulated by the provisions , as far they are applicable, of the Land Acquisition Act, 1894 (hereinafter referred to as "the Land Acquisition Act").
