(5) Parliament may by law regulate the procedure for the presentation of an address and for the investigation and proof of the misbehaviour or incapacity of a Judge under clause (4).
XXX XXX XXX 218.
" Section 4 provides: 4.
Application of certain provi sions relating to Supreme Court to High Courts.
(2) Any public servant who commits criminal misconduct shall be punishable with imprisonment for a term which shall not be less than one year but which may extend to seven years and shall also be liable to fine: Provided that the court may, for any special reasons recorded in writing, impose a sentence of imprisonment of less than one year.
On 24.2.
R.P. Appeal dismissed.
For the purposes of this Act, "public servant" means a public servant as defined in Section 21 of the Indian Penal Code.
In 1953 he was appointed as Assistant Government Pleader and in 1959, the Government Pleader at Madras.
Clause (a) of Section 6(1) covers public servants employed in connection with the affairs of the Union.
It is the vertical hierarchy between the authority competent to remove the public servant from that office and the nature of the office held by the 289 public servant against whom sanction is sought which would indicate a hierarchy and which would therefore, permit inference of knowledge about the functions and duties of the office and its misuse or abuse by the public servant.
(2) Where in any trial of an offence punishable under Section 165A of the Indian Penal Code (45 of 1860) or under clause (ii) or sub section (3) of Section 5 of this Act, it is proved that any gratification (other than legal remuneration) or any valuable thing has been given or offered to be given or attempted to be given by an accused person, it shall be presumed unless the contrary is proved that he gave or offered to give or attempted to give that gratification or that valuable thing as the case may be as a motive or reward Such as is mentioned in Section 161 of the Indian Penal Code or, as the case may be, without consideration or for a considera tion which he known to be inadequate.
Article 217 provides that every Judge of a High Court shall be appointed by the President by warrant under his hand and seal after consultation with the Chief Justice of India, the Governor of the State, and in the case of appointment of a Judge other than the Chief justice, the Chief Justice of the High Court.
XXX XXX XXX (4) A Judge of the Supreme Court shall not be removed from his office except by an order of the President passed after an address by each House of Parliament supported by a majority of the total membership of the House and by a majority of not less than two thirds of the members of that House present and voting has been presented to the President in the same session for such removal on the ground of proved misbehaviour or incapacity.
Restriction on discussion in the Legislature.
It was in his own name and in the names of his wife Smt.
(3) Notwithstanding anything contained in subsections (1) and (2), the court may decline to draw the presumption referred to in either of the said sub sections if the gratification or thing aforesaid is, in its opinion, so trivial that no inference of corruption may fairly be drawn.
Article 2 18 states that provisions of clauses (4) and (5) of Article 124 shall apply in relation to a High Court.
Previous sanction necessary for prosecution. (1) No court shall take cogni zance of an offence punishable under Section 161 or Section 164 or Section 165 of the Indian Penal Code (45 of 1860), or under sub section (2) or sub section (3A) of Section 5 of this Act, alleged to have been committed by a public servant, except with the previous sanction, (a) in the case of a person who is employed in connection with the affairs of the Union and is not removable from his office save by or with the sanction of the Central Government, of the Central Government; (b) in the case of a person who is employed in connection with the affairs of a State and is not removable from his office save by or with the sanction of the State Government, of the State Government; (c) in the case of any other person, of the authority competent to remove him from his office.
vs Union of Inida & Ors. etc.
Article 121 provides "that no discussion shall take place in Parliament with respect to the conduct of any Judge of the Supreme Court or of a High ' Court in the discharge of his duties except upon a motion for presenting an address to the President praying for the removal of the Judge as hereinaf ter provided.
Notwithstanding anything contained in the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1898, no police officer below the rank (a) in the case of the Delhi Special Police Establishment, of an Inspector of Police; (b) in the presidency towns of Calcutta and Madras, of an Assistant Commissioner of Po lice; (c) in the presidency towns of Bombay, of a Superintendent of Police; and (d) elsewhere, of a Deputy Superintendent of Police, shall investigate any offence punishable under Section 161, section 165 or section 165A of the Indian Penal Code or under section 5 of this Act without the order of a Presidency Magistrate or a Magistrate of the first class, as the case may be, or make any arrest there for without a warrant: Provided that if a police officer not below the rank of an Inspector of Police is autho rised by the State Government in this behalf by general or special order, he may also investigate any such offence without the order of a Presi 237 dency Magistrate or a Magistrate of the first class, as the case may be, or make arrest therefor without a warrant: Provided further that an offence referred to in clause (e) of sub section (1) of Section 5 shall not be investigated without the order of a police officer not below the rank of a Superintendent of Police.
Eluthai Ammal and his two sons S/Shri V. Suresh and V. Bhaskar, which were disproportionate to the extent of Rs.6,41,416.36p.
We, therefore, suggest that the Chief Justice of India in consulta tion with the Chief Justices 283 of the High Courts should arrange for a thor ough inquiry into the incidence of corruption among the judiciary, and evolve, in consulta tion with the Central and State Governments, proper measures to prevent and eliminate it.
Section 77 states that ?nothing is an offence which is done by a Judge when acting judicially in the exercise of any power which is, or which in good faith he believes to be, given to him by law".
Perhaps the setting up of vigilance organisa tion under the direct control of the Chief Justice of every High Court coordinated by a Central Vigilance Officer under the Chief Justice of India may prove to be an appropri ate method.
or having any connection with the official functions of himself or of any public servant to whom he is subordinate, or from any person whom he knows to be inter ested in or related to the person so con cerned, or (c) if he dishonestly or fraudulently misap propriates or otherwise converts for his own use any property entrusted to him or under his control as a public servant or allows any other person so to do, or (d) if he, by corrupt or illegal means or by otherwise abusing his position as public servant, obtains for himself or for any other person any valuable thing or pecuniary advan tage, or (e) if he or any person on his behalf is in possession or has, at any time during the period of his office, been in possession, for which the public servant cannot satisfactorily account, of pecuniary resources or property disproportionate to his known sources of income.
(2) Where for any reason whatsoever any doubt arises whether the previous sanction as required under subsection (1) should be given by the Central or State Government or any other authority, such sanction shall be given by that Government or authority which would have been com 279 petent to remove the public servant from his office at the time when the offence was alleged to have been committed.
Section 6 applies only in cases where there is a vertical hierarchy of public offices and the public servants against whom sanction is sought from the sanctioning author ity.
He must voluntarily withdraw from the judicial work and admin istration.
We have been referred to the observations of Desai J., in R.S. Nayak vs A.R. Antulay, at 206: "That competent authority alone would know the nature and function discharged by the public servant holding the office and whether the same has been abused or misused.
The burden of proof placed on the accused is an evidential burden though not a pursuasive burden.
That for the period between 1 May 1969 to 24 February 1976, he was in possession of the pecuniary resources and property disproportionate by Rs.6.41,416.36 to the known sources of income over the same period.
The appellant joined the Bar of Madras in the year 1941 and had a lucrative prac tice.
Establishment and constitution of Su preme Court '(1) .
SHARMA, J. I have gone through the learned judgments of Mr. Justice Ray, Mr. Justice Shetty and Mr. Justice Verma.
& 17).
The definition of 'public servant ' given in the Act includes 'every Judge '.
By a catena of decisions, it has been held that the authority entitled to grant sanction must apply its mind to the facts of the case, evidence collected and other incidental facts before according sanction.
He held that post till 20 February 1960 when he was elevated to the Bench as a perma nent Judge of the Madras High Court.
The appellant cannot satisfactorily account for such disproportionate assets.
The need for sanction under Section 6 for prosecution of the holder of a public office indicates the ambit and scope of the enactment for deciding whether the holder of a public office falls within the purview of the enactment.
He argued that that term means that the public servant is entitled to an opportunity before the Investigating Officer to explain the alleged dispropor tionality between assets and the known sources of income.
Criminal misconduct. (1) A public servant is said to commit the offence of criminal misconduct (a) if he habitually accepts or obtains or agrees to accept or attempts to obtain from any person for himself or for any other per son, any gratification (other than legal remuneration) as a motive or reward such as is mentioned in Section 161 of the Indian Penal Code (45 of 1860), or 276 (b) if he habitually accepts or obtains or agrees to accept or attempts to obtain for himself or for any other person, any valuable thing without consideration or for a consider ation which he knows to be ' inadequate from any person whom he knows to have been, or to be, or to be likely to be concerned in any proceeding or business transacted or about to be transacted by him.
Similarly the President appoints the Judges of the Supreme Court.
It has been urged further that under Article 361, the President and the Governor have been given protection from being answerable to any court for the exercise and perform ance of the powers and duties of his office or for any act done or purporting to be done by him in the exercise and performance of those powers and duties.
It has been noticed hereinbefore that the third clause particularly of Section 21 of the Indian Penal Code includes every Judge including any person empowered by law to dis charge whether by himself or as a member of any body of persons any adjudicatory functions.
Clause 2 of the said Article further provides that no criminal proceedings what soever shall be instituted or Continued against the Presi dent, or the Governor of a State, in any court during his term of office.
There seems to be another reason for taking away the discretion of the investigating agency to prosecute or not to prosecute a public servant.
There are Rules called the Judges (Inquiry) Rules, 1969 formed under the Judges (En quiry) Act prescribing procedure for holding an inquiry against the Judge.
That is why the Legislature clearly provided that that authority alone would be competent to grant sanction which is entitled to remove the public servant against whom sanction is sought from the office.
A Judge of the Supreme Court shall be appointed by the President by the warrant under his hand and seal after consultation with such Judges of the Supreme Court and of the High Court in the State as the President may deem neces sary for the purpose and shall hold office until he attains the age of 65 years.
If it is con templated to prosecute public servant who has committed such offences, when the court is called upon to take cognizance of the offence, a sanction ought to be available otherwise the court would have no jurisdiction to take cognizance of the offence.
The High Court has expressed the view that no sanction for prosecution of the appellant under Section 6 was necessary since he has retired from the serv ice on attaining the age of superannuation and was not a public servant on the date of filing the chargesheet.
Before us, counsel for the appellant advanced only two propositions.
Section 19 reads: "19.
290 other person, of the authority competent to remove him from his office '.
The application of the ejusdem generis rule is only to general word following words which are less general, or the general word following particular and specific words of the same nature.
Remove the keystone of sanc tion and the arch crumbles.
However, in view of the importance of the Constitu tional questions involved in the case the High Court granted certificate for appeal to this Court.
First of all whether a Judge of the Supreme Court or a Judge of a High Court is a public servant within the meaning of Section 2 of the Prevention of Corruption Act, 1947.
It is signifi cant to note that there is useful parallel found in Section 5(3) and clause (e) of Section 5(1).
To substantiate the charge, the prosecution must prove the follow ing facts before it can bring a case under section 5(1)(e), namely, (1)it must establish that the accused is a public servant, (2) the nature and extend of the pecuniary resources or property which were found in his possession, (3) it must be proved as to what were his known sources of income i.e. known to the, prosecution, and (4) it must prove quite objectively, that such resources or property found in possession of the accused 259 were disproportionate to his known sources of income.
In the case of the Comptroller and Auditor General and the Chief Election Commissioner, the situation would be more piquant.
The decision in S.P. Gupta was rendered much later and while dealing with the situations arising out of allegations of misbehaviour including corruption against High Court Judges, it was held that the only machinery with legal sanction in existence is that available under clauses (4) and (5) of Article 124 of the Constitution.
Article 67(b) of the Constitution provides that the Vice President may be removed from his office by a resolution of the Council of States passed by a majority of all the then members of the Council and agreed to by the House of People.
[(1)] Where in any trial of an of fence punishable under section 16 1 or section 165 of the Indian Penal Code (or of an offence referred to in clause (a) or clause (b) of sub section (1) of section 5 of this Act punisha ble under subsection (2) thereof), it is proved that an accused person has accepted or obtained, or has agreed to accept or attempted to obtain, for himself or for any other per son, any gratification (other than legal remuneration) or any valuable thing from any person, it shall be presumed unless the contrary is 233 proved that he accepted or obtained, or agreed to accept or attempted to obtain, that grati fication or that valuable thing, as the case may be, as a motive or reward such as is mentioned in the said section 161, or, as the case may be, without consideration or for a consideration which he knows to be inadequate.
The provisions of clauses (4) and (5) of Article 124 Shall apply in relation to a High Court as they apply in relation to the Supreme Court with the substitution of refer ences to the High Court for references to the Supreme Court." According to Article 124(4), a Judge can be removed from his office by an order of the President passed after an address by each House of Parliament supported by the pre scribed majority on the ground of proved misbehaviour or incapacity.
In S.P. Gupta & Ors.
There is thus a fundamental distinction between the master and servant relationship between the Government and the Judges of High Courts and the Supreme Court.
The Preamble of the Act indicates that the Act was intended to prevent more effec tively the bribery and corruption by public servants.
It has suggested that the presumption enunciated in sub section (1) and (2) of Section 4 of the Act should be made available also in respect of offences under 257 Section 5 and possession of disproportionate assets should be made a substantive offence." (Emphasis supplied) For immediate reference, clause (e) of Section 5(1) is reproduced hereunder: " 5(1)(e) if he or any person on his behalf is in possession or has, at any time during the period of his office, been in possession, for which the public servant cannot satisfactorily account, of pecuniary resources or property disproportionate to his known sources of income".
It appears that the framers of the Constitution, while dealing with such constitutional functionaries, contemplated merely their removal from office in the manner provided in Article 124(4) as the only punishment; and a special law enacted by the Parliament under Article 124(5), even for investigation and proof of any misbehaviour alleged against a superior Judge instead of the general law was clearly visualised when the alleged misbehaviour is connected with his office.
It has enumerated as many as twelve categories of public servants.
This additional mode is by proving the extent of the pecuniary resources or property in the possession of the accused or any other person on his behalf and thereafter showing that this is disproportionate to his known sources of income.
In our opinion, it is not necessary that the authority compe tent to give sanction for prosecution or the authority competent to remove the public servant should be vertically superior in the hierarchy in which the, office of the public servant exists.
In other words, if the holder of a public office during his tenure in office cannot be prosecuted without sanction under Section 6, then, as held in Antulay, no sanction for his prosecution after ceasing to hold the office may be necessary, but his prosecution is made because while in office he could be prosecuted With the previous sanction under Section 6.
The prescribed authority for giving prior sanction for such persons would be the Central Govern ment.
Explanation.
XXX XXX XXX 124.
Interpretation.
vs President of India and Ors.
It must receive comprehen sive meaning unless there is positive indication to the contrary.
I may also at this stage refer to the recommendations made by the Santhanam Committee which preceded the 1964 amendment in the Act.
It has to be acquired for which means are necessary.
That is not the end.
What was earlier a rule of evidence in Sub section (3) of Section 5 of the Act, was made a substantive offence of criminal misconduct by insert ing clause (e) in Sub section (1) of Section 5 by this amendment.
It is for this reason that the higher.
It is significant that clause (5) of Article 124 covers the field of 'investiga tion ' and 'proof ' of the 'misbehaviour ' of a Judge.
Where no such relation ship exists in the absence of any vertical hierarchy and the holder of the public office is a constitutional functionary not subject to power of superintendence of any superior, Section 6 can have no application by virtue of the scheme engrafted therein.
271 The appellant filed a petition under Section 482 Cr.
But that is not the same thing to state that there is no offence till the public servant is able to account for the excess of assets.
I agree with the conclusion of my learned brother Shetty, J.
The matter was heard by a full bench of the High Court which dismissed the application by order dated 27.4.
The Section goes further in clause (c) to cover the remaining categories of public servants.
" The relevant provisions of the Constitution of India are as under: 12 1.
Due emphasis must, therefore, be laid on prevention even while taking curative measures.
Clause (e) creates a statutory offence which must be proved by the prosecution.
But we do not think that the decision requires reconsideration.
