Every such room building and every such receptacle shall be marked with the word 'poison ' in red character both English and vernacular, with the name of the 'poison '.
Presumption as to specified poisons: Any substance specified as a poison in a rule made or notification issued under this Act shall be deemed to be a poison for the purpose of this Act.
(Under Article 32 of the Constitution of India).
(ii) All 'poisons ' mentioned in clause (x) of rule 2 shall be kept in a room or building (according to quantity maintained) which shall be secured by lock and key in a separate receptacle of glass, metal and earthenware etc.
The object of the enactment is to regulate the posses sion for sale and the sale, whether wholesale or retail of poisons and the importation of the same.
Section 5 of the Act the con stitutional validity of which is questioned reads as fol lows: "5.
" According to them, therefore, the substance manufactured by them would not come within the amended Rules.
Later when Delhi Poisons Rules, 1926 were made in exercise of the powers under the Act those list of substances were included in the list enumerated in Rule 2 thereof.
Every such box, almirah, room or building and every receptacle shall be marked with the word 'poison ' in red charac ters both English and vernacular and in the case of receptacles containing separate 'poison ' with the name of such 'poison '.
In other words, it is intended to control over the traffic in poisons.
Section 5 of the Act deals with presumption and states that any substance specified as a poison in a Rule or noti fication issued under the Act shall be deemed to be a 'po ison ' for purposes of the Act.
It states that the State Government may by rule regulate the posses sion of any specified poison in any local area in which the use of such poison for the purpose of committing murder or mischief by poisoning cattle appears to it to be of such frequent occurrence as to render restriction on the posses sion thereof desirable.
It is in exercise of this power Rule 13 was amended by substituting the old Rule by the following Rule: "13 (1) All poisons kept for sale by any licence holder under these rules (except those kept by a chemist, druggist or compounder for the purchase of dispensing or compounding in compliance with the prescription of medical or veterinary practitioner) shall be kept in a box, almirah, room or building (according to the quantity maintained), which shall be secured by lock and key and in which no sub stance shall be placed other than poisons, possessed in accordance with a licence granted under the Act, and each poison shall .be kept within such box, almirah, room or building in a separate closed receptacle of glass, metal or earthenware.
It is a busi ness which can be termed even as inherently dangerous to health and safety of society in view of the rampant misuse and sale to the poor, weak and helpless as an intoxicant.
It was further contended that the restriction imposed on possession for sale and sale were not reasonable restrictions.
The petitioner 's have also taken the plea that though the Act is a Central enactment it is possible of unjust and unjustified discriminatory appli cation as it is left to each State Government to determine what substance they would include as poison and regulated and the decision in one State to include the substance as poison is not automatically made applicable to the other States.
Rule 2 was amended as already stated including 'thinner ' of the description mentioned therein as poison.
The Act is intended to regulate the importation, possession and sale of poisons.
In this petition under Article 32 of the Constitution, the petitioners have questioned the con stitutional validity of Section 5 of the (12 of 1919) (hereinafter called 'the Act ').
