Section 15 after its amendment in 1960 provided that where the sale is of a share out of the joint land or property and is not by all the co sharers jointly, the right of pre emption was vested, first, in the sons or daughters or son 's son or daughter 's sons of the vendor or vendors; Secondly, in the brothers or brother 's sons of the vendor or vendors; Thirdly, in the father 's brother or father 's broth er 's sons of the vendor or vendors Fourthly, in the other co sharers and Fifthly n the tenants.
Under the Punjab Pre emption Act, 1905, the corresponding provision, section 12, con ferred a right of pre emption, in the case of a sale of a share of such land or properly held jointly, firstly, in the lineal discendents of the vendor in male line in order of succession; secondly, in the co sharers, if any, who are agnates, in order of succession; thirdly, in the persons described in sub clause (a) i.e. in persons who but for such sale would be entitled to inherit the properly in the event of his or their decease, in order of succession and fourth ly, in the co sharers jointly or severally.
Where the sale is of a land or proper ty owned jointly and is made by all the co sharers jointly, the right to pre empt survives to the tenants only.
In that case it was held that a right of pre emption by vicinage offended Article 19(1) (f) of the Constitution but a similar right conferred on co sharers was intra vires Article 19(1)(1) of the Constitution.
The expression 'other co sharers ' was used in the fourth clause of the said provision to ensure that no co sharer was left out or omitted and not to deny the right to kinstolk coshar ers covered by the preceding clauses.
We, therefore, do not approve the ratio of Jagdish 's case and overrule the same.
Once conferment of the right of pre emption in favour of co sharers was considered to be a reasonable restriction on the right to hold, acquire and dispose of property under Article 19(1) (f), the same re striction was held to be valid when tested on the touchstone of Articles 14 or 15 of the Constitution.
Persons in whom right of pre emption vests in respect of sales of agricultural land and village immovable property (1) The right of pre emption in respect of agricultural land and village immovable property shall vest (a) where the sale is by a sole onwer First, in the son or daughter or son 's son or daughter 's son of the vendor; Secondly, in the brother or brother 's son of the vendor; Thirdly, in the father 's brother or father 's brother 's son of the vendor; Fourthly, in the tenant who holds under tenan cy of the vendor the land or properly sold or a part thereof Co) where the sale is of a share out of joint land or property and is not made by all the co sharers jointly First, in the sons or daughters or son 's son or daughter 's sons of the vendor or vendors; Secondly, in the brothers or brother 's sons of the vendor or vendors; Thirdly, in the father 's brother or father 's brother 's sons of the vendor or vendors; Fourthly, in the other co sharers; Fifthly, in the tenants who hold under tenancy of the vendor or vendors the land or property sold or a part thereof; (c) where the sale is of land or property owned jointly and is made by all the co shar ers jointly 123 First, in the sons or daughters or sons ' sons or daughters ' sons of the vendors; Secondly in the brothers or brother 's sons of the vendors; Thirdly, in the father 's brothers or father 's brother 's sons of the vendors Fourthly, in the tenants, who hold under tenancy of the vendors or any one of them the land or properly sold or a part thereof.
V.P.R. Appeal allowed.
Since the petitioners admittedly fall either under clause 'First ' or under clause 'Secondly ' of Section 15(1)(b) of the Act they are clearly outside the scope of clause 'Fourthly '.
The right of pre emption to co sharers is held to be intra vires the Consti tution Therefore, it is difficult to hold that this Court intended to deny the right of pre emption of those kinsfolk even if they happened to be co sharers.
