(Vide also Corporation of The City of Toronto vs Attorney General for Canada) (1).
The corresponding sections are as follows: Headings Sections in Section in Travancore Act.
In Appeal No. 260/ 58 a further question arose whether in the case of 259 that assessee the year ending June 30, 1949, was the previous year for the assessment year 1950 51 with the result that it should be assessed under the Indian Income tax Act of 1922.
(2) of section 24 of the Indian Act: section 24 (2). . . . . . . . . " provided that (a) where the loss sustained is a loss of profits and gains of a business or vocation to which the first proviso to sub section (1) is applicable, and the profits and gains of that business, profession or vocation are, under the provisions of clause (c) of sub section (2) of section 14, exempt from tax, such loss shall not be set (1)[1946] A.C. 32, 37.
Appeals dismissed.
(2) , 258.
They could only be adjusted against profits arising in an Indian State or in the case of Travancore State in British India or another Indian State.
Where, as in the present case, the language of the main enactment is clear and unambiguous, a proviso can have no repercussion on the interpretation of the main enactment, so as to exclude from it by implication what clearly falls within its express terms ".
But this question was not answered by the High Court which confined itself to answering the first question which was common to both the appeals.
Rhondda Urban Council vs Taff Vale Railway (2).
The Privy Council in Arunachalam Chettiar vs Commissioner of Income tax(1) held that this section was meant for a set off of profits arising under different heads and not where profits and losses had to be adjusted if they arose under the same head.
In 1941 during the war an exemption was given for the purpose of taxability to any income, profits or gains which accrued or arose within what was then called Indian States but which were not received or brought into British India.
Under section 2(15) of the Act total income ' was defined to mean the total amount of income, profits and gains computed in the manner laid down in that Act.
Indian Act.
On an application of the assessee the following question was referred to the High Court of Travancore Cochin: " Whether on the facts and in the circumstances of the case the loss of Rs. 27,709 arising in Cochin State could be set off against the profit of Rs. 38,998 arising in Travancore State ? " and was answered in favour of the assessee.
Therefore to say that business in section 10 means business in British India or business the profits or gains of which are taxable in British India is to ignore the definitions and sections 3, 4 and 6.
In C. A. 260/58 the assessee is a private limited company with its registered office in the former Cochin State.
Corporation of the City of Toronto vs Attorney General for Canada (1).
By the addition of this section the loss under one head of profits or gains was allowed to be set off against income, profits and gains under any other bead in any assessment year.
that the intention of the Legislature was to restrict the set off of profits and losses arising in Indian States only to business or to modify the mode of computation under section 10 of the Indian Act.
Ordinarily it is foreign to the proper function of a proviso to read it as providing something by way of an addendum or dealing with a subject which is foreign to the main enactment.
It may be mentioned that in the majority of cases decided in India the proviso to section 24(1) of the Indian Act has been construed in a manner contrary to the submissions made on behalf of the Revenue.
