Section 9 whereof provides as under: "9 Subject to the other provisions of this Act, the general superintendence and control over all revenue courts and over all revenue officers shall be vested in, and all such Courts and Officers shall be subordinate to, the Board.
From the Judgment and Order dated 19.7.1979 of the Rajasthan High Court in D.B. Civil Writ Petition No. 769 of 1979.
Dissatisfied with the order of the Revenue Appellate Authority, Raghubir Singh filed a revision application under Section 230 of the Act of 1955 before the Board of Revenue for Rajasthan.
U. R. Appeal dismissed.
It is clear from the judgment under appeal that the Board had by its order dated 14th April, 1975 directed that the ceiling, area may be determined according to old law i.e. Act of 1955 and it spite of it the Sub Divisional Officer committed the grave illegality on not merely ignoring the law but also ignoring the directions of the Board of Revenue itself.
In the ultimate analysis the Member of the Board found that there was a gross and patent illegality in the order of the Sub Divisional Officer and, consequently, set aside the order of the Sub Divisional Officer dated 5th May, 1976 as well as the order of the Appellate Authority dated 6th September, 1976 and remanded the case to the Sub Divisional Officer, Hanumangarh, for fresh determination of the calling area for Raghubir Singh.
It was thus held that Raghubir Singh and his son Surendrapal Singh are entitled to retain 124 Bighas and 16 Biswas only and the surplus land measuring, 4 Bighas and 6 Biswas may be resumed.
Section 221 of the Act of 1955 is not subject to the other provisions of the Act.
" The contention of learned counsel for the appellant is that the section confers executive powers of superintendence and control on the Board and it does not vest any power of superintendence on the Board on judicial side.
There also there was similar provision like Section 9 of the Land Revenue Act and it was held that Section 12 of the said Ordinance must be held to give powers to the Board to revise judicial orders also passed by courts in appropriate cases.
The general superintendence and control over all revenue courts shall be vested in, an all such Courts shall be subordinate to the Board; and subject to such superintendence, control and subordination (a) x x x (omitted) (b) all Additional Collectors, Sub.
The Board went on to hold that there is no provision for separate units in Chapter III B of the Act of 1955.
In the Government of India Act of 1935, there was provision under Section 224 for superintendence by the High Courts ', but subsection(2) made it clear that this superintendence would not be construed as giving to the High Court any jurisdiction to question any judgment of any inferior court which was not otherwise subject to appeal or revision.
A similar question arose before the Rajasthan High Court in Kana and others vs
At the same time, the power is there, and it may be exercised sparingly in extraordinary case,, where interest of justice requires that the Board should exercise the power".
This is an appeal against the judgment of the Rajasthan High Court dated 19th July, 1979 passed in D.B. Civil Writ Petition No. 681 of 1978 (Raghubir Singh vs The Board of Revenue for Rajasthan and others) and D.B. Civil Writ Petition No. 769 of 1979 (Surendrapal Singh vs The Board of Revenue for Rajasthan and others).
