The first suit was dismissed on the technical ground that since the plaintiff was not in de facto possession no injunction could be granted and a suit for a mere declaration of status without seeking the consequential relief for possession could not lie.
Section 7 posits that if any question arises whether any person is a tenant or should be deemed to be a tenant under the Act, the Mamlatdar shall after holding an enquiry decide such question.
In that case he would be entitled to recover immediate possession of the land in the manner prescribed by or under the Act unless it is shown that his tenancy was terminated in the manner authorised by section 9.
It is, therefore, difficult to comprehend how the High Court came to the conclusion that the subject matter of the second suit was directly and substantially in issue in the previous suit.
The tenants claimed protection of section 12 in Part 11 of the Rent Act which deprived the landlord of the right of possession under certain circumstance 1029 The question which arose for consideration was whether the tenants were entitled to the protection of section 12 in pending cases and if yes, its effect.
He, therefore, sought possession of the demised property from the trespasser, defendant No.1.
But in the case of a deemed tenant who has been evicted from the land on or after 1st July, 1962 since a remedy has been provided under 1032 the Act, the Jurisdiction of the Civil Courts stands wholly barred by virtue of Section 58 (2) of the Act.
Section 85(1) laid down that no Civil Court shall have jurisdiction to settle, decide or deal with any question which is required to be settled, decided or dealt with by the Mamlatdar under the statute.
Rule 2 thereof requires that the plaintiff shall include the whole of his claim in the framing of the suit.
Hence the relief by itself is neither material nor relevant for the direct adjudication of the real issue.
Sub sections (7A) and (7B) which came to be incorporated by the Fifth Amendment read as under : "7A. 'Garden ' means land used primarily for growing 1025 coconut trees, arecanut trees, cashewnut trees or mango trees; 7B. 'garden produce ' means any produce from a garden.
1023 The next contention which found favour with the High Court was based on the language of Order 2 Rule 2(3) of the Code of Civil Procedure.
suit was not identical to the relief claimed in the previous suit.
In the subsequent suit the plaintiff contended that he had been forcibly dispossessed sometime in the second week of June, 1968 contrary to law even though his tenancy was subsisting and he had paid the first installment of rent for the year 1968.
Therefore, the cause of action for the former suit was based on an apprehension that the defendants were likely to forcibly dispossess the plaintiff.
It says that a tenant entitled to possession of any land under any of the provisions of the Act may apply in writing for such possession to the Mamlatdar.
Before we answer those questions we must decide on the impact of the Fifth Amendment on pending litigation.
In such a situation what procedure should the Civil Court follow ? Now take a case where the entire dispute falls within the exclusive jurisdiction of the special machinery under the Act and had the litigation commenced after the Fifth Amendment was brought into force it could not have been instituted in a Civil Court.
To preclude the plaintiff from so doing it is provided that if he omits any part of the claim or fails to claim a remedy available to him in respect of that cause of action he will thereafter be precluded from so doing in any subsequent litigation that he may commence if he has not obtained the prior permission of the court.
By virtue of section 7 any question whether a person is a tenant or a deemed tenant was required to be decided by the Mamlatdar and the jurisdiction of the Civil Court stood ousted by section 58(2) of the Act.
We are, therefore, of the opinion that the High Court was wrong in holding that the second suit was barred by res judicata.
That suit, however, came to be dismissed as the Trial Court came to the conclusion that the plaintiff was no more in possession of the property in respect of which he claimed to be a lessee.
His remedy would, therefore, to be entirely under the Act.
Section 58 bars the jurisdiction of courts.
If, on the other hand, the Mamlatdar rejects the plea raised under the Tenancy Act, the Civil Court would be entitled to deal with the dispute on the footing that the defendant is a trespasser.
Ever where a tenant apprehends that his possession is likely to be interfered with contrary to the provisions of the Act he can make an application in the prescribed manner to the Mamlatdar for safeguarding the, same.
R.P. Appeal allowed.
So also where a tenant is evicted illegally, section 8(2) permits him to approach the Mamlatdar for recovery of possession.
After that amendment came into force, the provisions of the Act became applicable to the lands in question which were primarily used for growing coconut trees and receiving produce therefrom.
As stated earlier, the first suit was dismissed on a technical ground that the suit for a mere declaration without seeking consequential relief of possession could not lie.
But the Rule does not preclude a second suit based on a distinct cause of action.
The question, therefore, is what is the effect of the Fifth Amendment on pending litigation? No provision is 1027 made in the Act in that behalf.
This question could not be gone into by the Civil Court in view of the clear language of section 7 read with section 58(2) of the Act.
As pointed out earlier, section 7 in terms states that if any question arises whether any person is a tenant or should be deemed to be a tenant under the Act, the Mamlatdar shall decide such question.
It is not the finding of the High Court that in the previous suit the question regarding the tenancy of the plaintiff was determined against the plaintiff.
& (7B) to suction 2 which rendered the Civil Court without jurisdiction.
The allegation in the former suit was that the plaintiff was a lessee and his 1024 possession was threatened and, therefore, he sought the court 's assistance to protect his possession by a prohibitory injunction.
On the dismissal of the said suit the original plaintiff filed another suit No. 114/74 on May 6, 1974 for restoration of possession on the ground that he was the lawful tenant of the said property and since he had not been dispossessed,in accordance with law the defen dants who were mere trespassers were liable to be evicted.
Section 11 of the Code of Civil Procedure provides that 'no court shall try any suit or issue in which the matter directly and substantially in issue in a former suit between the same parties, or between parties under whom they or any of them claim, litigating under the same title, in a court competent to try such subsequent suit or the suit in which such issue has been subsequently raised, and has been heard and finally decided by such court '.
The Judgment of Court was delivered by AHMADI, J. Special leave granted.
In that suit the issue regarding the status of the plaintiff as a lessee was not settled once for all and hence that issue could not be stated to be barred by res judicata in the subsequent suit brought by the lessee for possession the demised property.
Section 9 lays down the modes of termination of tenancy which are (a) by the tenant surrendering his right to the landlord in the manner provided in section 10; or (b) by the landlord terminating the tenancy on the grounds specified in section 11; or (c) under any other specific provision of the Act.
