Agent for respondent No. 2: Ganpat Rai.
It is the landlord 's consent to the transfer of a lease by sub lease or otherwise on receipt of consideration that has been made an offence.
The words are "the relinquishment of his tenancy of any premises".
In fact, a surrender or relinquishment terminates the lessee 's rights and lets in the lessor.
The sum of Rs. 29 500 was not pugree but represented capital for 0 12 0 share in the business and as the com plainant was also to be a caretaker of the flat, the sum of Rs. 2,000 was paid and received as a guarantee against disposal and damage of the furniture and it was agreed to be paid back on the appellant 's return to India.
Appeal from an Order of the High Court of Bombay (Bavdekar and Chainani JJ.) dated 20th February, 1950, in Criminal Appeal No. 106 of 1950 arising out of an order dated 9th January, 1950, of the Presidency Magistrate, 19th Court, Esplanade, Bombay, in Case No. 10879/P of 1949.
From the complainant were recovered the bunch of keys and the documents that were handed over to him by the appellant, namely, the letter handing vacant possession (Exhibit D).
His wife, who was the second accused in the case, was charged with aiding and abetting her husband in the commission of the two offences.
The section which consists of two parts is in these terms:" "(1) It shall not be lawful for the tenant or any person acting or purporting to act on behalf of the tenant to claim or receive any sum or any consideration as a condi tion for the relinquishment of his tenancy of any premises; 422 (2) Any tenant or person who in contravention of the provisions of sub section (1) receives any sum or considera tion shall, on conviction, be punished with imprisonment for a term which may extend to 6 months and shall also be pun ished with fine which shall not be less than the sum or the value of the consideration received by him.
If, by the expression, an assignment such as we have in the present case was meant, appropriate words could have been used, such as the transfer by a tenant of his interest, which we find in section 108, sub clause (i), of the Trans fer of Property Act.
