The appellant promptly filed writ petition No. 1 of 1956 praying for the issue of a writ of mandamus directing the State of Andhra Pradesh to forbear from terminating his leasehold right in the slate quarries.
Then we have the express provision of the second proviso, namely, that rights created before the notified date but after July 1, 1945, for a period exceeding one year would not be enforceable against the Government.
It will be noticed that rule only indicates the authority who is to decide whether the right falling under the second proviso should be terminated or allowed to continue.
These three appeals are directed against the judgment and order pronounced by a Bench of the Andhra Pradesh High Court on November 20, 1957, whereby three writ petitions, namely, No. 1 of 1956, No. 19 of 1957 and No. 470 of 1957, which had been filed by the appellant and were heard together, were dismissed with costs.
The Rajah on the same day granted a lease for twenty years to the appellant.
(2) of section 20 of the Abolition Act.
It was somewhat faintly argued by learned counsel for the appellant that the Government should have 563 allowed the appellant 's application for the renewal of his lease under r. 47 of the Mineral Concession Rules of 1949.
According to the argument the third proviso is not an independent proviso but is a sort of proviso to the second proviso.
It 'does not purport to lay down the manner in which such termination is to be brought about.
" The argument of the petitioners is that the words " such rights " in the third proviso have reference to the rights created after the 1st July, 1945, mentioned in the previous proviso and on that construction, the lease in favour of the petitioners could be terminated only in accordance with that proviso by giving three months ' notice.
The scheme of section 20 of the Abolition Act is said to be to provide, firstly that rights created by way of lease or otherwise by the landholder prior to the notified date should be deemed to be valid and all rights and obligations arising thereunder on or after the notified date should be enforceable by or against the Government.
In other words, this rule does not do anything more than add some terms to the lease.
Those provisions proceed on the assumption that certain laws passed under the Government of India Act, 1935, did offend section 299 of that Act and expressly save those Acts.
There is no warrant for saying that the avoidance must be under the terms of the third proviso.
