ramalakshmi had married the plaintiff and had a number of children from him.
they were all alive in december 1924 when lakshminarayana died.
by this will he gave the following directions after my lifetime you the aforesaid ranganayaki amminal my wife shall till your lifetime enjoy the aforesaid entire properties the outstandings due to me the debts payable by me and the chit amounts payable by me.
as regards the payment of maintenance to be made to chinnanmal alias lakshmi ammal wife of my late son hariharamayyan my wife ranganayaki ammal shall pay the same as she pleases and obtain a release deed.
ranganayaki entered into possession of the properties on the death of her husband.
on 21st february 1928 she settled the maintenance claim of lakshmi ammal and obtained a deed of release from her by paying her a sum of rs 3350 in cash and by executing in her favour an agreement stipulating to pay her a sum of rs 240 per annum.
ramalakshmi died on 25th april 1938 during the lifetime of the widow.
on the 24th july 1945 the widow describing herself as an absolute owner of the properties of her husband sold one of the items of the property to the 2nd defendant for rs 500.
on the 19th september 1945 an ad interim injunction was issued by the high court restraining the widow from alienating the properties in her possession and forming part of her husband s estate inspite of this injunction on the 27th september 1945 she executed two deeds of settlement in favour of the other defendants comprising a number of properties.
it was averred in the plaint that ramalakshmi obtained a vested interest in the suit properties under the will of her father and plaintiff was thus entitled to maintain the suit.
the defendants pleaded that the plaintiff had no title to maintain the suit that the widow was entitled under the will to an absolute estate or at least to an estate analogous to and not less than a widow s estate that the estate given to ramalakshmi under the will was but a contingent one and she having predeceased the widow no interest in the suit properties devolved on the plaintiff.
the subordinate judge held that the widow took under the will a limited life interest and not an absolute estate or even a widow s estate under hindu law and that the daughter got there under a vested interest in the properties to which the plaintiff succeeded on her death.
in view of this finding he granted the plaintiff a declaratory decree to the effect that the first defendant had only an estate for life in the suit properties and that the alienations made by her would not endure beyond her lifetime.
the question as to the validity of the alienations was left undetermined.
leave to appeal to the supreme court was granted and the appeal was admitted on the 27th november 1951.
the substantial question to decide in the appeal is whether the estate granted by the testator to his widow was a fall woman s estate under hindu law or merely a limited life estate in the english sense of that expression.
it was not contested before us that a hindu can by will create a life estate or successive life estates or any other estate for a limited term provided the donee or the persons taking under it are capable of taking under a deed or will.
the decision of the appeal thus turns upon the question whether the testator s intention was to give to his widow ail ordinary life estate or an estate analogous to that of a hindu widow.
the court s primary duty in such cases is to ascertain from the language employed by the testator what were his intentions keeping in view the surrounding circumstances his ordinary notions as a hindu in respect to devolution of his property his family relationships etc.
in other words to ascertain his wishes by putting itself so to say in his armchair.
considering the will in the light of these principles it seems to us that lakshminarayan iyer intended by his will to direct that his entire properties should be enjoyed by his widow during her lifetime but her interest in these properties should come to an end on her death that all these properties in their entirety should thereafter be enjoyed as absolute owners by his daughter and her heirs with powers of alienation gift exchange and sale from generation to generation.
he wished to make his daughter a fresh stock of descent so that her issue male or female may have the benefit of his property.
the direction to her was that she should enjoy the entire properties including the outstandings etc.
if the testator had before his mind s eye his daughter and her heirs as the ultimate beneficiaries of his bounty that intention could only be achieved by giving to the widow a limited estate because by conferring a full hindu widow s estate on her the daughter will only have a mere spes successions under the hindu law which may or may not mature and under the will her interest would only be a contingent one in what was left indisposed of by the widow.
it is significant that the testator did not say in the will that the daughter will enjoy only the properties left indisposed of by the widow.
the extent of the grant so far as the properties mentioned in the schedule are concerned to the daughter and the widow is the same.
they could not enjoy the same properties in the manner directed if the widow had a full hindu widow s estate and had the power for any purpose to dispose of them and did so.
in this situation the inference that the testator must have of necessity intended to confer on the widow power of alienation for those limited purposes can not be raised.
in our opinion even if that suggestion is accepted that for the limited purposes mentioned in the will the widow could alienate this power would fall far short of the powers that a hindu widow enjoys under hindu law.
under that law she has the power to alienate the estate for the benefit of the soul of the husband for pilgrimage and for the benefit of the estate and for other authorized purposes.
it can not be said that a hindu widow can only alienate her husband s estate for payment of debts to meet maintenance charges and for her own maintenance.
we therefore hold that the estate conferred on ranganayaki ammal was more like the limited estate in the english sense of the term than like a full hindu widow s estate in spite of the directions above mentioned.
but she had no power to deal with the corpus of the estate.
though the daughter was not entitled to immediate possession of the property it was indicated with certainty that she should get the entire estate at the proper time.
she was given a present right of future enjoyment in the property.
l j 199.
the restraint against alienation was repugnant to both a life estate and a widow estate and was not therefore taken into account.
but there were other indications in that will showing that a widow s estate had been given.
the fact that the gift over was a contingent bequest was by itself taken as a sure indication that the preceding bequest was that of a widow s estate.
there is no such indication in the will before us.
reliance was next placed on the decision in pavani subbamma v ammala rama naidu 1937.
under the will there dealt with the widow s was to enjoy the properties and after her lifetime the properties were to be taken in the ratio of three to five by the son s daughter and the daughter s son respectively.
a suit was instituted by the son s daughter for the recovery of possession of her share in one item of property forming part of the estate which had been sold by section the question for decision in that case was whether section was at all entitled to sell anything more than her life interest even for purposes of meeting a necessity binding upon the estate.
such casual observation made in respect of a will couched in entirely different terms can not afford much assistance in the decision of the case.
in vasantharao ammannamma v venkata kodanda rao pantalu 1939.
indlaw mad 621 1940.
these remarks do not throw much light on the point before us.
the last decision referred to was the decision of the privy council in mahomed shumsool v shewukram 1874 indlaw pc 12 1874 75 2 i a 7 there a hindu inhabitant of bihar by a document of a testamentary character declared his daughter who had two daughters as his heir and after her two daughters together with their children were declared heirs and malik.
the question in every case can not be determined merely on the theory that every hindu thinks only about a hindu widow s estate and no more.
this decision only decides that case and is not very relevant in this enquiry.
bhagwati devi v chowdry bholonath thakur 1874 75 2 i a 256.
the gift to mst.
their lordships see no sufficient reason for importing into this document words which would carry with them all these consequences and they agree with the subordinate judge in construing it according to its plain meaning.
reference was also made to a decision of the bombay high court in lallu v jagmohan 1898 i l r 22 bom.
when i die my wife named suraj is owner of that property.
and my wife has powers to do in the same way as i have absolute powers to do when i am present and in case of my wife s death my daughter mahalaxmi is owner of the said property after that.
mr krisbnaswami lyengar on the other hand contended that the absence of any words in the will restricting her powers of alienation and putting a restraint on them suggested a contrary intention and that the daughter s estate was described as coming into being after the estate of the widow and was not conferred on her simultaneously with the widow and this connoted according to the notions of hindus a full hindu widow s estate.
appeal dismissed.
