the respondent No i alone was convicted of the other two offences.
p c for the enhancement of the sentences passed on the respondents.
the state of andhra pradesh has come up before this court in appeal by obtaining special leave under article 136 of the constitution.
we shall refer to this company throughout as the aeco.
it obtained licences from the government under the electricity act for supply of electrical energy to visakhapatnam anakapalli and some other places.
the aeco was appointed managing agent for each of these corporations under separate agreements.
rajahmurthy were started apparently by raju himself and the aeco was appointed the managing agent of each of these concerns.
the original managing agency agreement in favour of aeco with respect to vesco was for a period of 15 years i e from 1933 to 1948 and was later renewed for the remaining term of the currency of the licence granted by the government under the electricity act.
a mention may be made of the fact that in june 1952 the vesco undertaking was acquired by the government under the provisions of the electricity undertaking acquisition act but nothing turns on it.
in 1944 this person resigned from his appointments and started his own business in radio and electrical goods in the name of d brothers.
the respondent No 1.
all this is not disputed.
the respondent No 1 even after his appointment on two posts connected with vesco continued to work with the aeco also whose business had by then been confined only to that of managing agents of the four companies floated by d l n raju.
his dual capacity enabled the respondent No i to earn the confidence not only of the directors of aeco but also of those of vesco.
the explanations of the managing agents and the directors of vesco with respect to the items mentioned in the orders of the board used also to be placed by him before the shareholders.
it was also his duty to have the accounts of vesco audited by the auditors elected by the general body and to produce before the auditors the relevant accounts vouchers bank statements and so on.
there were no complaints about the management of the affairs of vesco or the aeco till the end of 1946 or the beginning of 1947.
one significant fact however which occurred prior to 1946 is referred to by the prosecution.
of which the respondent No i was a director.
according to the prosecution the respondent No i wanted to take advantage of this fact and conceived of a scheme for misappropriating as much money belonging to vesco as possible before the managing agency agreement of aeco came to an end in october 1948.
similarly k v gopala raju was transferred from the post of stores clerk to the general department and k s n murty the discharged accused was appointed stores clerk in his place.
srinivasa rao originally a stores boy.
the conspiracy is said to have been hatched in the year 1947 and falsification of accounts and misappropriation of funds of vesco went on till the end of the accounting year.
eventually their choice fell on g v subba raju p w 25 a resident of manchili who held a large number of shares in the aeco and who was besides related to r k n g raju by marriage.
it is said that this person has not received much education and knows only bow to sign his name in english.
on the basis of the entries in the handover book the final accounts were written up.
i opened four personal accounts in different banks including the imperial bank of india.
these amounts also used to be noted in the private note book and entered.
a lakh of rupees passed through that account.
subba raju was not satisfied with the nature of supervision exercised by c section raju over the affairs of vesco because he used to look only at the cash book entries of the days on which he paid visits to vesco s office to which he used to go with previous intimation.
subbaramayya took his work seriously and called for information on a number of points from the respondent No 1.
he however was unable to obtain any information.
in january 1952 he therefore brought one section g krishna aiyar who had vast experience in the maintenance of accounts of electrical undertaking s having been chief accountant of the south madras electric supply corporation to undertake an investigation and then to act as financial adviser.
in the meantime on november 29 1951 there was a meeting of the general body at which the accounts were among other things to be considered.
the shareholders felt that the report had been received but was being suppressed or deliberately withheld.
on that date the respondent No 1 produced the auditor s report.
according to the prosecution the report is a forged document.
section g krishna aiyar after his appointment in january 1952 made close enquiry and submitted an interim report.
the respondent No 1 on being asked to explain said that he would give his explanation to the managing director.
the directors of vesco thereafter authorised k section dutt one of the directors to lodge a complaint with the police which he accordingly lodged on may 19 1952.
on the next day the police placed an armed guard around the office of the respondent No i and seized a number of papers.
as a result of investigation they found that there was a total misappropriation of rs 3 40 000.
od september 13 1954 ramana offered to make a full confession to the additional district magistrate independent who was empowered to grant pardon under section 337 of i he code of criminal procedure.
as already stated the additional sessions judge convicted both the respondents the respondent No i in respect of each head of the offences with which he was charged and the respondent No 2 in respect only of the offences of conspiracy and misappropriation.
next according to the high court even if section 239 is applicable its provisions are subject to those of section 234 and as such the trial being for more than three offences was impermissible.
section 409 and section 471467 are of different kinds and are not capable of joint commission.
further according to the high court where a conspiracy has yielded its fruits the conspirators can be charged with the actual offences committed and not with conspiracy to commit those offences.
the high court has also held that his evidence is unreliable and further that the additional sessions judge was in error in allowing him to refresh his memory by referring to various documents in a manner not permitted by section 159 of the evidence act.
the high court has further stated that inadmissible evidence was taken on record by the additional sessions judge namely account books of billimoria brothers maintained in gujrati and further that the additional sessions judge was in error in allowing the prosecution to use those account books for establishing absence of entries with regard to certain payments alleged in the vesco books to have been made to them.
mr bhimasankaram appearing for the two respondents however has not sought to support the judgment of the high court on all these points.
the points which he urged are briefly these 1 that there was a misjoinder of charges and persons in that the various provisions of section 239 were clubbed together and an omnibus charge of conspiracy was framed which on its face was one likely to embarrass the respondents and make their task of defending themselves difficult.
the procedure adopted in the investiga tion and committal stages was irregular.
4 that the court abused its powers under s 342 cr.
p c while conducting the examination of the respondents.
if the evidence of the approver is left out the remaining evidence would be inadequate to sustain the prosecution case.
we shall deal with mr bhimasankaram s contentions in the order in which we have set them out.
the first question for consideration is whether there was a misjoinder of parties and of persons.
it is thus apparent that offences committed within a space of 12 months were tried along with offences committed beyond that period.
ramana forged six documents on different dates between march 28 1949 and november 12 1951 and thus committed an offence under section 471 read with section 467 i p c as we have pointed out earlier the respondent No i alone was convicted by the additional sessions judge in respect of the third and fourth charges.
each clause is an exception to the general rule enacted in section 233 cr.
then we come to the other sub head of this chapter.
thus this is a special provision available in case of doubt and is neither subject to the limitations prescribed by section 233 nor those of the other preceding provisions.
now if the respondent No 1 were alone tried upon the second third and the fourth charges the provisions of section 2351 could have been pressed in aid if the allegations were that the offences were so connected together as to form one and the same transaction and the validity of the trial would not have been open to any attack.
let us therefore examine closely the provisions of section 239.
if the intention of the legislature was that the provisions of these clauses should be available only alternatively it would have used the word or and not and which has the opposite effect.
obviously section 233 does not override the provisions of section 239.
section 234 can not also be regarded as an overriding provision because reading it that way will lead to the clear result that whereas several accused persons can be charged at the same trial with any number of different offences committed by them in the course of the same transaction they can not be tried also for offences of the same kind exceeding three in number and committed beyond a space of 12 months from the first to the last.
unless we read section 2341 as not enacting a fetter on section 2351 it may not be possible to give full effect to the latter.
therefore even if the expression same transaction alone had been used in section 2351 it would have meant a transaction consisting either of a single act or of a series of connec ted acts.
the expression same transaction occurring in cls.
a c and d of section 239 as well as that occurring in section 2351 ought to be given the same meaning according to the normal rule of construction of statutes.
looking at the matter in that way it is pointless to inquire further whether the provisions of section 239 are subject to those of section 2361.
but it would be open to the court to resort to those provisions even in the case of a joint trial of several persons permissible under section 239 s 236.
is also an enabling provision to be availed of in case of doubt and it is meaningless to say that section 239 is subject to section 236.
bearing in mind the fact that the provisions in the former part of chapter xix are applicable to charges made with the aid of section 239 only so far as may be it would not be right to construe section 239 as being subject to the provisions of sections 233 to 236.
thus while it is clear that the sections preceding section 239 have no overriding effect on that section the courts are not to ignore them but apply such of them as can be applied without detracting from the provisions of s 239.
apart from this the question whether the provisions of sections 233 to 236 have or have no overriding effect on section 239.
is not strictly germane to the question considered by the high court that is clubbing together all the provisions of the various clauses of section 239.
we have already indicated how those clauses may be grammatically read.
this would lead to unnecessary multiplicity of trials involving avoidable inconvenience to the witnesses and avoidable expenditure of public time and money.
no corresponding advantage can be gained by the accused persons by following the procedure of separate trials.
we entirely agree with the high court that joint trial should be founded on some principle.
in other words as the high court puts it persons included in two or more of the groups can not all be tried together and that since there is absolutely nothing to connect one group with any other the persons of one group can not be tried with those of any other.
no reason has been stated in support of this view.
let us consider whether there is anything intrinsically incompatible in combining two clauses of section 239.
now if persons a b and c are tried for an offence of murder what intrinsic difficulty would there be in trying x y and z of abetment of the same offence.
let us consider these clauses along with another illustration.
each of them has committed two offences and each of them participated in the same offence.
now supposing in the illustration given a killed the man and b killed his wife.
c they could be tried together because the offences are of the same kind.
a and c can not be combined.
some of the members of the unlawful assembly carried axes with them while some others carried lathis and attacked the other group.
a of section 239.
a and d of section 239.
all these persons can be jointly tried for offences under section 147 by recourse to cl.
a so also a b and c could be jointly tried together for an offences under section 302.
the same offence committed by all of them is that under section 147 and all of them can be tried jointly in respect of that offence under cl.
a is unavailable they could not be tried for the offence under section 147 at the same trial.
it is difficult to appreciate what purpose would be served by separating the trial for the same offence from the trial for different offences.
to repeat the object of the legislature in enacting section 239 cr.
the reasons given by the allahabad high court therefore do not merit acceptance.
what was held there was that sections 235 1 and section 236 are mutually exclusive and if a case is covered by one of them it can not be covered by the other.
the high court however held that to be a kind of case which fell under section 2351 of the code and that since that was so the provisions of section 236 were excluded.
being exceptions to section 233 must be strictly construed and that if joinder of charges did not fall under any of them it would be illegal and contrary to law.
on the other band there is the decision of this court in the state of andhra pradesh v kandinmlla subbaiah which is to the effect that where several persons had committed offences in the course of the same transactions they could jointly be tried in respect of all those offences under section 239 of the code of criminal procedure and the limitation placed by section 234 of the code could not come into operation.
there nine persons were jointly tried for an offence under section 5 1 c and d of the prevention of corruption act 1947 and section 109 i p c read with s 420 section 466 and section 467 i p c and all except one for offences under sections 420 467471 i p c some of them were also charged with separate offences under some of these provisions.
the high court allowed the revision application.
therefore where the alleged offences have been committed in the course of the same transaction the limitation placed by section 234 1 can not operate.
to this kind of charges.
239 would apply.
in that case this court upheld the order of the high court of madras in quashing the charges in the exercise of its inherent powers even before the conclusion of the trial.
it is true that there the charges were 67 in number and spread over a long period of time.
in willie william slaney v the state of madhya pradesh all the learned judges were in agreement on the point that this section and section 535 cover every case in which there is departure from the rules set out in ch.
xix ranging from error omissions and irregularities in charges that are framed down to charges that might have been framed and were not and include a total omission to frame a charge at all at any stage of the trial.
this decision completely meets the argument based upon dawson s case.
a similar view was expressed by the same high court in the case which was reversed by this court in the state of andhra pradesh v kandinalla subbaiah 1962 2 scr 194 and it was held that conspiracy to commit an offence being itself an offence a person can be separately charged with respect to such a conspiracy.
this decision is sufficient to dispose of the point under consideration.
in swamirathnam s case 1 which is a decision of this court certain persons were tried for the offence of the conspiracy to cheat the members of the public and for specific offences of cheating in pursuance of that conspiracy.
negativing the contention.
this decision has been followed in natwarlal sakarlal.
a No iii of 1959 decided on january 19 1961.
but the ultimate decision of the case would negative such argument.
mr bhimasankaram then relying upon the decision in r v dawson 1960 2 w l r 435 contended that in any event it was not desirable to try the respondents at the same trial for as many as 83 offences and pointed out that these observations had received the approval of this court in the state of andhra pradesh v kandimalla subbaiah 1962 2 b c r 194.
criminal conspiracy as defined in section 120 a and consists of an agreement to do an illegal act or an agreement to do an act which is not illegal by illegal means.
but what the amendment did was to make that conspiracy itself punishable.
but it does not follow that where crimes have been committed the liability to punishment already incurred under section 120 b by having entered into a criminal conspiracy is thereby wiped away.
be said to vitiate the charge.
in support of his first contention he referred to questions nos 4 8 9 10 and 20 put to the respondent No i and question No 12 put to the respondent No 2 and tried to show that those questions rolled up a large number of separate questions and that it could not have been possible for the respondents to give any rational answers to those questions.
in fact written statements have been filed by each of them in which every point left over has been fully answered.
No 20 put to respondent.
it is true that by introducing this provision the disability placed on an accused person in respect of giving evidence on oath in his own defence has been removed and to that extent such person is placed on par with an accused person under the english law.
they also show payment case was that the payments which were entered in the account of vesco do not find a place in the account books of the corresponding firms or authorities because they were never made by vesco.
the high court has pointed out that the main evidence on which the prosecution rests its case that the amount represented by the entries against these various firms were in.
fact misappropriated by the respondents in the circumstance that there are no corresponding entries in the account books of those firms.
the argument before the high court was and before us is that the absence of an entry can not of electricity duty to government.
the prosecution be established by reference to section 34 of the indian evidence act which reads thus.
similarly in ram prashad singh v lakhpati koer 1902 i l r 30.
that however is not the only provision to be considered.
absence of entries in their account books would be inconsistent with the receipt of the accounts and would thus be a relevant fact which can be proved under section 11.
both the sets of facts are relevant that is non receipt of the amounts by the firms and non existence of entries in their account books pertaining to those amounts.
the best evidence to prove the latter set of facts consists of the account books of the firms themselves.
it is under these provisions that the account books of the firms must be held to be relevant.
what value to attach to them is another matter and would be for the court of fact to consider.
the high court was clearly wrong in so holding.
in coming to this conclusion it has relied upon the provisions of section 356 2a of the code of criminal procedure.
in the circumstances we wish to say nothing further on the point.
we may however point out that billimoria himself gave his evidence in english.
in our opinion where a witness has to depose to a large number of transactions and those transactions referred to are or mentioned either in the account books or in other documents there is nothing wrong in allowing the witness to refer to the account books and the documents while answering the questions put to him in his examination.
that is precisely what happened in this case and we do not think that the additional sessions judge adopted a procedure which was either a violation of law or was an abuse of the power of the court.
the next point is a formidable one.
according to mr bhimasankaram the pardon tendered to the approver was illegal and if the pardon is illegal his evidence is wholly inadmissible.
the pardon is stated to be illegal for two reasons.
the first reason is that none of the offences alleged to have been committed falls within section 337 of the code of criminal procedure and the second reason is that the pardon was granted by an authority not empowered to grant it.
p c was transportation for life or imprisonment of either description for ten years and fine.
he contends that since the offence is punishable with transportation for life section 337 1 could not be availed of for granting pardon to the approver.
it seems to us that it would not be correct to read section 337 1 in the way sought by learned counsel.
he suggests that this provision can also be reasonably interpreted to mean that where the offences are punishable with imprisonment exceeding 10 years pardon may be granted to the approver.
for the pardon granted in this case can be regarded as being within the ambit of section 337 1 for another reason.
it will be noticed that transportation for life was not the only punishment provided for an offence under section 409 of the indian penal code even before the amendment made to the indian penal code by section 117 of the act 26 of 1955 the other alternative being imprisonment up to 10 years.
this section does not expressly say that the only punishment provided for the offence should be imprisonment not exceeding 10 years.
the reason why two alternative maximum sentences are given in col 7 that is transportation for life now imprisonment for life and imprisonment not exceeding 10 years appears to be that the offence is not exclusively triable by a court of session and could also be tried by a magistrate who except when empowered under section 30 would be incompetent to try offences punishable with transportation for life now imprisonment for life and the further reason that it should be open to the court of session instead of awarding the sentence of transportation for life to a convicted person to award him imprisonment in a jail in india itself for a period not execeeding 10 years.
that is why they read rather queer but even so they serve the purpose of allowing certain offences triable by a court of session to be triable also by magistrates of the first class.
as regards the offence under section 477 a it is one of those sections which are specifically enumerated in section 337 1 and the argument advanced before us and which we have rejected would not even be available with regard to the pardon in respect of that offence.
it is true that the respondent No i alone was convicted by the additional sessions judge of this offence and the offence under section 467 read with section 471 but the validity of a pardon is to be determined with reference to the offence alleged against the approver alone and not with reference to the offence or offences for which his associates were ultimately convicted.
coming to the next ground of attack on the validity of pardon the argument of mr bhimasankaram is that whereas section 337 1 speaks of pardon being granted by a district magistrate or presidency magistrate a sub divisional magistrate or any magistrate of first class except in cases where an enquiry or trial was pending before another magis tratc the pardon here was granted by the additional district magistrate in a case where an enquiry was pending before the district magistrate and is therefore illegal and of no avail.
iii to the code a magistrate first class has the power to grant pardon under section 337 but it is limited by the proviso thereto to certain classes of cases.
a case under enquiry or trial before another magistrate does not fall in any of these classes.
the magistrate before whom the enquiry or trial is proceeding or the district magistrate would be the only authorities competent to grant a pardon in such a case.
alternatively the state government has not made any directions under sub s 2 of section 10 specifying the powers of the district magistrate which would lie exercisable by the additional district magistrate concerned.
in order to appreciate and consider the argument it is desirable to bear in mind the changes in the magisterial set up in the former province of madras which comprised within it the district of visakhapatnam.
the category of judicial magistrates was constituted of the following 1 district magistrate 2 sub divisional magistrates 3 additional first class magistrates and 4 second class magistrates sub magistrates.
consequent on the separation.
he became only an additional district magistrate.
part iv of the government order deals with the allocation of powers between the judicial and executive magistrates.
para 193 occurring in this part deals with allocation of powers under the provisions of the code otherwise than these referred to in the earlier paragraphs.
his point is that the proviso to section 3371 confers the power on the district magistrate to grant pardon in a case pending before another magistrate and not on a district magistrate and therefore his power to grant pardon in such cases can not be conferred under sub s 2 of section 10 on an additional district magistrate.
according to him under that section only the powers of a district magistrate meaning thereby only the powers under entry 7 a in part v of sch.
in our opinion there is no subtance in the contention.
iii when it refers to the power of a district magistrate under section 337 1 does not exclude the power under the proviso.
in re the appellant i l r 1957 mad 715 and the cases referred to therein in particular the decision in winson v queen 1866 l r i q b what has been held in all these cases is that where the trial of a person who was charged with having committed an offence or offences jointly with several persons is separated from the trial of those persons he would be a competent witness against them though of course there will always be the question as to what weight should be attached to his evidence.
now as regards the reliability of the approver.
the section itself shows that the motivating factor for an approver to turn what in england is called king s evidence is the hope of pardon and not any noble sentiment like contrition at the evil in which he has participated.
we however find that certain documents upon which mr chari wants to rely are not included in the paper book.
the better course would be for us to set aside the acquittal of the respondents and send back the appeal to the high court or being decided on merits.
what it must now do is to consider the entire evidence and decide for itself whether it is sufficient to bring home all or any of the offences to the respondents.
but it should remove from its mind the misconception that the additional sessions judge has not believed him.
there is another thing which we would like to make clear.
the decision in sarwan singh v the state of punjab 1957 b c r 953 on which reliance has been placed by the high court has been explained by this court in the case of maj e g barsay v the state of bombay.
this court has pointed out in the latter decision that while it must be shown that the approver is a witness of truth the evidence adduced in a case can not be considered in compartments and that even for judging the credibility of the approver the evidence led to corroborate him in material particulars would be relevant for consideration.
the high court should bear this in mind for deciding whether the evidence of the approver should be acted upon or not.
it would be necessary for it to consider for itself the evidence adduced by the prosecution on the specific charges and then to conclude whether those charges have been established or not.
appeal allowed.
