three civil appeals stemming from three revision petitions to the high court of orissa under the orissa estates abolition act 1951 orissa act i of 1952 for short the act have reached this court thanks to special leave granted to the appellant who is common in all the cases.
this estate vested in the state on april 1 1960 by force of the act and the crucial question agitated before us consequentially turns on the quantum of compensation awardable under chapter v of the act.
he has argued in person and with passion.
while his arguments did not impress us we were touched by his concluding words that he had been born and had grown in an adivasi village in the only brahmin family and in his evening years of life proposed to give a substantial part of the compensation the state would give him for adivasi welfare.
with these prefatory observations we proceed to formulate the many points urged and give our findings and reasons one after the other.
section 26 has great relevance as it lays down the method of arriving at the gross asset and section 27 has like significance as it focuses on the manner in which the net income from an estate shall be computed by deducting certain items from the gross asset of the estate.
there are a few other s s in chapter vi which deal with payment of compensation.
the rule making power is vested in the government under section 47 and there is a routine removal of difficulties clause contained in section 50.
for convenience of reference we may extract the statement by the high court of the contentions urged before it and repeated before us by the appellant.
it is this court which by its order dated 10 4 1969 in civil revisions 201 202 and 203 of 1968 conferred new jurisdiction on the compensation officer to deal freshly with the case and therefore notwithstanding anything contained in the act the compensation has to be calculated according to the directions given by the court 2 the court was fully aware of the statutory provision in section 262.
but as the court directed that no further evidence on behalf of the state should be received ext.
a1 is inadmissible in evidence.
3 assuming that in spite of the directions of the court the compensation offi cer is entitled to follow the procedure laid down in section 262bv the expression subject to the approval of the chief conservator of forests does not refer to the appraisement made by the d f o but refers to his appointment.
4 assuming that section 262 b v would have full force what it contemplates is that the appraisement must be made by the d f o and it is subject to the approval by the chief conservator of forests.
where the actual income is to be included in the gross assets in the case of forests the assumed income and not the actual income is to be included.
the slab system of calculation of compensation in the act providing smaller multiples for estates yielding larger income is unconstitutional.
point No 8 has only to be stated to be rejected.
law is sometimes blind.
this provision directly demolishes the contention of the appellant.
point No 6 in the list of contentions earlier reproduced is also bereft of force and we may make short shrift of it.
the contention is that therefore in arriving at the next income the deduction of income tax is not permissible.
here again the flaw in the submission consists in mis reading section 27 of the act which expressly states that the net income from an estate shall be computed by deducting from the gross assets of such estate any sum which was payable by the intermediary as income tax in respect of any income derived from such estate for the previous agricultural year.
no income therefore no income tax and therefore no deduction is the syllogism of shri purohit.
similarly an assumed income tax also has to be worked out and deducted.
if a notional income on the assumed basis can be used for fixing compensation a notional income tax can be calculated and deducted.
the confusion that vitiates the argument is prompted by a circular letter of government regarding non deductibility of income tax due to the state from the amount of compensation lying to the credit of estate holders.
in short section 27 properly construed can not lend itself to the meaning imputed to it by the appellant.
the statutory scheme of compensation for forest lands consists of machinery for assessment of the net income which is multiplied on a sliding scale and the method of challenge to the determination by the aggrieved owner of state.
the power to approve implies the power to disapprove or modify but not to report or arrive at an income de hors the forest officer s report altogether.
it is open to the petitioners to give evidence that after the date of vesting many of the trees and forest produce have been removed.
under rule 131 c of the orissa estates abolition rules 1952 the compensation officer may rely upon such other materials as may otherwise be ascertained by him.
the district forest officer who incidentally happens to be a forest officer under the act having been appointed as required thereunder made his appraisal of the annual income and submitted to the chief conservator who altered the annual yield and reduced it substantially.
indeed there was a fundamental difference in the basis adopted by the forest officer and the chief conservator in the matter of assessing the income of the forests in question.
it is astonishing that anyone should urge as the appellant did that the date of vesting is the last date by which the calculation of compensation should have been made and since that had not been done the compensation officer had become functus officio in awarding compensation.
therefore there is no substance in the functus officio argument.
if the officer had no jurisdiction the land would be gone because of the vesting provision and no compensation would be forthcoming for want of jurisdiction a consequence the appellant never wants.
no it was created by the statute and canalised by the order of remand.
it follows that after the present second remand the re appraisal of the annual net income can not be done solely by the forest officer without securing the approval of the chief conservator.
certainly the chief conservator can not be ignored by the compensation officer nor can the chief conservator ignore the assessment made by the forest officer and go through an independent exercise.
we may make it clear that now that a forest officer has made an appraisement the chief conservator of forests will apply his mind to it and approve it as a whole or with such modifications as he thinks necessary and forward it to the compensation officer.
this will among other things save time.
substantially this is what has been done by the learned judge when allowing the revisions and remitting the case back to the compensation officer.
the force of these observations constrains us to direct that the proceedings before the compensation officer shall be completed within six months from today.
in this context it is perhaps not irrelevant to remember that the appellant a freedom fighter is an 83 year old man and at this stage of his life the state should show commisseration not merely in quickly disposing of the proceedings but also in not being cantankerous in awarding and disbursing the balance compensation.
with these directions and observations we affirm the orders under appeal but while dismissing the appeals direct the parties to bear their costs in this court.
