act liii of 1961 hereinafter referred to as the act which in view of s 21 of the act is the law applicable even to women workers employed in plantations.
while calculating the aforesaid amount of maternity benefit the establishment admittedly excluded twelve sundays being wageless holidays which fell during the period of the respondent s actual absence immediately preceding and including the day of her delivery and the six weeks immediately following that day.
dissatisfied with this computation the respondent made a representation to her employers claiming maternity benefit for the entire period of twelve weeks under the act i e for 84 days on the plea that a week consisted of seven days.
as her demand did not evoke a favourable response the respondent applied to the labour court coimbatore under section 33c2 of the industrial disputes act for redress of her grievance.
by its order dated february 261969the labour court allowed the claim of the respondent.
thereupon the establishment moved the high court at madras u art 226 of the constitution challenging the decision of the labour court.
as against this the respondent pleaded that the computation had to be made not with reference to the actual number of working days but with reference to total number of days covered by twelve weeks i e 84 days.
dissatisfied with this decision the establishment has already stated come up in appeal to this court by special leave.
we have heard mr pai learned counsel for the appellant as also mr bhatt who in view of the default in appearance of respondent no 2 and the importance of the point involved in the case was appointed as amicus cruaie.
he has further urged that since u s 5 1 of the act the maternity benefit has to be computed with reference to the period of the workers actual absence thereby meaning absence on days on which there was work excluding sundays and the term week in the context of sub ss 1 and 3 of s 5 of the act is to be under stood as a week of work consisting of six days and in the instant case respondent no 2 was working and earning wages for six days in a week the seventh day being a wageless holiday her claim can not be sustained.
mr pai has referred us to the full bench decision of the kerala high court in malayalam plantations ltd.
cochin v.
inspector of plantation mundakayam.
i c 848  a i r 1975.
for a proper determination of the question involved in the appeal it would we think be useful to refer to certain provisions of the act which have a bearing on the subject matter of the controversy before us.
s 21 of the act makes the act applicable to every establishment being a factory mine or plantation including any such establishment belonging to government and to every establishment wherein persons are employed for the exhibition of equastrain acrobatic and other performance.
2 incentive bonus and 3 the money value of the concessional supply of food grains and other articles but does not include.
i any bonus other than incentive bonus ii over time earnings and any deduction or payment on account of fines iii any contribution paid or payable by the employer to any pension fund or provident fund or for the benefit of the woman under any law for the time being in force and iv any gratuity payable on the termination of service.
s 5 of the act which confers right to payment of maternity benefit on a woman worker provisions.
5 right to payment of maternity.
no woman shall be entitled to maternity benefit unless she has actually worked in an establishment of the employer from whom she claims maternity benefit for a period of not less than one hundred and sixty days in the twelve months immediately preceding the date of her expected delivery.
provided that the qualifying period of one hundred and sixty days aforesaid shall not apply to a woman who has immigrated into the state of assam and was pregnant at the time of the immigration.
for the purpose of calculating under this sub section the days on which a woman has actually worked in the establishment the days for which she has been laid off during the period of twelve months immediately preceding the date of her expected delivery shall be taken into account.
provided that where a woman dies during this period the maternity benefit shall be payable only for the days up to and including the day of her death.
in the case of a woman who is pregnant such notice shall state the date from which she will be absent from work not being a date earlier than six weeks from the date of her expected delivery.
6 the failure to give notice under this section s not disentitle a woman to maternity benefit or any other amount under this act if she is otherwise entitled to such benefit or amount and in any such case an inspector may either of his own motion or on an application made to him by the woman order the payment of such benefit of amount within such period as may be specified in the order.
the provisions of s 5 of the act quoted above make it clear that a woman worker who expects a child is entitled to maternity benefit for a maximum period of twelve weeks which is split up into two periods viz prenatal and post natal.
the benefit has to be calculated for the aforesaid two periods on the basis of the average daily wage.
in webster s new world dictionary 1962 editionthe meaning of the word week is given as a period of seven days especially one beginning with sunday and ending with saturday the hours or days of work in a seven day period.
a week according to halsbury s laws of england.
bearing in mind the above mentioned dictionary or popular meaning of the term.
weekwe think that in the context of sub ss 1 and 3 of s 5 of the act the term has to be taken to signify a cycle of seven days including sundays.
it has also to be borne in mind in this connection that in interpreting provisions of beneficial pieces of legislation like the one in hand which is intended to achieve the object of doing social justice to women workers employed in the plantations and which squarely fall within the purview of art 42 of the constitution the beneficent rule of construction which would enable the woman worker not only to subsist but also to make up her dissipated energy nurse her child preserve her efficiency as a worker and maintain the level of her previous efficiency and output has to be adopted by the court.
the interpretation placed by us on the phraseology of sub ss 1 and 3 of s 5 of the act appears to us to be in conformity not only with the legislative intendment but also with paragraphs 1 and 2 of art 4 of convention no 103 concerning maternity protection convention.
although costs have to be paid by appellant to respondent no 2 in terms of the court s order dated october 301975yet in view of the fact that the said respondent has not chosen to appear at the hearing of the case and mr k n bhat has assisted the court as amicus curiae we direct the appellant to pay rs 1000 to mr bhat as his fee.
appeal dismissed.
