this appeal by special leave has been preferred by tata consultancy engineers against an award dated 20th december1978 of the industrial tribunal maharashtra bombay revising the wage scales of certain categories of employees and granting various other benefits.
tata consultant engineers at its inception was a partnership firm but subsequently the partnership was dissolved and in 1974 the undertaking became one of the divisions of tata sons limited.
out of 665 employees at bombay the draftsmen and the administrative staff number 306 these workmen are members of the tata consultant employees union.
the reference was numbered i t no 292 of 1975.
the union filed a statement before the tribunal claiming an upward revision of the wage scales and dearness allowance and an increase from fifteen years to twenty years in the span for earning annual increments.
the dearness allowance it was claimed should be granted on a slab system.
the claim of the union was resisted by the appellant who maintained that the existing wage scales were fair and reasonable on a region cum industry basis and that it would not be possible for the appellant to bear the additional financial burden if the demands of the union were accepted.
reference was made to the political uncertainty in iran which had placed an appreciable part of the appellant s business in jeopardy and to various other factors peculiar to an engineering consultancy business beyond the appellant s control.
there was fierce competition also it was asserted from other similar organisations.
the appellant had introduced various pay scales in 1973 and some time later they were revised.
nothing those facts the tribunal observed that compared with the increased paying capacity of the appellant an inference drawn from the prosperity enjoyed by the appellant over the years there was definite need for revising the wage scales.
in the absence of pertinent information concerning the strength of their labour force the extent of their business the financial position for some years the capital invested the precise nature of the business the position regarding reserves dividends declared and future prospects of the company the tribunal found that it was unable to rely on them as comparable concerns.
the union modified its demands but even the modified terms according to the tribunal appeared to be on the high side inasmuch as the resulting total burden of rs 1 70 crores was much higher than the average profits could sustain.
it decided also that there was no ground for deducting the notional value of gratuity.
it also observed that the category of draughtsmen needed a special increase.
taking all these factors into consideration it made an award dated 20th december1978 prescribing the following revision in the existing scales of wages.
the revised wage scales the tribunal directed should take effect retrospectively from 1st january1976 it also laid down the principle enabling the actual fitment of the workmen in their respective wage scales as on that date and also provided for the number of increments to which they would be entitled having regard to the period of completed service.
however this is not clearly mentioned anywhere in the award due to accidental slip or omission.
on the same date the tribunal disposed of the application by the following order there can be no doubt that a flat increase of rs 150 to each of the employees in the category of draftsmen and of rs 100 to each employee in the other categories has been granted under my award.
the same has been made clear in paragraph.
i do not think that any problem would arise for interpretation of the award.
since the award has been already signed i do not think anything further can be added to this award.
sd k n wani industrial tribunal.
no dearness allowance was paid until the beginning of 1977 and the house rent allowance also was introduced about that time.
the charter of demands was presented by the union in july1974 and when conciliation proceedings failed the state government made the reference to the industrial tribunal in 1975 the tribunal has referred to various considerations which prevailed with it in giving retrospectivity to the revised pay scales.
it is urged that the amendment results in the inclusion of a flat increase of rs 150 to each workman in the case of draughtsman and rs 100 to each workman in the case of other categories a result wholly unwarranted it is said by the intent of the original award and therefore falling beyond the jurisdiction of the tribunal.
december1978the union invoked the jurisdiction of the.
the jurisdiction given to the tribunal by rule 31 is closely circumscribed.
it is only a clerical mistake or error which can be corrected and the clerical mistake or error must arise from an accidental slip or omission in the award.
it must be a mistake or error amenable to clerical correction only.
is the instant case one where the amendment made by the tribunal in the original award can be said to correct a mere clerical mistake or error arising from an accidental slip or omission.
and that is confirmed by what was stated in paragraph 23 of the award considering this outgoing the flat increase of rs 150 in the category of draughtsman and rs 100 in the case of the other categories would be fair.
individual workmen were not present to the mind of the tribunal.
no second flat increase was envisaged at all.
the amendment made by the tribunal has the effect of providing a second increase this time to each individual workmen.
and the clinching circumstances of all is that the award was made on the basis that the overall financial load according to paragraph 33 of the award would be to the tune of about rs 5 lakhs.
on the basis that a sum of rs 150 per month was added to the pay of each draughtsman and a sum of rs 100 was added to the pay of every other workman who belonged to the union staff the financial load would increase to rs 922032  likewise if a flat increase of rs 100 was given to individual workmen of all categories including draughtsmen the increased financial load would total rs 764256  the statement then goes on to indicate that if a flat increase of rs 75 per month were given to individual workmen of all categories the total increase would be rs 578220  again if the flat increase is rs 65 per month to the individual workmen of all categories the additional load would total rs 497772  finally on the basis that the individual draughtsman would be given an increase of rs 75 per month and the individual workmen of other categories rs 50 per month the additional load was calculated at rs 463092  it will be noted that the statement exhibit c 51was prepared on the basis of the employees strength as in december1971 a similar statement was prepared on the basis of the employees strength as in september1978 these statements can not be regarded as evidence that the appellant was cognizant of the intention of the tribunal to provide a flat increase to the pay of each workman.
the evidence contained in the award throughout provides incontrovertible proof that this flat increase was never originally intended in the award.
what is without jurisdiction will remain so.
the corrigendum amending the award in consequence is liable to be quashed.
the second contention of the appellant is entitled to succeed.
i shall now consider civil appeal no 2300 of 1979 filed by the workmen.
the only contention of the workmen is that the tribunal should have fixed the dearness allowance in communion with the cost of living index.
accordingly the appeal filed by the workmen must fail.
in the result civil appeal no 2299 of 1979 is allowed in part insofar that the order dated 22nd december1978 of the industrial tribunal maharashtra bombay is quashed to the extent that it modifies the original award dated 20th december1978and the corrigendum made consequent thereto is also quashed.
it is needless to recapitulate all the basic facts which have been set out in the judgment of pathak j the award of the industrial tribunal was made on december 201978 on december 221978 that is to say two days after the award was made and when everything must have been fresh to the minds of the tribunal the respective parties and their advocates the employees union made an application under rule 31 of the industrial disputes bombay rules1957 seeking a correction of an error which it was claimed had crept into the award.
thereafter the tribunal made an order on the same day in the following terms there can be no doubt that a flat increase of rs 150 to each of the employees in the category of draftsmen and of rs 100 to each employee in the other categories has been granted under my award.
on the other hand the endorsement reads as if there was tacit agreement on the part of the company to the correction sought by the union.
the order dated december 221978 of the tribunal also does not reveal that there was any opposition by the company to the application for correcting the award.
even so we propose to examine whether the correction sought by the employees union was within the bounds of the authority of the tribunal or whether it was in effect a fresh award.
the primary and basic question considered by the industrial tribunal in making the award dated december 201978 was the question of revision of the wage scales.
it can not possibly be doubted that an industrial tribunal deciding upon the wage scales of the employees of an establishment would have full liberty to propose ad hoc increase of salaries as part of the revision of wages.
this in our opinion is elementary and fundamental to the jurisdiction of the industrial tribunal in revising wage scales.
at the end of paragraph 15 of the award the tribunal stated but there can be no doubt that the company can very well bear the additional burden.
at the end of paragraph 18 of the award the tribunal said a mere reading of exhibit u 15 will immediately dispel the misgivings about the future of the present company.
for some years to come this is likely to be one of the few consulting engineers who will be securing major contracts.
this is further borne out from the trading results of the company for the year 1968 69 to 1977 the profits have increased all along.
the annexures from the company to the director general posts telegraphs delhi ex.
the tribunal then considered the question whether draftsmen should get a higher flat increase and the question whether the existing scheme of dearness allowance should be revised.
the tribunal then observed the flat increase of rs 150 in the category of draftsmen and rs 100 in the case of the other categories would be fair.
thereafter various other matters were considered and finally the tribunal revised the wage scales in the manner already mentioned by my brother pathak j the question of fitment was then considered in the following manner fitment if as on 1st january1976an employee is drawing a salary less than the beginning of the respective grade he should be first stepped up to the beginning of the grade.
after fixing the salary of the employees in the scales as above the employees should be given increments in the new scales as noted below i employees who have completed 5 years or more as on 1st january19763 increments.
ii employees who have completed 4 years of service as on 1st january19762 increments.
while workmen raising industrial disputes for revision of wage scales are certainly minded about their future prospects in the matter of wages they surely would be more concerned with the immediate benefits according to them.
since there was to be a flat increase of rs 150 and rs 100 in the case of draftsmen and other workmen respectively the revised wage scale had necessarily to commence with figures rs 150 and rs 100 above the existing wage scales.
the application before the tribunal was filed under rule 31 of the bombay industrial disputes rules 1957which is as follows.
a board court labour court tribunal or arbitrator may at any time suo moto or on an application made by any of the parties concerned may correct any clerical mistake or error arising from an accidental slip or omission in any proceedings report award or as the case may be decision.
the result of the foregoing discussion is that civil appeal no 2299 of 1979 has to be dismissed in its entirety.
