it was just the other day that our brothers ranganath misra and m m dutt jj had to give directions in a case vincent panikurbangara v union of india where a public spirited litigant had complained about the unscrupulous exploitation of the indian drug and pharmaceutical market by multinational corporations by putting in circulation low quality and even deleterious drugs.
the problem is that of high prices bearing it is said little relation to the cost of production to the manufacturers.
by way of illustration we may straightaway mention a glaring instance of such high pricing which was brought to our notice at the very commencement of the hearing.
barlagan ketone a bulk drug was not treated as an essential bulk drug under the drugs prices control.
a manufacturer was under the provisions of that order free to continue to sell the drug at the price reported by him to the central government at the time of the commencement of the order but was under an obligation not to increase the price without the prior approval of the central government.
after the 1979 drugs prices control.
order came into force the distinction between essential and non essential bulk drugs was abolished and a maximum price had to be fixed for barlagan ketone also like other bulk drugs.
the manufacturer applied for fixation of price at rs 8500 per kg.
for the moment ignoring the price fixed by the government we see that the price of rs 24735 per kg.
it is a menance which had to be lettered and curbed.
one of the principal objectives of the essential commodities act 1955 is precisely that.
t must be remembered that article 39b enjoins a duty on the state towards securing that the ownership and control of the material resources of the community are so distributed as best to subserve the common good.
the essential commodities act is a legislation towards that end.
section 31 of the essential commodities act enables the central government if it is of opinion that it is necessary or expedient so to do for maintaining or increasing supplies of any essential commodity or for securing their equitable distribution and availability at fair price to provide for regulating or prohibiting by order the production supply and distribution thereof and trade and commerce therein.
it is in pursuance of the powers granted to the central government by the essential commodities act that first the drugs prices control.
order 1970 and later the drugs prices control.
order 1979 were made.
these notifications were questioned on several grounds by the manufacturers and they have been quashed by the delhi high court on the ground of failure to observe the principles of natural justice.
since prices of formulations are primarily dependent on prices of buli drugs the notifications fixing the retail prices of formulations were also quashed.
the manufacturers had also filed review petitions before the government under paragraph 27 of the 1979 order.
the case for the union of india was presented to us ably by shri g ramaswami the learned additional solicitor general and the manufacturers were represented equally ably by shri anil diwan.
before we turn to the terms of the drugs prices control.
we start with the observation price fixation is neither the function nor the forte of the court.
but we do not totally deny ourselves the jurisdiction to enquire into the question in appropriate proceedings whether relevant considerations have gone in and irrelevant considerations kept out of the determination of the price.
for example if the legislature has decreed the pricing policy and prescribed the factors which should guide the determination of the price we will if necessary enquire into the question whether the policy and the factors are present to the mind of the authorities specifying the price.
but our examination will stop there.
that is a different cup of tea altogether.
in the case of parliamentary legislation the proposition is self evident.
in the case of subordinate legislation it may happen that parliament may itself provide for a notice and for a hearing there are several instances of the legislature requiring the subordinate legislating authority to give public notice and a public hearing before say for example levying a municipal rate  in which case the substantial non observance of the statutorily prescribed mode of observing natural justice may have the effect of invalidating the subordinate legislation.
the right here given to rate payers or others is in the nature of a concession which is not to detract from the character of the activity as legislative and not quasijudicial.
but where the legislature has not chosen to provide for any notice or hearing no one can insist upon it and it will not be permissible to read natural justice into such legislative activity.
occasionally the legislature directs the subordinate legislating body to make such enquiry as it thinks fit before making the subordinate legislation.
a legislative act is the creation and promulgation of a general rule of conduct without reference to particular cases an administrative act is the making and issue of a specific direction or the application of a general rule to a particular case in accordance with the requirements of policy.
that is not ruled out.
adjudication is determinative of the past and the present while legislation is indicative of the future.
the object of the rule the reach of its application the rights and obligations arising out of it its intended effect on past present and future events its form the manner of its promulgation are some factors which may help in drawing the line between legislative and non legislative acts.
the right of the citizen to obtain essential articles at fair prices and the duty of the state to so provide them are transformed into the power of the state to fix prices and the obligation of the producer to charge n6 more than the price fixed.
such situations may arise when the owner of property or goods is compelled to sell his property or goods to the government or its nominee and the price to be paid is directed by the legislature to be determined according to the statutory guidelines laid down by it.
in such situations the determination of price may acquire aquasi judicial character.
those who are most vitally affected are the consumer public.
the cases to which we shall now refer will perhaps elucidate what we have tried unfelicitously to express.
in shree meenakshi mills ltd v union of india 1974.
after referring to hari shanker bagla v state of madhya pradesh 1955 1 scr 380 1954 indlaw sc 135 union of india v bhanamal gulzarimal 1960 2 scr 627 1959 indlaw sc 127 sri krishna rice mills v joint director food 1965 indlaw sc 93 unreported state of rajasthan v nathmal and mithamal 1954 scr 982 1954 indlaw sc 66 narendra kumar v union of india 1960 2 scr 375 1959 indlaw sc 61 panipat co operative sugar mills v union of india 1973 1 scc 129 1972 indlaw sc 155 anakapalle co operative agricultural industrial society ltd v union of india.
2 scr 526 1971 indlaw sc 291 a constitution bench of the court observed that the dominant object and the purpose of the legislation was the equitable distribution and availability of commodities at fair price and if profit and the producer s return were to be kept in the forefront it would result in losing sight of the object and the purpose of the legislation.
if the prices of yarn or cloth were fixed in such a way to enable the manufacturer or producer recover his cost of production and secure a reasonable margin of profit no aspect of infringement of any fundamental right could be said to arise.
it was to be remembered that the mere fact that some of those were engaged in the industry trade or commerce allegedthat they were incurring loss would not render the law stipulating the price unreasonable.
the controlled price has to retain this equilibrium in the supply and demand of the commodity.
the producer must have an incentive to produce.
the producer should not be driven out of his producing business.
if price increases it becomes injurious to the consumer.
there is no justification that the producer should be given the benefit of price increase attributable to hoarding or cornering or artificial short supply.
in such a case if an escalation in price is contemplated at intervals the object of controlled price may be stultified.
therefore any restriction in excess of what would be necessary in the interest of general public or to remedy the evil has to be very carefully considered so that the producer does not perish and the consumer is not crippled.
3 of the essential commodities act and therefore had no relevance to the case before the constitution bench.
chandrachud j speaking for the court approved the observation of beg cj.
premier automobiles was considered and it was affirmed that the judgment in that case could not be treated as precedent and could not afford any appreciable assistance in the decision of price fixation cases as it proceeded partly on agreement between the parties and partly on concessions made at the bar.
he also reaffirmed the proposition that price fixation was in the nature of a legislative measure and could not give rise to a complaint that natural justice was not observed.
he indicated the indicia which led him to the conclusion that price fixation was a legislative measure.
he observed we think that unless by the terms of a particular statute or order price fixation is made a quasi judicial function for specified purposes or cases it is really legislative in character in the type of control order which is now before us because it satisfies the tests of legislation.
a legislative measure does not concern itself with the facts of an individual case.
it is meant to lay down a general rule applicable to all persons or objects or transactions of a particular kind or class.
in the case before us the control order applies to sales of mustard oil anywhere in india by any dealer.
its validity does not depend on the observance of any procedure to be complied with or particular types of evidence to be taken on any specified matters as conditions precedent to its validity.
the test of validity is constituted by the nexus shown between the order passed and the purposes for which it can be passed or in other words by reasonableness judged by possible or probable consequences.
in new india sugar works v state of uttar pradesh 1981 2 scc 293 1981 indlaw sc 217 there was an indication though it was not expressly so stated that the question of observing natural justice did not arise in cases of price fixation.
the observation of magarry j in bates v lord hailsha of st marylebone 1972.
the former had said there is no doubt that a minister or any other body in making legislation for example by statutory instrument or by law is not subject to the rules of natural justice bates v lord hailsham of st marylebone supra  any more than is parliament itself edinburgh and dalkeith rv v wauchope per lord brougham 1842 8 cl f 700 720 british railways board v pickin 1974 1.
the latter had said there is no right to be heard before the making of legislation whether primary or delegated unless it is provided by statutes.
in welcom hotel v state of andhra pradesh 1983 4 scc 575 1983 indlaw sc 128 the observations of chandrachud cj.
in prag ice and oil mills were quoted with approval in connection with the fixation of prices of food stuffs served in restaurants.
in tharoe mal v puranchand 1978 1 scc 102 1977 indlaw sc 122 one of the questions was regarding the nature of the hearing to be given before imposing municipal taxes under the uttar pradesh municipalities act 1916.
it was held.
the right to object however seems to be given at the stage of proposals of the tax only as a concession to requirements of fairness even though the procedure is legislative and not quasi judicial.
it is an order for a compulsory sale.
section 33c provides for the ascertainment of the price.
the order made under section 32c which is not in respect of a single transaction nor directed to particular individual is clearly a legislative act while an order made under section 33c which is in respect of a particular transaction of compulsory sale from a specific individual is a non legislative act.
the legislative character of the activity is not shed and an administrative or quasi judicial character acquired merely because guidelines prescribed by the statutory order have to be taken into account.
if the function is treated as legislative in nature there is no right to notice and hearing unless a statute expressly requires them.
xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx x as a federal court has recently pointed out there is no bright line between rule making and adjudication.
that is its purpose and end.
the hathi committee noticed that in a country like india where general poverty and the wide disparities in levels of income between different sections existed it was particularly important to emphasise the social utility of the industry and the urgent need for extending as rapidly as possible certain minimum facilities in terms of preventive and curative medicines to the large mass of people both urban and rural.
order 1979 was made.
the distinction between an essential bulk drug included in the schedule and a bulk drug not so included in the schedule which was made in 1970 drugs prices control.
order was abandoned in the 1979 order.
bulk drugs were however broadly divided into indigenously manufactured bulk drugs imported bulk drugs and hulk drugs which were both manufactured indigenously as also imported.
m u means make up referred to in para.
paragraph 12 empowers the government to fix leader prices of formulations of categories.
paragraph 15 empowers the government to revise prices of formulations.
i and ii are enumerated in the first schedule.
bulk drugs constituting category iii are enumerated in the second schedule.
he urged that relevant information was required to be furnished and was indeed furnished by all the manufacturers in the prescribed form as required by paragraph 34 of the drugs prices control order.
it was only thereafter that notifications fixing the prices were issued.
if that was not done the remedy would become illusory.
nothing in the scheme of the drugs prices control.
order is not a legislative activity but a quasi judicial activity which would attract the observance of the principles of natural justice.
nor is there anything in the scheme or the provisions of the drugs prices control order which otherwise contemplates the observance of any principle of natural justice or kindred rule the non observance of which would give rise to a cause of action to a suitor.
in the present case the enquiry contemplated by paragraph 3 of drugs prices control.
order is to be made for the purposes of fixing the maximum price at which a bulk drug may be sold with a view to regulating its equitable distribution and making it available at a fair price.
the primary object of the enquiry is to secure the bulk drug at a fair price for the benefit of the ultimate consumer an object designed to fulfil the mandate of article 39b of the constitution.
the enquiry obviously is not to be confined to obtaining information from the manufacturers only and indeed must go beyond.
here again the enquiry by the government need not be restricted to an efficient manufacturer or some manufacturers nor need it be extended to all manufacturers.
the former is an enquiry leading to a legislative activity while the latter is an enquiry which ends in an administrative or quasi judicial decision.
order is an enquiry of the former character.
notwithstanding that the price fixation is a legislative activity the subordinate legislation had taken care here to provide for a review.
it is a hearing which follows a subordinate legislative activity intended to provide an opportunity to affected persons such as the manufacturers the industry and the consumer public to bring to the notice of the subordinate legislating body the difficulties or problems experienced or likely to be experienced by them consequent on the price fixation whereupon the government may make appropriate orders.
any decision taken by the government can not be confined to the individual manufacturer seeking review but must necessarily affect all manufacturers of the bulk drug as well as the consumer public.
in other words the review if it is fruitful must result in fresh subordinate legislative activity.
but whatever procedure is adopted it must be a procedure tuned to the situation.
in the context of the drug industry with which we are concerned and in regard to which the control order is made we must proceed on the basis that the manufacturers of bulk drugs are generally persons who know all that is to be known about the price fixed by the government.
from the legislative nature of the activity of the government it is clear that the government is under no obligation to make any disclosure of any information received and considered by it in making the order but in order to render effective the right to seek a review given to an aggrieved person we think that the government if so requested by the aggrieved manufacturer is under an obligation to disclose any relevant information which may reasonably be disclosed pertaining to the average cost of production of the bulk drug manufactured by an efficient manufacturer and the reasonable return on net worth.
the manufacturer may also require to be informed the elements which were taken into account and those which were excluded in assessing the free reserves entering into the calculation of net worth.
that we think is the nature and scope of the review contemplated by paragraph 27 in relation to orders made under paragraphs 3 12 and 13.
on the question of the scope of a review the learned counsel for the respondents invited our attention to vrajlal manilal co v union of india anr 1964 7 scr 97 1964 indlaw sc 194 shivaji nathubhai v union of india ors 1960 2 scr 775 1960 indlaw sc 430 maneka gandhi 1978 2 scr 621 1978 indlaw sc 212 swadeshi cotton mills 1981 2 scr 533 1981 indlaw sc 349 and liberty oil mills.
the decision rendered without disclosing the report of the state government and without affording reasonable opportunity to the appellants to present their case was contrary to natural justice was therefore void.
in swadeshi cotton mills it was observed that in cases where owing to the compulsion of the fact situation or the necessity of taking speedy action no pre decisional hearing is given but the action is followed soon by a full post decisional hearing to the person affected there is in reality no exclusion of the audi alteram partem rule.
it is no adaptation of the rule to meet the situational urgency.
in liberty oil mills v union of india 1984 indlaw sc 326 supra the question arose whether clause 8b of the import control order which empowered the central government or the chief controller to keep in abeyance applications for licences or allotment of imported goods where any investigation is pending into an imported goods where any investigation is pending into an allegation mentioned in cl.
it may also be questioned on any ground on which a subordinate legislation may be questioned such as being contrary to constitutional or other statutory provisions.
there is no question before us that paragraph 3 prescribes any arbitrary guideline.
it was however submitted that the guidelines were not adhered to and that facts and figures were arbitrarily assumed.
we think that if there is any grievance on that score the proper thing for the manufacturers to do is bring it to the notice of the government in their applications for review.
there was no justification for the grievance that particulars were not furnished.
as already stated by us manufacturers of bulk drugs who claim to be affected by the drugs prices control.
order belong to a class of persons who are well and fully informed of every intricate detail and particular which is required to be taken into account in determining the price.
it is impossible to conceive that they can not sit across the table and discuss item by item with the reviewing authority unless they are furnished in advance full details and particulars.
we do not consider that there is anything unfair in the procedure adopted by the government.
indeed we find that the hearing given to the manufacturers is often protected.
he said that obsolete quantitative usages had been taken into consideration proximate cost data had been ignored and the data relating to the year ending november 1976 had been adopted as the basis.
as we pointed out earlier these are all matters which should legitimately be raised in the review application if there is any substance in them.
these are not matters for investigation in a petition under article 226 of the constitution or under article 32 of the constitution.
we think that the question has to be decided with reference to the definition of free reserve in paragraph 2g of the control order and not on any assumed principle of accountancy.
referring to the proforma attached to form No 1 of the fourth schedule in which are set out several items which have to be taken into account in assessing the cost of production the learned counsel attacks the notes at the end of item No 14 which mentions the various items of expenses to be excluded in ascertaining the cost.
b bad debts and provisions.
c donations and charities.
f expenses not recognized by income tax authorities salary prequisities advertisements etc.
g adjustments relating to previous years.
we do not agree with the submission.
it was open to the subordinate legislating body to prescribe and adopt its own mode of ascertaining the cost of production and the items to be included and excluded in so doing.
the subordinate legislating body was under no obligation to adopt the method adopted by the income tax authorities in allowing expenses for the purpose of ascertaining income and assessing it.
there may be many items of business expenditure which may be allowed by income tax authorities as legitimate expenses but which can never enter the cost of production.
we are unable to say that the subordinate legislating authority acted unreasonably in prescribing the norms in the manner it has done.
he submitted that the price of a formulation was dependant on the price of the bulk drug and it was therefore not right to fix the price of formulation when the price of bulk drug was in question in the review application and there was a prospect of the price of the bulk drug being increased.
we think that it is the necessary duty of the government to proceed to fix the retail price of a formulation as soon as the price of the parent bulk drug is fixed.
it is certainly not a matter at which the court could take a hand.
all that the government may do is to dispose of the review application with the utmost expedition.
but as we perceive the public interest it is necessary that the price of formulation should be fixed close on the heels of the fixation of bulk drug price.
another submission of shri diwan was that there was considerable delay in the disposal of the review applications by the government and that even now no orders had been passed in several cases.
accordingly to the learned counsel the very delay in the disposal of review applications was sufficient to vitiate the entire proceeding and scheme of price fixation.
it is difficult to agree with these propositions.
it is true that the price of a bulk drug is dependent on innumerable variables.
we agree that applications for review must be dealt with expeditiously and whenever they are not so dealt with the aggrieved person may seek a mandamus from the court to direct the government to deal with the review application within a time framework.
we think that in matter of this nature where prices of essential commodities are fixed in order to maintain or increase supply of the commodities or for securing the equitable distribution and availability at fair prices of the commodity it is not right that the court should make any interim order staying the implementation of the notification fixing the prices.
we consider that such orders are against the public interest and ought not to be made by a court unless the court is satisfied that no public interest is going to be served.
in the present case on ex parte interim order was made on april 20 1981 in the following terms in the meanwhile on the petitioners giving an undertakings to maintain prices both for bulk and formulation as were prevailing prior to the impugned notification we stay implementation of the impugned bulk drug prices as well as formulation prices.
we therefore confirm till further orders the interim order made by us on april 20 1981.
it is made clear that the undertaking is without prejudice to the petitioners right to take appropriate directions from the supreme court if so advised in this regard.
no doubt the order as made on november 25 1981 has the manufacturers on terms but the consumer public has been left high and dry.
their interests have in no way been taken care of.
in matters of fixation of price it is the interest of the consumer public that must come first and any interim order must take care of that interest.
we are of the view that the undertakings given by the parties in the present cases were intended to and do continue to subsist.
on the conclusions arrived at by us we have no doubt that the appeal must be allowed and the writ petition in the high court dismissed.
however we think that it is necessary to give a direction to the government to dispose of the review applications after giving a notice of hearing to the manufacturer.
any information sought by the manufacturer may be given to him at the hearing in terms of what we have said in the judgment.
the union of india is entitled to the costs of the appeal and the writ petition in the high court.
it appears that although several writ petitions filed by different manufacturers were disposed of by the high court by a common judgment the union of india filed an appeal within the prescribed period of limitation against one of the manufacturers cynamide india limited only.
as these petitions were filed beyond the prescribed period of limitation petitions for condoning the delay in filing the petitions for special leave to appeal had to be and were filed.
though we see considerable force in the submission of shri diwan we think that the circumstances of the instant cases do justify the exercise of our discretion to condone the delay.
the other is that it is a matter of serious concern to the public interest.
we therefore condone the delay grant special leave in all the petitions for special leave and direct the appeals to be listed for hearing on may 1 1987.
