the order of the court was as follows.
in pursuance of the said order this bench has been constituted.
when the matters were taken up on march 161994the court felt that it was necessary to reframe the first two questions.
the claim of being a minority whether based on religion or language and the claim of being a minority educational institution put forward by the petitioners can not be pronounced upon without first ascertaining what the said expressions connote and signify.
having regard to the importance of the questions involved we consider it appropriate to issue notice to the attorney general of india as well as the advocates general for the states.
it would therefore not be feasible to take up the hearing of these matters before the court closes for the long vacation.
the candidates so selected and admitted shall pay scales of fee as applicable to this class of students as determined by the state government from time to time.
such merit shall be determined oh the basis of the academic performance at the qualifying examination or on the basis of any objective test that the institution might itself apply to determine such relative and competing merits or on the basis of performance of the results of the selection tests that the state government may itself hold for selecting candidates for admission to technical colleges in the state.
candidates so selected on the basis of merit amongst the minorities shall however abide by such condition in the matter of payment of tuition and other fee as may be permitted by the state government.
it is made clear that this order is made on the assumption that the petitioners are minority institutions.
it is open to the respondents to question this status claimed by the petitioners.
it was directed that the order dated may 141993would not apply to educational institutions falling in categories 4 and 5 and the institutions referred to in paragraph 18 of the order dated august 181993 the order dated may 141993was made applicable to the institutions falling in categories 12 and 3 with the modification that following were added in continuation of the said order in continuation it is made further clear that whether any of the petitioner institutions is a mei or not is a matter for the government to verify and determine.
the 50 seats to be filled up by candidates selected by the agencies of the state government on the basis of a competitive examination test as well as the remaining 50 seats to be filled in accordance with cl of the said order shall be equally distributed between free seats and payment seats.
the authorities to which the statements are submitted shall verify the correctness of the statements and if they find any irregularity they shall call upon the college concerned to rectify the same.
separate directions were however given in respect of institutions referred to in writ petitions nos 284 and 482 of 1993 with regard to writ petition no 284 of 1993 it was observed that in the said writ petition the petitioner has claimed that no capitation fee is charged from any student and the fee charged is not more than in some cases less than.
the fees charged in the government colleges and that the admission to these institutions is made on the basis of an all india common entrance test separately conducted by the petitioner and admissions are made on the basis of merit as determined in the said test and further that in view of the reputation of these institutions thousands of students apply for and appear in the entrance test every year.
in the order dated august 181993the following directions were given in respect of the institutions covered by the aforesaid writ petitions nos 284 of 1993 and 482 of 19932 having regard to the above circumstances we permit the petitioners.
in the above two writ petitions to admit students to their colleges on the basis of entrance test conducted by them and on the same basis on which admissions were made by them in the said colleges in the previous academic year.
dealing with writ petition no 598 of 1993the court after noticing that an agreement was entered into between the institution and the government of kerala according to which while 85 of the seats were to be filled by the government and the remaining 15 of the seats were left for the management to fill up in its discretion observed that since the basic principle in unni krishnan as well as the order dated august 181993 is that merit shall be the guiding principle in the matter of admission a plea for discretionary quota could not be countenanced and it was directed that the said writ petition shall also be governed by the order dated may 141993as modified by addition.
in the institutions referred to in writ petition no 598 of 1993 and similar minority educational institutions in the state of kerala which are governed by an agreement with the government of kerala the admissions shall be made in accordance with the terms of those agreements.
we make it clear that regarding the character of these institutions whether they are minority educational institutions we express no opinion.
insofar as non resident indians and foreign students are concerned the permissible limit would be only 5 of the total intake for a given year as per the direction contained in paragraph 6 of the order dated may 141993 as modified by order dated august 1819932 the admission against these seats shall be made on the basis of merit.
written submissions in brief should be submitted by learned counsel by july 131994.
the contempt petition nos 65100 and 126 of 1992 arise out of the judgment of this court in keshav chandra joshi v union of india 1990 indlaw sc 270 in which this court had directed to determine inter se seniority of the direct recruits and promotee asstt.
in k c joshi case it was concluded that the promotees were appointed on ad hoc basis as a stop gap arrangement in 7ubstantive posts.
their appointments were dehors the rules.
their continuous length of ad hoc service from the date of their initial appointment can not be counted towards seniority.
the direct recruits were appointed in accordance with rule 5a read with appendix a of u p forest service rules1952 for short the rules.
their seniority shall be counted from the date of their discharging duties of the post of asstt.
the governor was directed to make appointment by promotion to substantive vacancies to the post of asstt.
the inter se seniority of the direct recruits and promotees shall be determined in accordance with rules 56 and 24 as per the judgment in k c joshi case.
in the light of that stand while dismissing the contempt petition this court directed the sate government to dispose of the matter on the basis of the representation that may be received from the petitioners therein against the draft seniority list within six months from that date.
in these contempt petitions the promotees as well as some of the subsequent direct recruits complain against fixation of their inter se seniority by the state government.
therefore they are entitled to the seniority from the respective years.
as per the ratio the promotees are entitled to 33 13per cent quota.
december 1198640 more posts were created.
therefore as on march ii1985the total posts available were.
thereby the action of the state is in defiance of the direction issued by this court.
in the light of the respective contentions the question arises whether the determination of the seniority is in accordance with the directions issued by this court.
from the averments it would appear that 100 promotee asstt.
the total number of direct recruits appears to be 215 prior to december 311974the quota was 75 per cent to the direct recruits and 25 per cent to the promotees.
it is clear from the counter affidavit filed by the state that the posts are both permanent and temporary.
it is a policy matter.
on so determining the direct recruits would go en block as seniors to the promotees and the promotee officers in the order of their inter se seniority be appointed by the governor under rule 5b read with rule 6 and would be placed below the direct recruits.
it would be open to the state government to fix tentatively the inter se seniority in the temporary posts according to the ratio between the direct recruits and the promotees in the same manner of filling the substantive posts as indicated above.
as and when the temporary posts are converted either into permanent posts or the vacancies arise due to superannuation of the senior officers they should be fixed in the respective vacancies and fitment made.
these directions would meet the exigencies.
the state government is directed to undertake fresh exercise in the light of the above directions and complete the same within a period of four months from the date of the receipt of the order.
petition disposed of.
