out of the said twelve accused6 accused were acquitted of all the charges while the five appellants herein namely bonkya alias bharat shivaji mane a 5mandu baliba dombe a 8ashok baloba dombe a 9ranjar bhausaheb dombe a 10 and kaka alias pandurang baloba dombe a 11 were convicted for offences under section 302307149 ipc and section 3 of tada and sentenced to suffer life imprisonment and to pay a fine of rs 5000 each for the offence under section 302149 ipc.
the substantive sentences of imprisonment were however directed to run concurrently.
one accused died during the pendency of the trial.
through this appeal under section 19 of tada the appellants have called in question their conviction and sentence.
according to the prosecution case on 11th august1990 at about 3 00 p m anna shety band patte mukesh ramesh and prakash band patte had gone to the vrindavan video parlour for watching a movie.
the accused party left the video parlour threatening each other.
at about 4 00 p m the appellants and other accused persons allegedly armed with swords satturs and sticks arrived there in two auto rickshaws and one jeep.
appellants a 5a 10 and a 11 thereafter assaulted bajrang band patte pw 14 on his head in front of the hotel.
they also assaulted baban karpe pw 9 and popat deceased who had run away to the math after chasing them in the auto rickshaws and the jeep.
while receiving the treatment popat succumbed to his injuries.
on receipt of information asstt.
on the basis of the said report an fir for offences under section 302307149147148 ipc was registered vide cr no 101 of 1990 at about 6 00 p m the inquest on the dead body of popat was conducted and the body was sent for post mortem examination.
bajrang pw 14 regained consciousness during the night intervening 11th and 12th august1990 and made a statement to the police in respect of the incident which took place in front of jagdamba hotel and on the basis of that statement cr no 10290 was registered.
an auto rickshaw bearing registration no mwq 5624 belonging to manik bhende gavali was found abandoned in a damaged condition with broken glasses.
the accused were searched for but could not be traced.
they were subsequently arrested on different dates.
on the pointing out by a 10the said sword was also recovered and taken into possession through a panchnama.
during the investigation an identification parade was got conducted through the executive magistrate pw 32 when baban karpe pw 9 and other prosecution witnesses identified the assailants.
samples of blood of the accused were collected for ascertaining their blood groups and sent for chemical analysis.
the blood samples of bajrang pw 14 and baban karpe pw 9 were similarly collected.
the blood stained clothes of the deceased and the injured persons as also the swords were sent to the chemical examiner for analysis.
during the pendency of the two charge sheets the addl.
bone deep at centre of vertex fracture of skull with laceration of brain.
pw 22 opined that these injuries individually as well as collectively were sufficient in the ordinary course of nature to cause death.
edges were clean out.
2 abraded contusion below right knee and front of right leg5 x 5 cm.
injury was bleeding fresh.
the defence plea of total denial and false implication has been rightly rejected by the designated court in view of the over whelming cogent and reliable prosecution evidence.
so far as the first incident is concerned that merely provided the motive for the assault near the jagdamba hotel and the math.
in view of the altercation the complainants left the video parlour and went towards jagdamba hotel.
some of the prosecution witnesses including the deceased pw9 and pw14 were already standing near the jagdamba hotel.
pw 19 was declared hostile by the prosecution and was cross examined by the addl.
to connect the accused with the incidents near the jagdamba hotel and the math the prosecution has examined pw3pw4pw9pw10pw11pw12pw13 and pw14 besides pw7pw20 and pw21 the last three witnesses however turned hostile at the trial and were cross examined by the addl.
public prosecutor with the permission of the court.
his testimony receives ample corroboration from the testimony of pw10pw11pw14 and pw15 waman the proprietor of jagdamba hotel besides the medical evidence.
they specifically described the roles played by a 5a 10 and a 11 pw 10pw 11pw 12pw 13pw 14 and pw 15 also spoke about the presence of a 1a 8 and a 9 with their respective weapons alongwith a 5a 10 and a 11 near the jagdamba hotel at the time of assault on pw 14.
an identification parade had been held by shri shrikant chimanaji jahagirdar pw 32executive magistrate.
so far as other accused are concerned none of the prosecution witnesses ascribed any role to a 2a 3 and a 12 and even though pw 15 deposed at the trial about the presence of a 4a 6 and a 7 and stated that they were present with the accused party but the trial court for good and sufficient reasons found that his testimony as regards their presence in the unlawful assembly had not received trustworthy corroboration from any other prosecution evidence.
from our independent analytical appreciation of the evidence on the record we are of the opinion that the designated court rightly found the participation of a 1a 5a 8a 9 and a 11in the assault to have been positively established.
baban karpe pw 9himself an injured witness failed to identify a 10 at the time of the identification parade held by pw 32though he identified a 10 later on in the court during the trial.
in so far as the remaining appellants are concerned the evidence of the eye witnesses and particularly of pw 3 and pws 9 to 14 unmistakably connects them with the assault on the complainant party near the jagdamba hotel and at the math resulting in the death of popat and injuries being caused to pw9 and pw14 despite searching cross examination nothing has been brought out in their cross examination from which any doubt may arise about the participation of a 1a 5a 8a 9 and a 11 in the assault or discredit the testimony of any of these witnesses.
the designated court as already noticed found all of them guilty and convicted them for the offences under section 3 tada302149307149 and 323149 ipc.
there is no basis for such an assumption.
there is nothing on the record to disclose as to which community do the appellants belong to or what grievance they had against the wadar community.
prosecution has led no evidence nor brought any circumstances on the record from which any inference may be drawn that the appellants intended to strike terror amongst the wadar community.
it was not proper for the designated court to draw an inference of intention from the mere consequence i e the victims belonging to the particular community.
the learned trial court appears to have ignored to take into consideration the essential requirements for establishing an offence under section 3 of tada.
in hitendra vishnu thakur and others vs.
likewise if it is only as a consequence of the criminal act that fear terror or and panic is caused but the intention of committing the particular crime can not be said to be the one strictly envisaged by section 31it would be impermissible to try or convict and punish an accused under tada the commission of the crime with the intention to achieve the result as envisaged by the section and not merely where the consequence of the crime committed by the accused create that result would attract the provisions of section 31 of tada.
in fairness to the learned counsel for the state mr madhav reddy sr advocate we must also record that he conceded that in the facts and circumstances of the case and keeping in view the law laid down by the constitution bench in kartar singh s case 1994.
appellants no 1 a 52 a 83 a 9 and.
5 a 11 had alongwith the deceased accused a 1 and some others about whose identity there has been some doubt formed an unlawful assembly and in furtherance of the common object of that assembly committed the murder of popat deceased besides causing injuries to pw9 and pw14.
the designated court therefore rightly found the said appellants guilty of the offences under section 302149307149 and section 324149.
ipc the conviction and sentence of appellants no 1 a 52 a 83 a 9 and 5 a 11 for the said offences as recorded by the learned designated court are well merited and calls for no interference.
in the result the appeal succeeds insofar as a 10 appellant no 4 is concerned.
he is given the benefit of doubt and acquitted of all the charges against him.
the conviction and sentence of appellants no 123 and 5 for the offence under section 3 tada is also set aside but their conviction and sentence for the other offences as recorded by the designated court is upheld and to that extent their appeals fail.
learned counsel submitted that the appellants should not be denied the opportunity to get the first hearing in the high court because in the event of their failure in the high court they still have a chance to approach this court under article 136 of the constitution of india.
section 19 1 and 2 of tada read as follows.
2 except as aforesaid no appeal or revision shall lie to any court from any judgment sentence or order including an interlocutory order of a designated court.
in a case where the designated court finds that no offence under tada is made out it is open to the said court to transfer the case to the regular criminal court under section 18 tada but once the charge is framed and the case is tried by the designated court an appeal against conviction sentence or acquittal lies only to the supreme court and to no other court.
the amplitude of powers available to this court under article 142 of the constitution of india is normally speaking not conditioned by any statutory provision but it can not be lost sight of that this court exercises jurisdiction under article 142 of the constitution with a view to do justice between the parties but not in disregard of the relevant statutory provisions.
the submission of the learned counsel is thus devoid of merits and is consequently rejected.
