the dispute centres around a fishery called nalban fishery.
a suit for partition was filed by one of the co sharers of said sarkar family in the high court of calcutta on 3 9 1955which was registered as suit no 2539 of 1955 the schedule of properties included the disputed nalban fishery.
a learned single judge of the calcutta high court passed a preliminary decree in the said suit on 11 8 1960 one of the co sharers of the sarkar family preferred an appeal against the preliminary decree before the division bench which was registered as appeal no200 of 1960 during the pendency of the aforesaid appeal the state of west.
this court further ordered we again wish to re emphasize that the terms of the decree shall not effect the rights of the state of west bengal in any manner whatsoever to the fisheries in question if they have vested in state under the provisions of the west bengal estate acquisition act of 1953 act x of 1954.
it may be noted that nalban fishery had been requisitioned by the state of west bengal under the provisions of requisition act since 5 11 1969 and possession thereof had been taken on 8 11 1969 and the sarkar family had challenged the said order unsuccessfully which final by the dismissal of the special leave petition by this court on 17 11 1972 on 25 5 1979 the collector 24 parganas who had been appointed as receiver realised that he could not have taken possession of nalban fishery as receiver since the said fishery had already been in possession of the state of west bengal pursuant to requisition order dated 5 11 1969 obviously the earlier compliance report dated 20 11 1978 that the receiver has taken possession of the nalban fishery was a symbolic one inasmuch as the state of west.
bengal was in fact in possession of the said fishery.
it may be noticed at this stage that bansilal farms appellant in appeal arising out of slp c no 13314 of 1992 was the highest offerer for running the boating complex on the surface water of nalban fishery and had been granted licence for that purpose and in fact had started the operation of the boating complex since 1991 but on the application of mrs dhira mitra one of the co sharers of the sarkar family the high court having issued an order of injunction the farm is no longer operating.
mr harish salve the learned senior counsel for the state of west bengal.
s s ray the learned senior counsel appearing for bansilal farms and mr g ramaswamy the learned senior counsel appearing for the state fishery development corporation ltd contended that a compromise decree between the parties in a suit for partition will not in army way affect the rights of the state in respect of the fisheries whether such rights the state acquires by virtue of an order of requisition under the requisition act or by virtue of any other statutory provisions under which the fisheries right vest in the state.
it was further contended that this court while giving affect to the compromise arrived at between the sarkar family made it explicitely clear that the said compromise will not in any way affect the rights of the state over the fisheries even if those fisheries agreed to be divided between the parties and in that view of the matter and the state of west bengal having already requisitioned the nalban fishery and having taken possession of the same the receiver could not have taken possession of the said nalban fishery pursuant to the order of this court appointing the collector 24 parganas as receiver and.
under the circumstances the said receiver rightly intimated this court about the mistake committed by him and re delivered possession of nalban fishery to the state of west bengal.
the calcutta high court both the learned single judge as well as the division bench committed serious error of law in directing the receiver to take possession of nalban fishery from the state of west bengal and deliver the vacant possession of the same to the members of the sarkar family.
gupta also contended that the order of the high court of honourable mr justice deepak kumar sen dated 23 9 1980 directing the receiver to allow m s ghose and saha surveyors to make proper demarcation in the nalban fishery dividing the same in two lots and thereafter carry out the directions of the supreme court in respect thereof has become final the same not having been challenged by the state of west.
on the question of vesting of the tank fishery under the amended provisions of the west bengal land reforms act mr.
gupta contended that the validity of the said act has been challenged and is pending before the calcutta high court an interim order has been passed in the said proceeding and therefore until that matter is decided it can not be said.
it is also not disputed that the state of west bengal though was not a party to the suit but in course of proceeding before this court by an order of the court the said state of west bengal was impleaded as a party.
the aforesaid order directing impleadment of the state of west bengal as a 7 party was obviously intended for the purpose that the interest of the state and the rights of the state in relation of the state and the rights of the state in relation of the state and the rights of the state in relation to several fisheries could be protected.
bengal in any manner whatsoever to the fisheries in question if they are vested in the state under the provisions of west bengal estates acquisition act1953.
the dismissal of the special leave petition as aforesaid affirmed that the nalban fishery had been legally requisitioned by the state of west bengal and the state was in possession of the same since 8 11 1969.
the receiver appointed by a court is an officer of the court.
we do not find any illegality in the act of the succeeding receiver in rectifying the earlier mistake and re delivering the possession of nalban fishery to the state of west bengal.
the next question that arises for consideration is whether the order of honourable mr justice deepak kumar sen dated 6 10 1980 would operate as res judicata since the state did not challenge the same.
the state of west bengal was neither a party to the proceedings nor was noticed by the high court before passing the order.
the order was in fact a direction to the collector 24 paraganas who had been appointed as a receiver by the supreme court in the pending appeal before it.
bengal in respect of the nalban fishery as the state was not a party to the proceedings.
after such demarcation is made the commissioner of partition is directed to approve the same and carry out the direction of the honble supreme court in respect thereof.
bengal which is otherwise protected by the supreme court while passing the compromise decree.
the direction of the learned single judge on the other hand is to carry out the directions of the supreme court in respect of the nalban fishery.
in view of our earlier conclusion that the rights and interest of the state of west bengal was not in any way be affected by the so called partition and allotment of the nalban fishery inter se amongst the members of the sarkar family the said order dated 63 10 1980 passed by the learned single judge of the calcutta high court will not stand on the way of the state in claiming and putting forth its interest and right over the nalban fishery.
the contention of mr gupta appearing for the respondents therefore cannot be sustained.
we would further observe that the state should determine the amount of compensation which the sarkar family is entitled to under the relevant provisions of the act under which nalban fishery vests with the state of west bengal and the compensation amount be paid on being determined in accordance with the law to the family members of sarkar family in whose favour nalban fishery had been allotted under the compromise decree by this court.
there will be no order as to costs.
order accordingly.
