in the event of contravention of the conditions guidelines norms and regula tions of the aicte the aicte could withdraw the approval at any time.
meanwhile the mahatama gandhi university by their letter dated 31 5 1995 forwarded to the government a list of colleges and courses for affiliation during the academic year 1995 96 the appellant s college was shown as one of the colleges among the affiliated colleges for the said period.
the learned single judge of the high court by his judgment dated 14 1 1997 allowed the writ petition quashed the above said order of the government dated 16 8 1996 and directed the mahatama gandhi university to consider the appellant s application for permanent affiliation without reference to the above letter of the government and pass appropriate order within 8 weeks from the date of the receipt of a copy of the judgment.
the division bench however observed that the appellant was at liberty to make a fresh application to the government of kerala for according sanction for setting up the engineering college or to request the government to consider the earlier application for a future academic year.
it is against the abovesaid judgment of the division bench that this appeal has been preferred.
learned senior counsel for the appellant.
iyer contended that the division bench erred in reversing the well considered judgment of the learned single judge and according to him after the coming into force of the aicte act1987the statutes conferring power on the state or university to the extent they were inconsistent with the central act were void.
the aicte had consulted the state of kerala as well as the mahatama gandhi university.
therefore the aicte consti tuted a task force and obtained its opinion and thereafter granted its approval on 13 11 1995 subject to various conditions.
according to the learned senior counsel it was indeed not necessary for the appellant to have applied to the state government for any further sanction to establish the college.
it might be that under the relevant statutes of the university the university was required to obtain the views of the state government but that did not amount to requiring any approval of the state government and indeed if any such statute required the approval of the state government it would be void in view of what was stated by this court in state of tamil nadu.
another v adhiyaman educational research institute.
on the other hand learned additional solicitor general sri mukul rohtagi contended on behalf of the state of kerala that the policy of the state of kerala at the relevant time was not to grant approval for establish ment of more engineering colleges in the state.
also there were four engineering colleges at kannur trichur kottayam and thiruvananthapuram districts and three private aided engineering colleges at palakkad ernakulam kothamangalam and kollam districts.
the model engineering college emakulam was a selffinancing engineering college and others were the colleges at changannur and pathansamthitta and there was a self financing engineering college at kasargode.
there were also two unaided engineering colleges at mallappuram and thiruvananthapuram.
thus the government policy was not to grant fresh approvals.
if more approvals were granted it might lead to commercialisation of education.
whether in view of the judgment of this court in state of tamil nadu another v adhiyaman educational research institute others1995 4 scc 104 1995 indlaw sc 1631the provisions of the aicte act1987 occupied the field and it was not necessary to obtain the further approval of the government or other authority.
2 whether the orders of rejection passed by the state government were valid on merits and whether the university should have granted further orders to continue the affiliation solely on the basis of the aicte permission.
cl s to declare technical institutions as fit to receive grants cl t to advice for declaring institutions to be deemed as universities cl u to set up a national board of accreditation.
s 11 of the act deals with inspection.
d no approved intake capacity of seats shall be increased or varied except with the approval of the council.
regulation 5 deals with the forms of the applications and regulation 6 deals with the conditions for grant of approval sub cls 1 of regulation 6 deals with the financial position.
sub cl 2 with the courses or programmes and sub cl 3 deals with the power of admissions and sub cl 4 with tuition fees etc and sub cl 5 with the staff and sub cl 6 with the governing body of the private institutions and subcl 7 with other matters.
regulation 8 deals with scrutiny of applications.
sub cl 4 of regulation 8 reads as follows.
sub cl 5 of regulation 8 requires the regional office to arrange visits by an expert committee constituted by the council which is to forward its recommendations to the council.
at that time in 1984the aicte act was not on the statute book.
the university also granted permission on 21 11 87 for the academic year 1987.
the learned single judge and the division bench held in favour of the trust and quashed and orders of the government and the university.
thus the state law under entry 23 of list iii would be repugnant to any law made by the parliament under entry 66 of list i to the extent of inconsistency.
the tamil nadu act was of 1976 and the university act was of 1923 and were laws referable to the list.
if there was any such existing law immediately before the commencement of the constitution within the meaning of art 372 of the constitution as the madras university act 1923 on the enactment of the present central act the provisions of the said law if repugnant to the provisions of the central act would stand impliedly repealed to the extent of repugnancy.
we shall now refer to the above judgment dealing with the question of approval for establishing technical institutions under s 10k of the aicte act.
the tamil nadu rules of 1976 made under the 1976 act had no doubt excluded technical institutions from the purview of the rules but this court pointed out that the rules were capable of being amended so as to extend to such technical institutions and that if they were so extended the state act of 1976 and the rules would require approval by the state government and that would be void.
it was stated that inasmuch as the state act will overlap and will be in conflict with the provisions of the central act in various areas.
granting approval for starting new technical institution.
thus in the two passages set out above this court clearly held that because of s 10k of the central act which vested the powers of granting approval in the council the t n act of 1976 and the university act1923 could not deal with any questions of approval for establishment of technical institutions.
all that was necessary was that under the regulations the aicte council had to consult them.
we are not inclined to agree.
it reads as follows grant of affiliation 1.
sub cl 1 of cl 9 of the statute required verification of the facilities that may exist for starting the new colleges course.
the commission was to inspect the site verify the title deeds as regards the proprietary right of the management over the land and buildings if any offered building accommodation provided if any assets of the management constitution of the registered body and all other relevant matters sub cl 2 of cl 9 stated that the affiliation shall depend upon the fulfilment by the management of all the conditions for the satisfactory establishment and maintenance of the proposed institutional courses of studies and on the reports of inspection by the commission or commissions which the university may appoint for the purpose.
if indeed the university statute could be so inter preted such a provision requiring approval of the state government would be repugnant to the provisions of s 10k of the aicte act1987 and would again be void.
these were sufficient safeguards for ascertaining the views of the state governments and the universities.
thus we hold in the present case that there was no statutory require ment for obtaining the approval of the state government and even if there was one it would have been repugnant to the aicte act.
if the university statute required approvalit would have been repugnant to the aicte act.
point 1 is decided accordingly.
the aicte had granted condition approval and the conditions were specified in annexure.
the state government in its counter then gave the names of the existing colleges and their location.
it also observed that there was widespread student prospects against starting new colleges and it was necessary to be cautious in the matter of starting new engineering colleges.
state government s refusal to grant permission is illegal and void on merits.
as already stated in view of the judgment of this court in tamil nadu case it is obvious that there is no need to approach the state of kerala for its approval for starting the engineering colleges.
the director of technical education of the state was a member of the state level committee as per regulation 94 of the aicte regulations.
the secretary technical education of the state of kerala was also a member of that committee.
the aicte s approval dated 30 4 95 showed that the approval had been given by the state level com mittee of which they were obviously members.
regulation 84 of aicte only required calling for the com ments recommendations of the state government and of the university.
in case there was difference between the state government university or the regional committee the central task force was to make a final recommen dation under regulation.
the letter of approval of the aicte dated 30 4 95 showed that the central task force had given its approval.
admittedly the university s inspection report was in favour of the appellant.
this is clear from the appellant s letter dated 31 5 95 to the state government.
obtaining the views of the state government as already stated did not amount to obtaining its approval.
the university was also one of the agencies consulted by the council of the aicte under regulation 8 once that was over and approval was granted by the aicte if there was any default on the part of the college in compliance with the conditions of approval the only remedy for the univer sity was to bring those facts to the notice of the aicte so that the latter could take appropriate action.
thus the university ought to have considered the grant of final or further affiliation without waiting for any approval from the state govern ment and should have acted on the basis of the permission granted by aicte and other relevant factors in the university act or statutes which are not inconsistent with the aicte act or its regulations.
for the aforesaid reasons we set aside the judgment of the division bench of the high court and uphold the reasoning of the learned single judge in his judgment in op 461296 dated 14 1 1997 we hold that the approval of the aicte was sufficient we do not also think that it was necessary for the learned single judge to direct the state government to reconsider its decision.
the learned single judge s order quashing the letter of the state government dated 16 8 96 is upheld.
it will be for the petitioner to have the said matter disposed of by the high court of delhi.
therefore this special leave petition is dismissed as premature.
appeal allowed.
