these appeals arising out of a judgment and order dated 26 4 2000 passed in writ petition no 1188 of 1997 by the high court of madhya pradesh indore bench involving similar questions of law and fact were taken up for hearing together and are being disposed of by this common judgment.
background facts.
the appellant nos 1 and 2 are degree holders in civil engineering and appellant nos.
allegedly from their salary provident fund was being deducted.
an industrial dispute was raised by the appellants herein as their services were not being regularized by the respondent.
proceedings before the tribunal.
the parties filed their respective pleadings before the labour court and also adduced their respective evidences.
the labour court on the basis of the materials produced before it arrived at the following findings 1.
all the employees have been working in the establishment of the respondents for last 5 6 years.
their work was satisfactory.
work has been taken by the respondent from all the appellants except four.
by reason of the impugned judgment dated 26 4 2000 the said writ petition was allowed.
the high court accepted the contention of the respondent authority that the appellants were not appointed against the sanctioned posts and their services were taken on account of the said oda project which was implemented through the agency of the respondent authority.
it was held that the services of the appellants can not be directed to be regularized in services.
before the high court various documents were produced by the appellants herein to show the nature of their employment but the same had not been taken on records by the high court.
dr dhawan would furthermore contend that the findings of fact had been arrived at by the labour court that the appellants of civil appeal no 337 of 2002 were appointed by the authority and not only their work was being taken in the project but also in other works and thus mere posting of the appellants to the said project would not disentitle them from the benefit of the said act.
the learned counsel would urge that a seniority list was also drawn up and an employment code was assigned to each one of the appellants from which fact the nature of their employment should be judged.
the learned counsel would submit that the sufficient materials were brought on records to show that vacancies were available and as the appellants worked for a period of more than six months they became permanent employees in terms of the act.
mr v r reddy learned senior counsel appearing on behalf of the respondents on the other hand would contend that indisputably the appellants were engaged by the respondent authority but such appointments were made for the purpose of the project financed by oda.
drawing our attention also to the pleadings as also the reliefs claimed for by the appellants before the labour court the learned counsel would contend that no contention was raised therein by the appellants as regard their entitlement of permanency in terms of the provisions of the 1961 act and the 1963 rules.
provisions section 22 of the 1961 act.
2 of the standard standing order reads as under 2.
i above.
the respondent authority is a state within the meaning of article.
indisputably the conditions precedent for appointment of the officers and servants of the authority as contained in the service rules had not been complied with.
the answer thereto must be rendered in negative.
regularisation can not be claimed as a matter of right.
an illegal appointment can not be legalized by taking recourse to regularization.
the constitutional scheme which the country has adopted does not contemplate any backdoor appointment.
a state before offering public service to a person must comply with the constitutional requirements of articles 14 and 16 of the constitution.
a daily wager in absence of a statutory provision in this behalf would not be entitled to regularization.
see state of u p others vs.
in a umarani vs registrar cooperative societies and ors.
jt 2004 6 sc 110 2004 indlaw sc 606 a three judge bench of this court of which we were members upon taking into consideration a large number of decisions held although we do not intend to express any opinion as to whether the cooperative society is a state within the meaning of article but it is beyond any cavil of doubt that the writ petition will be maintainable when the action of the cooperative society is violative of mandatory statutory provisions.
in this case except the nodal centre functions and supervision of the cooperative society the state has no administrative control over its day to day affairs.
the state has not created any post nor they could do so on their own.
such an order can not be upheld also on the ground that the employees allegedly served the cooperative societies for a long time.
yet recently in pankaj gupta ors etc.
jt 2004 8 sc 531 2004 indlaw sc 729 a division bench of this court opined no person illegally appointed or appointed without following the procedure prescribed under the law is entitled to claim that he should be continued in service.
in this situation we see no reason to interfere with the impugned order.
case law relied upon by the appellant.
in dr a k jain and others etc.
vs union of india and others 1987 supp.
scc 497.
in hindustan shipyard ltd 1996 indlaw sc 3441 supra this court also distinguished the said decision.
in niadar and another vs delhi administration and another 1992 4 scc 112 1988 indlaw sc 244 again no law has been laid down.
application of the act and the rules.
it is furthermore not in dispute that adhiniyam came into force in 1973.
the statute rules and regulations formed by the state govern the terms and conditions of service of the employees of the respondent.
the terms of conditions of service contained in the 1973 act and the 1987 rules are not in derogation of the provisions contained in schedule appended to the 1961 act.
the 1961 act provides for classification of employees in five categories.
the 1973 act as noticed hereinbefore clearly mandates that all posts should be sanctioned by the state government and all appointments to the said cadre must be made by the state government alone.
the said provisions were not complied with.
it is accepted that no appointment letter was issued in favour of the appellants.
who made the appointments of the appellants to the project or other works carried on by the authority is not known.
the said seniority list was not prepared in terms of the classification of employees within the meaning of the 1961 act and the rules framed there under but was based on the date of joining probably for the purpose of maintenance of records.
the 1973 act or the rules framed there under do not provide for appointments on ad hoc basis or on daily wages.
the appellants have not produced any such ticket.
the matter relating to recruitment is governed by the 1973 act and the 1987 rules.
in m p vidyut karamchari sangh vs m p electricity board 2004 9 scc 755 2004 indlaw sc 198 a three judge bench of this court held that a regulation which is not inconsistent with the provisions of the 1961 act and the rules can be issued by a statutory authority.
vis a vis the 1973 act and the rules framed thereunder.
for the purpose of regularization which would confer on the concerned employee a permanent status there must exist a post.
we have used the term keeping in view the provisions of 1963 rules.
presumably the appellants were aware of the statutory limitations in this behalf.
a demand which was not raised at the time of raising the dispute could not have been gone into by the labour court being not the subject matter thereof.
the questions which have been raised before us by dr dhawan had not been raised before the labour court.
the labour court in absence of any pleadings or any proof as regard application of the 1961 act and the 1963 rules had proceeded on the basis that they would become permanent employees in terms of order 2ii and 2vi of the annexure appended thereto.
the scheme of the employees provident fund or the leave rules would not alter the nature and character of their appointments.
the nature of their employment continues save and except a case where a statute interdicts which in turn would be subject to the constitutional limitations.
for the purpose of obtaining a permanent status constitutional and statutory conditions precedent therefor must be fulfilled.
project work.
as noticed hereinbefore the high court s observation remained unchallenged that the project was to be financed by oda.
such a relief would have been beyond the scope and purport of the reference made to the labour court by the state government.
furthermore the indore municipal corporation was not a party and thus no employee could be thrust upon it without its consent.
see also karnataka state coop.
apex bank ltd vs.
however it has been seen that even services of one of them had been requisitioned only for the project work.
one of such documents was offers of appointment.
they did not do so.
in absence of any pleadings the appellants could not have called for any document to show that the provisions of the 1961 act and 1963 rules would apply.
the labour court did not draw any adverse inference.
such a plea was not even raised before the high court.
recently in m p electricity board vs hariram etc.
the application calling for the production of the documents was for the years 1987 to 1992.
as stated above between the period 1987 to 1990 as a matter of fact till end of the year 1990 the respondents have not been able to establish the case of continuous work for 240 days.
considering these facts in our view drawing of an adverse inference for the non production of the muster rolls for the years 1991 92 is wholly erroneous on the part of the industrial court and the high court.
the above burden having not been discharged and the labour court having held so in our opinion the industrial court and the high court erred in basing an order of re instatement solely on an adverse inference drawn erroneously.
at this stage it may be useful to refer to a judgment of this court in the case of muncipal corporation faridabad vs siri niwas jt 2004 7 sc 248 2004 indlaw sc 719 wherein this court disagreed with the high court s view of drawing an adverse inference in regard to the non production of certain relevant documents.
this is what this court had to say in that regard.
the presumption thus is not obligatory because notwithstanding the intentional non production other circumstances may exist upon which such intentional non production may be found to be justifiable on some reasonable grounds.
in the instant case the industrial tribunal did not draw any adverse inference against the appellant.
the burden was on the appellants to establish that they had a right to invoke the said doctrine in terms of article 14 of the constitution of india.
for the purpose of invoking the said doctrine the nature of the work and responsibility attached to the post are some of the factors which were bound to be taken into consideration.
the respondent workers can not be held to hold any posts to claim even comparison with the regular and permanent staff for any or all purposes including a claim for equal pay and allowances.
no material was placed before the high court as to the nature of the duties of either categories and it is not possible to hold that the principle of equal pay for equal work is an abstract one.
there shall however be no order as to costs.
