leave granted.
interpretation of the provisions of s 461b of the trade and merchandise marks act1958 hereinafter called and referred to for the sake of brevity as the said act is involved herein.
an ex parte order of injunction was passed on 19 12 1985 against the defendant appellant herein to the following effect.
notice for april 81986 meanwhile a temporary ex parte injunction is issued against the defendants restraining them from manufacturing or selling either themselves or through any dealer or representative diesel oil engines or parts thereof with the trade mark field marshal andor any other trade mark identical therewith and all goods falling in cl 7 of the trade and merchandise mark rules.
indisputably during the proceedings in the above suit m s.
jain industries by a deed of assignment assigned the said trade mark along with its goodwill in favour of the appellant.
indisputably first respondent filed an application under section 4656 and 107 of the act marked as c o no 9 of 1986contending that m s jain industries having not used the trade mark in respect of centrifugal pumps for a period more than five years and one month the mark should be taken off the register.
it claimed user of the said mark since 1963 and sought for rectification of the register by expunging the expression circulation and centrifugal pumps from the specification of goods.
suraj bhan belanganj agra.
that pursuant to a request on form tm 23 dated 17th june1986 and order thereon dated 24th october1986.
the registration of the aforesaid trade mark has been renewed from time to time and will remain in force for a period of a seven years from 13th.
may1986 and may be renewed at the expiration of that period and of each succeeding period of a seven years.
in the said c o no 9 of 1986 filed by the first respondent against m s jain industries despite service of notice nobody appeared on behalf of the defendant 16 1 1987 was the date fixed in the said suit.
in view of that statement a submission was made on behalf of the first respondent that it may be permitted to withdraw the petition with liberty to file a fresh petition on the same cause of action.
mr singh has filed a reply in this petition bringing out that presently he is the registered owner of the trademark which is sought to be cancelled in this petition.
statement of shri k l aggarwal counsel for petitioner without oath.
in view of the submissions of m s thakural mechanical works i may be permitted to withdraw this petition with permission to file a fresh petition on this very cause of action.
against m s jain industries and the dy.
registrar of trade marks under section 4656 and 107 of the trade and merchandise marks act1958 for rectification of entry relating to the registered trade mark no 228867 in class 7 after.
trade mark no 228867 in.
the request is not opposed on behalf of m s thakural mechanical works.
the petition is accordingly filed as withdrawn leaving the parties to bear their own costs.
the said m s jain industries however was not impleaded as a party therein.
the cause of action therefor was stated to have arisen in the following circumstances that the cause of action for the present petition arose in favour of the petitioner and against the respondents in the month of january 1987 when the respondent informed this honourable court that they have been recorded as subsequent proprietors of the impugned registered trade mark no 228867 in class 7 in c o no 9 of 1986whereupon the petitioner withdrew the said earlier petition c o no 9 of 1986 with permission of the court to file the present petition because of the changed circumstances.
the cause of action is continuous from day to day till the impugned registration is cancelled rectified.
correctness or otherwise of the said order has not been questioned.
the core question which arises for our consideration is as to whether in the aforementioned facts and circumstances of the case the application under s 461b was maintainable.
whereas s 46 had a limited application s 56 of the act is wider in nature.
for the purpose of appreciation of the rival contentions we may notice the findings of the board as also the high court.
the board has taken the view that the period of five years and one month will begin to run from the date on which thukral became the proprietor of the trademark that is30th may1986 and therefore the rectification application could have been filed by the appellant only sometime in 1991 opining that an application for rectification against the appellant within a period of seven and a half months from the date of assignment of the trade mark was not maintainable the application was dismissed.
the high court on the other hand opined it was not anybody s case before us that m s jain industries.
the registered proprietor of the trademark used it at all.
if thukral did then it can not be said that there was no bona fide use thereof by its proprietor.
that is m s jain industries.
this appears to be the position at least till 30th may1986 in.
the act was enacted to provide for the registration and better protection of trademarks and for the prevention of the use of fraudulent marks of merchandise.
3 scc 576 1992 indlaw sc 1107 or in the context of cl 22 of art 366 of the constitution as has been held in h h maharajadhiraja.
user of the said mark therefore entails the consequences laid down under cl b of sub s 1 of s 46.
when the applicant before the board establishes the fact in regard to non user of the mark for a period of more than five years on the part of the registered owner the latter may show that his case falls within the purview of sub s 3 of s 46.
indisputably it would be the registered proprietor.
s 46 is a penal provision.
it therefore can be taken away only when the conditions laid down therefor are satisfied.
while we say so we are not oblivious of the fact that trafficking in trade mark is to be discouraged.
a registered proprietor of a trade mark should not be permitted to circumvent the law of user of the trade mark for a long time by assigning the same from time to time.
but then such a case has to be made out.
allegation of trafficking is a serious one.
it must be proved in presence of the person against whom such allegations are made.
renewal of registration in a sense also is not automatic.
as a person obtains a right on and from the date of registration andor renewal thereof he can ordinarily be deprived of his right unless it is shown that the assignment thereof by his holder was not a bona fide one or had been made by way of camouflage.
it must however be observed that whether a use is for bona fide purpose would essentially be a question of fact.
whether s 461b read with s 48 of the act would bring within its purview not only a registered proprietor but also the proprietor who had otherwise acquired a right would depend upon the facts and circumstances of each case.
sub s 3 covers a case falling within cl b and not the cl a thereof.
in kabushiki kaisha toshiba this court relied upon hardie trading ltd anr.
the submission of mr sudhir chandra.
it did not.
we are not concerned herein as to since when it had been doing so.
but it is another thing to say that the appellant could be proceeded against alone for non user of the registered trade mark for a period of more than five years.
notes on clauses.
consequential amendments have been made to cover services cl 47 of the bill.
such an application may be maintainable in terms of s 56 of the act but strictly not in terms of s 461b thereof and that too in the absence of the original registered proprietor.
it only consented for grant of liberty in favour of the first respondent for filing of an application for the self same cause of action.
the question of maintainability of the second suit is absence of the registrant proprietor was not and could not have been the subject matter of consent at that stage.
the cause of action which permitted the first respondent to file an application for rectification against m s jain industries was non user thereof by it.
its non user and rectification of the register could not in the aforementioned situation have been tagged with the cause of action if any against the appellant.
the board could not while exercising its jurisdiction under s 461bof the act proceeded on the basis of such presumption.
it is not correct that no cause of action survived against jain industries.
while interpreting the same however certain basic principles of construction of statute must be kept in mind.
as it takes away somebody s right it deserves strict construction.
the right of a registered trade mark is not lost automatically on the expiry of five years and one month.
it does not provide for a sun set law.
whether the registered proprietor of the trade mark had taken recourse to trafficking or not must be determined in an appropriate proceeding.
the principle of purchaser of a property has a duty to make enquiriestherefore cannot apply in a case of this nature.
a title to a trade mark derived on assignment as provided for under the act can not be equated with a defective title acquired in any other property as admittedly on the date of assignment the right of the registered trade mark was not extinguished.
in the case of american home products corporation v mac laboratories pvt ltd.
rendered under the 1958 act it was held by the supreme court that the person seeking to have the trade mark removed from the register has only to prove.
it would appear that neither the u k act nor the indian act at any time envisaged that the commencement of 5 year period of non use is to be delinked from the date of registration of the mark so as to give a fresh lease of life to the registration every time there is change in the ownership of the mark.
if that be so any registered proprietor could easily defeat an application for rectification by assigning the mark to some other person to have a fresh period of 5 years from the date of assignment and thus effectively frustrate the very object of the provision in s 471a and b further it is to be noted that an assignment is subject to the provisions of the act and any rights vested in any other person see.
s 37 the assignor can not obviously transfer more rights than he himself has to the assignee under the act.
we do not think that the approach of the learned author is entirely correct.
if his title is not extinguished by reason of a provision of a statute for non user of the trade mark for a period of five years any assignment made shall be valid subject to such situation which we have noticed in paragraph 25 supra.
the appeal is allowed with costs.
counsel s fee assessed at rs 100000.
appeal allowed.
