on the basis of the aforesaid f i r investigation was taken up initially by p w 40.
subsequently on the basis of the order of the high court such investigation was completed by p w 42 the accused is stated to have been arrested on suspicion on 26 4 2003 on the basis of the statement of the accused prosecution discovered many materials including a knife and a log allegedly used for killing.
initially p w 40 suspected the role of p w 1his wife p w 2p w 3from whose house certain incriminating material were recovered allegedly on the basis of statement of the accused as well as p w 4who was working as a cleaner in the vehicle of p w 1 subsequently however p w 42who took over investigation from p w 40 filed charge sheet only against the present appellant on the footing that p ws 1 to 4 had no role to play in the crime.
p 6 is the statement leading to recovery of travel bags m os 2 3knife m 0 5wooden log m 0 28rubber gloves m 0 29 series cotton rope with human hair mn o 30 seriestwo sponges soaked with blood m 0 31 seriesbloodstained blue clolour jean pant m 0 32bloodstained white banian m 0 33colour banian m 0 34bloodstained grey colour pant m 0 35bloodstained pillow m 0 36plastic bucket m 0 37 from the house of p w 3 ex p 8 is the statement leading to recovery of computer and its accessories m os 6 to 17 from the house of p w 15a classmate of the accused.
p 10 is the statement relating to jewelleries ultimately leading to recovery of gold ingots m o 18 series from the house of p w 19 on the basis of other connecting statements of p w 17 and p w 18 these three statements exs p 6p 8 and p 10 dated 26 4 2003were made before p w 40 in the presence of p w 22 and c w 1 the other confessional statement ex.
the prosecution has also relied upon the alleged motive to the effect that the accused urgently wanted money with a view to increase his marks in mathematics and therefore the accused had stolen articles belonging to the deceased.
the trial court found the respondent guilty and recorded conviction and imposed sentence as aforestated.
a the death is homicidal b the accused was in need of money to chase mathematics paper and for the aforesaid purpose he has killed the deceased to take away the valuable articles like computer and gold ornaments to sell such articles in the market.
d statement of the accused leading to recovery of incriminating materials such as knife rope clothes wooden log and other valuable articles such as computer gold ornamentsm dollar and the key chain with key belonging to the deceased.
learned counsel for the appellant submitted that the high court failed to notice that the circumstances highlighted clearly establish the chain of circumstances which established the prosecution version and the high court was not justified in directing acquittal.
learned counsel for the respondent on the other hand supported the judgment of the high court.
the conviction based on circumstantial evidence has been highlighted by this court in various orders of this court.
it has been consistently laid down by this court that where a case rests squarely on circumstantial evidence the inference of guilt can be justified only when all the incriminating facts and circumstances are found to be incompatible with the innocence of the accused or the guilt of any other person see hukam singh v state of rajasthan air 1977 sc 1063 1977 indlaw sc 433 eradu and ors v.
sukhbasi and ors air 1985 sc 1224 1985 indlaw sc 71 balwinder singh v state of punjab air 1987 sc 350 1986 indlaw sc 35 ashok kumar chatterjee v state of m p air 1989 sc 1890 1989 indlaw sc 443 the circumstances from which an inference as to the guilt of the accused is drawn have to be proved beyond reasonable doubt and have to be shown to be closely connected with the principal fact sought to be inferred from those circumstances.
193 1996 indlaw sc 3059wherein.
it has been observed thus.
in padala veera reddy v state of a p and ors air 1990.
in state of u p v.
1992 indlaw sc 107it was pointed out that great care must be taken in evaluating circumstantial evidence and if the evidence relied on is reasonably capable of two inferences the one in favour of the accused must be accepted.
it was also pointed out that the circumstances relied upon must be found to have been fully established and the cumulative effect of all the facts so established must be consistent only with the hypothesis of guilt.
v state of madhya.
in other words there must be a chain of evidence so far complete as not to leave any reasonable ground for a conclusion consistent with the innocence of the accused and it must be such as to show that within all human probability the act must have been done by the accused.
they are 1 the circumstances from which the conclusion of guilt is to be drawn should be fully established.
information as to past user or the past history of the object produced is not related to his discovery in the setting in which it is discovered.
but if to the statement the words be added with which stabbed athese words are inadmissible since they do not related to the discovery of the knife in the house of the informant.
the various requirements of the section can be summed up as follows.
the relevancy of the fact discovered must be established according to the prescriptions relating to relevancy of other evidence connecting it with the crime in order to make the fact discovered admissible.
the fact must have been discovered.
the person giving the information must be accused of any offence.
he must be in the custody of a police officer.
the rest is inadmissible.
to similar effect was the view expressed in k chinnaswamy reddy v state of a p air 1962 sc 1788 1962 indlaw sc 192.
while testing the reliability of such evidence the court has to see whether it was voluntarily stated by the accused.
the prosecution version to the effect that even some signatures on blank papers had been taken from p w 22 and c w 1 thus assumes great importance.
the alleged statement made by the accused led to discovery of knife bloodstained clothes rope etc.
unfortunately for the prosecution there is no evidence to show that in fact the wearing apparels containing bloodstains belonged to the accused save and except the alleged confessional statement.
apart from the fact that there is niggling doubt about the so called confession in view of statement under section 164 of the code of p w 22 and the statement of c w 1a further doubt is raised regarding such aspect in view of evidence of c w 1 to the effect that he had seen such computer in the room of the deceased when they had gone to the room after the offence was reported.
it is quite possible that such articles might have been borrowed by the accused from the deceased and not necessarily stolen by the accused from the deceased after killing her.
the fact that p w 9 had not initially stated anything before p w 40 about the accused coming down with computer at 3 30 p m and stated so for the first time when she was re examined after 5 months can not be lost sight of.
i did not tell this even to the inspector of police after going to the police station.
the next recovery relates to the ingots.
since the golden jewellery had been molten and were recovered in the shape of ingots it would be very hazardous to come to the conclusion that in fact the golden jewellery belonged to the deceased.
the fact that ear rings were on the dead body is admitted by the prosecution.
the prosecution has strongly relied upon the fact that m dollar belonging to the deceased and a chain with key of the room of the deceased were discovered from inside the toilet in the room which was previously occupied by the accused.
such alleged confession made belatedly thus creates doubt regarding its authenticity or voluntariness.
when the judgment of the high court is analysed in the background of what has been stated by this court as regards circumstantial evidence the inevitable conclusion is that the impugned judgment of the high court does not suffer from any infirmity to warrant interference.
the appeal is dismissed.
appeal dismissed.
