on 19 04 1988 between 8 30 p m and 8 45 p m satish narayan sawant the appellant accused No 1 along with two other accused persons and also with two delinquent children allegedly formed an unlawful assembly and that in furtherance of the said common object stabbed one rauji dulba sawant the deceased and also assaulted baby dulba sawant pw 1 ashok dulba sawant pw 2 kunda rauji sawant pw 8 and laxmi dulba sawant pw 18 who are the sister brother wife and mother respectively of the deceased.
it is also the case of the prosecution that as a result of the aforesaid stab injuries given to the deceased he expired on the same day i e on 19 04 1988.
he was informed that the deceased had died as a result of stab injuries received and therefore he was to take necessary steps.
on receipt of the aforesaid message pw 21 along with asi tabit mamlekar went to the scene of offence.
on enquiring from her pw 21 learnt that her name was yeshoda who was later on arrayed as accused No 3.
religious ceremony was performed by installing the statue of lord ganesh in the house and.
accused No 3 told the appellant not to do anything in the ceremony and insulted the family members of rauji.
pw 1 also alleged that on 19 04 1988 the deceased rauji returned from his duty at about 6 30 p m and thereafter went to purchase some articles.
on his return he went to take bath and after having bath he went and switched off the light of the room.
as soon as the deceased switched off the light the appellant came from the room and started abusing rauji.
there was a heated exchange of words between rauji and the appellant switched on the light which was again switched off by rauji the deceased.
thereupon the appellant went and removed the fuse of the said light.
accused No 3 had then lit a kerosene lamp and brought the same in the hall.
thereafter the appellant and the two other alleged accused namely accused nos 2 and 3 and the two juvenile offenders gathered in the hall to assault rauji the deceased pw 1 and pw 8.
when they went there the appellant went to his mother s room and brought a knife with which he stabbed rauji.
at that time all the accused persons were in the balcony.
then accused No 3 told the appellant and accused No 2 to finish off rauji first.
pw 18 rushed to the rescue of deceased rauji.
the accused then started assaulting her and pw 8 with slaps.
on completion of the investigation the police submitted the charge sheet against the accused persons namely the present appellant accused No 1 accused nos 2 and 3 and the two juvenile offenders namely sarita and sharmila.
the accused pleaded not guilty and claimed to be tried.
he further submitted that there was not only shifting of time of the alleged occurrence but also shifting of the place of occurrence from the hall to the outside verandah and courtyard to suit the convenience of the prosecution case.
he submitted that since there was violation of the provisions of section 162 of the crpc the accused appellant is liable to be acquitted.
302 ipc.
counsel for the respondent has therefore taken us through the evidence of pws.
there is also evidence on record to show that even outsiders were watching the incident from the road which indicates that there was sufficient light for them to see what was happening in the house where the incident had taken place.
the said fact is proved by the evidence of pws.
2 8 18 and the complainant herself pw 1.
pw 21 who was at that time attached to konda police station as psi was informed at about 10 45 p m that the deceased while was being brought in the police jeep by a police constable jaisingrao rane and was being taken to the government medical college but before the deceased could be admitted he died.
on receiving the said message he went to the place of occurrence along with psi k k desai and upon reaching the place of occurrence at 11 30 p m he found the entire place plunged in total darkness.
he also recovered the knife at the instance of accused sharmila which he seized.
on medical examination his injury was found to be simple.
p c he next submitted that no evidence having been led by the prosecution about the time when the fir reached the magistrate therefore there is also violation of the provisions of section 157 of the cr.
what is investigation is not defined in the code of criminal procedure but in h n rishbud and inder singh v state of delhi 1954 indlaw sc 14 this court has described the procedure for investigation as follows thus under the code investigation consists generally of the following steps 1 proceeding to the spot 2 ascertainment of the facts and circumstances of the case 3 discovery and arrest of the suspected offender 4 collection of evidence relating to the commission of the offence which may consist of a the examination of various persons including the accused and the reduction of their statements into writing if the officer thinks fit b the search of places of seizure of things considered necessary for the investigation and to be produced at the trial and 5 formation of the opinion as to whether on the material collected there is a case to place the accused before a magistrate for trial and if so taking the necessary steps for the same by the filing of a charge sheet section this court however has not said that if a police officer takes merely one or two of the steps indicated by it what he has done must necessarily be regarded as investigation.
investigation in substance means collection of evidence relating to the commission of the offence.
he is also entitled to search the place of the offence and to search other places with the object of seizing articles connected with the offence.
but the main object of investigation being to bring home the offence to the offender the essential part of the duties of an investigating officer in this connection is apart from arresting the offender to collect all material necessary for establishing the accusation against the offender.
emphasis underlined.
in the instant case it is quite clear from the evidence on record that pw 1 received the information about the death of the deceased from psi of panaji police station without any detail as to how the incident had happened and who had caused the incident.
when he reached at the place of occurrence even the complainant party was not available there.
after reaching the police station and at the request of pw 1 the fir was recorded at 3 00 a m in the morning.
therefore recording of the fir at about 3 00 a m in the morning was justified and properly explained and it can not be said that there was any delay in recording the fir.
besides the fact of his going to the place of occurrence would not amount to making an investigation.
there is no evidence to show that at that point of time pw 21 seized any articles or interrogated any witnesses or took any other action in initiating or in furtherance of investigation.
in animireddy venkata ramana and others v public prosecutor high court of andhra pradesh 2008 5 scc 368 2008 indlaw sc 354 this court while considering a similar case observed as follows 10.
certain basic facts are not denied or disputed.
immediately after the incident hearing cries of passengers the driver of the bus stopped the bus.
they acceded to his request to take the bus to his house.
in any event the destination of the bus was the said village and they were bound to take the bus thereat.
the conductor of the bus sent an information to the depot manager of the state road transport corporation at tuni.
the investigating officer was also informed.
the place of occurrence was in total darkness and even the persons belonging to the complainant side were not available therefore bringing them to the police station where there was sufficient light and recording the complaint at 3 00 a m can not in any manner cast any doubt on the veracity of the prosecution case.
in that view of the matter we do not agree with the counsel appearing for the appellant that delay in transmitting the fir to the magistrate stands proved in the present case.
it is also established from the evidence on record for it is clearly stated that the street light having tube light was giving sufficient light to the place of occurrence and that it was directed towards the house which was the place of occurrence.
the said eye witnesses are consistent about the principal act of the appellant in stabbing the deceased.
this court has observed as follows in the case of dinesh kumar v state of rajasthan 2008 8 scc 270 2008 indlaw sc 2034 11.
the mere fact that the witnesses were related to the deceased can not be a ground to discard their evidence.
in law testimony of an injured witness is given importance.
conviction can be made on the basis of such evidence.
he further stated that the death was caused due to hemorrhage and shock as a result of stab injury.
there is cogent and reliable evidence on record to prove and establish that the accused has committed the act of stabbing as a result of which the deceased had died.
section 299 defines culpable homicide as the act of causing death i with the intention of causing death or ii with the intention of causing such bodily injury as is likely to cause death or iii with the knowledge that such act is likely to cause death.
the bare reading of the section makes it crystal clear that the first and the second clause of the section refer to intention apart from the knowledge and the third clause refers to knowledge alone and not intention.
both the expression intent and knowledge postulate the existence of a positive mental attitude which is of different degrees.
in the case of state of a p v rayavarapu punnayya 1976 4 scc 382 1976 indlaw sc 192 this court observed as follows at page 386 12.
all murder is culpable homicide but not vice versa.
the first is what may be called culpable homicide of the first degree.
this is the greatest form of culpable homicide which is defined in section 300 as murder.
the second may be termed as culpable homicide of the second degree.
this is punishable under the first part of section 304.
then there is culpable homicide of the third degree.
culpable homicide of this degree is punishable under the second part of section 304.
placing strong reliance on the aforesaid decision this court in the case of abdul waheed khan v state of a p 2002 7 scc 175 2002 indlaw sc 1777 observed as follows at page 184 13.
instances of cases falling u cl 2 of section 300 can be where the assailant causes death by a fist blow intentionally given knowing that the victim is suffering from an enlarged liver or enlarged spleen or diseased heart and such blow is likely to cause death of that particular person as a result of the rupture of the liver or spleen or the failure of the heart as the case may be.
3 of section 300 is one of degree of probability of death resulting from the intended bodily injury.
to put it more broadly it is the degree of probability of death which determines whether a culpable homicide is of the gravest medium or the lowest degree.
rajwant singh v state of kerala is an apt illustration of this point.
1958 indlaw sc 82 vivian bose j speaking for the court explained the meaning and scope of cl.
this part of the enquiry is purely objective and inferential and has nothing to do with the intention of the offender.
to put it shortly the prosecution must prove the following facts before it can bring a case under section 300 thirdly first it must establish quite objectively that a bodily injury is present secondly the nature of the injury must be proved these are purely objective investigations.
once these three elements are proved to be present the enquiry proceeds further and fourthly it must be proved that the injury of the type just described made up of the three elements set out above is sufficient to cause death in the ordinary course of nature.
if he can show that he did not or if the totality of the circumstances justify such an inference then of course the intent that the section requires is not proved.
but if there is nothing beyond the injury and the fact that the appellant inflicted it the only possible inference is that he intended to inflict it.
these observations of vivian bose j have become locus classicus.
the test laid down by virsa singh case4 for the applicability of clause thirdly is now ingrained in our legal system and has become part of the rule of law.
under clause thirdly of section 300 ipc culpable homicide is murder if both the following conditions are satisfied i e a that the act which causes death is done with the intention of causing death or is done with the intention of causing a bodily injury and b that the injury intended to be inflicted is sufficient in the ordinary course of nature to cause death.
thus according to the rule laid down in virsa singh case4 even if the intention of the accused was limited to the infliction of a bodily injury sufficient to cause death in the ordinary course of nature and did not extend to the intention of causing death the offence would be murder.
c of section 299 and cl.
it will be sufficient to say that cl.
the above are only broad guidelines and not cast iron imperatives.
in most cases their observance will facilitate the task of the court.
but sometimes the facts are so intertwined and the second and the third stages so telescoped into each that it may not be convenient to give a separate treatment to the matters involved in the second and third stages.
as already noted it is quite clear from the record that there was an altercation preceding the incident.
there is therefore provocation and the incident happened at the spur of the moment.
that being the factual position we are of the considered view that the present case can not be said to be a case section but it is a case falling under section 304 part ii ipc.
it is trite law that section 304 part ii comes into play when the death is caused by doing an act with knowledge that it is likely to cause death but there is no intention on the part of the accused either to cause death or to cause such bodily injury as is likely to cause death.
appeal disposed of.
