wordy altercations ensued between the parties and jage ram insisted that he would take away the entire pullas.
in the fight the accused persons started inflicting injuries to the complainant and his sons rajbir.
raju a 2 gave a pharsi blow on the head of sukhbir jage ram a 1 caused injury to jagdish pw 5 with two jaily blows.
jagdish and his injured sons raised alarm hearing which rajesh and usha came to rescue them and on seeing them the accused persons fled away.
6 mange ram.
statement of jagdish was recorded based on which f i r was registered at police station taoru gurgaon under sections 323 324 325 and 307 read with section 34 ipc.
he examined the witnesses and after completion of investigation challan was filed under sections 307 325 324 read with section 34 ipc.
in the trial court prosecution examined nine witnesses including jagdish pw5 mange ram pw6 and dr prem kumar pw2 and dr hiiol kanti pal pw9.
neuro surgeon pw8 investigating officer and other witnesses.
p c about the incriminating evidence and circumstances.
jagdish further claims that he along with rakesh caused injuries to the complainant party in exercise of right of private defence of property.
the high court vide impugned judgment dated 19 8 2011 modified the judgment of the trial court thereby convicted jage ram a 1 section 325 ipc and sentenced him to undergo rigorous imprisonment for one year convicted second accused rajbir.
both the sentences were ordered to run concurrently.
additionally the learned counsel contended that the defence plea of private defence was not considered by the courts below in proper perspective.
it was submitted that the medical evidence sufficiently corroborated the oral evidence and the prosecution has established the intention of the 2nd accused in causing attempt to commit murder of sukhbir and in appreciation of the evidence courts below recorded concurrent findings convicting the second accused section 307 ipc and the same warrants no interference.
in the wordy altercation second accused rajbir.
raju gave pharsi blows on the head of sukhbir.
they have also stated that madan and rakesh caused injuries to pw5 jagdish with lathi on shoulder and left elbow respectively.
pws 5 and 6 being injured witnesses their evidence is entitled to great weight.
dr pardeep kumar pw 2 who examined sukhbir found during his medico legal examination a lacerated wound in the middle of the top of the skull.
injured sukhkbir was found vomiting in the hospital and he was examined by a neuro surgeon dr hilol kanti pal pw 9 of safdarjung hospital delhi on 19 11 1994 i e the day after the incident.
for the purpose of conviction section 307 ipc prosecution has to establish i the intention to commit murder and ii the act done by the accused.
whether the accused person intended to commit murder of another person would depend upon the facts and circumstances of each case.
to justify a conviction section 307 ipc it is not essential that fatal injury capable of causing death should have been caused.
in the case of state of m p vs kashiram ors.
it is not essential that bodily injury capable of causing death should have been inflicted.
the section makes a distinction between the act of the accused and its result if any.
whether there was intention to kill or knowledge that death will be caused is a question of fact and would depend on the facts of a given case.
the circumstances that the injury inflicted by the accused was simple or minor will not by itself rule out application of section 307 ipc.
this position was illuminatingly stated by this court in sevaka perumal v state of t n 1991 3 scc 471 1991 indlaw sc 683.
having regard to the weapon used for causing the head injuries to sukhbir nature of injures situs of the injury and the severity of the blows courts below recorded concurrent findings convicting the 2nd appellant section in our considered view the conviction of the second appellant rajbir.
307 ipc is unassailable.
question of awarding sentence is a matter of discretion and the same has to be exercised by the courts taking into consideration all the relevant circumstances.
what sentence would meet the ends of justice would depend upon the facts and circumstances of each case and the courts must keep in mind the gravity of the offence motive for the crime nature of the offence and all other attendant circumstances.
in the heat of passion the accused have caused injuries to the complainant party.
the second accused rajbir.
he surrendered on 5 1 2012 and is stated to be in custody since then for more than three years.
having regard to the facts and circumstances of the case in our considered view the period of sentence of five years may be reduced to three years apart from directing the second appellant rajbir.
when the matter came up for hearing on 14 10 2014 learned counsel for the appellants informed the court that he had offered rs 500000 by way of demand draft towards compensation to the injured sukhbir in the presence of the sarpanch of the village which he has refused to receive the same.
the said amount of rs 500000 is now kept in fixed deposit in the registry of this court.
having regard to the fact that the occurrence was of the year 1994 considering the other facts and circumstances of the case the sentence of imprisonment imposed on jage ram a 1 madan a 3 and rakesh a 4 is reduced to the period already undergone by them.
the conviction of a 1 section 325 ipc a 3 and a 4 section 323 ipc is confirmed and the sentence is reduced to the period already undergone by each of them.
second appellant rajbir.
appeal allowed.
