in view of enactment of displaced persons compensation and rehabilitation act1954 by the union of india the immovable properties left behind by muslims who had migrated to pakistan were acquired and the same was distributed to displaced persons as a compensation pool.
accordingly father of the appellant was allotted a land admeasuring 2 acres 5 gunthas bearing revenue survey nos 351 and 1182 situated at village lonavala taluka maval district pune.
the facts in brief as narrated in the impugned order are that survey nos 118328 and 351 of lonavala were originally owned by one haji habib tar mohammed janu.
the said haji habib tar mohammed janu migrated to pakistan and while going to pakistan he sold his property to one smt.
in the said sale certificate the c t s no 129130 a130 b and 133 of village lonavala were mentioned.
on the basis of the said sale certificate the mutation entry no 1836 was effected in the village record in favour of gulabai desai and thereby her name was entered in survey nos 1181b and 328 of village lonavala to the extent of 29 30 ares and 70 ares respectively.
prem hasmatraj lalwani in the year 1980.
in the impugned order division bench made it clear that since the dispute between the parties was in respect of the area as to what has been purchased in auction sale by gulabai desai and what is the area allotted to the appellant by the orders of the deputy collector and deputy custodian of evacuee properties the appellant requested the bench not to enter into the merits on this question in this lpa since the parties may prosecute their remedies in the civil court for such adjudication and therefore that aspect was not considered by the high court.
however in the facts of the conflicting claims the appellant made grievance to the deputy collector and the deputy custodian of evacuee properties in respect of the mutation made in favour of the respondent gulabai and other respondents and therefore by order dated 18 9 1984 the deputy collector and deputy custodian of evacuee properties pune directed the sub divisional officer haveli sub division to take up the case in revision under section 257 of maharashtra land revenue code and pass necessary orders.
in view of these directions the sub divisional officer haveli sub division pune initiated proceeding rts revision 14 of 1984 and by order dated 30 7 1985 cancelled the mutation entry no 1836 which comprises land admeasuring 7897 sq yards and directed necessary corrections in the record as per the observations made in the order.
it appears that the said order was taken in appeal by the respondent and the matter was remanded to the sub divisional officer.
therefore the rts appeal no 128 of 1987 was preferred before the collector which was disposed off by the additional collector on 13 7 1993 by the said order the order of the third sub divisional officer was maintained.
however further inquiry as directed by the sdo was to be conducted.
since the mutation entry no 1836 was cancelled by above order the talathi gave effect to these orders and effected the mutation entry no 2176 and showed the disputed properties in the name of the collector and deputy custodian of evacuee properties.
the directions were issued by the collector to the tahsildar to place the appellant in possession of the property as per the orders of the deputy collector and the deputy custodian of evacuee properties.
being aggrieved by the order passed in the said revision respondent no 2 lalwani preferred rts appeal no 81 of 2000 and the respondent no 3 genu kadu preferred rts appeal no 114 of 2000 both.
aggrieved by the said order of the additional collector respondent no 2 preferred rts revision no 330 of 2001 under section 257 of maharashtra land revenue code1966 before the additional commissioner pune division pune.
the said revision was decided by the additional commissioner pune by order dated 22 11 2001 and the said revision was dismissed.
we record our finding.
however the sub divisional officer has taken the said mutation in revision in rts revision no 14 of 1984 and has set aside the mutation by order dated 30 7 1985 there was appeal as against that order which was remanded.
there was rts appeal no 128 of 1987 which was decided on 13 7 1993 in view of these orders the mutation entry no 1836 was cancelled and mutation entry no 2176 was effected whereby the name of the collector and the deputy collector of the evacuee property was entered into 7 x 12 extracts.
hence the present appeal by special leave.
mr huzefa ahmadi learned senior counsel appearing for the appellant mainly attacked the revisional power exercised by the minister concerned in purported exercise of jurisdiction under section 257 of the maharashtra land revenue code.
referring the decision of the bombay high court in the case of sambappa vs state of maharashtra 2002 scc on line bombay 1222learned counsel submitted that when the sub divisional officer additional collector and additional commissioner had concurrently recorded finding in favour of the appellant by observing that the revenue record is not in consonance with the factual aspect and they have directed to correct the revenue entries in such a case the second revisional authority exceeded its jurisdiction in entertaining the said application and interfering with the finding of fact.
section 257 makes it clear that a revisional authority has to consider only the legality and propriety of the decision.
learned counsel referring the revisional jurisdiction of the high court under section 115 of the code of civil procedure tried to impress us that when the power of revision is given to the district judge then the high court can not entertain second revision petition under section 115 of the code.
learned counsel relied upon the decision of this court in the case of state of kerala vs k m charia abdulla co air 1965.
that a second revision to the high court under section 482 of the cr.
lastly mr ahmadi submitted that the second revision would not lie under section 257 of the revenue code since section 259 of the code provides an opportunity to the state government to only correct any final order while exercising power under the provisions of section 257 i e with regard to its legality and propriety.
the only point raised before the high court was with regard to the maintainability of second revision before the state government under section 257 of the revenue code.
srivastava then contended that the high court correctly analysed and appreciated the scheme of the code vis a vis judicial review in revenue matters.
state of rajasthan and others2005.
sections 56 and 7 reads as under 5 chief controlling authority in revenue matters.
6 revenue officers in division.
such assistant or deputy collector may also be called a sub divisional officer.
section 11 of the code is worth to be quoted herein.
below 11 subordination of officers.
3unless the state government directs otherwise all other revenue officers including survey officers shall be subordinated the one to the other in such order as the state government may direct.
sections 13 and 14 deal with the powers and duties of all revenue officers.
from reading of the aforesaid provisions it is manifest that the state government makes appointment of the revenue officers including the commissioner and the chief controlling authorities in the revenue matters.
section 11 provides that all revenue officers shall be subordinate to the state government.
it is therefore clear that in revenue matters the state government is the supreme revenue authority.
section 248 is also relevant which provides the forum of appeal to the state government.
similarly section 249 makes provision of appeal against the review or revision.
it uses the word or.
the language and the words used in the said provision suggest that jurisdiction of the state government is concurrent with the jurisdiction of other revenue officers in deciding the revision.
hence even if one party goes to the commissioner in revision the state government can still be approached under section 257 for revision.
further in view of the fact that state government itself appoints the revenue officers including the commissioner under the scheme of the code and all revenue officers are subordinate to the state government as per section 11 of the act and even the chief controlling authority in all matters connected with the land revenue in his division is vested with the commissioner they are subject to the superintendence direction and control of the state government as provided under section 5 of the code.
in other words the state government in exercise of its revisional as well as general power of superintendence and control can call for any record of proceedings and consider the legality and propriety of the orders passed by the revenue officers under section 247 or 257 of the code.
there is nothing in the code to suggest that if these revisional powers are exercised by a revenue officer who has jurisdiction it can not be further exercised by a superior revenue officer or by the state government.
a fair reading of sections 257 and 259 suggests that if revisional powers are exercised by a revenue officer having jurisdiction to do so further revisional power can be exercised by the superior officer or by the state government.
in fact the two authorities are interchangeable.
the test is whether the two authorities with concurrent revisional jurisdiction are equal in rank.
it is therefore not correct as contended by learned counsel for the appellant that the two authorities i e the state government and the registrar are interchangeable.
considering the entire scheme of the code and the provisions contained in sections 257 and 259we are of the definite opinion that the minister concerned of the state government can entertain second revision to satisfy the legality and propriety of the order passed by the revenue officer.
hence this appeal has no merit which is accordingly dismissed.
the parties may prosecute their remedies in civil court in accordance with law.
