the order of the court was as follows. --> Fact_Procedural
in these matters relating to admission to professional courses in medicine engineering pharmacy nursing etc in educational institutions which are claimed to be minority educational institutions the petitioners have questioned the applicability of the scheme framed by this court in j p unni krishnan v state of a p 1993. --> Issue
1 scc 645 1993 indlaw sc 1056. --> Issue
i as well as the applicability of the rules and orders made by several state governments on the basis of the said decision. --> Issue
by order dated october 71993 passed by the constitution bench three questions were referred for consideration by a larger bench. --> Fact_Procedural
in pursuance of the said order this bench has been constituted. --> Fact_Procedural
when the matters were taken up on march 161994the court felt that it was necessary to reframe the first two questions. --> Ratio of the decision
the hearing of the matters was therefore adjourned to march 181994on which date the questions requiring consideration by this bench have been reframed to highlight the several aspects of the claims put forward by the petitioners. --> Ratio of the decision
the claim of being a minority whether based on religion or language and the claim of being a minority educational institution put forward by the petitioners can not be pronounced upon without first ascertaining what the said expressions connote and signify. --> Ratio of the decision
having regard to the importance of the questions involved we consider it appropriate to issue notice to the attorney general of india as well as the advocates general for the states. --> Ratio of the decision
it would therefore not be feasible to take up the hearing of these matters before the court closes for the long vacation. --> Ratio of the decision
since the process of selection of candidates for admission for the next academic session is to commence soon it is necessary to pass an interim order governing admission to the professional courses in minority educational institutions for the next academic session. --> Ratio of the decision
for admission in the last academic session 1993 94an interim order in the following terms was made by a bench comprising honourable the chief justice and one of us justice b p jeevan reddy on may 141993 in writ petition nos 350 and 355 of 1993. --> Fact_Procedural
we have heard shri soli j sorabjee learned senior counsel for the petitioners in these two writ petitions. --> Fact_Procedural
issue rule. --> Fact_Procedural
there will be an interim order in the following terms i fifty per cent of the total intake in the petitioners educational institutions shall be permitted to be filled up by candidates selected by the agencies of the state government on the basis of a competitive examination test. --> Fact_Procedural
the candidates so selected and admitted shall pay scales of fee as applicable to this class of students as determined by the state government from time to time. --> Fact_Procedural
the remaining fifty per cent of the intake may be regulated by the petitioners to admit candidates belonging to the particular religious or linguistic minority. --> Fact_Procedural
however the selection shall be made strictly on the basis of merit among the candidates seeking admission to the institutions. --> Fact_Procedural
such merit shall be determined oh the basis of the academic performance at the qualifying examination or on the basis of any objective test that the institution might itself apply to determine such relative and competing merits or on the basis of performance of the results of the selection tests that the state government may itself hold for selecting candidates for admission to technical colleges in the state. --> Fact_Procedural
it is optional for the petitioners to adopt any one of these three modes and apply it uniformally. --> Fact_Procedural
candidates so selected on the basis of merit amongst the minorities shall however abide by such condition in the matter of payment of tuition and other fee as may be permitted by the state government. --> Fact_Procedural
it is made clear that this order is made on the assumption that the petitioners are minority institutions. --> Ratio of the decision
it is open to the respondents to question this status claimed by the petitioners. --> Ratio of the decision
this order shall however not estop the petitioners from urging all other contentions raised in the writ petitions as indeed this interim interlocutory order is made on the consent of the petitioners and without prejudice to all the contentions. --> Ratio of the decision
thereafter the matter was considered by the constitution bench in its order dated august 1819932 in that order the writ petitions placed before the bench were categorised into five categories namely1 unaided minority educational institutions2. --> Fact_Procedural
minority educational institutions which are in receipt of state funds by way of aid3 minority educational institutions in respect of which it is not clear from the averments in the writ petitions whether they are aided or unaided institutions4. --> Fact_Procedural
writ petitions challenging the correctness and applicability of unni krishnan filed by educational institutions which do not claim to be minority educational institutions5 writ petitions which do not fall in any of the above categories. --> Fact_Procedural
it was directed that the order dated may 141993would not apply to educational institutions falling in categories 4 and 5 and the institutions referred to in paragraph 18 of the order dated august 181993 the order dated may 141993was made applicable to the institutions falling in categories 12 and 3 with the modification that following were added in continuation of the said order in continuation it is made further clear that whether any of the petitioner institutions is a mei or not is a matter for the government to verify and determine. --> Fact_Procedural
we do not more particularly at this stage make any pronouncement in that behalf. --> Fact_Procedural
this order shall be shahal h musaliar v state of kerala1993 4 scc. --> Fact_Procedural
112 1993 indlaw sc 575 applicable only to those institutions which are found to be meis on verification by the government and not to those who are not found to be meis on such verification. --> Fact_Procedural
the 50 seats to be filled up by candidates selected by the agencies of the state government on the basis of a competitive examination test as well as the remaining 50 seats to be filled in accordance with cl of the said order shall be equally distributed between free seats and payment seats. --> Fact_Procedural
in other words out of the 50 seats to be filled up by government half will be payment seats and half will be free seats. --> Fact_Procedural
similarly out of the 50 of the seats to be filled up by the management in accordance of the said order half shall be payment seats and the other half free seats. --> Fact_Procedural
the nris if any admitted to an extent not exceeding 5 of the total seats shall be out of the payment seats to be filled under after completing the admissions each of the colleges shall submit to the competent authority to the university to which it is affiliated and to the government concerned statements containing full particulars of the students admitted under cl ii of para 2 of this order. --> Fact_Procedural
such statements shall contain as full a particulars as possible. --> Fact_Procedural
the authorities to which the statements are submitted shall verify the correctness of the statements and if they find any irregularity they shall call upon the college concerned to rectify the same. --> Fact_Procedural
they shall also bring any such violation to the notice of this court by way of any interlocutory application. --> Fact_Procedural
any such irregularity if proved may entail serious consequences. --> Fact_Procedural
separate directions were however given in respect of institutions referred to in writ petitions nos 284 and 482 of 1993 with regard to writ petition no 284 of 1993 it was observed that in the said writ petition the petitioner has claimed that no capitation fee is charged from any student and the fee charged is not more than in some cases less than. --> Ratio of the decision
the fees charged in the government colleges and that the admission to these institutions is made on the basis of an all india common entrance test separately conducted by the petitioner and admissions are made on the basis of merit as determined in the said test and further that in view of the reputation of these institutions thousands of students apply for and appear in the entrance test every year. --> Ratio of the decision
it was also observed that this fact was not disputed by the learned advocate general for the state of karnataka. --> Ratio of the decision
similarly as regards writ petition no 482 of 1993it was observed that according to the petitioner in that case the medical college run by it at vellore in the state of tamil nadu is a well reputed institution admission to which is made on the basis of all india entrance test conducted by the petitioner and that the admissions are made on the basis of merit and the fee charged by it is not more than the fees chargeable in similar governmental institutions and that there has never been any complaint about the working of this institution and it was observed that this fact was not disputed by shri seetharaman learned counsel for the state of tamil nadu. --> Ratio of the decision
in the order dated august 181993the following directions were given in respect of the institutions covered by the aforesaid writ petitions nos 284 of 1993 and 482 of 19932 having regard to the above circumstances we permit the petitioners. --> Fact_Procedural
in the above two writ petitions to admit students to their colleges on the basis of entrance test conducted by them and on the same basis on which admissions were made by them in the said colleges in the previous academic year. --> Fact_Procedural
after completing the admissions the petitioners shall furnish full particulars of the students admitted the categories if any whereunder they were admitted and all other particulars relating to their admission. --> Fact_Procedural
this information should be furnished to the competent authority to the university to which the said colleges are affiliated and to the secretary education department government of karnataka tamil nadu. --> Fact_Procedural
the said authorities shall verify whether the admissions have been made by the petitioners in accordance with the directions given herein. --> Fact_Procedural
in case of irregularity any of the said authorities shall be entitled to call upon the petitioner to rectify the said irregularity. --> Fact_Procedural
it shall also be open to the competent authority university and the government of karnataka tamil nadu to bring any such irregularity to the notice of this court by way of an interlocutory application for appropriate orders in that behalf. --> Fact_Procedural
it is made clear that any violation of the directions given herein by the petitioners shall entail serious consequences inasmuch as the above orders are made based upon their representations and even before a counter affidavit has been filed by the respective respondents in view of the urgency expressed by them. --> Fact_Procedural
dealing with writ petition no 598 of 1993the court after noticing that an agreement was entered into between the institution and the government of kerala according to which while 85 of the seats were to be filled by the government and the remaining 15 of the seats were left for the management to fill up in its discretion observed that since the basic principle in unni krishnan as well as the order dated august 181993 is that merit shall be the guiding principle in the matter of admission a plea for discretionary quota could not be countenanced and it was directed that the said writ petition shall also be governed by the order dated may 141993as modified by addition. --> Fact_Procedural
by order dated october 719933 the constitution bench having regard to the fact that the year 1993 being a year of transition and adjustment and also in view of the orders of the government of india permitting admission of foreign students to the extent of as much as 50 of the seats as well as the time that had already elapsed permitted the private professional colleges to admit non resident indians and foreign students up to a maximum extent of 15 of the intake capacity of that year. --> Fact_Procedural
i e 1993with the direction that the basis of the said selection would be as indicated in order dated may 1419934 on the basis of merit leaving to the management of the college t m a pai foundation v state of karnataka1993. --> Fact_Procedural
4scc276 2002. --> Fact_Procedural
indlaw sc 2264 unnikrishnan j p v. --> Fact_Procedural
state of a p 1993 4 scc 111 1993 indlaw sc 1168 concerned to adjudge the merit of these candidates having regard to the relevant factors. --> Fact_Procedural
it was further made clear that this was a special provision made only for that year. --> Fact_Procedural
in the aforesaid order dated october 719933with reference to the minority educational institutions in the state of kerala such as those covered by writ petition no 598 of 1993 it has been observed the system obtaining in kerala appears to be altogether different which was unfortunately not brought to our notice on august 181993 there are only two private engineering colleges in the state said to be minority educational institutions. --> Fact_Procedural
the system obtaining in this state appears to be that the entire fees collected by these private engineering colleges has to be made over to the government while the government bears the entire expenditure for running the colleges. --> Fact_Procedural
under this system the colleges were allowed to admit students of their own choice to the extent of 15. --> Fact_Procedural
we have heard learned counsel for the parties and we are of the view that except for the minority educational institutions in kerala which are governed by the terms of the agreements with the government of kerala the directions given by this court with regard to admissions for the academic session 1993 can continue and govern admissions for the next academic session commencing in 1994 as regards the institutions in the state of kerala which are governed by the terms of agreements with the government of kerala the admissions to such institutions would be made in accordance with those agreements. --> Fact_Procedural
it is therefore directed that the admission for the academic session commencing in 1994 to the professional courses in the institutions which are claimed to be minority educational institutions shall be made on the following basis i in the institutions referred to in writ petitions nos 284 of 1993 and 482 of 1993 admission shall be made as per the directions given in the order dated august 1819932for the academic session commencing in 1993. --> Fact_Procedural
in the institutions referred to in writ petition no 598 of 1993 and similar minority educational institutions in the state of kerala which are governed by an agreement with the government of kerala the admissions shall be made in accordance with the terms of those agreements. --> Fact_Procedural
in respect of the seats which are left for management to fill in its discretion merit shall be the guiding principle. --> Fact_Procedural
since the entire expenditure of the colleges is borne by the state the entire fees collected are also made over to the state these colleges must be required to draw the students even with respect to the seats to be filled by the management from out of the state merit list if any. --> Ratio of the decision
in the absence of such list they can themselves devise the method for such selection. --> Ratio of the decision
we make it clear that regarding the character of these institutions whether they are minority educational institutions we express no opinion. --> Ratio of the decision
that is a matter between the institutions and the government of kerala. --> Ratio of the decision
it is enough to record that shri vellapally learned counsel for the state of kerala disputes the minority character of these institutions. --> Ratio of the decision
in rest of the minority educational institutions falling in categories 12 and 3 indicated in paragraph 5 of the order dated august 1819932admission shall be made in accordance with the directions contained in the order dated may 141993 in writ petitions nos 350 and 355 of 1993 as modified by order dated august 1819932but the directions would not apply to the institutions referred to in paragraph 18 of the order dated august 1819932 in this context we would like to impress upon the managements of the institutions concerned that while assessing the merit of a candidate for admission the objective should be to promote the excellence of the institution as a vehicle of general secular education. --> Ratio of the decision
insofar as non resident indians and foreign students are concerned the permissible limit would be only 5 of the total intake for a given year as per the direction contained in paragraph 6 of the order dated may 141993 as modified by order dated august 1819932 the admission against these seats shall be made on the basis of merit. --> Ratio of the decision
but it would be open for the management of the institution to adjudge the merit of the candidates having regard to the relevant factors. --> Ratio of the decision
the matters be listed for hearing on july 201994 notice be issued to the attorney general of india and the advocates general for the states on the questions as reframed. --> Ratio of the decision
written submissions in brief should be submitted by learned counsel by july 131994. --> Ratio of the decision
the contempt petition nos 65100 and 126 of 1992 arise out of the judgment of this court in keshav chandra joshi v union of india 1990 indlaw sc 270 in which this court had directed to determine inter se seniority of the direct recruits and promotee asstt. --> Ratio of the decision
conservators forests u p rendered on november 61990 it would appear that at present there are 215 direct recruits and 100 promotee asstt. --> Ratio of the decision
conservators forest working in the forest department. --> Ratio of the decision
in k c joshi case it was concluded that the promotees were appointed on ad hoc basis as a stop gap arrangement in 7ubstantive posts. --> Precedent
their appointments were dehors the rules. --> Precedent
until they are appointed by the governor according to the rules they do not become the members of the service in a substantive capacity. --> Precedent
their continuous length of ad hoc service from the date of their initial appointment can not be counted towards seniority. --> Precedent
the direct recruits were appointed in accordance with rule 5a read with appendix a of u p forest service rules1952 for short the rules. --> Precedent
their seniority shall be counted from the date of their discharging duties of the post of asstt. --> Precedent
conservators forest and the seniority of direct recruits shall accordingly be fixed. --> Precedent
the governor was directed to make appointment by promotion to substantive vacancies to the post of asstt. --> Precedent
conservators forest if not already made in accordance with rule 5b read with appendix b and rule 6. --> Precedent
we are informed that till date no appointments in terms thereof have been made. --> Ratio of the decision
the seniority of the promotee asstt. --> Ratio of the decision
conservators forest shall be counted from the respective dates of appointment to the substantive posts in their quota under rule 6 of the rules. --> Ratio of the decision
the inter se seniority of the direct recruits and promotees shall be determined in accordance with rules 56 and 24 as per the judgment in k c joshi case. --> Ratio of the decision
all the employees are entitled to all consequential benefits. --> Ratio of the decision
later when raj narayan singh and others filed writ petition civil no 641 of 1991this court on june 61991 directed to convert the writ petition as a contempt case for non implementation of the direction issued in k c joshi case which was numbered as contempt petition no 164 of 1971 when. --> Fact_Procedural
it came up for hearing on august. --> Fact_Procedural
231991this court observed thus we are told by the counsel for the state of u p that for the purpose of working out the seniority draft list has been prepared and was in circulation inviting objections. --> Fact_Procedural
the petitioners therein had not filed any objection despite giving time but it was directed that the state would consider their cases even if they make any representation. --> Fact_Procedural
in the light of that stand while dismissing the contempt petition this court directed the sate government to dispose of the matter on the basis of the representation that may be received from the petitioners therein against the draft seniority list within six months from that date. --> Fact_Procedural
in these contempt petitions the promotees as well as some of the subsequent direct recruits complain against fixation of their inter se seniority by the state government. --> Fact_Procedural
shri r k garg for the promotees contended that as on august 311982 selection of the promotees on regular basis to fill up the posts of asstt. --> Argument
conservator forest for the years 1973 74 to 1979 80 had taken place by a regularly constituted selection committee which selected 140 candidates for appointment. --> Argument
therefore they are entitled to the seniority from the respective years. --> Argument
it is also contended that the promotees are entitled in terms of the judgment in k c joshi case for appointment by promotion to substantive vacancies within their quota in the respective years and that therefore their seniority should be counted from the years in which they started discharging their duties as asstt. --> Argument
conservators forest as they were initially appointed to the substantive vacancies. --> Argument
shri verma appearing for some of the later direct recruits contended that the direct recruits were appointed to the substantive vacancies as held in k c joshi case and their seniority was fixed in the judgment from the date on which they started discharging the duties of the post as asstt. --> Argument
conservators forest. --> Argument
treating them to be temporary as shown in the seniority list prepared by the state is in utter contempt of the directions in joshi case1. --> Argument
in the rejoinder the promotees have stated that as on december 311974 a total number of 140 posts of asstt. --> Ratio of the decision
conservators forest were available and their quota as per the existing rules was 25 per cent. --> Ratio of the decision
as on december 11980186 posts namely140 and 46 posts created during the period were available. --> Ratio of the decision
as per the ratio the promotees are entitled to 33 13per cent quota. --> Ratio of the decision
as on march 11198532 more posts were created and the total posts available were 218 on. --> Ratio of the decision
december 1198640 more posts were created. --> Ratio of the decision
therefore as on march ii1985the total posts available were. --> Ratio of the decision
258 on march 11985the quota was increased by 50 per cent. --> Ratio of the decision
the promotees therefore are entitled to 50 per cent of the posts. --> Ratio of the decision
as in the year 199072 more posts were created and the total posts are now 330 therefore they are entitled to 50 per cent of the quota in the tentative list. --> Ratio of the decision
but that was not done. --> Ratio of the decision
thereby the action of the state is in defiance of the direction issued by this court. --> Ratio of the decision
in the counter affidavit filed by the state it is stated that as on december 11980 both permanent and temporary posts were 131 as on february 121986203 posts were existing. --> Argument
the permanent posts are 102 and temporary posts are 173 and the total would come to 275 as per rules 5 and 24 only permanent posts should be counted as substantive posts and temporary posts can not be counted for fixation of the seniority. --> Argument
it is further contended that though decision was taken to give 50 per cent quota to the promotees the statutory rules have not been made. --> Argument
therefore they are entitled to only 33 13 per cent quota. --> Argument
since the seniority as per the direction of this court was made only to substantive posts some of the direct recruits became temporary direct recruits and the seniority was determined accordingly. --> Argument
in the light of the respective contentions the question arises whether the determination of the seniority is in accordance with the directions issued by this court. --> Argument
in the light of the background scenario we can not strictly take it to be a case of contempt but in working out the directions issued by this court the state government committed a mistake in law. --> Argument
we have to consider therefore whether the procedure adopted by the sate to determine the inter se seniority is in accordance with the rules and the law laid down in k c joshi case. --> Argument
the directions issued in k c joshi case have already been extracted and their need to reiterate is obviated. --> Ratio of the decision
from the averments it would appear that 100 promotee asstt. --> Ratio of the decision
conservators forest are awaiting appointment to substantive vacancies. --> Ratio of the decision
the total number of direct recruits appears to be 215 prior to december 311974the quota was 75 per cent to the direct recruits and 25 per cent to the promotees. --> Ratio of the decision
similarly as on january 11975the ratio was increased to 33 13 per cent namely66 23 per cent to the direct recruits and 33 13 per cent to the promotees. --> Ratio of the decision
indisputably a decision was taken on march 11975 to increase the quota to 50 per cent but no amendment to the statutory rules to give effect to it was made. --> Ratio of the decision
therefore the operative rule as on that date appears to be 33 13 per cent in respect of promotees. --> Ratio of the decision
therefore the procedure to be adopted by the state in fixing the inter se seniority of the direct recruits and the promotees in their respective quota is the sole question. --> Ratio of the decision
there is no rota prescribed in the rules. --> Ratio of the decision
therefore the state is enjoined to implement the judgment of this court in the light of the statutory rules. --> Ratio of the decision
it is clear from the counter affidavit filed by the state that the posts are both permanent and temporary. --> Ratio of the decision
if the temporary posts are likely to continue for long normally as per the law laid down by this court they be treated for the purpose of counting seniority as permanent posts unless they are likely to be abolished. --> Ratio of the decision
it is a policy matter. --> Ratio of the decision
therefore the state has to determine whether the posts are likely to be made permanent or abolished. --> Ratio of the decision
in the event of converting them as permanent under rule 24the quota prescribed in rule 6 would be applied to substantive posts. --> Ratio of the decision
the seniority shall be determined in accordance with the quota rule to the posts available in the respective years in which the vacancies had arisen otherwise existing substantive posts should be filled up applying rule 6 it is therefore incumbent upon the state government to find out how many vacancies were existing in the year 1974 75 and thereafter every year and to determine as to how the respective posts stood reserved for the direct recruits and promotees in accordance with the quota. --> Ratio of the decision
on so determining the direct recruits would go en block as seniors to the promotees and the promotee officers in the order of their inter se seniority be appointed by the governor under rule 5b read with rule 6 and would be placed below the direct recruits. --> Ratio of the decision
similar exercise for each year in which the substantive vacancies had arisen should be done. --> Ratio of the decision
the officers he they direct recruits or promotees would rank below the juniormost officer in the list of the previous year. --> Ratio of the decision
after this exercise is exhausted appointments should be made posts are to be filled up to substantive vacancies. --> Ratio of the decision
it would be open to the state government to fix tentatively the inter se seniority in the temporary posts according to the ratio between the direct recruits and the promotees in the same manner of filling the substantive posts as indicated above. --> Ruling by Present Court
as and when the temporary posts are converted either into permanent posts or the vacancies arise due to superannuation of the senior officers they should be fixed in the respective vacancies and fitment made. --> Ruling by Present Court
after exhausting the exercise the remaining candidates awaiting appointment would continue to be temporary until they get due placement or fixation of their seniority. --> Ruling by Present Court
these directions would meet the exigencies. --> Ratio of the decision
the state government is directed to undertake fresh exercise in the light of the above directions and complete the same within a period of four months from the date of the receipt of the order. --> Ruling by Present Court
the contempt petitions are accordingly disposed of. --> Ruling by Present Court
petition disposed of. --> Ruling by Present Court
