the present appeal arises out of the judgment and order dated 01 07 2002 passed by the high court of bombay at goa in criminal appeal No 6 of 2000 convicting the accused appellant section 302 of the indian penal code for short the the ipc and sentencing him to undergo life imprisonment for the offence by setting aside the order of acquittal passed by the trial court. --> Fact_Procedural
facts giving rise to the present appeal may be stated first so as to enable us to appreciate the arguments raised by the parties more effectively. --> Ratio of the decision
on 19 04 1988 between 8 30 p m and 8 45 p m satish narayan sawant the appellant accused No 1 along with two other accused persons and also with two delinquent children allegedly formed an unlawful assembly and that in furtherance of the said common object stabbed one rauji dulba sawant the deceased and also assaulted baby dulba sawant pw 1 ashok dulba sawant pw 2 kunda rauji sawant pw 8 and laxmi dulba sawant pw 18 who are the sister brother wife and mother respectively of the deceased. --> Fact_Events
it is also the case of the prosecution that as a result of the aforesaid stab injuries given to the deceased he expired on the same day i e on 19 04 1988. --> Fact_Events
p s joaquim dias pw 21 who was attached to the ponda police station as p s i received a phone call at about 10 45 p m from p s i k k desai of the panaji police station that a person named rauji dulba sawant had been brought in police jeep by police constable jaisingrao rane and that while he was being taken to the goa medical college he expired. --> Fact_Events
he was informed that the deceased had died as a result of stab injuries received and therefore he was to take necessary steps. --> Fact_Events
on receipt of the aforesaid message pw 21 along with asi tabit mamlekar went to the scene of offence. --> Fact_Events
they reached the scene of offence at about 11 30 p m but found the entire place plunged into darkness and with the help of torch light pw 21 surveyed the scene of offence. --> Fact_Events
during the survey made at the place of occurrence pw 21 noticed some blood stains in the front courtyard of the house and a pipe of length of about 1 foot or slightly less lying in the courtyard having blood stains. --> Fact_Events
thereafter pw 21 along with p i dsa gave a call to the inmates of the house to open the door and on hearing the call one lady opened the door. --> Fact_Events
on enquiring from her pw 21 learnt that her name was yeshoda who was later on arrayed as accused No 3. --> Fact_Events
two juvenile girls named sarita and sharmila who are the sisters of the appellant were found in the house. --> Fact_Events
in the meantime pw 1 pw 2 and pw 8 came to the house from whom pw 21 made certain inquiries and brought them along with accused No 3 and her two juvenile girls to the police station. --> Fact_Events
not finding the appellant and accused no 2 in the house dy. --> Fact_Events
s p shri raikar and p i shri alan osa were sent in their search. --> Fact_Events
after reaching the police station a complaint which is marked as exhibit pw 1 a was lodged by pw 1 in which it was alleged that pw 1 pw 8 pw 18 the deceased rauji and his brother narayan were residing in one house in banastari and they used to share a common kitchen between them. --> Fact_Events
it was further alleged by pw 1 that two or three days before the ganesh festival deceased rauji had informed narayan that he would install statue of lord ganesh in the house and accordingly he had purchased the same. --> Fact_Events
religious ceremony was performed by installing the statue of lord ganesh in the house and. --> Fact_Events
while the said religious ceremony was being performed accused No 2 started uttering insults while standing in the kitchen. --> Fact_Events
accused No 3 told the appellant not to do anything in the ceremony and insulted the family members of rauji. --> Fact_Events
pw 1 also alleged that on 19 04 1988 the deceased rauji returned from his duty at about 6 30 p m and thereafter went to purchase some articles. --> Fact_Events
on his return he went to take bath and after having bath he went and switched off the light of the room. --> Fact_Events
as soon as the deceased switched off the light the appellant came from the room and started abusing rauji. --> Fact_Events
there was a heated exchange of words between rauji and the appellant switched on the light which was again switched off by rauji the deceased. --> Fact_Events
thereupon the appellant went and removed the fuse of the said light. --> Fact_Events
accused No 3 had then lit a kerosene lamp and brought the same in the hall. --> Fact_Events
there was already an oil lamp burning which was attached to the ceiling by a brass chain. --> Fact_Events
meanwhile accused No 3 started abusing pw 1 pw 8 pw 18 and the deceased rauji. --> Fact_Events
thereafter the appellant and the two other alleged accused namely accused nos 2 and 3 and the two juvenile offenders gathered in the hall to assault rauji the deceased pw 1 and pw 8. --> Fact_Events
according to pw 1 in order to avoid the assault by all of them they went to bulcao balcony. --> Fact_Events
when they went there the appellant went to his mother 's room and brought a knife with which he stabbed rauji. --> Fact_Events
at that time all the accused persons were in the balcony. --> Fact_Events
it was also alleged that after the deceased rauji fell down on the ground accused No 3 kicked him. --> Fact_Events
at that time the appellant who was holding the knife in his hand handed over the same to accused No 3 by which she assaulted pw 8 but pw 8 caught the knife in her hand which caused injury to her right palm. --> Fact_Events
thereafter according to pw 1 accused No 3 handed back the knife to the appellant and accused No 2 brought the oil lamp which was hung in the room and hit the oil lamp on the head of rauji the deceased. --> Fact_Events
it was also alleged that when pw 8 tried to intervene the other three accused started assaulting her with fists and slaps. --> Fact_Events
at that time pw 2 came there and questioned the accused persons as to what they were doing whereupon the appellant and accused No 2 started assaulting pw 2 also. --> Fact_Events
then accused No 3 told the appellant and accused No 2 to finish off rauji first. --> Fact_Events
pw 8 pw 18 and pw 1 then lifted rauji and brought him in the courtyard. --> Fact_Events
in the meanwhile residents of the locality had gathered in the courtyard and told the accused persons not to assault rauji. --> Fact_Events
the juvenile offender sarita went inside the house and brought out one iron pipe which she handed over to the appellant who then hit the said pipe on the right leg of pw 1 and also gave a blow with the said pipe on rauji 's right hand. --> Fact_Events
it was also alleged that the other juvenile offender sharmila brought a cement block shaped like an elephant trunk which she handed over to accused No 3 with which accused No 3 started assaulting rauji. --> Fact_Events
pw 1 however intervened and removed the said piece of cement block from the hand of accused No 3 but. --> Fact_Events
accused No 3 then picked up one stone and tried to throw it on rauji by saying that she was going to kill him with that stone. --> Fact_Events
however pw 1 again intervened and removed the said stone from the hand of accused no 3. --> Fact_Events
pw 18 rushed to the rescue of deceased rauji. --> Fact_Events
the accused then started assaulting her and pw 8 with slaps. --> Fact_Events
in the meantime police jeep arrived at the scene and on seeing the police jeep all the accused ran away from the courtyard and went inside. --> Fact_Events
pw 1 and others asked the police to take rauji to the hospital. --> Fact_Events
whereupon the police took him to the hospital in the police jeep along with pw 1 pw 2 and pw 8. --> Fact_Events
on the basis of complaint made by pw 1 an fir was registered and the accused came to be arrested. --> Fact_Procedural
on completion of the investigation the police submitted the charge sheet against the accused persons namely the present appellant accused No 1 accused nos 2 and 3 and the two juvenile offenders namely sarita and sharmila. --> Fact_Procedural
the trial court framed charges against all the accused persons for the offence under sections 302 323 143 147 and 149 of the ipc. --> Fact_Procedural
the accused pleaded not guilty and claimed to be tried. --> Fact_Procedural
since there were two juvenile offenders there cases were segregated and the trial against accused nos 1 2 and 3 was conducted during the course of which a number of eye witnesses were examined on behalf of the prosecution. --> Fact_Procedural
after completion of the arguments the trial court reserved the verdict. --> Fact_Procedural
the trial court passed an order on 04 08 1998 acquitting all the accused persons from the offences under sections 302 323 143 147 and 149 of ipc. --> Fact_Procedural
being aggrieved by the aforesaid judgment and order of acquittal the state filed an appeal in the high court against accused nos. --> Fact_Procedural
1 to 3. --> Fact_Procedural
the high court by impugned judgment convicted appellant. --> Ruling by Lower Court
accused No 1 section 302 ipc and accused nos. --> Ruling by Lower Court
2 and 3 were held guilty of an offence punishable section 323 read with section 34 of the ipc. --> Ruling by Lower Court
the appellant herein being aggrieved by the aforesaid order of conviction and sentence filed the present appeal on which we have heard the learned counsel appearing for the appellant and also the learned counsel appearing for the state. --> Fact_Procedural
mr r sundaravardhan learned senior counsel appearing for the appellant very forcefully submitted that the high court was not justified in setting aside the order of acquittal passed in respect of the present appellant. --> Argument
he submitted that although the incident in question had taken place at about 8 45 p m the same came to be reported to the police at 3 00 a m he also submitted that the police officer pw 21 who received the information about the incident started investigation without recording either any general diary for short g d entry or the fir and therefore the fir which has been proved in the trial court is hit by the provisions of section 162 of the criminal procedure code for short the crpc. --> Argument
he also submitted that the high court has not given any reason for setting aside the appeal against acquittal which was passed after appreciating the entire evidence on record. --> Argument
he further submitted that there was not only shifting of time of the alleged occurrence but also shifting of the place of occurrence from the hall to the outside verandah and courtyard to suit the convenience of the prosecution case. --> Argument
he has drawn our attention towards the entire evidence on record including the cross examination part and with the help of the same he submitted that the entire alleged incident in question had taken place when there was complete darkness at the scene of occurrence. --> Argument
a scuffle started between the nephew and the uncle in which the accused persons also received injuries and therefore the right of private defence of the appellant was available and in that view of the matter the order of conviction and sentence is liable to be set aside. --> Argument
it was further submitted that the alleged eye witnesses of the occurrence were examined by the police belatedly and that the medical evidence adduced in the case does not in any manner support the ocular evidence and if at all it would not be a case of culpable homicide amounting to murder but a case of culpable homicide not amounting to murder. --> Argument
he also submitted that if two views are possible and if there are lacunae in the case of the prosecution the benefit must go to the accused. --> Argument
he next submitted that there was no evidence on record as to when the fir reached the magistrate and that none of the courts below considered the said aspect. --> Argument
he submitted that since there was violation of the provisions of section 162 of the crpc the accused appellant is liable to be acquitted. --> Argument
ms a subhashini learned counsel appearing for the respondent state however strenuously submitted that none of the aforesaid submissions could be accepted by this court as it is a foolproof case of conviction of the appellant section. --> Argument
302 ipc. --> Ratio of the decision
she submitted that the high court rightly interfered with the order of acquittal passed by the trial court after critically examining the evidence on record. --> Argument
it was submitted by her that the trial court examined the evidence in the present case in a very summary and cryptic manner and thereby arrived at a wrong conclusion that the accused persons were required to be acquitted. --> Argument
she has drawn our attention to the findings recorded by the high court while setting aside the order of acquittal observing that the evidence of eye witnesses namely pws. --> Argument
1 2 8 and 18 is convincing and reliable but so far as the evidence of pw 4 is concerned the high court has made an observation that he is not a reliable witness. --> Argument
counsel for the respondent has therefore taken us through the evidence of pws. --> Argument
1 2 8 and 18 and on the basis thereof submitted that their evidence clearly prove and establish the role of the appellant herein in stabbing the deceased with the knife which he had brought from the other room with the intention of killing the deceased and therefore it is a clear case of conviction. --> Argument
section. --> Argument
in the light of the aforesaid submissions of the counsel appearing for the parties we have given our in depth consideration to the facts of the present case. --> Ratio of the decision
the starting point of the incident in question as indicated from the evidence on record is the hall where apparently a dispute started between the parties with regard to the electricity connection in the house. --> Ratio of the decision
the deceased tried to put off the light of one particular room at which the appellant and other accused persons became annoyed and the appellant switched on the light which was again switched off by the deceased. --> Ratio of the decision
at this the deceased became annoyed and the appellant removed the fuse of the electricity which act of his plunged the entire house into darkness. --> Ratio of the decision
it is also clear and established that thereafter a lamp was brought by accused No 3 to the room besides another lamp which was already burning in the said room itself. --> Ratio of the decision
but in any case there was an electricity light post in the front of the house which was giving enough light to the house. --> Ratio of the decision
there is also evidence on record to show that even outsiders were watching the incident from the road which indicates that there was sufficient light for them to see what was happening in the house where the incident had taken place. --> Ratio of the decision
there was indeed some scuffle between the parties during the course of which accused No 1 received simple injuries and the deceased died of the two stab injuries inflicted by the present appellant. --> Ratio of the decision
the said fact is proved by the evidence of pws. --> Ratio of the decision
2 8 18 and the complainant herself pw 1. --> Ratio of the decision
the deceased was taken to the hospital and while so taken he died. --> Ratio of the decision
pw 21 who was at that time attached to konda police station as psi was informed at about 10 45 p m that the deceased while was being brought in the police jeep by a police constable jaisingrao rane and was being taken to the government medical college but before the deceased could be admitted he died. --> Ratio of the decision
pw 21 was also informed by said by said psi k k desai of panaji police station that it was a case of assault and that the incident had taken place at verandah and that the said matter pertains to his police station and therefore he should take appropriate action. --> Ratio of the decision
on receiving the said message he went to the place of occurrence along with psi k k desai and upon reaching the place of occurrence at 11 30 p m he found the entire place plunged in total darkness. --> Ratio of the decision
therefore he proceeded to survey the place of occurrence with the help of torches. --> Ratio of the decision
he in his deposition specifically stated that he found that the back door as well as the front door of the house were latched from inside and in front of the house there was a road where there was an electricity pole and there was a street tube light by which the house could be visible and even the lights of the vehicles were flashed at the house. --> Ratio of the decision
he stated that although the house had electricity connection but was not having the electricity supply. --> Ratio of the decision
he gave instructions to his subordinate and also to the people around that nobody should touch any article lying at the scene of occurrence. --> Ratio of the decision
he stated that he made preliminary enquiry and brought yashoda and her two daughters to the police station and sent two other officers in search of accused nos 1 and 2 who were not found in the house. --> Ratio of the decision
he also stated that he got the complaint registered at the police station which was lodged by pw 1 and that on the next day he again went to the scene of offence and seized the properties involved in the crime which were sealed. --> Ratio of the decision
he also recovered the knife at the instance of accused sharmila which he seized. --> Ratio of the decision
on 28 04 1988 that is after about 9 days of the incident accused nos 1 and 2 surrendered before the police and on their surrender they were taken into custody. --> Ratio of the decision
it was found that accused No 1 was having injury on his back. --> Ratio of the decision
and he was medically examined. --> Ratio of the decision
on medical examination his injury was found to be simple. --> Ratio of the decision
learned counsel appearing for the appellant was critical of the manner in which pw 21 initiated the investigation without recording any g d entry and without getting any fir recorded. --> Argument
he submitted that since the investigation in the instant case was started by the police without recording an fir such an fir is necessarily hit by the provisions of section 162 of the cr. --> Argument
p c he next submitted that no evidence having been led by the prosecution about the time when the fir reached the magistrate therefore there is also violation of the provisions of section 157 of the cr. --> Argument
the issue with regard to the initiation of the investigation without recording the fir was succinctly addressed by this court in the case of state of u p v bhagwant kishore joshi 1964 3 scr 71 1963 indlaw sc 268 observed as follows 17. --> Precedent
what is investigation is not defined in the code of criminal procedure but in h n rishbud and inder singh v state of delhi 1954 indlaw sc 14 this court has described the procedure for investigation as follows thus under the code investigation consists generally of the following steps 1 proceeding to the spot 2 ascertainment of the facts and circumstances of the case 3 discovery and arrest of the suspected offender 4 collection of evidence relating to the commission of the offence which may consist of a the examination of various persons including the accused and the reduction of their statements into writing if the officer thinks fit b the search of places of seizure of things considered necessary for the investigation and to be produced at the trial and 5 formation of the opinion as to whether on the material collected there is a case to place the accused before a magistrate for trial and if so taking the necessary steps for the same by the filing of a charge sheet section this court however has not said that if a police officer takes merely one or two of the steps indicated by it what he has done must necessarily be regarded as investigation. --> Precedent
investigation in substance means collection of evidence relating to the commission of the offence. --> Precedent
the investigating officer is for this purpose entitled to question persons who in this opinion are able to throw light on the offence which has been committed and is likewise entitled to question the suspect and is entitled to reduce the statements of persons questioned by him to writing. --> Precedent
he is also entitled to search the place of the offence and to search other places with the object of seizing articles connected with the offence. --> Precedent
no doubt for this purpose he has to proceed to the spot where the offence was committed and do various other things. --> Precedent
but the main object of investigation being to bring home the offence to the offender the essential part of the duties of an investigating officer in this connection is apart from arresting the offender to collect all material necessary for establishing the accusation against the offender. --> Precedent
merely making some preliminary enquire upon receipt of information from an anonymous source or a source of doubtful reliability for checking up the correctness of the information does not amount to collection of evidence and so can not be regarded as investigation. --> Precedent
in the absence of any prohibition in the code express or implied i am of opinion that it is open to a police officer to make preliminary enquiries before registering an offence and making a full scale investigation into it. --> Precedent
no doubt section 5 a of the prevention of corruption act was enacted for preventing harassment to a government servant and with this object in view investigation except with the previous permission of a magistrate is not permitted to be made by an officer below the rank of deputy superintendent of police. --> Precedent
where however a police officer makes some preliminary enquiries does not arrest or even question an accused or question any witnesses but merely makes a few discreet enquiries or looks at some documents without making any notes it is difficult to visualise how any possible harassment or even embarrassment would result therefrom to the suspect or the accused person. --> Precedent
if no harassment to the accused results from the action of a police officer how can it be said to defeat the purpose underlying section 5 a looking at the matter this way i hold that what mathur did was something very much short of investigation and therefore the provisions of section 5 a were not violated. --> Precedent
since no irregularity was committed by him there is no occasion to invoke the aid of the curative provisions of the code. --> Precedent
emphasis underlined. --> Precedent
in the instant case it is quite clear from the evidence on record that pw 1 received the information about the death of the deceased from psi of panaji police station without any detail as to how the incident had happened and who had caused the incident. --> Ratio of the decision
it was a very cryptic information received by him regarding the death of a person residing within the jurisdiction of his police station pursuant to an incident taking place on 10 04 1988 between 8 30 p m to 8 45 p m and therefore it appears that there was not enough information available to him either to get a g d entry recorded or to get an fir lodged. --> Ratio of the decision
in order to verify the information received pw 21 went to the place of occurrence and found the entire house in total darkness. --> Ratio of the decision
he went around the house and saw blood marks on the walls of the verandah and also in the courtyard and came to learn about the incident by using torch light. --> Ratio of the decision
when he reached at the place of occurrence even the complainant party was not available there. --> Ratio of the decision
but at a later stage they came there. --> Ratio of the decision
therefore he brought them along with the residents of the house who were found to be there namely accused No 3 and the two juvenile offenders namely sarita and sharmila who were all ladies. --> Ratio of the decision
after reaching the police station and at the request of pw 1 the fir was recorded at 3 00 a m in the morning. --> Ratio of the decision
he received the information about the incident on telephone at about 10 45 p m and reached the place of occurrence at about 11 30 p m and he must have been there for quite some time and thereafter returned to the police station which must have taken another about 1 30 to 2 hours. --> Ratio of the decision
therefore recording of the fir at about 3 00 a m in the morning was justified and properly explained and it can not be said that there was any delay in recording the fir. --> Ratio of the decision
besides the fact of his going to the place of occurrence would not amount to making an investigation. --> Ratio of the decision
there is no evidence to show that at that point of time pw 21 seized any articles or interrogated any witnesses or took any other action in initiating or in furtherance of investigation. --> Ratio of the decision
the ratio of the decision in bhagwant kishore joshi 1963 indlaw sc 268 supra is applicable to the facts of the present case as the police officer merely visited the spot and place of occurrence and made some survey which can not be regarded as investigation. --> Ratio of the decision
in animireddy venkata ramana and others v public prosecutor high court of andhra pradesh 2008 5 scc 368 2008 indlaw sc 354 this court while considering a similar case observed as follows 10. --> Precedent
certain basic facts are not denied or disputed. --> Precedent
the deceased died in the bus at about 10 30 p m on 23 6 1998 while travelling to his village home from tuni. --> Precedent
pw 1 also sustained injuries in the said incident. --> Precedent
immediately after the incident hearing cries of passengers the driver of the bus stopped the bus. --> Precedent
not only the accused persons fled away all others also did including pws 3 and 4. --> Precedent
they came back after a short while hearing the cries of pw 1. --> Precedent
they acceded to his request to take the bus to his house. --> Precedent
from the records it appears that the distance between the place where the accident took place and the village in question was not much. --> Precedent
in any event the destination of the bus was the said village and they were bound to take the bus thereat. --> Precedent
pw 1 informed about the incident to pw 2 another son of the deceased. --> Precedent
the dead body of the deceased was brought down from the bus and taken to the house. --> Precedent
the conductor of the bus sent an information to the depot manager of the state road transport corporation at tuni. --> Precedent
the investigating officer was also informed. --> Precedent
a report to that effect might have been noted in the general diary but the same could not have been treated to be an fir. --> Precedent
when an information is received by an officer in charge of a police station he in terms of the provisions of the code was expected to reach the place of occurrence as early as possible. --> Precedent
it was not necessary for him to take that step only on the basis of a first information report. --> Precedent
an information received in regard to commission of a cognizable offence is not required to be preceded by a first information report. --> Precedent
duty of the state to protect the life of an injured as also an endeavour on the part of the responsible police officer to reach the place of occurrence in a situation of this nature is his implicit duty and responsibility. --> Precedent
if some incident had taken place in a bus the officers of road transport corporation also could not ignore the same. --> Precedent
they reached the place of occurrence in another bus at about 1 a m the deceased and the injured were only then shifted to tuni hospital. --> Precedent
the ratio of the aforesaid decision is squarely applicable to the facts of the present case. --> Ratio of the decision
even assuming that pw 21 the investigating officer could have entered the aforesaid information received from psi of panaji police station in the general diary yet they said entry could not have been held or treated to be an fir. --> Ratio of the decision
the information received by him was very cryptic and without any detail about the incident in question and therefore in any case there was no possibility of recording an fir at that stage. --> Ratio of the decision
the place of occurrence was in total darkness and even the persons belonging to the complainant side were not available therefore bringing them to the police station where there was sufficient light and recording the complaint at 3 00 a m can not in any manner cast any doubt on the veracity of the prosecution case. --> Ratio of the decision
in that view of the matter it can not be said that the fir was in any manner hit by the provisions of section 162 of crpc. --> Ratio of the decision
so far contention that there was violation of section 157 of the crpc is concerned the same is also without any basis for the defence never cross examined pw 21 on the aforesaid issue. --> Ratio of the decision
so long the defence is not able to establish from the records by cogent evidence that there was any delay in sending the fir to the magistrate it can not be held that there was any such delay. --> Ratio of the decision
there is no evidence on record before us to hold either way for no such issue was raised either before the trial court or before the high court nor any evidence was led by the defence in respect of the said issue which is sought to be raised at this stage. --> Ratio of the decision
from the evidence on record it does not appear to us that any suggestion was given to the said witness to the effect that the copy of the fir was not sent or that it was dispatched late which if given would have given an opportunity to the witness to afford some explanation or to show as to when the fir was sent to and received by the magistrate. --> Ratio of the decision
in that view of the matter we do not agree with the counsel appearing for the appellant that delay in transmitting the fir to the magistrate stands proved in the present case. --> Ratio of the decision
the next contention that we proceed to discuss now is about whether sufficient light was available at the place of occurrence for the eye witnesses to see the occurrence as stated by them in the evidence. --> Ratio of the decision
we have pws. --> Ratio of the decision
1 2 8 and 18 as eye witnesses to the occurrence. --> Ratio of the decision
these eye witnesses have stated that the incident had happened initially in the hall where there was some light for accused No 3 has brought a lamp to the hall and apart from that another lamp was also burning which was attached to the ceiling. --> Ratio of the decision
blood was found by the police on the wall of the verandah and in the courtyard. --> Ratio of the decision
it is also established from the evidence on record for it is clearly stated that the street light having tube light was giving sufficient light to the place of occurrence and that it was directed towards the house which was the place of occurrence. --> Ratio of the decision
besides all the aforesaid eye witnesses were inmates of the house and they would know as to who had given the blows for they specifically stated that initially the appellant did not have the knife in his hand but when the deceased and others went to the balcony then he went inside the house and brought a knife with which he gave stab injuries to the deceased which became fatal and as a result of which the deceased died while he was being taken to the hospital. --> Ratio of the decision
the aforesaid eye witnesses although are related witnesses were natural witnesses for they were the inmates of the house where the incident had taken place. --> Ratio of the decision
the said eye witnesses are consistent about the principal act of the appellant in stabbing the deceased. --> Ratio of the decision
the discrepancies which were sought to be pointed out are minor discrepancies without in any manner affecting the substratum of the prosecution case and therefore minor discrepancies in the evidence of the eye witnesses are immaterial. --> Ratio of the decision
this court has observed as follows in the case of dinesh kumar v state of rajasthan 2008 8 scc 270 2008 indlaw sc 2034 11. --> Precedent
it is to be noted that pws 7 and 13 were the injured witnesses and pw 10 was another eyewitness and was the informant. --> Precedent
law is fairly well settled that even if acquittal is recorded in respect of the co accused on the ground that there were exaggerations and embellishments yet conviction can be recorded if the evidence is found cogent credible and truthful in respect of another accused. --> Precedent
the mere fact that the witnesses were related to the deceased can not be a ground to discard their evidence. --> Precedent
in law testimony of an injured witness is given importance. --> Precedent
when the eyewitnesses are stated to be interested and inimically disposed towards the accused it has to be noted that it would not be proper to conclude that they would shield the real culprit and rope in innocent persons. --> Precedent
the truth or otherwise of the evidence has to be weighed pragmatically. --> Precedent
the court would be required to analyse the evidence of related witnesses and those witnesses who are inimically disposed towards the accused. --> Precedent
but if after careful analysis and scrutiny of their evidence the version given by the witnesses appears to be clear cogent and credible there is no reason to discard the same. --> Precedent
conviction can be made on the basis of such evidence. --> Precedent
the aforesaid eye witnesses were cross examined at length but even after such lengthy cross examination these eye witnesses account could not be shaken. --> Ratio of the decision
the postmortem report indicates that there were sixteen injuries as against the two as adduced in ocular evidence and therefore a submission was made by the counsel appearing for the appellant that the medical evidence adduced in the present case is not supporting the ocular evidence. --> Ratio of the decision
however a perusal of record clearly shows that the doctor who conducted the postmortem pw 7 stated in his evidence that there were in total 16 injuries when external examination was done by him and the knife m o 11 could have caused the injuries No 1 2 3 and 4. --> Ratio of the decision
he further stated that the death was caused due to hemorrhage and shock as a result of stab injury. --> Ratio of the decision
he further stated that injury No 1 was sufficient to cause death in the ordinary course of nature. --> Ratio of the decision
on being cross examined pw 7 categorically stated that death due to stab injury was in consequence of injury No 1 and all other injuries were superficial in nature. --> Ratio of the decision
there is no doubt that four injuries are indicated in the postmortem report shown to have been received by the deceased but the fact that the deceased was given stab injuries by the appellant with the help of a knife brought by him from inside the house is clearly established from the ocular evidence. --> Ratio of the decision
there is therefore one particular injury being injury No 1 caused because of stabbing and the rest being superficial in nature could be caused during scuffle. --> Ratio of the decision
therefore the alleged discrepancy can not be said to be very vital as it has been held by this court in several decisions that ocular evidence can not be brushed aside only because to some extent it is not in consonance with the medical evidence. --> Ratio of the decision
reference in this regard may be made to the decision of this court in state of u p v krishna gopal 1988 4 scc 302 1988 indlaw sc 76 anwar v state of haryana 1997 9 scc 766 1997 indlaw sc 2447 ravi kumar v state of punjab 2005 9 scc 315 2005 indlaw sc 170 munivel v state of t n 2006 9 scc 394 2006 indlaw sc 118. --> Ratio of the decision
all the contentions raised by learned counsel appearing for the appellant were considered by us in the light of evidence on record. --> Ratio of the decision
and we find that none of the aforesaid submissions has any basis. --> Ratio of the decision
there is cogent and reliable evidence on record to prove and establish that the accused has committed the act of stabbing as a result of which the deceased had died. --> Ratio of the decision
before dwelling further into the factual matrix of the case on the basis of which the high court convicted the appellant section 302 ipc it would be useful to briefly recapitulate the law on the point. --> Ratio of the decision
section 299 and section 300 ipc deals with the definition of culpable homicide and murder respectively. --> Statute
section 299 defines culpable homicide as the act of causing death i with the intention of causing death or ii with the intention of causing such bodily injury as is likely to cause death or iii with the knowledge that such act is likely to cause death. --> Statute
the bare reading of the section makes it crystal clear that the first and the second clause of the section refer to intention apart from the knowledge and the third clause refers to knowledge alone and not intention. --> Statute
both the expression intent and knowledge postulate the existence of a positive mental attitude which is of different degrees. --> Statute
the mental element in culpable homicide i e mental attitude towards the consequences of conduct is one of intention and knowledge. --> Statute
if that is caused in any of the aforesaid three circumstances the offence of culpable homicide is said to have been committed. --> Statute
section 300 ipc however deals with murder although there is no clear definition of murder provided in section 300 ipc. --> Statute
it has been repeatedly held by this court that culpable homicide is the genus and murder is species and that all murders are culpable homicide but not vice versa. --> Statute
section 300 ipc further provides for the exceptions which will constitute culpable homicide not amounting to murder and punishable section when and if there is intent and knowledge then the same would be a case of section 304. --> Statute
i and if it is only a case of knowledge and not the intention to cause murder and bodily injury then the same would be a case of section 304 part ii. --> Statute
the aforesaid distinction between an act amounting to murder and an act not amounting to murder has been brought out in the numerous decisions of this court. --> Statute
in the case of state of a p v rayavarapu punnayya 1976 4 scc 382 1976 indlaw sc 192 this court observed as follows at page 386 12. --> Precedent
in the scheme of the penal code culpable homicides is genus and murder its specie. --> Precedent
all murder is culpable homicide but not vice versa. --> Precedent
speaking generally culpable homicide sans special characteristics of murder is culpable homicide not amounting to murder. --> Precedent
for the purpose of fixing punishment proportionate to the gravity of this generic offence the code practically recognises three degrees of culpable homicide. --> Precedent
the first is what may be called culpable homicide of the first degree. --> Precedent
this is the greatest form of culpable homicide which is defined in section 300 as murder. --> Precedent
the second may be termed as culpable homicide of the second degree. --> Precedent
this is punishable under the first part of section 304. --> Precedent
then there is culpable homicide of the third degree. --> Precedent
this is the lowest type of culpable homicide and the punishment provided for it is also the lowest among the punishments provided for the three grades. --> Precedent
culpable homicide of this degree is punishable under the second part of section 304. --> Precedent
placing strong reliance on the aforesaid decision this court in the case of abdul waheed khan v state of a p 2002 7 scc 175 2002 indlaw sc 1777 observed as follows at page 184 13. --> Precedent
b of section 299 corresponds with cls 2 and 3 of section 300. --> Precedent
the distinguishing feature of the mens rea requisite u cl 2 is the knowledge possessed by the offender regarding the particular victim being in such a peculiar condition or state of health that the internal harm caused to him is likely to be fatal notwithstanding the fact that such harm would not in the ordinary way of nature be sufficient to cause death of a person in normal health or condition. --> Precedent
it is noteworthy that the intention to cause death is not an essential requirement of cl. --> Precedent
only the intention of causing the bodily injury coupled with the offender 's knowledge of the likelihood of such injury causing the death of the particular victim is sufficient to bring the killing within the ambit of this clause. --> Precedent
this aspect of cl 2 is borne out by illustration b appended to section 300. --> Precedent
b of section 299 does not postulate any such knowledge on the part of the offender. --> Precedent
instances of cases falling u cl 2 of section 300 can be where the assailant causes death by a fist blow intentionally given knowing that the victim is suffering from an enlarged liver or enlarged spleen or diseased heart and such blow is likely to cause death of that particular person as a result of the rupture of the liver or spleen or the failure of the heart as the case may be. --> Precedent
if the assailant had no such knowledge about the disease or special frailty of the victim nor an intention to cause death or bodily injury sufficient in the ordinary course of nature to cause death the offence will not be murder even if the injury which caused the death was intentionally given. --> Precedent
in cl 3 of section 300 instead of the words likely to cause death occurring in the corresponding cl. --> Precedent
b of section 299 the words sufficient in the ordinary course of nature have been used. --> Precedent
obviously the distinction lies between a bodily injury likely to cause death and a bodily injury sufficient in the ordinary course of nature to cause death. --> Precedent
the distinction is fine but real and if overlooked may result in miscarriage of justice. --> Precedent
the difference between cl. --> Precedent
b of section 299 and cl. --> Precedent
3 of section 300 is one of degree of probability of death resulting from the intended bodily injury. --> Precedent
to put it more broadly it is the degree of probability of death which determines whether a culpable homicide is of the gravest medium or the lowest degree. --> Precedent
the word likely in cl. --> Precedent
b of section 299 conveys the sense of probable as distinguished from a mere possibility. --> Precedent
the words bodily injury sufficient in the ordinary course of nature to cause death mean that death will be the most probable result of the injury having regard to the ordinary course of nature. --> Precedent
for cases to fall within clause 3 it is not necessary that the offender intended to cause death so long as the death ensues from the intentional bodily injury or injuries sufficient to cause death in the ordinary course of nature. --> Precedent
rajwant singh v state of kerala is an apt illustration of this point. --> Precedent
in virsa singh v state of punjab4. --> Precedent
1958 indlaw sc 82 vivian bose j speaking for the court explained the meaning and scope of cl. --> Precedent
it was observed that the prosecution must prove the following facts before it can bring a case under section 300 thirdly. --> Precedent
first it must establish quite objectively that a bodily injury is present secondly the nature of the injury must be proved. --> Precedent
these are purely objective investigations. --> Precedent
thirdly it must be proved that there was an intention to inflict that particular injury that is to say that it was not accidental or unintentional or that some other kind of injury was intended. --> Precedent
once these three elements are proved to be present the enquiry proceeds further and fourthly it must be proved that the injury of the type just described made up of the three elements set out above was sufficient to cause death in the ordinary course of nature. --> Precedent
this part of the enquiry is purely objective and inferential and has nothing to do with the intention of the offender. --> Precedent
the ingredients of clause thirdly of section 300 ipc were brought out by the illustrious judge in his terse language as follows 12. --> Precedent
to put it shortly the prosecution must prove the following facts before it can bring a case under section 300 thirdly first it must establish quite objectively that a bodily injury is present secondly the nature of the injury must be proved these are purely objective investigations. --> Precedent
thirdly it must be proved that there was an intention to inflict that particular bodily injury that is to say that it was not accidental or unintentional or that some other kind of injury was intended. --> Precedent
once these three elements are proved to be present the enquiry proceeds further and fourthly it must be proved that the injury of the type just described made up of the three elements set out above is sufficient to cause death in the ordinary course of nature. --> Precedent
the learned judge explained the third ingredient in the following words the question is not whether the prisoner intended to inflict a serious injury or a trivial one but whether he intended to inflict the injury that is proved to be present. --> Precedent
if he can show that he did not or if the totality of the circumstances justify such an inference then of course the intent that the section requires is not proved. --> Precedent
but if there is nothing beyond the injury and the fact that the appellant inflicted it the only possible inference is that he intended to inflict it. --> Precedent
whether he knew of its seriousness or intended serious consequences is neither here nor there. --> Precedent
the question so far as the intention is concerned is not whether he intended to kill or to inflict an injury of a particular degree of seriousness but whether he intended to inflict the injury in question and once the existence of the injury is proved the intention to cause it will be presumed unless the evidence or the circumstances warrant an opposite conclusion. --> Precedent
these observations of vivian bose j have become locus classicus. --> Precedent
the test laid down by virsa singh case4 for the applicability of clause thirdly is now ingrained in our legal system and has become part of the rule of law. --> Precedent
under clause thirdly of section 300 ipc culpable homicide is murder if both the following conditions are satisfied i e a that the act which causes death is done with the intention of causing death or is done with the intention of causing a bodily injury and b that the injury intended to be inflicted is sufficient in the ordinary course of nature to cause death. --> Precedent
it must be proved that there was an intention to inflict that particular bodily injury which in the ordinary course of nature was sufficient to cause death viz that the injury found to be present was the injury that was intended to be inflicted. --> Precedent
thus according to the rule laid down in virsa singh case4 even if the intention of the accused was limited to the infliction of a bodily injury sufficient to cause death in the ordinary course of nature and did not extend to the intention of causing death the offence would be murder. --> Precedent
illustration c appended to section 300 clearly brings out this point. --> Precedent
c of section 299 and cl. --> Precedent
4 of section 300 both require knowledge of the probability of the act causing death. --> Precedent
it is not necessary for the purpose of this case to dilate much on the distinction between these corresponding clauses. --> Precedent
it will be sufficient to say that cl. --> Precedent
4 of section 300 would be applicable where the knowledge of the offender as to the probability of death of a person or persons in general as distinguished from a particular person or persons being caused from his imminently dangerous act approximates to a practical certainty. --> Precedent
such knowledge on the part of the offender must be of the highest degree of probability the act having been committed by the offender without any excuse for incurring the risk of causing death or such injury as aforesaid. --> Precedent
the above are only broad guidelines and not cast iron imperatives. --> Precedent
in most cases their observance will facilitate the task of the court. --> Precedent
but sometimes the facts are so intertwined and the second and the third stages so telescoped into each that it may not be convenient to give a separate treatment to the matters involved in the second and third stages. --> Precedent
the aforesaid principles have been consistently followed by this court in several decisions. --> Precedent
reference in this regard may be made to the decision of this court in ruli ram v state of haryana 2002 7 scc 691 2002 indlaw sc 1927 augustine saldanha v state of karnataka 2003 10 scc 472 2003 indlaw sc 674 state of u p v virendra prasad 2004 9 scc 37 2004 indlaw sc 60 chacko v state of kerala 2004 12 scc 269 2004 indlaw sc 20 section n bhadolkar v state of maharasthra 2005 9 scc 71 2004 indlaw sc 268 and jagriti devi v state of h p jt 2009 8 sc 648. --> Precedent
2009 indlaw sc 859. --> Precedent
that being the well settled legal position when we test the factual background of the present case on the principles laid down by this court in the aforesaid decisions we are unable to agree with the views taken by the high court. --> Ratio of the decision
as already noted it is quite clear from the record that there was an altercation preceding the incident. --> Ratio of the decision
the place of occurrence is a residence inhabited by both the parties and there is no evidence on record that the deceased was armed with any weapon. --> Ratio of the decision
initially the accused appellant also did not have any weapon with him but during the course of the incident he went inside and got a knife with the help of which he stabbed the deceased. --> Ratio of the decision
in his cross examination has categorically stated that death due to stab injury was in consequence of injury No 1 and all other injuries were superficial in nature. --> Ratio of the decision
so it was only injury No 1 which was fatal in nature. --> Ratio of the decision
factually therefore there was only one main injury caused due to stabbing and that also was given on the back side of the deceased and therefore it can not be said that there was any intention to kill or to inflict an injury of a particular degree of seriousness. --> Ratio of the decision
records clearly establish that there was indeed a scuffle between the parties with regard to the availability of electricity in a particular room and during the course of scuffle the appellant also received an injury which was simple in nature and that there was heated exchange of words and scuffle between the parties before the actual incident of stabbing took place. --> Ratio of the decision
there is therefore provocation and the incident happened at the spur of the moment. --> Ratio of the decision
that being the factual position we are of the considered view that the present case can not be said to be a case section but it is a case falling under section 304 part ii ipc. --> Ratio of the decision
it is trite law that section 304 part ii comes into play when the death is caused by doing an act with knowledge that it is likely to cause death but there is no intention on the part of the accused either to cause death or to cause such bodily injury as is likely to cause death. --> Ratio of the decision
accordingly we convict the appellant under section 304 part ii of ipc and sentence him to undergo imprisonment for a period of 7 years. --> Ruling by Present Court
his bail bonds shall stand cancelled and the appellant shall surrender immediately to serve out the remaining period of sentence. --> Ruling by Present Court
if however the appellant does not surrender by himself the state shall take necessary steps to rearrest him to undergo the remaining part of sentence. --> Ruling by Present Court
the appeal stands disposed of in terms of aforesaid order. --> Ruling by Present Court
appeal disposed of. --> Ruling by Present Court
