Civil Appeal Nos3677 3680 of 1986 Etc.
From the Judgment and Order dated 1031986 of the Karnataka High Court in WP Nos.
4053 to 4056 of 1985.
In exercise of its powers under section 637 of the  the Central Government specified 50 as the number of All India Tourist Vehicle Permits  which may be granted by the Karnataka State Transport Authority.
By section 24 of Amending Act 47 of 1978 a proviso to section 637 was introduced.
By the time the proviso came into force 36 permits had been granted by the Karnataka State Transport Authority and 14 remained to be granted.
By an order dated February 1 1984 the Supreme Court directed the Karnataka State Transport Authority to dispose of these applications.
A number of appeals were preferred to the Karnataka State Transport Appellate Tribunal.
A large number of applicants filed writ petitions in the High Court.
637 the preference became operative only if other things were equal.
It was also urged that the fourth sub clause of the proviso offended article 14 and had to be struck down.
A public service vehicle is defined in section 225 as any motor vehicle used or adapted to be used for the carriage of passengers for hire or reward and includes a motor cab contract carriage and stage carriage.
Chapter IV A relates to special provisions relating to State Transport Under takings.
Desai J speaking for the court observed However when an application for a permit is made under Chapter IV the Undertaking has to compete with private operators who may as well make an application for permit.
In an application under Chapter IV Corporation has to enter the arena like any other applicant face the competition and come up to the level of other private operators intending to obtain stage carriage permits and then in respect of the route in question claim preference.
 What has been said by the Court with reference to the preference 1017 provided for in section 471 H applies with equal force to the preference provided for by the proviso to section 637.
In the judgment under appeal the High Court attempted to distinguish the decision of this Court in Sher Singh s case on the ground that any other interpretation would have wiped out the difference between Chapter IV and Chapter IV A.
A question was raised before us about the vires of the fourth clause of the proviso to section 637.
It is difficult to agree with these submissions.
In the first place clause d it is seen provides for a preference not to operators of tourist vehicles but to operators of tourist cars and travel agents.
In the second place we have no indication as to the manner in which the approval of the Central Government is to be sought and granted and the considerations which are expected to weigh with the Central Government.
637 of the .
In the result we set aside the orders of the State Transport Appellate Tribunal and the High Court and direct the State Transport Appellate Tribunal to hear the appeals in the light of what we have said.
