Petition No 15001 of 1989.
AND IA No 1 of 1989 in SLP No 12288 of 1984.
From the Judgment and Order dated 2041984 of the Andhra Pradesh High Court Appeal No 472 of 1976.
K Mahadeva Reddy Ms Manjul Gupta TVSN Chari and A Subba Rao for the Petitioner.
K Ram Kumar SA Ahmed Tanweer Abdul and Mohan Pandey for the Respondents.
In view of the fact that a petition of compromise in respect of the entire subject matter of litigation has been filed in this Court it is unnecessary to refer to the facts leading to the litigation.
Subbamma adopted one KV Seshiah.
Seshiah married two wives.
In February 1985 during the pendency of the special leave petition the adoptive mother died.
One of the stipulation in the compromise deed which has admittedly been signed by the father and his two sons stipulates The petitioner has given to the second and third respondents the two sons an amount of Rs 1 lakh each and the second and third respondents have received the same In the face of such a statement in the compromise deed signed by the parties the second respondent had disputed the fact of payment and has in the meantime alienated about 81 acres of property which constitutes the subject matter of dispute to third parties.
Admittedly the transfers are pendente lite.
In fact if the compromise is valid and binding the alienor respondent No 2 had no interest in the property to part with in view of the stipulation in the compromise that on receipt of Rs 1 lakh he relinquished his entire interest in the property.
Mr Ram Kumar who appeared for the second respondent apart from maintaining that his client has not received the sum of Rs1 lakh has not been able to point out any justification as to why the compromise should not be acted upon and on the basis of it the litigation may not be disposed of.
The factum of compromise is not in dispute.
Counsel for the alienees has taken the stand that the said alienations are valid and the transferees have become owners of the property and has even maintained that there have been improvements of the property by the alienees.
In view of the fact that there was the allegation of payment of Rs 1 lakh to Sudarshan Gupta which we have not investigated and to meet the further allegation that some improvements have been made to the property which too we have not gone into we direct that the mesne profits shall be set off against the same.
If necessary the Trial Court may appoint a Commissioner and take police help for executing this order and such cost shall ultimately be borne by the defaulting alienees but may initially be met by Seshiah.
