N Criminal Appeal No 8 of 1951.
Appeal from an Order of the High Court of Bombay Bavdekar and Chainani JJ dated 20th February 1950 in Criminal Appeal No 106 of 1950 arising out of an order dated 9th January 1950 of the Presidency Magistrate 19th Court Esplanade Bombay in Case No 10879P of 1949.
The facts are stated in the judgment.
Iswarlal C Dalai and RB Dalai for the appellant.
CK Daphtary Solicitor General for India G N Joshi with him for the Republic of India respondent No 1Jindra Lal for the respondent No 2 1952.
February 1.
The Judgment of the Court was deliv ered by CHANDRASEKHARA AIYAR J.
The facts out of which this Crimi nal Appeal has arisen are not long.
The appellant WH King who is carrying on a business in Bombay under the name and style of Associated Commercial Enterprises was the tenant of a flat on the second floor of a building called Ganga Vihar Marine Drive Bombay which belongs to a lady named Durgeshwari Devi.
It is said that the appellant wanted to go to the United Kingdom for treatment of his failing eye sight and he got into touch with the complainant Mulchand Kodumal Bhatia who is the second respondent in this appeal through one Sayed for the purpose of making necessary ar rangements about the flat occupied by him in view of his intended departure.
He however got into touch with the police on 1 12 1948 and in conjunction with the latter a trap was laid for the appellant.
It was arranged that the complainant should bring with him Rs 1000 being the balance due in respect of the furniture and that the police would give him Rs 29500 to be paid to the appellant.
As the appellant and his wife were leaving the flat the man who masqueraded as the complain ant s brother threw off his disguise and disclosed his identity.
The police party who were down below ready for the raid held up the car of the appellant and recovered the sum of Rs 30500 from the rear seat of the car and also some papers a typed draft of a partnership agreement be tween the complainant and the appellant and an application form for permission to occupy the building as caretaker.
From the complainant were recovered the bunch of keys and the documents that were handed over to him by the appellant namely the letter handing vacant possession Exhibit D.
His wife who was the second accused in the case was charged with aiding and abetting her husband in the commission of the two offences.
The wife of the appellant denied any aiding and abetting.
The section which consists of two parts is in these terms 1 It shall not be lawful for the tenant or any person acting or purporting to act on behalf of the tenant to claim or receive any sum or any consideration as a condi tion for the relinquishment of his tenancy of any premises 422 2 Any tenant or person who in contravention of the provisions of sub section 1 receives any sum or considera tion shall on conviction be punished with imprisonment for a term which may extend to 6 months and shall also be pun ished with fine which shall not be less than the sum or the value of the consideration received by him.
Exhibit D which is the most material document under which the appellant handed over vacant possession of the flat to the complainant constitutes or evidences an assignment of the tenancy and not a relinquishment.
Any sublet ting assignment or transfer in any other manner of his interest by the tenant is made unlawful under 423 section 15.
Section 18 deals with the grant renewal or continuance of a lease of any premises or the giving of his consent by the landlord to the transfer of a lease by sub lease or otherwise and it provides that the landlord who receives any fine premium or other like sum or deposit or any consideration for the grant renewal or continuance or the accord of consent oh would be guilty of an offence and liable to the punishment therein specified.
It is the landlord s consent to the transfer of a lease by sub lease or otherwise on receipt of consideration that has been made an offence.
If by the expression an assignment such as we have in the present case was meant appropriate words could have been used such as the transfer by a tenant of his interest which we find in section 108 sub clause i of the Trans fer of Property Act.
The consent of the landlord to an assignment is not necessary in the absence of a contract or local usage to the contrary.
But in the case of relinquishment it cannot be a unilateral transaction it can only be in favour of the lessor by mutual agreement between them.
The relin quishment of possession must be to the lessor or one who holds his interest.
In fact a surrender or relinquishment terminates the lessee s rights and lets in the lessor.
It is no doubt true that the word relinquishment does not occur in the Transfer of Property Act but it is found in many of the Tenancy Acts in various provinces where there are Sec tions which deal with the 55 424 relinquishment of their holdings by tenants in favour of the landlord by notice given to him in writing.
The section in question it should be further noted does not speak of relinquishment or giving up of possessionin general terms.
The words are the relinquishment of his tenancy of any premises.
The relinquishment of a tenancy is equivalent to surrender by the lessee or tenant of his rights as such.
As the statute creates an offence and imposes a penalty of fine and imprisonment the words of the section must be strictly construed in favour of the subject.
As in our view there has been no relinquishment within the meaning of section 19 sub clause 1 the conviction under sub clause 2 cannot be sustained.
Agent for respondent No 1 PA Mehta.
Agent for respondent No 2 Ganpat Rai.
