of india took steps to acquire some lands of agriculturists pursuant to which a notification dated november 27 1962 was issued under section 4 of the land acquisition act 1894 for acquiring 51 79 acres of land situated in the state of ahmedpur.
on the next day another notification was issued under section 6 of the land acquisition act on november 28 1962 and in view of the emergency action under section 17 was taken for obtaining possession of the land with a view to its development.
apart from this amount compensation was also awarded for standing crop amounting to rs 11073 13.
he had in anticipation of acquisition and execution of the work appointed a b ranadive p w 14 as assistant garrison engineer who was to be responsible for all the matters connected with the acquisition of land demarcation of boundaries as an engineer inching for execution of the contract and responsible for the maintenance of the air field.
after the completion of the first phase the second phase was to start on 10th october 1963 and completed by 9th may 1964.
pursuant to this agreement it is said that symbolic possession of the land which was acquired was taken over by the tehsildar on 1st february 1963 after which at any rate it appears from exhibit p 24 that actual possession of this land was handed over by the said tehsildar on 13th.
february 1963 to the appellant.
from this receipt it is evident that possession of 50 12 acres was handed over by the tehsildar and taken over by the appellant and the military estate officer sukhchain lal jain.
he sold the crop to moti ram and kewal chand for rs 2500 and facilitated the cutting and taking away of the crop by postponing the handing over of the possession to the contractor till the 5th april 1963 and misappropriated the money.
in respect of this allegation the first information report exhibit p 29 was issued on 14 1 64 in which the following statement is relevant.
abused his position as a public servant and caused pecuniary advantage to said shri moti ram and kewal chand by giving them standing crops worth rs 13000 for a consideration of.
after this f i r certain statements were recorded by the military authorities being da to de dm dm 1 dn dl of mani gain mulkh raj ganpat ram telu ram kewal chand and sukhchain lal jain.
a chargesheet was filed against the appellant under section 5 1 c and 5 1 d read with 5 2 of the prevention of corruption act on 5 8 1966 after obtaining sanction from the govt.
of india ministry of home affairs on llth april 1966 as per exhibit p 23.
the accused was however convicted under the first charge for an offence under section 51c in that he being a garrison engineer incharge of the air field.
sirsa and in that capacity entrusted with standing crops of sarson gram and lusan on 30 acres of land a part of 49 acres of land acquired by the govt.
it was also contended that the high court had not considered the contradictions in the earlier statement made by some of the witnesses to the military authorities and that it relied on many of the documents for affirming the conviction of the appellant without their actually being put to him under section 342.
before we consider these contentions it is necessary to determine another submission of the learned advocate for the appellant which goes to the root of the jurisdiction of the court to try the offence under section 51c.
it may be mentioned that though a complaint was made in the application for a certificate for leave to appeal to this court that the learned single judge of the high court should have acquitted the appellant on the sole ground that there was no proper sanction for the prosecution of the appellant under section 51 c of the prevention of the corruption act this question does not seem to have been urged before the high court.
that the sanction given by the govt.
of india does not cover the trial of the charge under section 51c of the prevention of corruption act.
for a sanction to be valid it must be established that the sanction was given in respect of the facts constituting the offence with which the accused is proposed to be charged.
it is therefore necessary to first examine the order of sanction to ascertain on what facts it has been accorded.
sirsa and or he dishonestly or fraudulently realised and misappropriated rs 2500 during the aforesaid period as the value of the crops cut from the land acquired for the extension of air field.
after fully and carefully examining the materials before it in regard to the said allegations and circumstances of the case consider that major som nath should be prosecuted in a court of law for the said offences.
now therefore the central govt both hereby accord sanction under section 197 code of criminal procedure act No 5 of 1898 and section 61a of the prevention of corruption act 1947 act ii of 1947 for the prosecution of maj.
treasury.
on these facts and after applying its mind as spoken to by p w 10 kalra the government accorded its sanction for prosecution of the offences punishable under section 52 read with section 51c and 51d.
treasury.
if so a charge under section 51c would implicate those persons also in the commission of an offence which certainly would not have been in the contemplation of the authorities granting the sanction.
in support of this contention three decisions have been cited before us namely bhagat ram v state of punjab 1954 indlaw sc 188 madan mohan singh v state of u p privy council 82.
bhagat ram s case was not concerned with the sanction but only with the question whether the offence could be altered to one of abetment of an offence of section 409 i p c from one under section 409 simpliciter.
but even so the offence with which the appellant is charged under section 51c does not necessarily involve an abetment with the person whom he had dishonestly allowed to cut and take away the crop.
for instance it is quite possible that the person whom he allowed to cut the crop may be his own relation or friend in whom he may be interested and who may however not know that the accused was doing something dishonest in permitting him to cut the crop.
in any case the facts which have been stated in the sanction clearly indicate that the appellant has dishonestly allowed the crops to be cut so that there is no question of any inference or implication that the persons cutting the crops were abetting him in the offence.
even if it were so the sanction can not be held to be had on that account.
gokulchand dwarkadas s case also is of no assistance to the appellant because in that case the sanction did not disclose the facts on which it was given but merely sanctioned the prosecution for a breach of certain provisions sir john beamont delivering the judgement of the judicial committee observed at page 84 but if the facts constituting the offence charged are not shown on the face of the sanction the prosecution must prove by extraneous evidence that those facts were placed before the sanctioning authority.
nor in their lordships view is a sanction given without reference to the facts constituting the offence a compliance with the actual terms of cl.
in the present case there is nothing on the face of the sanction and no extraneous evidence to show that the sanctioning authority knew the facts alleged to constitute a breach of the order and the sanction is invalid.
1957 indlaw sc 59 was also cited by the respondent s advocate in support of the contention that the trial of two offences requiring sanction was not valid.
in that case sanction was given under section 6 of the prevention of corruption act 47 for the prosecution of the appellant for having received illegal gratification from one pal singh.
he was charged with and tried for two offences under section 51 a of the act for habitually accepting or obtaining illegal gratification and under section 51d for receiving illegal gratification from pal singh.
a perusal of the sanction would show that the sanctioning authority had applied their mind to only one instance but the prosecution were seeking to make the sanction cover the offence of a habitual bribe taker which clearly implies that the sanctioning authorities must consider the number of instances when the accused took bribes and on what occasions as would justify a charge of his being a habitual bribe taker.
in the present case the sanction strictly construed indicates the consideration by the sanctioning authority of the facts relating to the receiving of the illegal gratification from pal singh and therefore the appellant could only be validly tried for that offence.
section 61 of the act bars the jurisdiction of the court to take cognizance of an offence for which previous sanction is required and has not been given.
in our view there is no justification for holding that the conviction under section 51c read with 52 is bad for want of the requisite sanction.
secondly the evidence that was necessary to unfold the story of the prosecution has not been produced by the prosecution but the trial court and the high court ignored this lacunas in the prosecution case.
p w 14 ranadive tells us that if one were to go from the entrance of air field to the acquired land one would have to pass through rd 4500 to 1200.
according to p w 8 telu ram he acquired possession of the land of the length from rd 4500 to rd 1200 on 10th january 1963 and that tile possession of the acquired land was not delivered to him as it had not been acquired by that time.
it is not the case of the appellant that acquisition of the land on which the crop was standing had taken place nor could possession of it been handed over to him because he denies that there was any crop on the land when the possession of the land was handed over to him.
that there was crop on the land is amply born out by a letter of the appellant dated 12th february 1963 addressed to mr g l nagpal sub divisional magistrate sirsa.
as you know.
it is desirable that entire proceedings with regard to acquisition of land and determining compensation for standing crops for the total area of 39 58 acres in mirpur and ahmadpur villages tire finalised an this date.
even if exhibit dq gave a correct picture it could be in relation to the airstrip already in existence as this would be necessary for a contractor who is charged with duty to carry out extension work to go on the site collect materials and get everything ready to execute his contract.
it was then that he wrote on 23 1 1963 as per exhibit 8 to the assistant garrison engineer complaining that the possession of the whole of the land had not been delivered to him.
a copy of this letter was sent to the garrison engineer the appellant.
it is not as if the existing airstrip ends at the boundary of rd 4500 to rd 1200 so that the work of extension can go on in the existing airstrip even before possession of the acquired land was given.
p 24 that actual possession was delivered to the appellant on 13th february 63 as per the delivery receipt executed by him the tehsildar and p w 11 a representative of the military estate office and that even according to his letter already referred to exhibit p 13 there wag standing crop on the land.
as otherwise there is no meaning in the appellant saying therein that it is desirable that entire proceedings with regard to acquisition of land and determining compensation for standing crops for the total area of 39 58 acres are finalised on the 13th february.
this evidence however does not assist the accused.
at the most it shows that a small portion of the crops were cut but it is apparent that that has not been taken into account by the collector in assessing the value of the crop because it is on that day that crops were inspected for that purpose and subsequently the agricultural officer also had in his letter dated 18 2 63 which has been cited in the award exhibit p 26 intimated that on inspection the crops were found to be very good.
no further action is required to be taken.
he was asked about the symbolic delivery of possession the handing over of the actual possession of the land on 13 2 63 and the existence of crops on the date when possession was delivered on 16 2 63.
he was asked about telu ram s evidence and also that he had given possession of the land rd 1200 to rd 00 to the contractor after the crop had been cut.
it can not therefore be said that circumstances appearing against the accused which have formed the basis of the conviction had not been put to him.
the appellant has denied that there was any standing crop on the land acquired on any date after 13 2 63.
for instance it is said that gamkhar military estate officer was not produced to prove the receipt exhibit p 24.
