this appeal is directed against the judgment and order of the high court of gujarat dated 28 2 1986 allowing the respondent s writ petition and quashing order of discharge from service and directing his reinstatement in service.
he made representation to the additional chief engineer for cancelling his transfer order on the ground that his mother aged 70 years was ailing and it would cause great inconvenience to him if he was required to join at ukai.
his representation was rejected and he was directed to join at ukai but he did not do so instead he filed a civil suit at baroda challenging validity of the order of transfer.
the respondent as well as the appellant board both preferred letters patent appeals against the order of learned single judge.
this appeal came up for hearing before us on 28th january1988 and on that day.
sh b k mehta advocate appearing for the appellants and sh.
after hearing learned counsel for the parties we were satisfied that the learned single judge as well as the division bench both had committed error in allowing the writ petition and granting relief to the respondent.
the appellants were directed by means of interim order of this court to continue to pay salary to the respondent which was being paid to him regularly.
however in the interest of justice we permitted the respondent to file written submissions if any in support of his case.
thereafter the case was listed several times but no written submissions were filed instead the respondent adopted an unusual course by sending an application by post expressing his no confidence in us with a prayer to transfer the case to some other bench.
no party is entitled to get a case transferred from one bench to the other unless the bench is biased or there are some reasonable grounds for the same but no right to get a case transferred to any other bench can legitimately be claimed merely because the judges express opinion on the merits of the case on the conclusion of hearing.
the opportunity granted to the respondent has however been misused by raising mischievous and frivolous objections instead of filing written submissions.
no government servant or employee of public undertaking has legal tight for being posted at any particular place.
if the order of transfer is not stayed modified or cancelled the concerned public servant must carry out the order of transfer.
in the absence of any stay of the transfer order a public servant has no justification to avoid or evade the transfer order merely on the ground of having made a representation or on the ground of his difficulty in moving from one place to the other.
the respondent lost his service as he refused to comply with the order of his transfer from one place to the other.
there is no dispute that the respondent was holding a transferable post and under the conditions of service applicable to him he was liable to be transferred and posted at any place within the state of gujarat.
in fact during the tenure of his service in the board the respondent had been transferred from one place to another place several times.
regulation 113 confers wide powers on the authorities to summarily discharge an employee from service if he continues to be absent from duty in an unauthorised manner and refuses to join his duty even after warning.
it is noteworthy that the validity of regulation 113 was not challenged before the high court and the parties proceeded on the assumption that regulation 113 was valid and applicable to the respondent s service.
on perusal of the material on record we are of the opinion that the view taken by the high court is not sustainable as there is sufficient material on record which shows that warning had been issued to the respondent before the order of discharge was issued.
instead he made a representation to the additional chief engineer on 8 4 1974 after the transfer order.
sub transfer from surat to ukai.
there is no dispute that the respondent received the aforesaid letter as he sent a reply to the superintending engineer on april 201974a copy of which was annexed as annexure j by the petitioner to his petition before the high court.
by that letter respondent stated that he was waiting for the decision of his representation made for reconsideration of his transfer from surat to ukai and therefore the question of his remaining on unauthorised leave was misconceived.
no government servant or employee of any public undertaking has a right to be absent from duty without sanction of leave merely on account of pendency of representation against the order of transfer.
the establishment officer p of the board also informed the respondent by his letter dated may 61974 that his representation against the order of transfer was not accepted and he was directed to obey the order of transfer.
but even thereafter the respondent did not join his duties.
the aforesaid documents leave no room for any doubt that the respondent was reminded of his failure to join his duties at ukai and he was further reminded that his unauthorised absence had exposed him to disciplinary action.
in fact the superintending engineer had by his letter dated 18th april1974 clearly reminded the respondent that his unauthorised absence was in breach of service regulation no 113 and called upon to show cause why action should not be taken against him but in spite of these letters the respondent failed to join his duties.
the division bench of the high court has held that since no warning was issued to the respondent action taken under service regulation no 113 was not in accordance with law.
this finding is wholly misconceived.
the object and purpose of the warning as contemplated by the regulation is to remind the delinquent employee that his continued unauthorised absence from duties was liable to result in discharge of his service.
the registered cover containing the letter dated 24 4 1974 was returned back by the postal authorities with an endorsement that the addressee refused to accept the same.
the division bench further held that since the letter dated 24 4 1974 was not served on the respondent there was no material to show that any warning had been issued to the respondent before he was discharged from service.
firstly even if the letter dated 24 4 1974 was not served on the respondent there is no dispute that the superintending engineer s letter dated 18th april1974 had been served on him.
by that letter warning as contemplated by regulation no 113 had been issued to the respondent.
no doubt the presumption is rebuttable and it is open to the party concerned to place evidence before the court to rebut the presumption by showing that the address mentioned on the cover was incorrect or that the postal authorities never tendered the registered letter to him or that there was no occasion for him to refuse the same.
no 113 the learned single judge as well as the division bench both erred in law in setting aside the order of discharge.
there would be no order as to costs.
the respondent has been paid a sum of rs 104170 towards salary under the interim orders of this court.
