the order of the court was as follows.
i as well as the applicability of the rules and orders made by several state governments on the basis of the said decision.
by order dated october 71993 passed by the constitution bench three questions were referred for consideration by a larger bench.
in pursuance of the said order this bench has been constituted.
the hearing of the matters was therefore adjourned to march 181994on which date the questions requiring consideration by this bench have been reframed to highlight the several aspects of the claims put forward by the petitioners.
having regard to the importance of the questions involved we consider it appropriate to issue notice to the attorney general of india as well as the advocates general for the states.
for admission in the last academic session 1993 94an interim order in the following terms was made by a bench comprising honourable the chief justice and one of us justice b p jeevan reddy on may 141993 in writ petition nos 350 and 355 of 1993.
issue rule.
however the selection shall be made strictly on the basis of merit among the candidates seeking admission to the institutions.
it is made clear that this order is made on the assumption that the petitioners are minority institutions.
it is open to the respondents to question this status claimed by the petitioners.
minority educational institutions which are in receipt of state funds by way of aid3 minority educational institutions in respect of which it is not clear from the averments in the writ petitions whether they are aided or unaided institutions4.
the 50 seats to be filled up by candidates selected by the agencies of the state government on the basis of a competitive examination test as well as the remaining 50 seats to be filled in accordance with cl of the said order shall be equally distributed between free seats and payment seats.
in other words out of the 50 seats to be filled up by government half will be payment seats and half will be free seats.
similarly out of the 50 of the seats to be filled up by the management in accordance of the said order half shall be payment seats and the other half free seats.
such statements shall contain as full a particulars as possible.
any such irregularity if proved may entail serious consequences.
separate directions were however given in respect of institutions referred to in writ petitions nos 284 and 482 of 1993 with regard to writ petition no 284 of 1993 it was observed that in the said writ petition the petitioner has claimed that no capitation fee is charged from any student and the fee charged is not more than in some cases less than.
after completing the admissions the petitioners shall furnish full particulars of the students admitted the categories if any whereunder they were admitted and all other particulars relating to their admission.
in case of irregularity any of the said authorities shall be entitled to call upon the petitioner to rectify the said irregularity.
it is made clear that any violation of the directions given herein by the petitioners shall entail serious consequences inasmuch as the above orders are made based upon their representations and even before a counter affidavit has been filed by the respective respondents in view of the urgency expressed by them.
i e 1993with the direction that the basis of the said selection would be as indicated in order dated may 1419934 on the basis of merit leaving to the management of the college t m a pai foundation v state of karnataka1993.
4scc276 2002.
in respect of the seats which are left for management to fill in its discretion merit shall be the guiding principle.
since the entire expenditure of the colleges is borne by the state the entire fees collected are also made over to the state these colleges must be required to draw the students even with respect to the seats to be filled by the management from out of the state merit list if any.
in the absence of such list they can themselves devise the method for such selection.
it is enough to record that shri vellapally learned counsel for the state of kerala disputes the minority character of these institutions.
in rest of the minority educational institutions falling in categories 12 and 3 indicated in paragraph 5 of the order dated august 1819932admission shall be made in accordance with the directions contained in the order dated may 141993 in writ petitions nos 350 and 355 of 1993 as modified by order dated august 1819932but the directions would not apply to the institutions referred to in paragraph 18 of the order dated august 1819932 in this context we would like to impress upon the managements of the institutions concerned that while assessing the merit of a candidate for admission the objective should be to promote the excellence of the institution as a vehicle of general secular education.
insofar as non resident indians and foreign students are concerned the permissible limit would be only 5 of the total intake for a given year as per the direction contained in paragraph 6 of the order dated may 141993 as modified by order dated august 1819932 the admission against these seats shall be made on the basis of merit.
but it would be open for the management of the institution to adjudge the merit of the candidates having regard to the relevant factors.
the contempt petition nos 65100 and 126 of 1992 arise out of the judgment of this court in keshav chandra joshi v union of india 1990 indlaw sc 270 in which this court had directed to determine inter se seniority of the direct recruits and promotee asstt.
the direct recruits were appointed in accordance with rule 5a read with appendix a of u p forest service rules1952 for short the rules.
conservators forest and the seniority of direct recruits shall accordingly be fixed.
the governor was directed to make appointment by promotion to substantive vacancies to the post of asstt.
conservators forest if not already made in accordance with rule 5b read with appendix b and rule 6.
conservators forest shall be counted from the respective dates of appointment to the substantive posts in their quota under rule 6 of the rules.
all the employees are entitled to all consequential benefits.
later when raj narayan singh and others filed writ petition civil no 641 of 1991this court on june 61991 directed to convert the writ petition as a contempt case for non implementation of the direction issued in k c joshi case which was numbered as contempt petition no 164 of 1971 when.
it came up for hearing on august.
conservator forest for the years 1973 74 to 1979 80 had taken place by a regularly constituted selection committee which selected 140 candidates for appointment.
shri verma appearing for some of the later direct recruits contended that the direct recruits were appointed to the substantive vacancies as held in k c joshi case and their seniority was fixed in the judgment from the date on which they started discharging the duties of the post as asstt.
conservators forest.
in the rejoinder the promotees have stated that as on december 311974 a total number of 140 posts of asstt.
as on march 11198532 more posts were created and the total posts available were 218 on.
the promotees therefore are entitled to 50 per cent of the posts.
but that was not done.
it is further contended that though decision was taken to give 50 per cent quota to the promotees the statutory rules have not been made.
since the seniority as per the direction of this court was made only to substantive posts some of the direct recruits became temporary direct recruits and the seniority was determined accordingly.
in the light of the respective contentions the question arises whether the determination of the seniority is in accordance with the directions issued by this court.
from the averments it would appear that 100 promotee asstt.
similarly as on january 11975the ratio was increased to 33 13 per cent namely66 23 per cent to the direct recruits and 33 13 per cent to the promotees.
it is clear from the counter affidavit filed by the state that the posts are both permanent and temporary.
if the temporary posts are likely to continue for long normally as per the law laid down by this court they be treated for the purpose of counting seniority as permanent posts unless they are likely to be abolished.
it is a policy matter.
on so determining the direct recruits would go en block as seniors to the promotees and the promotee officers in the order of their inter se seniority be appointed by the governor under rule 5b read with rule 6 and would be placed below the direct recruits.
after this exercise is exhausted appointments should be made posts are to be filled up to substantive vacancies.
the contempt petitions are accordingly disposed of.
