before embarking upon the issue involved in this appeal we may notice the admitted fact of the matter.
the government of gujarat in exercise of its power conferred upon it u s 65 of the act made a scheme in respect of the town of umra surat on 1 06 1999.
a road widening project was proposed in terms of the said scheme.
notices therefor were issued both to the appellant as also the respondent No appellant objected thereto.
and its pole demarcations were done by the town planning officer at site.
the action as per the s 188 of the indian penal code will be initiated against you before the criminal court pleased take note of the same.
in the said writ petition it was prayed on the facts and circumstances mentioned herein above the petitioner prays to your lordships that a be pleased to issue writ of mandamus or writ in the nature of mandamus or appropriate writ order or direction quashing and setting aside the impugned action of acquiring and demolishing the structures available on the land in question i e original plot no 17 a r s no 17 p situated at umra surat.
at least on ground that the tenant is in occupation it would not be a case for interference with the scheme which is sanctioned and made a part of the statute.
suffice it to say that the tenant will be at liberty to resort to appropriate proceedings against the landlord for the inter se rights and also for entitlement of the compensation.
a division bench of the high court dismissed an intra court appeal preferred thereagainst.
a tenant having regard to the provisions of the transfer of property act or otherwise having an interest in the property can not be deprived therefrom without following the procedure established by law and without initiation of any proceedings for acquisition of land.
the tenant s interest being distinct and separate could not have been held to be merged with the interest of the landlord either for the purpose of allotment of a final plot or otherwise in favour of the landlord.
prashant g desai learned counsel appearing on behalf of the respondent no 1on the other hand would submit.
i public notices having been issued in terms of the rule 26 of the rules an objection which would nullify the scheme can not be entertained at this stage.
chapter v of the act provides for town planning schemes.
s 52 contemplates issuance of a notice in a prescribed manner and in the prescribed form.
further sub s 3 of section 65ss 67 and 68 of the act read as under 65 power of government to sanction or refuse to sanction the scheme and effect of sanction.
3 on and after the date fixed in such notification the preliminary scheme or the final scheme as the case may be shall have effect as if it were enacted in this act.
67 effect of preliminary scheme.
on the day on which the preliminary scheme comes into force.
a all lands required by the appropriate authority.
68 power of appropriate authority to evict summarily on and after the date on which a preliminary scheme comes into force any person continuing to occupy any land which he is not entitled to occupy under the preliminary scheme.
rules 261263 and 33 of the rules read as under 26 procedure to be followed by town planning officer u s 51 and under sub s 1 of s 52 1.
such notice shall specify the matters which are proposed to be decided by the town planning officer and state that all persons who are interested in the plots or are affected by any of the matters specified in the notice shall communicate in writing their objections to the town planning officer within a period of twenty days from the publication of notice in the official gazette.
such notice shall also be posted at the officer of the town planning officer and of the appropriate authority and the substance of such notice shall be pasted at convenient places in the said locality.
33 procedure for eviction u s 68 1.
b if the person to be evicted fails to comply with the requirement of the notice the appropriate authority shall depute any officer or servant to remove him.
c if the person to be evicted resists or obstructs the officer or servant deputed u cl b or.
before embarking upon the rival contentions we may also notice that the provisions of the bombay town planning rules1955.
sub rule 5 provides for recording a brief minute setting out the points at issue and the necessary particulars if during the proceedings it appears to the town planning officer that there are conflicting claims or any difference of opinion with regard to any part of the scheme.
it prescribes service of notice in form h a copy of the notice in the said form is kept at the office of the town planning officer during office hours.
any person affected by the proposal of the town planning scheme is entitled to inspect the scheme in the office where arrangements for explaining the scheme proposals are made.
it furthermore provides that any person entitled to claim damages in terms of s 82 of the act should communicate the details of his claim to the town planning officer.
s 81 of the act enables the state to transfer of right from original to final plot or extinction of such right.
darji1991 indlaw sc 975 supra wherein this court opined that sub rule 3 of rule 21 of the bombay rules was mandatory in nature subject of course to the condition that on the crucial date viz when the town planning scheme is notified in the official gazette he whether an owner or tenant or sub tenant must be in possession of the property.
in that context it was held the question is whether the tenant or a sub tenant is a person interested and is entitled to notice.
but he must be in possession of the property on the crucial date i e when.
the town planning scheme is notified in the official gazette.
every owner or tenant or a sub tenant in possession on that date alone shall be entitled to a notice and opportunity.
amended rules are in pari materia with rule 26 of the rules.
appellant was a tenant in respect of plot no 178 plot no 177 was not a plot contiguous thereto.
it is also not in dispute that the appellant filed an objection in regard to the draft scheme but did not eventually pursue the same.
the draft scheme was approved 867 sq m of land had been acquired for public purpose out of the said plot no 178 while the proceedings relating to allotment of final plot were in progress he even did not file any objection thereto.
if he intended to claim any interest in a portion of plot no 178 either for the purpose of obtaining compensation for acquisition of a part of the land or to continue to have possession over 200 sq m of land in plot no 178it was obligatory on his part to take part in the proceedings.
a person interested in continuing to keep possession over a property and or a part of the amount of compensation must lay his claim before the appropriate authority at the appropriate stage.
if in absence of any such claim filed by the appellant the authorities have proceeded to finalise allotment of final plot in favour of the respondent nos 3 and 4 herein it is too late in the day to contend that the entire scheme should be re opened.
nos 177 and 178 he was therefore in his own right entitled to final allotment of some plot.
he may in a given case disentitle himself from obtaining an equitable relief particularly when he allows a thing to come to an irreversible situation.
the bangalore development authority act1976 provides that every person whose name appears in the assessment list or land revenue records shall be served with notice see sureshchandra c mehta v state of karnataka and others 1994 supp 2 scc 511 1993 indlaw sc 538.
there exists a distinction in the action of the planning authority as regards vesting of a property in it and one so as to enable it to create a third party interest vis  vis for the purpose of re allotment thereof.
in the former case the vesting of the land may be held to be an act of acquisition whereas in the latter it would be distribution of certain benefits having regard to the purpose sought to be achieved by a statute involving town planning.
it was on that legal principle this court in state of gujarat v shantilal mangaldas ors 1969 3 scr 341 1969 indlaw sc.
s 67 of the act provides that all lands required by the appropriate authority shall unless it is otherwise determined in such scheme vest absolutely in the appropriate authority free from all encumbrances with effect from the date on which the preliminary scheme comes into force.
if a claim is not filed the person who is said to be injuriously affected does so at its own peril.
he has no enforceable claim against the state at this juncture.
b he did not file objections for re allotment and did not participate in the proceedings following acquisition instituted by the authorities under the act.
it has been noticed by us hereinbefore that under rule 26 of the rules applicable in the instant case as distinguished from the bombay rules wherein special notice is requiredno special notice is mandatorily required to be served.
we are of the opinion that even if he had any such right he waived the same.
in halsbury s laws of england volume 1624th edition para 907it is stated the expression waiver may in law bear different meanings.
it may arise from a party making an election for example whether or not to exercise a contractual right.
it is true that waiver can not always and in every case be inferred merely from the failure of the party to take the objection.
it was held that he had thereby waived his right to have the caveat set aside as lapsed u s 23 the privy council held that the limitation of time contained in s 23 was introduced for the benefit of the applicant to enable him to obtain a speedy determination of his right to have the land brought under the provisions of the act and that it was competent for the applicant to waive the limit of the three months and that he did waive it by stating a case and applying for and obtaining an order upon the appellant to state her case both which steps assumed and proceeded on the assumption of the continued existence of the caveat.
and now the applicant after all these proceedings have been taken by him after doubtless much expense has been incurred on the part of the caveator and after lying by and hoping to get a judgment of the court in his favour asks the court to do that which but for some reasons known to himself he might have asked the court to do before any other step in the proceedings had been taken.
i think he is altogether too late.
the legal principle emerging from these decisions is also stated in craies on statute law 6th edn at page 369 as follows as a general rule the conditions imposed by statutes which authorise legal proceedings are treated as being indispensable to giving the court jurisdiction.
a right can be waived by the party for whose benefit certain requirements or conditions had been provided for by a statute subject to the condition that no public interest is involved therein.
statutory right however may also be waived by his conduct.
emphasis supplied see also bank of india v o p swarnakar 2003 2 scc 721 2002 indlaw sc 1562.
the term waiver has been described in the following words waiver is the abandonment of a right in such a way that the other party is entitled to plead the abandonment by way of confession and avoidance if the right is thereafter asserted and is either express or implied from conduct.
for the reasons aforementioned the appeal is dismissed.
