facts giving rise to the present appeal may be stated first so as to enable us to appreciate the arguments raised by the parties more effectively.
on 19 04 1988 between 8 30 p m and 8 45 p m satish narayan sawant the appellant accused No 1 along with two other accused persons and also with two delinquent children allegedly formed an unlawful assembly and that in furtherance of the said common object stabbed one rauji dulba sawant the deceased and also assaulted baby dulba sawant pw 1 ashok dulba sawant pw 2 kunda rauji sawant pw 8 and laxmi dulba sawant pw 18 who are the sister brother wife and mother respectively of the deceased.
it is also the case of the prosecution that as a result of the aforesaid stab injuries given to the deceased he expired on the same day i e on 19 04 1988.
p s joaquim dias pw 21 who was attached to the ponda police station as p s i received a phone call at about 10 45 p m from p s i k k desai of the panaji police station that a person named rauji dulba sawant had been brought in police jeep by police constable jaisingrao rane and that while he was being taken to the goa medical college he expired.
on receipt of the aforesaid message pw 21 along with asi tabit mamlekar went to the scene of offence.
during the survey made at the place of occurrence pw 21 noticed some blood stains in the front courtyard of the house and a pipe of length of about 1 foot or slightly less lying in the courtyard having blood stains.
on enquiring from her pw 21 learnt that her name was yeshoda who was later on arrayed as accused No 3.
it was further alleged by pw 1 that two or three days before the ganesh festival deceased rauji had informed narayan that he would install statue of lord ganesh in the house and accordingly he had purchased the same.
accused No 3 told the appellant not to do anything in the ceremony and insulted the family members of rauji.
as soon as the deceased switched off the light the appellant came from the room and started abusing rauji.
at that time all the accused persons were in the balcony.
at that time the appellant who was holding the knife in his hand handed over the same to accused No 3 by which she assaulted pw 8 but pw 8 caught the knife in her hand which caused injury to her right palm.
it was also alleged that when pw 8 tried to intervene the other three accused started assaulting her with fists and slaps.
pw 8 pw 18 and pw 1 then lifted rauji and brought him in the courtyard.
in the meanwhile residents of the locality had gathered in the courtyard and told the accused persons not to assault rauji.
it was also alleged that the other juvenile offender sharmila brought a cement block shaped like an elephant trunk which she handed over to accused No 3 with which accused No 3 started assaulting rauji.
pw 1 however intervened and removed the said piece of cement block from the hand of accused No 3 but.
however pw 1 again intervened and removed the said stone from the hand of accused no 3.
on the basis of complaint made by pw 1 an fir was registered and the accused came to be arrested.
being aggrieved by the aforesaid judgment and order of acquittal the state filed an appeal in the high court against accused nos.
1 to 3.
accused No 1 section 302 ipc and accused nos.
2 and 3 were held guilty of an offence punishable section 323 read with section 34 of the ipc.
mr r sundaravardhan learned senior counsel appearing for the appellant very forcefully submitted that the high court was not justified in setting aside the order of acquittal passed in respect of the present appellant.
he also submitted that the high court has not given any reason for setting aside the appeal against acquittal which was passed after appreciating the entire evidence on record.
he further submitted that there was not only shifting of time of the alleged occurrence but also shifting of the place of occurrence from the hall to the outside verandah and courtyard to suit the convenience of the prosecution case.
he has drawn our attention towards the entire evidence on record including the cross examination part and with the help of the same he submitted that the entire alleged incident in question had taken place when there was complete darkness at the scene of occurrence.
a scuffle started between the nephew and the uncle in which the accused persons also received injuries and therefore the right of private defence of the appellant was available and in that view of the matter the order of conviction and sentence is liable to be set aside.
he next submitted that there was no evidence on record as to when the fir reached the magistrate and that none of the courts below considered the said aspect.
he submitted that since there was violation of the provisions of section 162 of the crpc the accused appellant is liable to be acquitted.
ms a subhashini learned counsel appearing for the respondent state however strenuously submitted that none of the aforesaid submissions could be accepted by this court as it is a foolproof case of conviction of the appellant section.
it was submitted by her that the trial court examined the evidence in the present case in a very summary and cryptic manner and thereby arrived at a wrong conclusion that the accused persons were required to be acquitted.
1 2 8 and 18 is convincing and reliable but so far as the evidence of pw 4 is concerned the high court has made an observation that he is not a reliable witness.
in the light of the aforesaid submissions of the counsel appearing for the parties we have given our in depth consideration to the facts of the present case.
at this the deceased became annoyed and the appellant removed the fuse of the electricity which act of his plunged the entire house into darkness.
it is also clear and established that thereafter a lamp was brought by accused No 3 to the room besides another lamp which was already burning in the said room itself.
but in any case there was an electricity light post in the front of the house which was giving enough light to the house.
pw 21 who was at that time attached to konda police station as psi was informed at about 10 45 p m that the deceased while was being brought in the police jeep by a police constable jaisingrao rane and was being taken to the government medical college but before the deceased could be admitted he died.
pw 21 was also informed by said by said psi k k desai of panaji police station that it was a case of assault and that the incident had taken place at verandah and that the said matter pertains to his police station and therefore he should take appropriate action.
he stated that although the house had electricity connection but was not having the electricity supply.
he gave instructions to his subordinate and also to the people around that nobody should touch any article lying at the scene of occurrence.
he also stated that he got the complaint registered at the police station which was lodged by pw 1 and that on the next day he again went to the scene of offence and seized the properties involved in the crime which were sealed.
on 28 04 1988 that is after about 9 days of the incident accused nos 1 and 2 surrendered before the police and on their surrender they were taken into custody.
it was found that accused No 1 was having injury on his back.
he submitted that since the investigation in the instant case was started by the police without recording an fir such an fir is necessarily hit by the provisions of section 162 of the cr.
p c he next submitted that no evidence having been led by the prosecution about the time when the fir reached the magistrate therefore there is also violation of the provisions of section 157 of the cr.
he is also entitled to search the place of the offence and to search other places with the object of seizing articles connected with the offence.
but the main object of investigation being to bring home the offence to the offender the essential part of the duties of an investigating officer in this connection is apart from arresting the offender to collect all material necessary for establishing the accusation against the offender.
merely making some preliminary enquire upon receipt of information from an anonymous source or a source of doubtful reliability for checking up the correctness of the information does not amount to collection of evidence and so can not be regarded as investigation.
no doubt section 5 a of the prevention of corruption act was enacted for preventing harassment to a government servant and with this object in view investigation except with the previous permission of a magistrate is not permitted to be made by an officer below the rank of deputy superintendent of police.
if no harassment to the accused results from the action of a police officer how can it be said to defeat the purpose underlying section 5 a looking at the matter this way i hold that what mathur did was something very much short of investigation and therefore the provisions of section 5 a were not violated.
he went around the house and saw blood marks on the walls of the verandah and also in the courtyard and came to learn about the incident by using torch light.
but at a later stage they came there.
he received the information about the incident on telephone at about 10 45 p m and reached the place of occurrence at about 11 30 p m and he must have been there for quite some time and thereafter returned to the police station which must have taken another about 1 30 to 2 hours.
besides the fact of his going to the place of occurrence would not amount to making an investigation.
in animireddy venkata ramana and others v public prosecutor high court of andhra pradesh 2008 5 scc 368 2008 indlaw sc 354 this court while considering a similar case observed as follows 10.
pw 1 also sustained injuries in the said incident.
immediately after the incident hearing cries of passengers the driver of the bus stopped the bus.
pw 1 informed about the incident to pw 2 another son of the deceased.
it was not necessary for him to take that step only on the basis of a first information report.
an information received in regard to commission of a cognizable offence is not required to be preceded by a first information report.
if some incident had taken place in a bus the officers of road transport corporation also could not ignore the same.
in that view of the matter it can not be said that the fir was in any manner hit by the provisions of section 162 of crpc.
1 2 8 and 18 as eye witnesses to the occurrence.
blood was found by the police on the wall of the verandah and in the courtyard.
it is to be noted that pws 7 and 13 were the injured witnesses and pw 10 was another eyewitness and was the informant.
law is fairly well settled that even if acquittal is recorded in respect of the co accused on the ground that there were exaggerations and embellishments yet conviction can be recorded if the evidence is found cogent credible and truthful in respect of another accused.
in law testimony of an injured witness is given importance.
but if after careful analysis and scrutiny of their evidence the version given by the witnesses appears to be clear cogent and credible there is no reason to discard the same.
conviction can be made on the basis of such evidence.
however a perusal of record clearly shows that the doctor who conducted the postmortem pw 7 stated in his evidence that there were in total 16 injuries when external examination was done by him and the knife m o 11 could have caused the injuries No 1 2 3 and 4.
he further stated that the death was caused due to hemorrhage and shock as a result of stab injury.
he further stated that injury No 1 was sufficient to cause death in the ordinary course of nature.
on being cross examined pw 7 categorically stated that death due to stab injury was in consequence of injury No 1 and all other injuries were superficial in nature.
all the contentions raised by learned counsel appearing for the appellant were considered by us in the light of evidence on record.
before dwelling further into the factual matrix of the case on the basis of which the high court convicted the appellant section 302 ipc it would be useful to briefly recapitulate the law on the point.
both the expression intent and knowledge postulate the existence of a positive mental attitude which is of different degrees.
if that is caused in any of the aforesaid three circumstances the offence of culpable homicide is said to have been committed.
it has been repeatedly held by this court that culpable homicide is the genus and murder is species and that all murders are culpable homicide but not vice versa.
i and if it is only a case of knowledge and not the intention to cause murder and bodily injury then the same would be a case of section 304 part ii.
for the purpose of fixing punishment proportionate to the gravity of this generic offence the code practically recognises three degrees of culpable homicide.
culpable homicide of this degree is punishable under the second part of section 304.
placing strong reliance on the aforesaid decision this court in the case of abdul waheed khan v state of a p 2002 7 scc 175 2002 indlaw sc 1777 observed as follows at page 184 13.
b of section 299 does not postulate any such knowledge on the part of the offender.
if the assailant had no such knowledge about the disease or special frailty of the victim nor an intention to cause death or bodily injury sufficient in the ordinary course of nature to cause death the offence will not be murder even if the injury which caused the death was intentionally given.
in cl 3 of section 300 instead of the words likely to cause death occurring in the corresponding cl.
obviously the distinction lies between a bodily injury likely to cause death and a bodily injury sufficient in the ordinary course of nature to cause death.
3 of section 300 is one of degree of probability of death resulting from the intended bodily injury.
once these three elements are proved to be present the enquiry proceeds further and fourthly it must be proved that the injury of the type just described made up of the three elements set out above is sufficient to cause death in the ordinary course of nature.
it must be proved that there was an intention to inflict that particular bodily injury which in the ordinary course of nature was sufficient to cause death viz that the injury found to be present was the injury that was intended to be inflicted.
illustration c appended to section 300 clearly brings out this point.
c of section 299 and cl.
it is not necessary for the purpose of this case to dilate much on the distinction between these corresponding clauses.
but sometimes the facts are so intertwined and the second and the third stages so telescoped into each that it may not be convenient to give a separate treatment to the matters involved in the second and third stages.
as already noted it is quite clear from the record that there was an altercation preceding the incident.
in his cross examination has categorically stated that death due to stab injury was in consequence of injury No 1 and all other injuries were superficial in nature.
records clearly establish that there was indeed a scuffle between the parties with regard to the availability of electricity in a particular room and during the course of scuffle the appellant also received an injury which was simple in nature and that there was heated exchange of words and scuffle between the parties before the actual incident of stabbing took place.
his bail bonds shall stand cancelled and the appellant shall surrender immediately to serve out the remaining period of sentence.
