indisputably dr kota shivarama karanth for shortdr.
karantha jnanapeeth awardee who was a novelist play writer essayist encyclopediationist cultural anthropologist artist writer of science environmentalist.
he was a director of the appellant institute.
ganga charitha.
malini mallya who has built it with borrowed money at her cost.
and in this occasion i must also acknowledge with gratitude that she diligently cared and nursed my wife leela karanth during her prolonged illness till her last day.
and she has cared and looked after me also during my illness which at times had been quite serious enfeebling me for long period.
in recognition of her devotion and sincere affection towards me in 1986 i have dedicated one of my novels namelyantida aparanji to her.
i have also placed on record her invaluable services to me in my memoirshunchu mansina hathu mukhagalu 1991 edition.
in my opinion very long enduring and a signal service she has done to me and to my literary works is in writing a bibliography of all my books a highly meritorious and scholarly work involving so much of pains taking research that it has been acclaimed and rated as the first of its kind in kannada and highly appreciated by critics and scholars.
apart from this she has collected and edited all my stray writings from 1924 onwards up to date in eight sumptuous volumes which are being published by mangalore university.
malini mallya and she alone shall be entitled to receive royalties of all my books and she shall be entitled to print publish and republish and market the same.
no one else shall have any right or claims for the same 12 from time to time i have distributed among my children all gold and silver jewels and ornaments and other valuables which were gifted to me by my friends and admirers.
and i have distributed all copper and bronze vessels and utensils among my children while leaving my former home suhasa keeping only bare essential and necessary things and articles.
malini malya only.
any outstanding due to me and bank deposits and whatever assets or properties not mentioned above that is residuary after my death shall belong to smt.
15000 00 3 directing the defendants to pay to the plaintiff interest on rs 15000 at 15 p a from 18 9 2001 till now which is 95 00.
4 directing the defendants to pay future interest on rs 15000 at 15 p a till payment of the entire amount.
appellants in their written statement however denied and disputed any copyright of the said dance in dr karanth alleging that whatever work he had done was in the capacity of a director of the kendra with the assistance finance and staff provided by the organization of mahatma gandhi memorial college trust in respect whereof a committee was formed under him by the board of trustees.
it was furthermore contended that dr karanth was appointed as the president of the executive committee of yakshagana kendra for a period of three years by the appellant and while holding the said post only he expired.
appellants aggrieved thereby and dissatisfied therewith preferred an appeal before the karnataka high court which was marked as r f a no 271 of 2004.
by reason of the impugned judgment and order dated 5 12 2007the said appeal has been dismissed.
appellants are thus before us.
rajiv dhavan learned senior counsel appearing on behalf of appellants in his usual fairness conceded.
i keeping in view of the findings of the learned trial judge it ought to have been held that no cause of action arose against the appellants in this case as the institution had performed the said dance at new delhi in the memory of dr karanth without charging any fees.
mr g v chandrashekhar learned counsel appearing on behalf of the respondent on the other hand would support the impugned judgment.
section 2c defines artistic work to mean i a painting a sculpture a drawing including a diagram map chart or planan engraving or a photograph whether or not any such work possesses artistic quality.
ii a work of architecture and iii any other work of artistic craftsmanship.
explanation.
22 term of copyright in published literary dramatic musical and artistic works.
23 term of copyright in anonymous and pseudonymous works  1.
in the case of a literary dramatic musical or artistic work other than a photographwhich is published anonymously or pseudonymously copyright shall subsist until sixty years from the beginning of the calendar year next following the year in which the work is first published.
a where the identity of the authors is disclosed as references to that author.
b where the identity of more authors than one is disclosed as references to the author who dies last from amongst such authors.
a where the names of one or more but not all of the authors arc pseudonymous and his or their identity is not disclosed as references to the author whose name is not a pseudonym or if the names of two or more of the authors are not pseudonyms as references to such of those authors who dies last b where the names of one or more but not all of the authors arc pseudonyms and the identity of one or more of them is disclosed as references to the author who dies last from amongst the authors whose names are not pseudonyms and the authors whose names are pseudonyms and are disclosed and c where the names of all the authors arc pseudonyms and the identity of one of them is disclosed as references to the author whose identity is disclosed or if the identity of two or more of such authors is disclosed as references to such of those authors who dies last.
certain acts not to be infringement of copyright  1.
l the performance of a literary dramatic or musical work by an amateur club or society if the performance is given to a non paying audience or for the benefit of a religious institution.
has the plaintiff became entitled to the said right under the registered will dated 18 06 1994.
does the plaintiff prove that her right under the said will was infringed by the defendants.
but that is not all in the will ex.
neither of the two can be produced without the imaginative skill of the author.
it was furthermore held i am of the considered opinion that all the above changes brought about by dr karanth in respect of yakshagana ballet leads to the inference that the imaginative faculties of dr karanth permeated the entire yakshagana prasangas and thus a new look was given to the yakshagana ballets.
i therefore hold that the bequest of copyright in literary works and books in favour of the plaintiff by dr karanth will have to be treated as the bequest covering the dramatic works also since i have also drawn the conclusion that the dramatic works is also a form of literature.
broadly speaking a dramatic work may also come within the purview of literary work being a part of dramatic literature.
dramatic literature the texts of plays that can be read as distinct from being seen and heard in performance.
keeping in view the statutory provisions there can not be any doubt whatsoever that copyright in respect of performance of dance would not come within the purview of the literary work but would come within the purview of the definition of dramatic work.
it was also not a case where respondent in any manner whatsoever waived her right.
a declaratory decree therefore was passed.
the high court however directed iii.
for the said purpose it must be noticed as to what is a copyright and in respect of the matters the same can not be claimed or otherwise the same is lodged by conditions and subject to statutory limitation.
in r g anand vs m s delux films ors 1978.
4 scc 1181978 indlaw sc 294this court held thus on a careful consideration and elucidation of the various authorities and the case law on the subject discussed above the following propositions emerge 1 there can be no copyright in an idea subject matter themes plots or historical or legendary facts and violation of the copyright in such cases is confined to the form manner and arrangement and expression of the idea by the author of the copyrighted work.
2 where the same idea is being developed in a different manner it is manifest that the source being common similarities are bound to occur.
no infringement of the copyright comes into existence.
even so if the viewer after seeing the film gets a totality of impression that the film is by and large a copy of the original play violation of the copyright may be said to be proved.
copyrighted material is that what is created by the author by his own skill labour and investment of capital maybe it is a derivative work which gives a flavour of creativity.
section 52 of the act provides for certain acts which would not constitute an infringement of copyright.
