leave granted in slp crl.
he deposed in court that on 25 11 2003when he returned home he found servant anil kumar pw 21 was weeping.
bhavna was dead.
chandra prakash were arrested on 29 11 2003 a bloodstained knife was taken into possession.
the accused raju.
devendra choubey was taken into custody on 22 12 2003 and a suzuki motorcycle was also taken into possession.
a test identification was conducted by the executive magistrate in the sub jail bemetara on 13 12 2003 a similar identification parade of raju.
a sealed packet containing hair found in the grip of the deceased and another sealed packet containing bloodstained cloth of the deceased were taken into possession vide exhibit p35.
no defence witness was examined after the statements of the accused were recorded u s 313 of the criminal procedure code1973.
bhavna was married to her step son jitendra kumar in july2003 shashi tripathi used to be annoyed with bhavna tripathi on account of some domestic dispute.
dr m deodhar who conducted the postmortem opined that cause of her death was neurogenic and hemorrhagic shock.
one incised wound on left auxiliary region on the posterior auxiliary region of size 3 cm x 2 cm x 3 cm.
4 incised wound on lower costal region left of size.
3  cm x 2 cm x 1 cm 5 incised wound on lower costal region right side on right epigestic region of size 3  cm.
7 incised wound on right supra mammary region near middle of size 4 cm x 1 cm x 1  cm 8 incised wound on right supra mammary region lateral aspect of size 3 cm x 1  cm x 1  cm 9 incised wound on radial aspect of left forearm near wrist joint of size 2.
cm x cm x  cm 10 incised wound on forearm left hand radial side dorsal aspect on lower 23rd region 11 incised wound on left forearm middle l3rd region radial side and posterior aspect of size 2.
incised wound was also present on the right lobe of size 3 cm x 13 cm x 3 cm.
liver kidney and spleen were pale.
shashi tripathi had brought him home from bilaspur.
it is anil kumar pw 21who first informed the head of the family dr sharda prasad tripathi pw 1the complainant about the incident when he came home after closing his clinic.
he lived in the house of shashi didi.
he ate his food there and studied in a school.
jitendra is her step son and the deceased bhavna is the wife of jitendra.
his brother shivendra studies at calcutta.
he referred to bhavna as bhabhi.
he stated that shashi didi and bhavna sometimes used to quarrel.
after the assault chandra prakash went to the tv room where shashi didi had kept some money in a rubber band on the table.
he further deposed that shashi didi took him upstairs to the terrace and asked him not to disclose the truth to anyone but to say that thieves came into the house and committed the crime.
shashi didi thereafter started shouting.
devendra choubey accused no 4 by paying them money.
it is obvious that accused nos 2 and 4 did not enter the house to commit a robbery and had a single mission namely to kill bhavana.
in fact he even came to the court in the company of a police constable after being served summons at allahabad.
he was brought to the house by shashi tripathi accusedwho apparently took care of him and sent to school and gave him food and residence.
he had no grouse against her neither any ulterior motive in identifying the accused who were not acquainted to him.
pw 21 his statement that the accused chandra prakash attacked the deceased is corroborated by the recovery of knife from chandra prakash.
it must be remembered that the boy comes from a rural back ground and was 13 years of age when the incident occurred.
his presence in the house is entirely natural and we have no reason to discard his testimony.
it was submitted that the test identification parade were delayed and the identification of these accused by the witness in court was not reliable.
it is not possible for us to accept this contention.
in any case the period between the arrest and the identification parade was not large enough to constitute inordinate delay.
as a general rule the substantive evidence of a witness is a statement made in court.
identification proceedings in their legal effect amount simply to this that certain persons are brought to jail or some other place and make statements either express or implied that certain individuals whom they point out are persons whom they recognise as having been concerned in the crime.
it is for this reason that the identification parades in this case seem to have been held under the supervision of a magistrate.
keeping in view the purpose of identification parades the magistrates holding them are expected to take all possible precautions to eliminate any suspicion of unfairness and to reduce the chance of testimonial error.
in the present case the child witness has been found to be reliable.
his presence is not doubted since he resided with the family for whom he worked.
he became the unfortunate witness of a gruesome murder and fearlessly identified the accused in court.
he did not even act as a guard because when the witness anil kumar pw 21 came to the house he was not even stopped by the accused from entering the house.
9 scc 696 2012 indlaw sc 343.
on a careful conspectus of the facts and the law we are of the view that the prosecution has failed to prove the guilt of mahesh beyond reasonable doubt.
he was merely seen by the witness as standing outside the house when the witness came home.
mahesh did not even act as a guard he did not prevent anil kumar pw 21 from entering the house.
no weapon was seized from him nor was any property connected with the crime seized.
having regard to the role attributed to him and the absence of incriminating factors we find that it is not safe to convict mahesh of the offence of murder with the aid of ss 34 and 120b.
his bail bonds stand cancelled and sureties are discharged.
in view of the above criminal appeal no 867 of 2013 is allowed and criminal appeal nos 822 of 2012589 of 2014 and criminal appeal arising out of slp criminal no 3737 of 2014 are dismissed.
