Appeal No 52 of 1957.
Appeal from the judgment and decree dated April 22 of 1953 of the Patna High Court in Appeal from Original Decree No 162 of 1946.
This appeal by certificate granted is directed against the judgment of the High Court of Judicature at Patna dated April 23 1953 confirming that of the Subordinate Judge Dhanbad dated November 30 1946.
The plaintiffs and the defendant are adjoining colliery owners at Kujama.
The plaintiffs  land lies immediately to the south of the defendants  land.
On August 2 1894 Raja of Jharia granted mukarrari lease of the coal and coal mining rights in 300 bighas of land in village Kujama to Satya Karan Banerjee and Girish Chandra Samanta.
On June 151900 his son Raja Durga Prasad Singh granted coal and coal 494 mining rights in respect of 400 bighas out of 592 bighas to one Jugal Kishore Lal.
Samanta purchased the leasehold interest of Banerji and thereafter on November 23 1900 it appears that Samanta bad surrendered his rights under the previous lease in favour of the Raja and taken a fresh lease of the same 300 bighas on a reduced rent.
On June 10 1901 Jugal Kishore Lal granted a lease of 96 bighas out of his 400 bighas to one D M Mathews.
Walji Kheta represented the defendants.
By diverse transfers the interest of Samanata vested in Bagdigi Kujama Collieries Limited.
The plaintiffs case was that as a result of a letter written by the Inspector of Mines on August 18 1941 the plaintiffs made an inquiry and came to know that the defendants had encroached upon their coal mines on the northern side and removed coal from the encroached portion and had rendered the remaining coal of the encroached portion unworkable.
On those allegations they asked for the following reliefs aThat the intermediate boundary line between the plaintiffs  coal land and the defendants  coal land be ascertained and fixed.
bThat the area encroached upon by the defendants be ascertained and the defendants be directed to vacate the same.
cThat a permanent injunction be issued against the defendants restraining them from encroaching upon the plaintiffs  coal land and cutting and removing coal therefrom.
dThat an enquiry be made and the quantity of coal cut and removed by the defendants from the plaintiffs  coal land as also the quantity of the coal rendered unworkable be ascertained and a decree for the value thereof by way of damages be granted to the plaintiffs against the defendants.
The defendants denied that they had encroached upon the plaintiff   coal land and stated that the suit was barred by limitation.
The learned Subordinate Judge held that the defendant had encroached upon the plaintiff  coal land that the suit was not barred by limitations and that they would be entitled to the reliefs prayed for.
The first question that arises for consideration is whether the defendants had encroached Upon the plaintiffs  coal land.
The answer to this question depends upon the correct delineation of the boundary line between the plaintiffs  leasehold and the defendants  leasehold.
It is common case that the southern boundary of the appellants  leasehold is conterminous with the northern boundary of the respondents  lease hold.
On August 2 1894 Raja Jaimangal Singh executed the lease deed exhibit 1 in respect of 300 bighas in favour of the respondents  predecessor in interest.
The southern boundary of this leasehold is given as the northern boundary limit of the leasehold land of Girish Chandra Samanta and others and the western boundary is shown as the eastern boundary of Chatkari Jorh as per the map annexed.
Appeal dismissed.
