iminal Appeals Nos.
160 to 162 of 1960.
Appeals by special leave from the judgment and order dated January 20 1960 of the Allahabad High Court in Criminal Government Appeals Nos.
2011 to 2013 of 1958.
B C Misra and P K Chakravarti for the appellant.
G C Mathur and C P Lal for the respondent.
September 27.
The judgment of the Court was delivered by MUDHOLKAR J.
These three appeals arise out of three separate trials before the Additional Sessions judge Bulandshahr but were argued together as they arise identical questions.
In all these trials the appellant who was a postman attached to the Bulandshahr post office was tried for offences under section 52 of the Indian Post Office Act 1898 VI of 1898 and in two of  them also for offences under sections 467 and 471 of the Indian Penal Code.
Briefly stated the allegations against the appellant were that he either stole or secreted five registered letters and that he fabricated three receipts showing that the registered letters were received by the addressees.
The learned Additional Sessions judge acquitted the appellant of all these offences.
The State then preferred an appeal against his acquittal in these three cases to the High Court of Allahabad but restricted the appeal to the acquittal of the appellant in respect of offences under 410 section 52 of the Indian Post Office Act 1898 hereafter referred to as the Act.
The High Court held that the appellant had secreted the five registered letters in question and on this finding set aside his acquittal and convicted him in each of the three appeals for offences under section 52 of the Act and sentenced him to undergo rigorous imprisonment for a period of one year in each case.
The appellant has come up to this Court by special leave.
Briefly stated the prosecution case is that when the house in which the appellant lives along with his father Diwan Singh a retired Police Head Constable was searched by the CID Inspector SN Singh along with Masood Murtaza Sub Inspector of Police Bulandshahr on May 12 1956 in connection with a case against Messrs Greenwood Publicity they accidentally discovered a large number of letters and postcards and also the five registered letters in question.
At the time of the search the appellant who happens to be a trade union official was not in Bulandshahr but was away on leave at Delhi in connection with a postal conference.
A number of other articles were also seized at that time but we are not concerned with them as they have no connection with the charges against the appellant.
Briefly the appellant s defence in all these cases is that there are two factions in the Bulandshahr post office and that these articles were planted by the opposite party.
According to him the planting must have occurred in the Kotwali when the Sub Inspector purported to make a list of the articles seized from the house in which the appellant lives.
Further according to him neither the house nor the almirah from which the articles are said to have been 411 seized was in his exclusive possession.
On behalf of the appellant Mr B C Misra has raised the following six points 1 That on the findings arrived at by the High Court no offence under section 52 of the Post Office Act has been made out.
2 That it has not been established that the five registered letters were in the exclusive possession of the appellant.
4 That in examining the appellant the Ad ditional Session Judge did not comply with the requirements of section 342 of the Code of Criminal Procedure.
5 That the High Court has not found that there were compelling reasons for setting aside the appellant s acquittal .
6 The sentences in the three cases having been ordered to run consecutively the total sentence is excessive.
It may be that where the provisions of  sections 103 and 165 Code of Criminal Procedure are 412 contravened the search could be resisted by the person whose premises are sought to be searched.
The High Court has chosen to accept the evidence of the prosecution with regard to the fact of seizure and that being a question to be decided only by the Court of fact this Court would not re examine the evidence for satisfying itself as to the correctness or otherwise of the conclusions reached by the High Court.
In so far as the contravention of provisions of section 342 Code of Criminal Procedure are concerned it is sufficient to point out that no grievance was made either before the Court of the Additional Sessions judge or before the High Court that there was such a contravention and the appellant was prejudiced and we cannot allow the point to be raised for the first time here the reason being that whether there was prejudice is a question of fact and cannot be permitted to be agitated for the first time in an appeal under article 136 of the Constitution.
