 J was delivered by MUDHOLKAR J HIDAYATULLAH.
 The order was made by the Chairman of the Board Mr R C Dutt on behalf of the Board by virtue of the powers conferred on him by certain rules to which we shall refer later.
On June 4 1965 the Company preferred a writ petition under article 226 of the Constitution in the Punjab High Court for the issue of a writ of mandamus or other appropriate writ direction or order quashing the order of the Board dated May 19 1965.
Apart from the relief of quashing the order of May 19 1965 the appellants sought the  issue of a writ restraining the Company Law Board and the Inspectors from giving effect to the order dated May 19 1965 and also sought some other incidental reliefs.
The allegations of mala fides were denied on behalf of the respondents.
Appellant No 2 was appointed Managing Director of the Company from December 5 1961 and his appointment and remuneration were approved by the Central Government on July 30 1962.
According to the appellants before entering into a collaboration agreement with Ms L A Mitchell Ltd the appellant No 2 Balasubramanian was negotiating with a German firm named Kali Chemie A G of Hanover for obtaining their collaboration.
The firm of T T Krishnamachari  Sons approached appellant No 2 for the grant of sole selling agency of the products of the plant to be established in collaboration with Kali Chemie.
Appellant No 2 did not agree to this with the result that the company s negotiations with Kali Chemie broke down.
320 A lengthy argument was addressed before us by Mr Setalvad bearing on the question of mala fides in the course of which he referred us to certain documents.
He also wanted us to bear in mind the sequence in which certain events occurred and said that these would indicate that the former Finance Minister must have been instrumental in having an order under section 237b made by the Chairman of the Board.
Our learned brother Shelat has dealt with this aspect of the matter fully in his judgment and as we agree with him it is not necessary to say much on the point.
In exercise of.
its discretion the High Court has re 321 fused permission to cross examine them.
b thereof confers a discretion upon the Board to appoint an Inspector to investigate the affairs of a company.
He has specifically denied that it was issued at the instance of the second respondent.
Shelat J.
