Appeals by special leave from the judgment and order dated  March 6 1967 of the Orissa High Court in OJC Nos.
495 and 496 of 1966 and 3 4 27 and 28 of 1967 respectively.
In view of article 229 of the Constitution.
In Orissa as in most of the other States that practice continued till the decision of tiffs Court in the State of Assam vs Ranga Mahammad and others1.
Obviously when the Governor promulgated the Orissa Superior Judicial Service Rules 1963 he proceeded on the basis that the power to transfer the district judges and addl.
district judges from one post to another whether as a judge or to one of the posts in the secretariat was in his hands.
It appears that for some time past there were differences between the High Court and the government about the posting of some of the judicial officers.
The High Court was anxious that a judicial officer occupying one of the administrative posts enumerated above should not in the interest of judicial work continue in that post for an unduly long time.
The High Court insisted that ordinarily judicial officers should not hold those posts for more than three years.
The High Court was repeatedly requesting the government to send back judicial officers working in administrative posts as district judges or as addl.
On that account there appears to have been some friction between the High Court and the gov ernment for some years past.
Thereafter he was posted as superintendent and legal remembrancer.
In February 1965 the High Court took a policy decision to the effect that as a general rule judicial officers working in special posts whether cadre or non cadre outside their regular line should be recalled to the regular line after the completion of three years.
Every time the High Court requested the government to release the three officers mentioned above for being posted as district and sessions judges or addl.
On September 21 1966 this Court rendered its decision in Ranga Mahammad s1 case.
Therein this Court held that power to transfer judges presiding over courts vested with the High Court under article 235 of the Constitution.
Those officers acted in accordance with the orders of the government.
Therefore these appeals were filed after obtaining special leave from this Court.
It was also not disputed that they had been validly appointed to those posts.
district and sessions judge.
