Jitendra Nath Ghose R P Bagchi with him for the respondent in Case No 297.
AA Peerbhoy and JB Dadachanji for Habib Mohammad Intervener.
V Rajaram Iyer Advocate General of Hyderabad R Ganapathy Iyer with him for the State of Hyderabad.
AR Sornanatha Iyer Advocate General of Mysore K Ramaseshayya Choudhry with him for the State of Mysore.
B Sen for the appellant in Case No 298.
This is an appeal by the State of West Bengal from a judgment of a Full Bench of the High Court of Judicature at Calcutta quashing the conviction of the respondent by the Special Court established under sec tion 3 of the West Bengal Special Courts Ordinance 1949 Ordinance No 3 of 1949 which was replaced in March 1950 by the West Bengal Special Courts Act 1950 West Bengal Act X of 1950 hereinafter referred to as the Act.
The respondent and 49 other persons were charged with various offences alleged to have been committed by them in the course of their raid as an armed gang on a certain factory known as the Jessop Factory at Dum Dum and they were convicted and sentenced to varying terms of imprison ment by the Special Court to which the case was sent for trial by the Governor of West Bengal by a notification dated 26th January 1950 in exercise of the powers conferred by section 5 1 of the Act.
Thereupon the respondent applied to the High Court under article 226 of the Constitution for the issue of a writ of certiorari quashing the conviction and sentence on the ground that the Special Court had no jurisdiction to try the case inasmuch as section 5 1 under which it was sent to that Court for trial was uncon stitutional and void under article 13 2as it denied to the respondent the equal protection of the laws enjoined by article 14.
The High Court by a Full Bench consisting of the Chief Justice and four other Judges quashed the conviction and directed the trial of the respondent and the other accused persons according to law.
The Act is intituled An Act to provide for the speedier trial of certain offences  and the preamble declares that it is expedient to provide for the speedier trial of cer tain offences .
Section 3 empowers the State Government by notification in the official gazette to constitute Special Courts and section 4 provides for the appointment of spe cial judges to preside over such courts.
Section 5 whose constitutionality is impugned runs thus 290 51 A Special Court shall try such offences or classes of cases as the classes of offences or cases State Government may by general or special order in writing direct.
The main features of such procedure which mark a departure from the established procedure for criminal trials under the Code of Criminal Procedure are the elimination of the committal procedure in sessions cases and the substitu tion of the procedure laid down in the Code for trial of warrant cases by the Magistrate trial without jury or assessors restriction of the court s power in granting adjournments special powers to deal with refractory accused and dispensation of de novo trial on transfer of a case from one special court to another.
concurred applied the test of what may be called reasonable classification and held that although the need for a speedier trial than what is possible under the procedure prescribed 291 by the Code of Criminal Procedure might form the basis of a reasonable classification and section 5 1 could not be regarded as discriminatory in so far as it authorises the State Government to direct that certain offences or classes of offences or classes of cases should be tried by a special court the provision was discriminatory and violative of article 14 of the Constitution in so far as it purported to vest in the State Government an absolute and arbitrary power to refer to a special court for trial any cases  which must include an individual case whether the duration of such a case is likely to be long or not .
The learned Chief Justice rejected the argument that the word cases in the sub section should in view of the title and preamble of the Act.
It is too indef inite and there can hardly be any definite objective test to determine it.
292 purports to provide for the matters to be tried by a special court and does not in form seek to define the kind or class of offences or cases which the State Government is empowered under the Act to assign to such a court for trial.
In other words the purpose of section 5 1 is to define the jurisdiction of a special court appointed under the Act and not the scope of the power conferred on the State Gov ernment to refer cases to such court.
As the very object of the Act was to provide for speedier trials by instituting a system of special courts with a simplified and shortened procedure it is reasonable to conclude that so far as the legislature was concerned its intention was that courts constituted under the Act and applying such procedure should deal only with cases requiring speedier trial and that accordingly the State Government should refer to such courts only cases of that description.
2  293 offences as there can of course be no trial of offences in the abstract and the general expressions used in providing for the power to set that machinery in operation must be restricted to that end in accordance with the intention of the legislature for a literal construction of the general language would impute to the legislature an intention to confer an arbitrary power of reference which would be incon sistent not only with the declared object of the statute but also with the constitutional prohibition against discrimina tion which the legislature must be taken to have been aware of when it deliberately re enacted the provisions of the old Ordinance.
In other words section 5 1 must in my opinion be read as empowering the State Government to direct a special court to try such offences or classes of offences or cases or classes of cases as in its judgment require speedier trial.
The question next arises as to whether the provision thus understood violates the prohibition under article 14 of the Constitution.
The second part which is a corollary of the first and is based on the last clause of the first section of the Fourteenth Amendment of the Ameri can Constitution enjoins that equal protection shall be secured to all such persons in the enjoyment of their rights and liberties without discrimination or favouritism or as an American Judge put it it is a 1 17 Am.
 In the face of all these considerations it seems to me difficult to condemn section 5 1 as violative of article 14.
FAZL ALl J.
