From the Judgment and Order dated 1 12 1975 of the Punjab and Haryana High Court in Criminal Original Nos.
243 The appellants wrote a letter on 20 February 1975 to the President with copies to the Prime Minister Chief Justice of India the Chief Minister of Haryana and the Chief Jus tice of Punjab and Haryana High Court.
The letter was signed by 15 members of the Bar belonging to the District Bar Association Bhiwani.
In that letter they brought to the notice of the President that Justice DS Tewatia of the Punjab and Haryana High Court visited the session division of Bhiwani and inspected the Courts from 14 February 1975 to 19 February 1975.
In that letter they further stated as follows The learned Judge met the members of the Bar on 15 February 1975 in the Bar Room Bhiwani.
During the course of the meeting the learned Judge criticised the Government s policy in regard to its attitude towards the judiciary.
The Judge further said that the prevailing system of Government is not good in this country and we must adopt the communist form of Govern ment which can save the nation.
Five members of the Bar Association at Charkhi Dadri sent a letter addressed to the President.
with copies to the Chief Justice of Punjab and Haryana High Court the Chief Minister of Haryana the Chief Justice of India and the Prime Minister.
Thereafter they stated as follows While talking with the members of the Bar he pointed out that the library of this Bar seems to be very poor.
Then Shri Virender Kumar Single a member of the Bar requested the honourable Judge to help the Bar either by supplying books or by allocating the grant by the High Court so that the needy Bar may be able to purchase necessary books for the library.
Then the Honourable Judge turned down the request and replied that it is never possible in the present system of Government of India.
Chandrawati.
During his stay in the rest house he also discussed the teachers agitation and individual position of various political leaders in the State.
On a perusal of the con tents thereof a prima facie case of criminal contempt is made out.
The High Court proceeded on the basis that the letters written by the appellants were correct.
MR Appeals allowed.
