The Judgment of the Court was delivered by CHANDRACHUD CJ.
If a partition were to take place during Khandappa s lifetime between himself and his two sons the plaintiff would have got 14th share in the joint family properties the other three getting 14th share each.
Khandappa s 14th share would devolve upon his death on six sharers the plaintiff and her five children each having a 124th share therein.
Adding 14th and 124th the plaintiff claims a 724th share in the joint family properties.
That in short is the plaintiffs case.
Defendants 2 to 5 admitted the plaintiff s claim the suit having H been contested by defendant 1 Gurupad only.
There was therefore no question of a fresh partition.
The trial court by its judgment dated July 13 1965 rejected defendant 1 s case that the properties were Khandappa s self acquisitions and that he had partitioned them during his lifetime.
Upon that finding the plaintiff.
became indisputably entitled to a share in the joint family properties but following the judgment of the Bombay High Court in Shiramabai Bhimgonda vs Kalgonda1 the learned trial judge limited that share to 124th refusing to add 14th and 124th together.
By a judgment dated March 19 1975 a Division Bench of the High Court dismissed defendant 1 s appeal and allowed the plaintiff s cross objections by holding that the suit properties belonged to the joint family that there was no prior partition and that the plaintiff is entitled to a 724th share.
Defendant I has filed this appeal against the High Court s judgment by special leave.
Another Division Bench of the Bombay High Court in Rangubai Lalji vs Laxman Lalji2 had already reconsidered and dissented from earlier Division Bench judgment in Shiramabai Bhimgonda1 In these two cases the judgment of the Bench was delivered by the same learned Judge Patel J.
On further consideration the learned Judge felt that Shiramabai1 was not fully argued and was incorrectly decided and that on a true view of law the widow s share must be ascertained by adding the share to which she is entitled at a notional partition during her husband s life time and the share which she would get in her husband s interest upon his death.
In the judgment under appeal the High Court has based itself on the judgment in Rangubai Lalji2 endorsing indirectly the view that Shiramabai1 was incorrectly decided.
Since the view of the High.
That section reads thus 6.
2 765 shall devolve by survivorship upon the surviving members of the coparcenary and not in accordance with this Act  Provided that if the deceased had left him surviving a female relative specified in class I of the Schedule or a male relative specified in that class who claims through such a female relative the interest of the deceased in the Mitakshara coparcenary property shall devolve by testamentary or intestate succession as the case may be under this Act and not by survivorship.
Explanation 2.
By the application of the normal rule prescribed by that section Khandappa s interest in the coparcenary property would devolve by survivorship upon the surviving members of the coparcenary and not in accordance with the provisions of the Act.
But since the widow and daughter are amongst the female relatives specified in class I of the Schedule to the Act and Khandappa died leaving behind a widow and daughters the proviso to section 6 comes into play and the normal rule is excluded.
The interpretation of that Explanation is the subject matter of acute controversy between the parties.
Before considering the implications of Explanation 1 it is necessary to remember that what section 6 deals with is devolution of the interest which a male Hindu has in a Mitakshare coparcenary property at 766 the time of his death.
Two things become necessary to determine for the purpose of giving relief to the plaintiff.
