ON Criminal Appeal No 126 of 1955.
Appeal by special leave from the judgment and order dated the 9th August 1955 of the Bombay High Court in Criminal Application No 726 of 1955.
M R Parpia J B Dadachanji and section N Andley for the appellant.
M C Setalvad Attorney General for India B Sen and R H Dhebar for the respondent.
April 24.
The Judgment of the Court was delivered by JAGANNADHADAS J.
This is an appeal by special leave against the judgment of the High Court of Bombay dismissing an application made to it under article 226 of the Constitution.
These proceedings relate to the validity of an order of detention passed by the Government of Bombay on the 8th June 1955 against the appellant before us who is an Advocate of the High Court of Bombay having a standing of about thirty years.
He was in the Indian Air Force as an emergency Commissioned Officer between 1943 to 1948 and thereafter on extension for another four years until he attained the age of 55.
It appears that he was also interested in journalism and in public affairs.
On his own showing he was concerned over the political future of Goa and was opposed to any attempts at intimidation of Indian residents of Goan origin by other political groups and has freely expressed these views in his journalistic articles.
He was arrested on the 9th June 1955 and is in detention since then under the impugned order which runs as follows 384 No P D A 1555A Political and Services Department Secretariat Bombay 8th June 1955.
O R D E R.
By Order and in the name of the Governor of Bombay.
Under Secretary to the Government of Bombay.
Political and Services Department.
1The order of detention was mala fide.
The grounds of detention are vague.
385 4The claim of State that no particulars of the grounds could be furnished in public interest is unsustainable and in any case mala fide.
This part of the argument raises what ultimately are questions of fact which have been fully considered by the High Court.
The above high handed action of the police by way of search and seizure was the subject matter of challenge by the appellant by means of a writ application in the High Court in which the police officers concerned filed affidavits virtually admitting the appellant s allegations relating to seizure of papers etc.
But on appeal filed by the appellant before the Sessions Judge the conviction was set aside and retrial ordered.
These events happened between February to April 1955.
The appellant s counsel strongly urged that the bona fides of the detaining authority is to be judged with reference to the above background of events and that viewed in that light the vagueness of the grounds and the belated claim of privilege under article 226 of the Constitution strengthen his contention.
They are to be found from the relevant communication to the detenue which is as follows In pursuance of section 7 of the Act IV of 1950 you are hereby informed that the grounds on which a detention order has been made against you by the Government of Bombay under sub clause 1 of clause a of subsection 1 of section 3 of the said Act are that With the financial help given by the Portuguese authorities you are carrying on espionage on behalf of the Portuguese Government with the help of underground workers.
2If you wish to make a representation against the order under which you are detained you should address it to the Government of Bombay and forward it through the Superintendent Arthur Road Prison Bombay.
