The white man s dead forget the country of their birth when they go to walk among the stars.
It is said that approximate ly 1000 bird and animal species are facing extinction at present.
So it is that the environmental question has became urgent and it has to be properly understood and squarely met by man.
In India as elsewhere in the world uncontrolled growth and the consequent environmental deterioration are fast assuming menacing proportions and all Indian cities are afflicted with this problem.
However the Court will not attempt to nicely balance relevant considerations.
It is this giving away of land that was challenged before the High Court and is now challenged in this Court in this appeal by two citizens of Calcutta one of them the Secretary of the Union of workmen of the zoological garden and the other a life 243 member of the zoo both of whom claiming to be lovers of wild life and well wishers of the zoo.
The note suggested that the Hastings House property may be offered to the ITDC and the Begumbari property may be offered to the Taj Group and that at a later stage a suitable Committee might be appointed to negotiate with the two groups of hotels.
On February 12 1981 the Cabinet took a decision ap proving the proposal contained in the last paragraph of the Cabinet Memorandum thus clearing the way for negotiations with the Taj Group.
The Commit tee was informed that now adays migratory birds were coming less in number though previ ously more foreign birds used to come here and in the opinion of the Managing Committee the main reason for this was due to air and sound pollution.
It was suggested that the Government may consider abandoning the proposal to set up a hotel on the Eastern side of the Zoo.
In the meanwhile WEBCON a West Bengal Government Consultancy Undertaking was asked to examine the proposals and to advise the Government.
Stress was laid on the direct and indirect economic activities which would be generated by the establishment of a Five Star Hotel.
