Soli J Sorabjee KJ John and AK Desai for the Respondents.
The Judgment of the Court was delivered by SEN J.
The by section 630 enacts 630.
Penalty for wrongful withholding of property 1 If any officer or employee of a company a wrongfully obtains possession of any property of a company or D b having any such property in his possession wrongfully withholds it or knowingly applies it to purposes other than those expressed or directed in the articles and authorised by this Act he shall on the complaint of the company or any creditor or contributory thereof be punishable with fine which may extend to one thousand rupees.
2 The Court trying the offence may also order such officer or employee to deliver up or refund within a time F to be fixed by the Court any such property wrongfully obtained or wrongfully withheld or knowingly misapplied or in default to suffer imprisonment for a term which may extend to two years.
 The only question involved in this special leave petition is as to the scope and effect of sub section.
1 of section 630 of the Act.
The controversy is as to the meaning of the term officer or employee  used in sub s1 of section 630 and as to the meaning of the words any such property  in cl.
b thereof and there is a conflict of opinion between the High Courts of Calcutta and Bombay on the question.
On a literal construction of the term officer or employee  occurring in sub section.
It also held that the words any such property  in section 630lb relate to property specified in cl.
The High Court of Bombay on the other hand has placed a beneficent construction on the provisions contained in section 630 and according to it the term officer or employee  in sub section.
1 of section 630 must be interpreted to mean not only the present officers and employees of a company but also to include past officers and employees of the company.
It is also of the view that the words any such property  in ck b qualify the words any property of a company  appearing in cl.
That has been the consistent view taken by the High Court of Bombay in a series of cases.
See Harkishan Lakhimal Gidwani vs Achyut Kashinath Wagh  Anr  Govind T Jagtiani vs Sirajuddin section Kazi  Anr  which have since been followed in a series of cases referred to by the learned Single Judge Ashok Agarwal J.
The issues involved in the special leave petition are of considerable importance to the corporate sector as many of the business organisations both in the public as well as the private sector are required to provide residential accommodation to their officers and employees as a condition of their service to attract better talent and have of necessity to purchase residential flats in multi storeyed buildings in large cities and towns for the use of such officers and employees during the course of their employment and the question is whether the provisions contained in sub section.
1 of section 630 which provide for the launching of a prosecution against an officer or employee of a company for wrongful possession of such property under cls.
a and b of sub section.
1 of section 630 and for the recovery of such property by the issue of process under sub section 2 also extends to past officers and employees of the company and whether the Court trying the offence has the power to issue a process under sub section.
2 against such officer or employee.
At the conclusion of the hearing we had by a short order dismissed the special leave petition and held that the view expressed by the learned Single Judge following the earlier decisions of the High Court in Harkishan Lakhimal Gidwani and reiterated in Govind T Jagtiani was to be preferred to the view to the contrary expressed by the High Court of Calcutta in Amritlal Chum.
As the respondent Shipping Corporation of India a public sector undertakings was in dire need of the flat in question which is situate in a posh locality like the Cuffe Parade in 173 Bombay for the use of its senior executive we could not accede to the request of the learned counsel for the petitioner to refer the case to a bench of three judges and heard learned counsel for the parties at quit some length on August 271987 and dismissed the special leave petition.
At the very threshold it is necessary to set out a few facts.
The petitioner Baldev Krishan Sahi was an Under Secretary to the Government of India in the Ministry of Shipping  Transport and on May 21 1974 accepted employment as Joint Manager in the Mogul Line Limited a Government of India undertaking after obtaining release from government service.
He was first allotted a service quarter.
The petitioner retired from the service of the company on or about September 30 1984.
Prior to that ie On September 26 1984 he addressed a letter requesting the company to permit him to continue to live in the company s premises during the period of his accumulated leave after his retirement ie for a period of six months undertaking to vacate the flat as early as possible.
It appears that the company on humanitarian grounds acceded to this request and permitted the petitioner to stay on in the company s flat for six months after his retirement and in accordance with the company s rules he was required to pay compensation for the use of the premises.
After the expiry of the said period of six months the company addressed a letter dated April 26 1985 requesting the petitioner to vacate the premises stating that if he failed to do so he would be liable to pay higher compensation as per the company s rules.
The Estate officer by order dated December 2 1985 directed the eviction of the petitioner.
The petitioner carried an appeal to the City Civil  Sessions Court Bombay but the same was dismissed by the Principal Judge City Civil Court by his order dated January 16 1986.
He then preferred a revision to the High Court and the High Court by its order dated January 28 1986 allowed the same set aside the eviction order and directed the Estate officer to give a personal hearing to the petitioner.
A few days thereafter ie On March 7 1986 the petitioner instituted a suit being Civil Suit No 174 138286 in Small Causes Court Bombay seeking a declaration that he was a tenant of the disputed flat which is now pending.
In view of this the company was constrained to lodge a complaint against the petitioner under section 630 of the Act in the Court of the Additional Chief Metropolitan Magistrate 37th Court Esplanade Bombay alleging that he was wrongfully withholding the flat in question which had been given to him for his residence during the period of his employment and and thereby committed an offence punishable under section 630.
On June 30 1986 the company merged with the Shipping Corporation of India and all its assets and liabilities were taken over by the Corporation.
b does not stand by itself but is inter connected with cl.
wrongfully withholds possession of it after the termination of his employment.
Sub section.
a and although it primarily refers to the existing officers and employees it may also take in past officers and employees.
It may well be that an officer or employee may have lawfully obtained possession of any such property during the course of his employment but wrongfully withholds it after the termination of his employment.
It would be noticed that cl.
b also makes it an offence if any officer or employee of a company having any property of the company in his possession knowingly applies it to purposes other than those expressed or directed in the articles and authorised by the Act.
That would primarily apply to the present officers and employees and may also include past officers and employees.
1 of section 630 of the Act.
a into cl.
b as applicable to such property of a company possession of which is wrongfully obtained by an officer or employee of the company ie refers to the whole of cl.
He further held that the High Court of Bombay was in error in laying down in Govind T Jagtiani s case that for purposes of prosecution cl.
b was wide enough to include former or past officer or employee of the company inasmuch as on a plain reading of the section the two clauses do not permit different interpretations as suggested.
b as taking in the property mentioned in cl.
He had been allotted the premises of a flat approximately 3500 square feet in area located at Mayfair Gardens Little Gibbs Road Bombay.
b even though cls.
a and b are separated by the word or  which must in the context in which it appears be read as and  and so construed must mean withholding of property wrongfully obtained by an existing officer or employee.
On a careful analysis of section 630 held that the provisions of the section apply not only to the present officers and employees of the company but also to past officers and employees and observed It is held that the features and deductions which flow logically and inescapably on an analysis of section 630 are that i Clause a of the section is self contained and independent of cl.
a as regards penal consequences squarely covering the case of a past employee or officer.
iii The entitlement of an officer to the property of the company is contingent on the right and capacity of the officer by virtue of his employment which is transformed into the actual possession of the property and the duration of such right would be co terminus with the terms of employment.
In the result the special leave petition must fail and is dismissed with costs.
