Civil Appeal No 1709 of 1988.
From the Judgment and Order dated 9101987 of t he Central Administrative Tribunal Chandigarh in Appln.
MKD Namboodary for the Petitioner in SLP Civil N o 6998 of 1988.
The civil appeal by speci al leave and the connected SLP raise an important issue as to the power of the Central Administration Tribun al Tribunal to examine the adequacy of penalty awarded by the competent authority to a Government servant in discipl i nary proceedings.
A bogus identi ty card in the name of Ashok Kumar TNo.
The said fictitious identity card was used by o ne Suraj Singh cleaner T No 210 K of Beggi Tunnelling Div i sion for the purpose of withdrawing the pay of Ashok Kuma r.
The Inquiry Officer framed charge against the responde nt in the following terms That the said Shri Parma Nand while working as Time Keeper in Time Keeping Sub Division of Beas Sutlej Li nk Project Sundernagar during the month of May 1969 failed to maintain absolute integrity and devotion to duty in as mu ch as he falsely marked the attendance of Shri Ashok Kuma r Token No 59 T in the Pay Roll of Control Survey Divisi on for the month of May 1969 which resulted in fictitio us drawal of Rs238 90 as pay of the said Shri Ashok Kumar.
The report of e n quiry was forwarded to the competent authority who aft er giving an opportunity of being heard dismissed the respon d ent from service.
The respondent moved the High Court of Himachal Prade sh under Article 226 challenging the findings of Inquiry off i cer as well as the order of dismissal passed by the comp e tent authority.
During the pendency of the writ petition a Bench of the Central Tribunal at Chandigarh was constitut ed under the Administrative Tribunal Act 1985.
Consequentl y the said writ petition stood transferred to the Tribunal by operation of section 29 of that Act.
The Tribunal upon consideration of the matter agre ed with the findings recorded by the Inquiry Officer that t he respondent was the master mind behind the scheme to defra ud the project.
The Tribunal observed Since the applicant had.
access to the records which 24 were fabricated at the relevant time the Inquiry Officer h ad come to the conclusion that the applicant was the mast er mind behind the scheme to defraud the Project.
After reaching this conclusion the Tribunal pr o ceeded to examine the adequacy of penalty awarded to t he respondent.
This is how the Tribunal dealt with that que s tion Lastly it was argued on behalf of the applicant that t he punishment awarded to him is disproportionate to the gravi ty of the charge proved against him and is in stark contrast to the punishment awarded to his other three colleagues in whose cases only future increments were stopped the max i mum being for three years in respect of Shri Sain Ditt a Clerk.
with the disciplinary authority whi le dismissing the applicant from service.
The question which has to be decided therefore is whether the Tribunal has power to modify the penalty award ed to the respondent when the findings recorded as to h is misdemeanour is supported by legal evidence.
Section 27 provides for finality of t he orders of the Tribunal.
