ivil Appeal Nos.
From the Judgment and Order dated 4785  21684 of the Customs Excise and Gold Control Appellate Tribunal New Delhi in Appeal Nos.
450 452 of 1985A dated 4th July 1985 473184A and 47484A both dated 21st June 1984 passed by the Customs Excise  Gold Control Appellate Tribunal hereinafter referred to as the Tribunal .
The case of the appellant is that the said fusel oil is a com pletely manufactured article and after completion of its manufacture it is stored in storage tanks duly approved for this purpose.
It is also the case of the appellant that the said fusel oilStyrene Monomer manufac tured by it is sold in bulk and delivered to the customers at the appellant s factory.
The appellant had filed its price lists in respect of the same.
On 2nd July 1983 a notice in respect of a consignment was issued to show cause as to why value of the drums should not be included in the value of the goods.
There the drums had been supplied by the buyer.
Replies were duly filed to the said show cause notices by the appellant contending inter alia that as the drums were supplied by the buyer value thereof could not be included in the assessable value.
On the 11th August 1983 two orders were passed by the Assist ant Collector one in relation to each of the aforesaid show cause notices.
The Assistant Collector included the value of the drums in the assessable value of the said fusel oilStyrene Monomer.
The Tribunal held that at the time of removal the goods were delivered from the factory in packed condition and the containers were not returnable by the buyer there fore the value had to be included in the assessable value.
Collector.
The Tribunal therefore it was urged ought to have held that the value could not be included in the assessable value of the fusel oilStyrene Monomer.
It was contended that in any event under the Act and the Rules the duty of excise is payable by the manufacturer on the manufactured goods.
The said sub section does not contemplate accord ing to the appellant the inclusion of the cost of packing in the value of goods when the packing is supplied by a customer to a manufacturer on its own cost.
It was contended by Shri Salve appearing on behalf of the appellant that on a correct analysis of section 44d the duty being on the activity of manufacture whatever is necessary to bring the goods into existence alone can be taken into account for duty purposes.
vs Bombay Tyre International Ltd  981 Shri Salve has however contended that so far as this Court is concerned this question is concluded by the deci sion of this Court in Collector of Central Excise vs Indian Oxygen Ltd Learned Attorney General however contended that this decision did not deal with the present controversy.
Learned Attorney General emphasised that it is a well settled principle of construction that in taxing statutes one has only to look merely at what is clearly stated.
There is no presump tion as to tax.
The Asstt.
Explanation.
