ivil Appeal No 4649 of 1989.
From the Judgment and Order dated 2671988 of the Allahabad High Court in Review Application No 27W of 1988.
Anil Dev Singh and Mrs section Dikshit for the Appellants.
The Judgment of the Court was delivered by VENKATARAMIAH CJ.
The Respondent Arun Govil had been granted a permanent commission in the Indian Air Force and was working as a Pilot Officer.
In the year 1972 he was declared unfit by a Medical Board and was therefore inval idated from IAF The Government of India issued a scheme for the benefit of ex military officials.
The State of Uttar Pradesh also adopted the same scheme.
Under that scheme the ex military officials were appointed on Contract basis for a fixed term which could be extended from time to time subject to the suitability of the official concerned but not beyond 58 years of age.
Pursuant to the said scheme the State of Uttar Pradesh appointed the respondent as the Secretary Zila Sainik Board Unnao on 20th of August 1979.
Paragraph 2 of the said order of appointment issued on 20th August 1979 reads thus The appointment shah be on contract for a period of one 241 year wef.
the date of assumption if it is not terminated earlier by giving a one month s notice by the Hon ble Gover nor or on paying one month s salary in lieu thereof or by giving one month s notice by the Officer.
 The respondent was required to furnish his acceptance of the terms and conditions contained in the said order includ ing the above term relating to the period of appointment and on his accepting the terms and conditions he was appointed as the Secretary in the District Soldiers Board in the district of Unnao in the State of Uttar Pradesh .
The said term was extended retrospectively first upto 20th August 1982 by an order passed in September 1981 and it was again extended upto 31st March 1983 by an order made in February 1983.
Again the term was extended upto 30th of August 1985 by an order dated 1st June 1983.
All these orders of exten sion were couched almost in the same language.
The relevant part of the last of such orders namely the order dated 1st June 1983 reads as follows Sir With reference to your letter No 1020Sa.
ADM141 Dated 3131982 on the above subject I am directed to say that the terms of the officers mentioned under para 2 who were appointed wef.
the date mentioned in para 4 has expired.
The Governor is therefore pleased to accord his sanction to extend the period of the contract upto the period mentioned under para 5 subject to the condi tion that their service tenure shall expire on completion of 58 years of age in case the same is completing earlier during the extended period.
During the extended period of the contract conditions of service of officers shall remain same as are mentioned under their Appointment Order.
Letters of accept ance of relevant conditions of service to be obtained from these officers must be submitted to the Government at an early date.
But on 2931985 the service of the 1st Respondent was terminated by the issue of a notice and payment of one month s salary.
The High Court however held that the termination order could not be sustained and the Writ Petition was liable to be allowed.
The High Court further issued a direction to the effect that the respondent was entitled to salary upto the period he was entitled to remain in service.
In the instant case the respondent was entitled to be in service till 30th of Au guSt 1985 unless there was a further extention.
In the Penultimate paragraph of the judgment the High Court further stated It is open for the opposite parties to con sider the claim of the petitioner for continu ation in service or of fresh appointment and no observations in this regard are being made by this Court.
 The judgment was delivered on 2431988.
243 The respondent who was not satisfied by the order allow ing the Writ Petition as stated above preferred a Review Petition before the High Court contending that he was enti tled to be reinstated in service on the pronouncement of the Judgment on 243.
1988 notwithstanding the fact that his term of office had come to an end on 30th of August 1985 as stated above and no further order of extention had been passed by the Governor.
 The contention of the respondent was that the said interim order entitled him to be reinstated in service irrespective of the fact whether the Governor had extended the period of his appointment beyond 30th of August 1985.
It seems that when the writ petition was decided our attention was not drawn towards the interim order dated 1071986 passed by learned single Judge in which it was provided that one post will be kept vacant and in case the petitioner suc ceeds in his petition it would be made avail able forthwith to the petitioner by way of his appointment.
It is not disputed that the scheme under which the respond ent 244 had been appointed provided for an appointment by contract for a specified term which could be extended from time to time and that the term of the respondent had been extended on different occasions after his first appointment and he was not entitled to continue in service beyond 30th August 1985 unless there was a further extension.
It is on this basis that the High court had while setting aside the order of termination by its order dated 2431988 directed that the respondent was entitled to salary upto the period he was entitled to remain in service and further observed that it was open for the opposite parties to consider the claim of the respondent for continu ation in service or of fresh appointment and no observations in this regard were made by the Court.
TNA Appeal allowed.
