February 23.
These two appeals by special leave raise a common question of law and that is whether business losses incurred in the erstwhile State of Cochin could under the Income tax Act of Travancore be set off against the business profits made in the erstwhile State of Travancore.
But this question was not answered by the High Court which confined itself to answering the first question which was common to both the appeals.
The appellant before us in both the appeals is the Commissioner of Income tax and the respondents are the two assessees in one case a Bank and the other a private limited company.
The main argument has been confined to the question of applicability of section 321 and the first proviso to that section of the Travancore Income tax Act hereinafter called the Travancore Act.
In C A No 25958 the assessee is a public limited company incorporated in the State of Cochin with branches in that State as well as in what was British India and in Travancore State.
The assessee s appeal to the Income tax Commissioner was unsuccessful but the Appellate Tribunal held that the banking business of the assessee being one and indivisible for the purpose of determining the amount assessable to income tax it was entitled to deduct the losses incurred outside Travancore State from the profits accruing and arising in that State.
It was carrying on business at its head office in Cochin State and it also carried on business in Travancore State.
The assesse made a profit in Travancore State and incurred a loss in the State of Cochin and sought to deduct this loss from the profit of Travancore State thus showing a net profit of Rs 2643.
This was not allowed by the Income tax Officer and on appeal this order was confirmed by the Appellate Assistant Commissioner.
The Appellate Tribunal also did not accept the submissions of the assessee and upheld the order of assessment.
The Commissioner has come up in appeal pursuant to special leave against both these judgments.
It may be stated that the relevant sections of the Travancore Act which govern the two appeals are identically worded with those of the Indian Incometax Act of 1922 to be called the Indian Act.
The corresponding sections are as follows Headings Sections in Section in Travancore Act.
Indian Act.
Sections in brackets are the corresponding sections of the Indian Act.
The question for decision is as to how this proviso is to be construed.
Ordinarily the effect of an excepting or a qualifying proviso is to carve something out of the preceding enactment or to qualify something enacted therein which but for the proviso would be in it and such a proviso cannot be construed as enlarging the scope of an enactment when it can be fairly and properly construed without attributing to it that effect.
From 1922 to 1939 in order to be taxable income profits and gains had to be received or had to accrue in British India.
Section 3 provided for the charge of income tax in respect of the total income of the previous year.
By the addition of this section the loss under one head of profits or gains was allowed to be set off against income profits and gains under any other bead in any assessment year.
