the respondent No. i was tried before the court of sessions visakhapatnam for offences under section 120 b indian penal code section 409 section 477 a and section 471 read with section 467 i p c while respondent No 2 was tried for an offence under section 120 b and for offences under sections 409 read with section 109 477 a and 471 read with section 467 i p c each of the respondents was convicted of the first two offences but.
the state on the other hand preferred an application for revision under section 439 cr.
the state of andhra pradesh has come up before this court in appeal by obtaining special leave under article 136 of the constitution.
it obtained licences from the government under the electricity act for supply of electrical energy to visakhapatnam anakapalli and some other places.
a mention may be made of the fact that in june 1952 the vesco undertaking was acquired by the government under the provisions of the electricity undertaking acquisition act but nothing turns on it.
i continued to be the secretary of vesco and resident representative of the managing agents throughout the period of conspiracy.
after the death of r k n g raju it was discovered that the aeco was indebted to many concerns which were under its managing agency the liability being shown either as that of aeco or that of r k n g raju personally.
he was also told that apart from signing important papers which may be sent to him by the respondent No i from time to time to manchili or wherever be might be would have no work to do.
in that book payments which used to be made by respondent No 2 on the basis of slips issued by the respondent No i used to be noted and the amount totalled up at the end of the day.
on the basis of the entries in the handover book the final accounts were written up.
it may be mentioned that subba raju used to visit visakhapatnam twice a month and check up the account books.
the interim report showed that there was a shortage of about rs 90 000 for this period.
on may 13 1954 a chargesheet was filed against the two respondents as well as murti and the approver ramana.
then according to the high court offences under.
the high court has further stated that inadmissible evidence was taken on record by the additional sessions judge namely account books of billimoria brothers maintained in gujrati and further that the additional sessions judge was in error in allowing the prosecution to use those account books for establishing absence of entries with regard to certain payments alleged in the vesco books to have been made to them.
it is thus apparent that offences committed within a space of 12 months were tried along with offences committed beyond that period.
the respondent No i alone was convicted of the other two offences.
various sentences were passed against them by the additional sessions judge visakhapatnam who presided over the court.
the respondents preferred appeals before the high court challenging their convictions and sentences.
we shall refer to this company throughout as the aeco.
some time later other industrial concerns the andhra cements ltd vi jayawada and the east coast ceremics.
the vesco had its own board of directors while the aeco had also its own separate board of directors.
the vesco had no managing director but at each meeting of its board of directors one of the directors used to be elected chairman.
the same practice was followed at the meeting of the general body of the shareholders.
the aeco on the other band always had a managing director first of whom was d l n raju.
this person however did not shift to visakhapatnam on his becoming the managing director but continued to stay most of the time at rajahmundry.
according to the prosecution both these concerns were running smoothly and efficiently during the lifetime of d l n raju because he was personally attending to their affairs.
according to the prosecution the second raju was not bestowing sufficient care and attention on the affairs of vesco.
he was succeeded by t visweswara rao p w 6 an employee of the aeco.
the respondent No 1.
he pressed his claim for appointment as secretary of vesco and representative of the managing agents at visakhapatnam and r h g raju appointed him to that post.
all this is not disputed.
his dual capacity enabled the respondent No i to earn the confidence not only of the directors of aeco but also of those of vesco.
the accounts maintained by the vesco used to be explained by him not only to the directors but also to the shareholders.
the knowledge of the financial position of vesco obtained by them used to be derived essentially from the respondent No 1.
as secretary of vesco it was his duty to convene the meetings of the board of directors to present before them the periodical statement of receipts and expenditure of vesco to convene meetings of the general body to prepare the managing agents report and the director 's report as also to see to the presentation of auditors report and the statement of accounts.
the explanations of the managing agents and the directors of vesco with respect to the items mentioned in the orders of the board used also to be placed by him before the shareholders.
it was also his duty to have the accounts of vesco audited by the auditors elected by the general body and to produce before the auditors the relevant accounts vouchers bank statements and so on.
one b rajan was elected auditor not only for vesco but for all the other four concerns including aeco.
this person was auditor for greenlands hotel at visakhapatnam.
of which the respondent No i was a director.
later however murty was also got transferred to the general section and replaced by p w 18.
srinivasa rao originally a stores boy.
he was later promoted as senior accountant and in his place the respondent No 2.
laksbminarayana rao was appointed the cashier.
again the vesco was shown as indebted to the andhra cement to the extent of rs 42 000.
this amount was however paid by the aeco from the funds of vesco.
i and some of his friends were in search of a rich and substantial man who would be amenable to them to fill the post of managing director of aeco.
it is said that this person has not received much education and knows only bow to sign his name in english.
he was assured that by consenting to become the managing director be would not be required to discharge onerous duties and that the respondent No i would look to all the affairs of vesco.
upon this understanding he accepted the position offered to him.
the vesco used to receive large amounts of money from high tension power consumers such as the railways k g hospital the port administration the andhra university etc.
by cheques.
but domestic consumers usually paid their bills in cash to the bill collectors who used to hand over their collections to the respondent No 2.
the respondent No 2 was asked by the respondent No i to maintain a private note book.
this amount was posted in vesco 's cash handover book as by safe indicating that this amount was kept in the safe though in fact it was not.
i opened four personal accounts in different banks including the imperial bank of india.
when the respondent No i had to issue a personal cheque on any of these banks he used to ask the second respondent to send an equivalent amount to the bank concerned for being credited to his account.
these amounts also used to be noted in the private note book and entered.
another thing which the respondent No i initiated was opening a heading in the ledger called advance purchase of materials.
at that time it used to be represented to him that the amounts which were shown to be in the safe and not found therein had been sent to the bank for being deposited.
apparently subba raju was fully satisfied with this and other explanations and therefore he appointed one c section raju who was the manager of andhra cements to supervise over the affairs of vesco apparently because of this a new method of misappropriation was adopted by the respondents by starting in the vesco account books an account called suspense account.
a new cash book was also said to have been prepared by the conspirators with the object of covering up the misappropriations which had been made.
subba raju was not satisfied with the nature of supervision exercised by c section raju over the affairs of vesco because he used to look only at the cash book entries of the days on which he paid visits to vesco 's office to which he used to go with previous intimation.
besides that c section raju 's management of andhra cements had landed it into a loss of rs 30 000.
subbaramayya took his work seriously and called for information on a number of points from the respondent No 1.
he however was unable to obtain any information.
the shareholders felt that the report had been received but was being suppressed or deliberately withheld.
on that date the respondent No 1 produced the auditor 's report.
according to the prosecution the report is a forged document.
that was also the feeling of a number of shareholders who wanted to see the original but one dutt who was chairman of the meeting after seeing exhibit p 234 said that the report seemed to be a genuine one.
further scrutiny of the accounts was being carried out by krishna aiyar and in his subsequent report he pointed out that rs 2 38 000 which were shown as having been paid to the andhra power system had actually not been paid.
he was given time for doing so but he failed to pay it.
on the next day the police placed an armed guard around the office of the respondent No i and seized a number of papers.
the aeco was appointed managing agent for each of these corporations under separate agreements.
rajahmurthy were started apparently by raju himself and the aeco was appointed the managing agent of each of these concerns.
his successor however apart from the fact that be continued to be staying mostly at rajahmundry was also interested in several other ventures including a sugar factory at dewas in central india.
eventually many of those ventures failed.
i secured the promotion of the approver k v ramana who was originally accounts clerk to the post of senior accountant.
similarly k v gopala raju was transferred from the post of stores clerk to the general department and k s n murty the discharged accused was appointed stores clerk in his place.
according to the prosecution the respondent No i took both the approver and lakshminarayana rao in his confidence as also some other persons known and unknown for carrying out his nefarious purpose namely the misappropriation of the funds of vesco during the subsistence of aeco 's managing agency of vesco.
eventually their choice fell on g v subba raju p w 25 a resident of manchili who held a large number of shares in the aeco and who was besides related to r k n g raju by marriage.
amounts which had been misappropriated used to be posted therein though in fact no orders were placed for any material.
in january 1952 he therefore brought one section g krishna aiyar who had vast experience in the maintenance of accounts of electrical undertaking 's having been chief accountant of the south madras electric supply corporation to undertake an investigation and then to act as financial adviser.
the respondent No 1 on being asked to explain said that he would give his explanation to the managing director.
according to it the provisions of section 239 were of no avail.
next according to the high court even if section 239 is applicable its provisions are subject to those of section 234 and as such the trial being for more than three offences was impermissible.
section 409 and section 471467 are of different kinds and are not capable of joint commission.
charge of conspiracy according to the high court can be validly made only when the prosecution establishes that every conspirator expected to receive a personal benefit from it and that the prosecution has not been able to establish that the respondent No 2 or the approver evidently had any such expectations since they did not in fact receive any corresponding benefit.
the points which he urged are briefly these 1 that there was a misjoinder of charges and persons in that the various provisions of section 239 were clubbed together and an omnibus charge of conspiracy was framed which on its face was one likely to embarrass the respondents and make their task of defending themselves difficult.
3 irrelevant evidence was introduced and some evidence was introduced in a manner not authorised by the evidence act.
the first charge is in respect of the conspiracy alleged to have been entered into by the two respondents k v ramana the approver and others known and unknown to commit criminal breach of trust of the funds of vesco and in order to screen its detection to falsify the accounts of vesco and to use forged documents as genuine.
unless therefore the provisions of section 239 are applicable it would follow that there was a misjoinder of charges.
mr bhimasankaram supports the reason given by the high court for coming to the conclusion that there was a misjoinder of charges.
the main reasons upon which the conclusion of the high court is based are firstly that there could be no clubbing together of the provisions of the various clauses of section 239 and secondly that the respondents were charged with more than three offences of the same kind and that this was in contravention of section 239 c. in coming to the conclusion that the provisions of various clauses of section 239 can not be applied cumulatively the high court has relied upon the decision in re vankavalapati gopala rao 1956 airandhra 21.
the chapter is split up into two sub heads form of chargesand joinder of charges.
then we come to the other sub head of this chapter.
section 233 provides that for every distinct offence of which any person is accused there shall be a separate charge.
but it also provides that this will be subject to the exceptions contained in sections.
the first three provisions relate to the framing of charges against a single accused person.
section 234.
thus under this provision if the connection between the various offences is established the limitations placed by section 2341 both as regards the number and the period during which the offences are alleged to have been committed will not apply.
full effect can not possibly be given to this provision if we hold that it is subject to the limitation of s 2341.
sub s 2 of section 235 deals with a case where an offence falls within two definitions and sub s 3 deals with a case in which a number of acts are alleged against an accused person different com binations of which may constitute different offences.
then we come to section 236 which provides that if a single act or series of acts is of such a nature that it is doubtful which of several offences the facts which can be proved will constitute the accused may be charged with having committed all or any of such offences and further provides that any number of such charges may be tried together.
thus this is a special provision available in case of doubt and is neither subject to the limitations prescribed by section 233 nor those of the other preceding provisions.
let us therefore examine closely the provisions of section 239.
it will be useful to set out the provisions of that section which run thus this first thing to be noticed is that section 239 does not read as if its various clauses can be applied only alternatively.
if the intention of the legislature was that the provisions of these clauses should be available only alternatively it would have used the word or and not and which has the opposite effect.
grammatically therefore it would appear that the provisions of the various clauses are capable of being applied cumulatively.
the opening words of the section show that it is an enabling provision and therefore the court has a discretion to avail itself cumulatively of two or more clauses.
the concluding portion of section 239 shows that the provisions contained in the former part of chapter xix shall as far as may be apply to the charges framed with the aid of section 239.
does this mean that the provisions of section 233 234 235 and 236 must also be complied with.
obviously section 233 does not override the provisions of section 239.
now since section 2341 can not be properly read a overriding section 2351 there is no valid reason for construing it as overriding the provisions of section 239 either.
there are also other reasons which point to this conclusion which we will set out while considering the argument advanced by mr bhimasankaram.
bhimasankaram contended that s 239 must be read at least subject to sections 2341 and 2351 on the ground.
c of section 239 is subject to the provisions of section 234.
therefore even if the expression same transaction alone had been used in section 2351 it would have meant a transaction consisting either of a single act or of a series of connec ted acts.
looking at the matter in that way it is pointless to inquire further whether the provisions of section 239 are subject to those of section 2361.
the provisions of sub s 2 and 3 of section 235 are enabling provisions and quite plainly can have no overriding effect.
is also an enabling provision to be availed of in case of doubt and it is meaningless to say that section 239 is subject to section 236.
bearing in mind the fact that the provisions in the former part of chapter xix are applicable to charges made with the aid of section 239 only so far as may be it would not be right to construe section 239 as being subject to the provisions of sections 233 to 236.
for even in the absence of those words the earlier provisions could not have been ignored.
for it is a rule of construction that all the provisions of a statute are to be read together and given effect to and that it is therefore the duty of the court to construe a statute harmoniously.
thus while it is clear that the sections preceding section 239 have no overriding effect on that section the courts are not to ignore them but apply such of them as can be applied without detracting from the provisions of s 239.
indeed the very expression so far as may be empha sises the fact that while the earlier provisions have to be borne in mind by the court while applying section 239 it is not those provisions but the latter which is to have an overriding effect.
apart from this the question whether the provisions of sections 233 to 236 have or have no overriding effect on section 239.
is not strictly germane to the question considered by the high court that is clubbing together all the provisions of the various clauses of section 239.
on a plain construction of the provisions of section 239 therefore it is open to the court to avail itself cumulatively of the provisions of the different clauses of section 239 for the purpose of framing charges and charges so framed by it will not be in violation of the law the provisions of sections 233 234 and 235 notwithstanding.
the decision of the allahabad high court in t r mukherji 's case il is directly in point and is clearly to the effect that the different clauses of section 239 are mutually exclusive in the sense that it is not possible to combine the provisions of two or more clauses in any one case and to try jointly several persons partly by applying the provisions of one clause and partly by applying those of another or other clauses.
but while this principle is easy to appreciate and follow where one person alone is the accused and the interaction or intervention of the acts of more persons than one does not come in it would where the same act is committed by several persons be not only inconvenient but injudicious to try all the several persons separately.
the offences are of the same kind and must be deemed to have been committed in the course of the same transaction because of association and mutual connection.
in that case the question was whether a person who was first tried for an offence under section 380 i p c for stealing a blank second class railway ticket from the booking office tried for it and acquitted could not be tried subsequently for the offence of forgery by making entries in that ticket and using it.
it is difficult to appreciate how this case assists the conclusion arrived at by the high court.
the precise point which we have to consider here did not fall for consideration in that case i e whether the provisions of the various clauses of section 239 could be used together or not.
on the other band there is the decision of this court in the state of andhra pradesh v kandinmlla subbaiah which is to the effect that where several persons had committed offences in the course of the same transactions they could jointly be tried in respect of all those offences under section 239 of the code of criminal procedure and the limitation placed by section 234 of the code could not come into operation.
there nine persons were jointly tried for an offence under section 5 1 c and d of the prevention of corruption act 1947 and section 109 i p c read with s 420 section 466 and section 467 i p c and all except one for offences under sections 420 467471 i p c some of them were also charged with separate offences under some of these provisions.
it is true that the question of reading the various clauses cumulatively did not specifically arise for decision in that case but the high court had held that the first charge was an omnibus charge containing as many as 203 offences and that it was in direct violation of sections 234 235 and 239 of the code of criminal procedure.
no doubt the offence mentioned in charge No i is alleged to have been committed not by just one person but by all the accused and the question is whether all these persons can be jointly tried in respect of all these offences.
this court has thus clearly read the provisions of the various clauses cumulatively and we see no reason to read them differently.
there remains the decision of this court in k v krishna murthy iyer v the state of madras in on which mr bhimasankaram strongly relied.
in such circumstances what the court has to consider is whether prejudice has in fact been caused to the accused by reason of the multiplicity of charges or misjoinder if any of the charges.
this is quite clear from the provisions of section 537 of the code as amended by act 26 of 1955.
in willie william slaney v the state of madhya pradesh all the learned judges were in agreement on the point that this section and section 535 cover every case in which there is departure from the rules set out in ch.
the whole question has again been examined by this court recently in birichh bhuian v the state of bihar subba rao j who delivered the judgment of the court has stated the position thus even if we were to assume that there has been a misjoinder of charges in violation of the provisions of sections 233 to 239 of the code the high court was incompetent to set aside the conviction of the respondents without coming to the definite conclusion that misjoinder had occasioned failure of justice.
merely because the accused persons are charged with a large number of offences and convicted at the trial the conviction can not be set aside by the appellate court unless it in fact came to the conclusion that the accused persons were embarrassed in their defence with the result that there was a failure of injustice.
then this court has observed.
in swamirathnam 's case 1 which is a decision of this court certain persons were tried for the offence of the conspiracy to cheat the members of the public and for specific offences of cheating in pursuance of that conspiracy.
it was urged before this court that there was misjoinder of charges and persons.
this court held that the charge as framed disclosed a single conspiracy although spread over several years that there was one object of the conspiracy and that was to cheat the members of the public that the fact that in the course of years other joined the conspiracy or that several incidents of cheating took place in pursuance of the conspiracy did not have the effect of splitting the conspiracy into several conspiracies.
no doubt there is no discussion there as to the question whether the various clauses of section 239 could be combined or as to the impact of the provisions of section 233 to 236 on those of section 239.
in that case the impact of section 120 b i p c on sections 233 and 239 of the code of criminal procedure was considered by this court and this court observed.
here again the question of clubbing together of the various provisions of cls.
that charge reads thus adverting to the portion which we have bracketed his first objection was that the charge comprises within it not merely the conspiracy but also what was in fact done in pursuance of the conspiracy.
section 120 b which makes criminal conspiracy punishable was added by the indian criminal law amendment act 1913 8 of 1913 along with section 120 a section 120 a defines conspiracy and section 120 b provides for the punishment for the offence of conspiracy.
criminal conspiracy as defined in section 120 a and consists of an agreement to do an illegal act or an agreement to do an act which is not illegal by illegal means.
section 120 b provides that whoever is a party to a criminal conspiracy to commit an offence punishable with death imprisonment for life or rigorous imprisonment for a term of two years or upwards shall be punishable in the same manner as if he has abetted such offence unless there was an express provision in the code for the punishment of such conspiracy.
the idea was to prevent the commission of crimes by so to speak nipping them in the bud.
we have read the questions and so also the answers.
while we are disposed to agree with learned counsel that the questions embrace a number of matters and that it would have been better if those matters had been made the subjects of separate questions the answers given by the respondents clearly show that they understood the questions and wherever possible they have given complete answers to those questions.
that is to say they have given their explantion regarding the circumstances appearing in the evidence set out in the questions and wherever that was not feasible they have said that they would do so in their written statements.
we are also satisfied that there is no substance in the complaint that the questioning bordered on cross examination.
the new provision however does no more than lift the ban and does not impose a duty on the court to draw the attention of an accused person to its contents.
in the circumstances this point must also be rejected as being without substance.
the irrelevant evidence to which mr bhimasankaram referred was certain account books.
p c for the enhancement of the sentences passed on the respondents.
the high court allowed the two appeals acquitted the respondents and dismissed the application for revision preferred by the state.
the prosecution case in so far as it is material for the decision of this appeal is as follows.
in the year 1929 the andhra engineering co which was originally a partnership firm formed by one d l n raju was converted into a private limited company with its headquarters at visakhapatnam.
as the aeco did not have the necessary capital to undertake the work raju floated in the year 1933 a public limited company called visakhapatnam electric supply corporation ltd and another in the year 1936 called the anakapalli electric supply corporation ltd the aeco transferred its licences for the supply of electrical energy to the consumers of visakhapatnam to vesco and similarly transferred to aeco the licence to supply electrical energy to consumers at anakapalli.
the original managing agency agreement in favour of aeco with respect to vesco was for a period of 15 years i e from 1933 to 1948 and was later renewed for the remaining term of the currency of the licence granted by the government under the electricity act.
he died in the year 1939 and was succeeded by r k n g raju an advocate of rajahmundry.
the aeco as managing agents of vesco had appointed in the year 1939 one d v appala raju a trusted employee as its representative and as the secretary of vesco.
in 1944 this person resigned from his appointments and started his own business in radio and electrical goods in the name of d brothers.
