a suit for partition was filed by one of the co sharers of said sarkar family in the high court of calcutta on 3 9 1955which was registered as suit no 2539 of 1955 the schedule of properties included the disputed nalban fishery.
prior to the passing of the aforesaid order on april 181979 while granting special leave petition on 10 11 1978 this court had directed that the state of west bengal will be made a party to the proceeding and further the collector parganas was appointed as receiver in respect of the fisheries owned by the sarkar family.
the court had also further directed that the collector will be the receiver in respect of the fisheries which has not already been vested in the state and whose possession has not already been taken over by the state.
these three appeals by special leave are directed against one and the same judgment dated 25 09 l992 of the division bench of calcutta high court.
the respondents are the members of one sarkar family in the city of calcutta.
the dispute centres around a fishery called nalban fishery.
pursuant to the aforesaid order appointing collector 24 parganas as receiver.
the aforesaid corporation issued an advertisement for auctioning the nalban fishery for a boating complex.
the calcutta high court both the learned single judge as well as the division bench committed serious error of law in directing the receiver to take possession of nalban fishery from the state of west bengal and deliver the vacant possession of the same to the members of the sarkar family.
he further contended that nalban fishery having been vested in the state of west bengal under the provisions of west bengal under the provisions of west bengal acquisition act1955the state can not get rid of the direction given by the supreme court to the receiver to handover possession of the various fisheries covered by the final decree to the parties to whom they have been allotted under the decree and the nalban fishery being one such fishery the possession thereof was required to be given to the person in whose favour the said fishery has been allotted and therefore the learned single judge as well as the division bench in appeal have rightly issued the directions.
judged from this view there is no infirmity with the direction issued by the learned single judge as well as division bench of the calcutta high court warranting interference by this court.
bengal and therefore it would not be open for the said state in application for execution of the decree to raise the question of vesting of the nalban fishery with the state and the court would not interfere with the direction given by the learned single judge and division bench of the calcutta high court.
in this connection he had further urged that this question had not been raised before the high court.
the nalban fishery was one of the items of property in the suit for partition is not disputed.
from the report submitted by the receiver it transpired that the district magistrate 24 parganas who was appointed as receiver took possession of several fisheries including nalban fishery obviously on the impression that the lease in respect of the said fishery which had been granted by the sarkar family had lapsed.
this court dismissed the special leave petition.
the collector 24 parganas took possession of the fisheries including nalban fishery as receiver and submitted a compliance report dated 22 11 1978 to the registrar of this court.
bengal was in fact in possession of the said fishery.
on the question of vesting of the tank fishery under the amended provisions of the west bengal land reforms act mr. gupta contended that the validity of the said act has been challenged and is pending before the calcutta high court an interim order has been passed in the said proceeding and therefore until that matter is decided it can not be said.
it would be appropriate at this stage to extract this part of the decree passed by this court in view of the foregoing we again wish to re emphasize that the terms the decree shall not affect the rights of the state of west bengal in any manner whatsoever to the fisheries in question if they have vested in the state under the provisions of the west bengal estates acquisition act1953 act x of 1954.
it is an undisputed fact that nalban fishery had been requisitioned much prior to the aforesaid decree of this court dated 18 4 1979 and therefore the rights of the state to the fishery either by virtue of the requisition order or by virtue of any provision of any other statute remained protected and as such said state of west.
the nalban fishery had been requisitioned by the state of west bengal in exercise of power under section 31 of the west bengal land requisition and acquisition act is not disputed and can not be disputed and since the validity of the said order of requisition had been challenged by the sarkar family in the calcutta high court and being unsuccessful there they had also filed special leave petition in this court in slp c no 145272 which was ultimately dismissed by this court on 17 11 1972.
the next question that arises for consideration is whether the receiver appointed by this court was at all entitled to take possession of the nalban fishery pursuant to the order of this court or the nalban fishery could not have been taken possession by the receiver and therefore the second receiver rightly corrected the mistake committed by his predecessor.
the said receiver was not aware of the fact that nalban fishery had in fact requisitioned by the state of west bengal and the state is in possession of the same since november1369 the possession thus taken by the receiver of the vast extent tank fishery is obviously a symbolical possession but in view of the order of this court dated 18 4 1979 as well as 22 4 1979 while passing a decree in terms of compromise arrived at between the parties and on the admitted position that state had already come into possession of the fishery by virtue of the order under the requisition act the said fishery remained out of the purview of the allotment made by the sarkar family in the compromise and therefore the receiver could not have taken possession of the same.
by virtue of the extended definition of land in section 2 7 and the amended provisions of section 3a of the land reforms act tank fishery like nalban fishery come within the definition of and it vests in the state by operation of section 31 read with section 14.
it is no doubt true that a writ petition has been filed challenging the validity of the aforesaid act and notification issued there under in relation to vary nalban fishery which is still pending and therefore it would not be proper for us to examine the provisions of the emended west bengal land reforms act and to express any opinion thereon.
suffice it to say that under the amended provisions of the west bengal land reforms act tank fishery being included in the land would vest in the state by combined reading of sections 3a and 14 and therefore the state can not be divested of the rights accruing by the amended provisions until the amended provisions are declared invalid by a competent court of law.
since we have been informed that the writ petition challenging the amended act is still pending in the calcutta high court we may observe that our conclusion hereunder in relation to applicability of the amended provisions of the west bengal land reforms act so far as nalban fishery is concerned would be subject to the constitutionality itself to be decided by the high court in the pending writ petition.
we would further observe that the state should determine the amount of compensation which the sarkar family is entitled to under the relevant provisions of the act under which nalban fishery vests with the state of west bengal and the compensation amount be paid on being determined in accordance with the law to the family members of sarkar family in whose favour nalban fishery had been allotted under the compromise decree by this court.
the three appellants are the state of west bengal in appeal arising out of slp c no 401 of 1993the state fishery development corporation ltd in appeal arising out of slp c no 13516 of 1992 and bansilal farms in appeal arising out of slp c no 13314 of 1992.
a learned single judge of the calcutta high court passed a preliminary decree in the said suit on 11 8 1960 one of the co sharers of the sarkar family preferred an appeal against the preliminary decree before the division bench which was registered as appeal no200 of 1960 during the pendency of the aforesaid appeal the state of west.
