there was an inspection by a team of professors of the university and it recommended favourably when it stated that the facilities provided by the appellant would be sufficient for establish ing an engineering college.
the aicte sent a communication on 30 4 1995 stating that on the basis of the observations made by the expert committee and the recommendations made by the central regional committee state level committee and central task force as per the provisions of the aicte regulation dated 30 1 1994the aicte was granting conditional approval for establishing an engineering and technical college.
under the impression that the state govt was to grant permission the appellant requested the state government by letter dated 24 6 1995 for permission to start the college.
meanwhile the mahatama gandhi university by their letter dated 31 5 1995 forwarded to the government a list of colleges and courses for affiliation during the academic year 1995 96 the appellant 's college was shown as one of the colleges among the affiliated colleges for the said period.
thereafter the appellant filed writ petition o p no 4612 of 1996 for quashing the said order and for a direction to sanction and establish an engineering college.
the direction to pass a fresh order of affiliation was issued in view of the fact that the university contended before the learned single judge that unless the government granted approval permanent affiliation could not be granted.
the government was also directed to reconsider its decision.
the division bench however observed that the appellant was at liberty to make a fresh application to the government of kerala for according sanction for setting up the engineering college or to request the government to consider the earlier application for a future academic year.
learned senior counsel for the appellant.
in the event of contravention of the conditions guidelines norms and regula tions of the aicte the aicte could withdraw the approval at any time.
it is against the abovesaid judgment of the division bench that this appeal has been preferred.
sri t l vishwanatha.
iyer contended that the division bench erred in reversing the well considered judgment of the learned single judge and according to him after the coming into force of the aicte act1987the statutes conferring power on the state or university to the extent they were inconsistent with the central act were void.
also there were four engineering colleges at kannur trichur kottayam and thiruvananthapuram districts and three private aided engineering colleges at palakkad ernakulam kothamangalam and kollam districts.
the model engineering college emakulam was a selffinancing engineering college and others were the colleges at changannur and pathansamthitta and there was a self financing engineering college at kasargode.
there were also two unaided engineering colleges at mallappuram and thiruvananthapuram.
if more approvals were granted it might lead to commercialisation of education.
the following points arise for consideration 1.
point 1.
but in the context of s 10k regarding approval for starting a technical institution certain aspects of the judgment need to be highlighted.
the abovesaid act was an act to provide for the establishment of all india council for technical education with a view to the proper planning and coordinated development of the technical education system throughout the country the promotion of qualitative improvement of such education in relation to planned quantitative growth and the regulation and proper maintenance of norms and standards in the technical education system and for matters connected therewith.
for the purposes of performing its functions under the act the council may a undertake survey in various fields of technical education collect data on all related matters and make forecast of the needed growth and development in technical education b coordinate the development of technical education in the country at all levels c allocate and disburse out of the fund of the council such grants on such terms and conditions as it may think fit to i technical institutions and ii universities imparting technical education in coordination with the commission d promote innovations research and development in established and new technologies generation adoption and adaptation of new technologies to meet developmental requirements and for overall improve ment of educational processes e formulate schemes for promoting technical education for women handicapped and weaker sections of the society f promote an effective link between technical education system and other relevant systems including research and development organisations industry and the community g evolve suitable performance appraisal systems for technical institutions and universities imparting technical education incorpo rating norms and mechanisms for enforcing accountability h formulate schemes for the initial and in service training of teachers and identify institutions or centres and set up new centres for offering staff development programmes including continuing education of teachers i lay down norms and standards for courses curricula physical and instructional facilities staff pattern staff qualifications quality instructions assessment and examinations j fix norms and guidelines for charging tuition and other fees.
cl s to declare technical institutions as fit to receive grants cl t to advice for declaring institutions to be deemed as universities cl u to set up a national board of accreditation.
the abovesaid approval was subject to the fulfilment of specific conditions mentioned in annexure i and the general conditions mentioned in annexure ii to the said letter.
another v adhiyaman educational research institute.
whether in view of the judgment of this court in state of tamil nadu another v adhiyaman educational research institute others1995 4 scc 104 1995 indlaw sc 1631the provisions of the aicte act1987 occupied the field and it was not necessary to obtain the further approval of the government or other authority.
before we refer to the abovesaid judgment it will be necessary to refer to certain provisions of the aicte act and the relevant regulations.
s 11 of the act deals with inspection.
regulations have been framed on 31st october1994 by the aicte in exercise of powers conferred on it by s 231 of the aicte act.
regulation 2 states that these regulations will be applicable to proposals relating to a grant of approval of the council for establishment of new technical institutions including universities or university depart ments and deemed universities and for technical institutions function ing on the date of commencement of these regulations at degree and diploma levels b grant of approval of the council for introduction of any course or programme in the technical institutions and technical departments or universities or deemed universities c grant of approval of the council for existing intake capacity of seats and for increase in the annual intake capacity of seats in courses and programmes.
on the recommendation of the central task force the council shall decide the question of grant of approval as sought for in the application.
the tamil nadu case.
as stated earlier the above provisions of the aicte act came up for consideration in state of tamil nadu v adhiyaman educational research institute1995 4 scc 104 1995 indlaw sc 1631.
at that time in 1984the aicte act was not on the statute book.
the said judgments were affirmed by this court.
it was held that the aicte act was referable to entry 66list.
read education included technical education medical institution and universities subject to the provisions of entries 636465 and 66 of list i vocational and technical training of labour.
they were preconstitutional or a post constitutional laws they would be repugnant to the aicte act passed by parliament under entry 66 of list.
i in the above case this court referred to the various provisions of the aicte act and on the question of repugnancy held as follows.
if there was any such existing law immediately before the commencement of the constitution within the meaning of art 372 of the constitution as the madras university act 1923 on the enactment of the present central act the provisions of the said law if repugnant to the provisions of the central act would stand impliedly repealed to the extent of repugnancy.
we shall now refer to the above judgment dealing with the question of approval for establishing technical institutions under s 10k of the aicte act.
inspection of technical institution which are matters covered by the central act.
this court then referred to the madras university act1923 it was held that s 10 of the central act dealt with various matters including granting approval for starting new technical institutionsand that so far as these matters were concerned.
it is not the university act and the university but it is the central act and the council created under it which will have the jurisdiction.
to that extent after the coming into force of the central act the provisions of the university act will be deemed to have become unenforceable.
thus in the two passages set out above this court clearly held that because of s 10k of the central act which vested the powers of granting approval in the council the t n act of 1976 and the university act1923 could not deal with any questions of approval for establishment of technical institutions.
in case affiliation is granted the fact shall be reported to the senate at its next meet ing.
the reference to the commission in the above cl 97 is to the commission of inspection appointed by the university.
as pointed out in the tamil nadu case there were enough provisions in the central act for consultation by the council of the aicte with various agencies including the state governments and the universities concerned.
no doubt the question of affiliation was a different matter and was not covered by the central act but in the tamil nadu case it was held that the university could not impose any conditions inconsistent with the aicte act or its regulation or the conditions imposed by the aicte therefore the procedure for obtaining the affiliation and any conditions which could be imposed by the university could not be inconsistent with the provisions of the central act.
if the university statute required approvalit would have been repugnant to the aicte act.
it also observed that there was widespread student prospects against starting new colleges and it was necessary to be cautious in the matter of starting new engineering colleges.
once that procedure laid down in the aicte act and regulations had been followed under regulation 84and the central task force had also given its favourable recommendations there was no scope for any further objection or approval by the state.
the appellant is a trust which wanted to establish a self financing engineering college and submitted an application during 1994 95 to the university of kerala as well as to all india council for technical education hereinafter called the aicte.
the appellant sent a reminder to the government on 26 8 1995 for permission for starting the college for the academic year 1995 96 and ultimately the government refused permission by informing the appellant by a letter dated 16 8 1996 as follows.
in inviting your attention to the reference cited i am to inform you that government regret their inability to comply with your request.
the learned single judge of the high court by his judgment dated 14 1 1997 allowed the writ petition quashed the above said order of the government dated 16 8 1996 and directed the mahatama gandhi university to consider the appellant 's application for permanent affiliation without reference to the above letter of the government and pass appropriate order within 8 weeks from the date of the receipt of a copy of the judgment.
against the said judgment of the learned single judge the commis sioner and secretary of the government higher education department filed writ appeal no 1024 of 1997 the division bench of the high court allowed the appeal and set aside the order of the government and dismissed the writ petition.
