herein after referred to as pob act to the second respondent gurcharan singh but maintained the conviction preferred the above appeal.
the trial court after the conclusion of the trial convicted the second respondent under sections 332 and 461 of the dmc act and sentenced him to six months simple imprisonment and imposed a fine of rs 5000 annexure p 1.
aggrieved by that order the second respondent accused filed an appeal before the sessions court delhi.
against the judgment and order dated 23 3 2004the accused filed criminal revision petition no 185 of 2004 before the high court delhi.
one mr m k verma.
the high court vide its order dated 26 3 2004 held that the accused suffered the agony of trial lasting for 12 years.
it was also contended that before making any order under section 41 of the pob act the court shall take into consideration the report if any of the probation officer concerned in relation to the case which the high court has miserably failed to do so.
rev pet.
learned senior counsel appearing for the second respondent submitted that in s t no 202 of 1997a judgment was given by the metropolitan magistrate on 10 9 2002 and the respondent filed an appeal no 374 of 2002 before the court of sessions patiala house new delhi challenging the said order of conviction and in that appeal the court of additional sessions judge patiala house suspended the sentence during the pendency of the appeal upon furnishing a personal bond for a sum of rs 25000 with one surety of the like amount to the satisfaction of the trial court.
it was therefore submitted that the sentence imprisonment awarded by the metropolitan magistrate has been suspended under section 389 of the criminal procedure code by the court of additional sessions judge delhi in view of the pendency of the appeal against the order of conviction is a continuation of proceedings and therefore there is no conviction against the answering respondent so long as the same is not decided by the court of sessions.
it was also submitted that the requirement of calling of a report from the probationer officer under section 42 of the pob act has been waived off by the counsel for the state of delhi and that the counsel for the mcd also did not raise any objection before the high court.
f i r was prepared on the report of mr m k verma who forwarded the f i r before zonal engineer who ordered to issue notice under section 343344 of the delhi municipal corporation act1957 for short the dmc act subsequently the second respondent along with kuldeep singh were prosecuted for commission of offences under sections 332 and 461 of the dmc act before the designated municipal court.
the high court also observed that there is no allegation that the petitioner accused is a previous convict and it further held that the accused deserved the benefit of probation under section 4 of the pob act and while maintaining the conviction of the respondent accused the sentence of imprisonment and fine as awarded to him was set aside.
learned senior counsel appearing for the appellant submitted that the high court before extending the benefit of pob act to the accused did not call for a report from the authorities to check upon the conduct of the accused respondent as per section 42 of the pob act and that the appellant mcd was also not given time to file their counter affidavit on the question of sentence.
in the said case the accused respondent was convicted under section 332461 of the dmc act and sentenced to six months simple imprisonment with a fine of rs 5000.
learned senior counsel appearing for the appellant further submitted that there was no good reason for letting the respondent off by granting to him the said benefit of pob act particularly keeping in view the large scale irregularity and unauthorized constructions carried by the builders in delhi despite strict direction of the municipal authorities and courts passing various orders from time to time against the unauthorized constructions.
learned senior counsel appearing for the contesting respondent submitted that the order of the high court does not require any reconsideration by this court and that the high court while extending the benefit of pob act had clearly recorded in the order that the counsel for the state of delhi is not averse to the grant of benefit of probation to the answering respondent and therefore the requirement under section 42 of the pob act has been waived off by the state and that the high court took into consideration the fact that the answering respondent has faced the agony of trial for over 12 years and has also undergone some period in custody and while maintaining the conviction of the answering respondent the benefit of probation was extended to him.
in the above background two questions of law arise for consideration by this court 1 whether the high court was correct in extending the benefit of the probation of offenders act1958 to the accused respondent without calling for a report from the authorities relating to the conduct of the respondent as per section 4 of the act.
in the said case the accused has been convicted under sections 332461 of the dmc act and sentenced to six months simple imprisonment with fine of rs 5000 in our view there was no good reason for letting the respondent off by granting to him the said benefit of pob act particularly keeping in view the large scale irregularity and unauthorized constructions carried by the builders in delhi despite strict direction of the municipal authorities and despite of the courts passing various orders from time to time against the unauthorized construction.
the high court vide its order impugned in this appeal has observed that there is no allegation that the respondent is a previous convict.
in the interest of justice sentence of six months si with fine of rs 5000 i d one month si is imposed upon the convict for offence u s 332461 dmc act.
the second respondent in our opinion was not justified in suppressing the material fact that he was convicted by the magistrate on an earlier occasion.
since the second respondent deliberately suppressed the crucial and important fact we disapprove strongly and particularly the conduct of the second respondent and by reason of such conduct the second respondent disentitled himself from getting any relief or assistance from this court.
we have already reproduced section 4 of the pob act.
such a previous convict can not be released in view of section 4 of the pob act.
municipal corporation of delhi aggrieved against the judgment and final order dated 26 03 2004 passed by the high court delhi in criminal revision petition no 185 of 2004 by which order the high court gave the benefit of probation under section 4 of the probation of offenders act1958.
the brief facts leading to the filing of the above appeal are as under.
