this appeal by special leave arises out of a judgment and order dated 1st march2005.
in order to appreciate the issue requiring determination a few relevant facts may be stated.
the appellant m s bharat petroleum corporation limited is a government of india undertaking under the administrative control of the ministry of petroleum natural gas and is engaged in refining distributing and selling of petroleum products all over the country.
an agreement called the time charter party in legal parlance was entered into between the appellant and the respondent on 6th may1997 for letting on hire vessels for a period of two years from 22nd september1996 to 30th june1997 and from 1st july1997 to 30th june1998on the terms and conditions set out in the said agreement.
however before the charter party was to come to an end on 29th june1998the indian oil corporation limited for short ioc acting as agent of the appellant issued a fax to various ship owners including the respondent herein requesting them to extend the validity of the charter party agreement dated 6th may1997 beyond 30th june1998 for a period of one month from 1st july1998 with option for two further extensions of 15 days each.
accordingly on 29th june1998 an addendum was signed between the parties whereby the validity period of charter party was extended for one month with an option for two further extensions for a period of 15 days each.
the terms and conditions exceptions and exemptions contained in the charter party dated 6th may1997 remained unaltered.
the parties are ad idem that the charter party dated 6th may1997 was extended till 31st august1998.
it appears that since charter party dated 6th may1997 was coming to an end on 31st august1998the oil companies sought permission of the oil co ordination committee a wing of the ministry of petroleum and natural gas for further extension of the charter party.
however the oil coordination committee by their fax message dated 26th august1998declined the request of the oil companies including the appellant for further extension of charter party beyond 31st august1998 the said fax message was an internal communication between the oil coordination committee and the oil companies.
thereafter in september1998the ioc for and on behalf of the oil industry floated a fresh tender for carriage of petroleum products along the indian coast on time charter basis for a period of one year commencing from 1st september1998 to 31st august1999on the terms and conditions set out in the tender document.
it seems that being aggrieved of the decision of the ioc to invite revised price bids after opening of the sealed tenders one of the bidders filed a writ petition in the bombay high court questioning the said decision.
the appellant intervened in the said matter.
the respondent m s great eastern shipping company limited is engaged in the business of shipping and allied activities and owns a fleet of tanker vessels for charter including the vessel known as jag praja.
the respondent agreed to the said proposal.
in response to the said tender the respondent and other vessel owners submitted their bids.
some other objections not relevant at this stage were also indicated.
as such all said and done oil co ordination committee s proposal was not accepted.
nevertheless some suggestions to resolve the controversy were given.
thus the proposal by the oil co ordination committee was not accepted by the respondent.
thereafter for almost two months there was no communication between the parties.
it was only on 31st december1998 when the ioc issued a fax to the respondent enclosing draft letter regarding charter party agreement to be signed between the charterers and owners with minor modification if necessaryrequesting the respondent to sign as per proposal by the 4th january1999on which date the respondent expressed its disinclination stating in reply fax that as per usual practice pending finalization of new charter the existing terms and conditions of the charter party continue to apply.
emphasis supplied.
the respondent was asked to convey their acceptance to the said suggestion.
the writ petition was ultimately disposed of on 20th august1999 it was only after a gap of about seven months that on 15th march2000the ioc informed the respondent about the evaluation of the tenders in terms of the order passed by the high court.
may2000with the expectation that their outstanding balance of the hire shall be paid to them at the earliest.
however the respondent did not convey their acceptance of the charter hire rates for two vessels viz. jag praja and jag prayog.
however arguments were heard only on the following three issues.
may1997 came to an end by efflux of time on 30th august1998.
august1998they had no jurisdiction to decide the reference.
the learned tribunal found issue no 2 in the negative and issue no 5 in the affirmative.
the respondent challenged the said award before the high court.
the learned judge also felt that the tribunal had erred in totally excluding from its consideration cls 23 and 4 1 of the charter party dated 6th may1997whereunder the charter party was to come to an end on re delivery of the vessel.
admittedly after 31st august1998re delivery of vessel did not take place and therefore in terms of clause 23the vessel continued to be hired on the same terms and conditions except the term as to the hire charges on which there was disagreement between the parties.
it was also submitted that the view taken by the high court being a plausible view interference in exercise of extra ordinary jurisdiction u art 136 of the constitution is unwarranted.
therefore we refrain from expressing any opinion on the scope and ambit of the arbitration clause though prime facie it appears to be quite widely worded.
therefore the terms of a contract between the parties can be proved not only by their words but also by their conduct.
admittedly no such agreement was signed between the parties.
however the arbitral tribunal answered the said issue against the respondent.
it appears to us that even the question in regard to the effect and consequences of non delivery of the vessel in terms of the cl 4 1 and 23 would by itself be a dispute arising under the said charter party with. respect.
the learned arbitral tribunal overlooked this aspect of the matter.
but it was still in existence for some purposes viz the effect of vessel s non re delivery as per the prescribed mechanism and its continued use beyond the stipulated time.
we feel that it would be proper and expedient to constitute a fresh arbitral tribunal.
it goes without saying that the learned tribunal shall deal with the matter uninfluenced by any observations in this order on the respective stands of the parties.
the registry is directed to communicate this order to the learned members of the arbitral tribunal to enable them to enter upon the reference and decide the matter as expeditiously as practicable.
january1999coupled with the fact that they continued to use the vessel manifestly goes to show that except for the charter rate there was no other dispute between the parties.
having come to the conclusion that an arbitration agreement existed between the parties the question which remains to be considered is whether the disputes between the parties should be referred to the same arbitral tribunal which had come to the conclusion that in the absence of any arbitration agreement it did not have jurisdiction to entertain and try the claims and counter claims.
accordingly we constitute an arbitral tribunal consisting of justice m jagannadha rao presiding arbitratorjustice d p wadhwa and justice s n variava former judges of this court to adjudicate upon the claim counter claim by the parties subject to their consent and such terms and conditions as they may deem fit and proper.
rendered by the high court of judicature at bombay whereby the learned single judge has set aside the order passed by the arbitral tribunal holding that they did not have jurisdiction to entertain and try the claim and counter claim made by the parties.
kindly confirm in order to draw up a suitable agreement accordingly.
the state of gujarat anr 1974 indlaw sc 253.
it is no doubt true that the general rule is that an offer is not accepted by mere silence on the part of the offerree yet it does not mean that an acceptance always has to be given in so many words.
in our view the principle of sub silentio is clearly attracted in the present case.
the vessel shall continue to be on charter to charterers in direct continuation from 2348 hrs 22 09 1996 to 30 06 1998 the vessel shall be re delivered by charterers to owners on dropping last outward pilot at any port on west coast of india at charterers option.
resultantly the appeal being devoid of any merit is liable to be dismissed which we do leaving the parties to bear their own costs.
appeal dismissed.
