quite often the commencement of an act is postponed to some specified future date or to such date as the appropriate government may by notification in the official gazette appoint.
this is what has exactly happened in this case resulting into utter confusion with regard to pending fao no 29306 filed by respondent no 3 in the high court u s 116 of the indian patents.
on 14 6 2000 j mitra company pvt ltd. 3 appellant herein filed its application for grant of patent.
s 116 appeals.
20section 25section.
27section 28section.
51section 54section 57section.
60section 61section 63sub s 3 of section 69section 78section 84section 86s 883section 89section 93s 96 and s 97.
emphasis supplied by us.
suffice it to note that under patents amendment act1999 there was only one right given to a person interested to oppose the grant of patent by filing objections at the pre grant stage.
s 116 2.
16section 17section.
51section 54section 57section 60section 61section 63section.
66sub s 3 of section 69section.
78sub ss 1 to 5 of section 84section 85section 88section 91s 92 and s 94.
suffice it to note that ss 116 and 117a were not brought into force.
without giving effect to the amendments to ss 116 and 117a suggested by s 47 of the patents amendment.
only certain sections of the patents amendment act2005 were brought into force.
vide s 23 of the patents amendment.
act2005the then existing s 25 was substituted.
the substituted s 25 reads as under 25 opposition to the patent 1.
d that the invention so far as claimed in any claim of the complete specification was publicly known or publicly used in india before the priority date of that claim.
having regard to the knowledge oral or otherwise available within any local or indigenous community in india or elsewhere but on no other ground.
on receipt of the recommendation of the opposition board and after giving the patentee and the opponent an opportunity of being heard the controller shall order either to maintain or to amend or to revoke the patent.
5 while passing an order under sub s 4 in respect of the ground mentioned in cl d or cl e of sub section.
2the controller shall not take into account any personal document or secret trial or secret use.
sub section 2for the words and figures section 20section 25section 27section 28the words figures and brackets section 20sub s 4 of section 25section 28 shall be substituted.
in short by the patents amendment act2005for the first time a dichotomy was introduced in the patent law between opposition to the pre grant and opposition to the post grant of patent.
this was the major structural change in the patent law.
act2005a dichotomy was brought in between pre grant and post grant opposition orders.
act1999 continued to be in operation notwithstanding the enactment of the patents.
amendment act2002 and the patents amendment.
this was not done.
provision is also at times made for appointment of different dates for coming into force of different parts of the same act.
explanation for the purposes of this clause an invention relating to a process for which a patent is claimed shall be deemed to have been publicly known or publicly used in india before the priority date of the claim if a product made by that process had already been imported into india before that date except where such importation has been for the purpose of reasonable trial or experiment only b that the invention so far as claimed in any claim of the complete specification is obvious and clearly does not involve any inventive step having regard to the matter published as mentioned in cl b or having regard to what was used in india before the priority date of the applicant 's claim c that the subject of any claim of the complete specification is not an invention within the meaning of this act or is not patentable under this act d that the complete specification does not sufficiently and clearly describe the invention or the method by which it is to be performed e that the applicant has failed to disclose to the controller the information required by s 8 or has furnished the information which in any material particular was false to his knowledge f that in the case of a convention application the application was not made within twelve months from the date of the first application for protection for the invention made in a convention country by the applicant or a person from whom he derives title.
but on no other ground.
2 save as otherwise expressly provided in sub section 1an appeal shall lie to a high court from any decision order or direction of the controller under any of the following provisions that is to say section 15section 16section17section 18section.
vide s 47 of the patents amendment act2002 entire chapter xix stood substituted.
ss 116 and 117a were reworded which read as under s 116 1 subject to the provisions of this act the appellate board established u s 83 of the trade marks act1999 shall be the appellate board for the purposes of this act and the said appellate board shall exercise the jurisdiction power and authority conferred on it by or under this act.
provided that the technical member of the appellate board for the purposes of this act shall have the qualifications specified in sub s 2.
2 a person shall not be qualified for appointment as a technical member for the purposes of this act unless he.
a has at least five years hold the post of controller under this act or has exercised the functions of the controller under this act for at least five years or.
b has for at least ten years functioned as a registered patent agent and possesses a degree in engineering or technology or a masters degree in science from any university established under law for the time being in force or equivalent or c has for at least ten years been an advocate of a proven specialized experience in practicing law relating to patents and designs.
section 117a 1.
save as otherwise expressly provided in sub section 2no appeal shall lie from any decision order or direction made or issued under this act by the central government or from any act or order of the controller for the purpose of giving effect to any such decision order or direction.
every appeal under this section shall be in prescribed form and shall be verified in such manner as may be prescribed and shall be accompanied by a copy of the decision order or direction appealed against any by such fees as may be prescribed.
the provisions of the said amendment act2002however were not simultaneously brought into force.
the legislature enacted the patents amendment act2005 even here not all provisions were simultaneously brought into force.
for the purposes of this clause an invention relating to a process for which a patent is claimed shall be deemed to have been publicly known or publicly used in india before the priority date of the claim if a product made by that process had already been imported into india before that date except where such importation has been for the purpose of reasonable trial or experiment only e that the invention so far as claimed in any claim of the complete specification is obvious and clearly does not involve any inventive step having regard to the matter published as mentioned in cl b or having regard to what was used in india before the priority date of the applicant 's claim f that the subject of any claim of the complete specification is not an invention within the meaning of this act or is not patentable under this act g that the complete specification does not sufficiently and clearly describe the invention or the method by which it is to be performed h that the applicant has failed to disclose to the controller the information required by s 8 or has furnished the information which in any material particular was false to his knowledge i that in the case of convention application the application was not made within twelve months from the date of the first application for protection for the invention made in a convention country by the applicant or a person from whom he derives title j that the complete specification does not disclose or wrongly mentions the source or geographical origin of biological material used for the invention k that the invention so far as claimed in any claim of the complete specification is anticipated having regard to the knowledge oral or otherwise available within any local or indigenous community in india or elsewhere but on no other ground and the controller shall if requested by such person for being heard hear him and dispose of such representation in such manner and within such period as may be prescribed.
c every opposition board constituted under cl b shall conduct the examination in accordance with such procedure as may be prescribed.
for the sake of convenience we refer to the facts mentioned in civil appeal no of 2008 arising out of s l p c no 15729 of 2008 filed by j mitra co pvt ltd.
this matter is a classic illustration of the confusion which has emerged on account of the postponement of in part commencement of patents amendment act2005.
act1970 as amended by the patents amendment act1999 w e f 26 3 99.
