allegedly on the premise that the first respondent is the proprietor of the said mark by reason of long user and thus acquired a reputation in that behalf a legal notice was issued upon it questioning its right to use the said mark in respect of centrifugal pumps by the appellant laying a claim that it had been using the said mark since 1963.
notice for april 81986 meanwhile a temporary ex parte injunction is issued against the defendants restraining them from manufacturing or selling either themselves or through any dealer or representative diesel oil engines or parts thereof with the trade mark field marshal andor any other trade mark identical therewith and all goods falling in cl 7 of the trade and merchandise mark rules.
the plaintiff shall comply with the requirements of order 39 rule 4 of the code of civil procedure.
indisputably during the proceedings in the above suit m section jain industries by a deed of assignment assigned the said trade mark along with its goodwill in favour of the appellant.
leave granted.
the factual matrix of the matter which is not much in dispute is as under.
may1965 in class 7 in respect of flour mills circulating and centrifugal pumps coupling for machines pulleys included in class 7and valves parts of machines in the name of pooran chand jain and kailash chand jain trading as jain industries1166phatak.
suraj bhan belanganj agra.
let the statement of learned counsel for the petitioner be recorded.
statement of shri k l aggarwal counsel for petitioner without oath.
statement of shri hemant singh counsel for m s thakural mechanical works without oath.
i have no objection if the petitioner is permitted to withdraw this petition with permission to file a fresh petition on this very cause of action.
registrar of trade marks under section 4656 and 107 of the trade and merchandise marks act1958 for rectification of entry relating to the registered trade mark no 228867 in class 7 after.
trade mark no 228867 in.
the said m s jain industries however was not impleaded as a party therein.
b defendants shall mention the name of the defendant firm thukral mechanical works sirhind on each and every centrifugal pump manufactured by them and sold in the name of field marshal.
c the defendants shall maintain proper accounts of the sale of centrifugal pumps under the trade mark field marshal and shall file them in court as and when directed.
correctness or otherwise of the said order has not been questioned.
the said order of the division bench is under challenge in this appeal.
the tribunal may in any proceeding under this section decide any question that may be necessary or expedient to decide in connection with the rectification of the register.
the high court on the other hand opined it was not anybody 's case before us that m s jain industries.
the registered proprietor of the trademark used it at all.
if thukral did then it can not be said that there was no bona fide use thereof by its proprietor.
that is m s jain industries.
this appears to be the position at least till 30th may1986 in.
first respondent withdrew the application against m s jain industries.
the words for the time being would mean differently in different situations.
madhav rao jivaji rao scindia bahadur of gwalior h h maharajadhiraja.
interpretation of the provisions of s 461b of the trade and merchandise marks act1958 hereinafter called and referred to for the sake of brevity as the said act is involved herein.
by an order dated 19 1 1988having regard to the provisions contained in the said act the learned judge opined that appellant having become the registered proprietor of the said trade mark no case for grant of injunction has been made out the interim order of injunction passed on 19 12 1985 was vacated and the defendants were permitted to use their registered trade mark subject to the following conditions a defendants will not use the logo style of the word field marshal of which logo and style the plaintiff is the proprietor under the copyright act.
the permitted use of a trade mark shall be deemed to be used by the proprietor thereof and shall be deemed not to be used by a person other than the proprietor for the purposes of s 46 or for any other purpose for which such use is material under this act or any other law.
section 56 power to cancel or vary registration and to rectify the register 1.
on application made in the prescribed manner to a high court or to the registrar by any person aggrieved the tribunal may make such order as it may think fit for cancelling or varying the registration of a trade mark on the ground of any contravention or failure to observe a condition entered on the register in relation thereto.
the meantime as a result of the ex parte ad interim injunction granted on 19th december 1985 by this court in suit no 2408 of 1985there was no question of thukral using the trademark field marshal till the injunction was vacated on 19th january1988.
the act was enacted to provide for the registration and better protection of trademarks and for the prevention of the use of fraudulent marks of merchandise.
m s jain industries got itself registered and obtained periodical renewal thereof as is required under the act.
it is in the aforementioned situation we are called upon to determine the meaning of the words for the time being occurring in s 461b of the act.
user of the said mark therefore entails the consequences laid down under cl b of sub s 1 of s 46.
s 46 is a penal provision.
it therefore can be taken away only when the conditions laid down therefor are satisfied.
while we say so we are not oblivious of the fact that trafficking in trade mark is to be discouraged.
it must however be observed that whether a use is for bona fide purpose would essentially be a question of fact.
whether s 461b read with s 48 of the act would bring within its purview not only a registered proprietor but also the proprietor who had otherwise acquired a right would depend upon the facts and circumstances of each case.
in kabushiki kaisha toshiba v tosiba appliances co ors 2008 8 scale 354 2008 indlaw sc 1395this court held we do not find any force in the aforementioned submission.
it was observed that in cases of intermittent use also cl b shall apply.
in kabushiki kaisha toshiba this court relied upon hardie trading ltd anr.
this clause corresponds to s 46 of the existing act and provides for removal of a trade mark from the register on the ground of non use.
the court while construing a statute takes into consideration the parliamentary intent in amending the provisions thereof.
the question of maintainability of the second suit is absence of the registrant proprietor was not and could not have been the subject matter of consent at that stage.
the second contention of mr that the appellant was an infringer of the trade mark is again a question of fact.
two interpretations of the said provision s 461b are possible.
a title to a trade mark derived on assignment as provided for under the act can not be equated with a defective title acquired in any other property as admittedly on the date of assignment the right of the registered trade mark was not extinguished.
both the findings of the high court which we have noticed hereinbefore are findings on question of law and in that view of the matter the contention of mr sudhir chandra that the merit of the matter is yet to be gone into by the board can not be a ground for ignoring the submissions made at the bar.
if that be so any registered proprietor could easily defeat an application for rectification by assigning the mark to some other person to have a fresh period of 5 years from the date of assignment and thus effectively frustrate the very object of the provision in s 471a and b further it is to be noted that an assignment is subject to the provisions of the act and any rights vested in any other person see.
s 37 the assignor can not obviously transfer more rights than he himself has to the assignee under the act.
if his title is not extinguished by reason of a provision of a statute for non user of the trade mark for a period of five years any assignment made shall be valid subject to such situation which we have noticed in paragraph 25 supra.
first respondent is the registered proprietor of a trade mark field marshal for diesel engines since 1964 bearing no 228867 one m s jain industries got the trade mark field marshal registered under clause 7inter alia for flour mills centrifugal pumps couplings for machines pulleys included in class 7 and valves parts of machines the said registration was renewed for the periods 13 5 1972 and 12 5 1979 13 5 1979 and 12 7 1986 and 13 7 1986 and 12 7 1993 appellant is said to have commenced its business of manufacturing and selling centrifugal pumps also under the mark field marshall.
