these three appeals by special leave are directed against the order dated september 92004 passed by intellectual property appellate board for shortipab whereby it ordered the removal of appellant 's mark infosys from the register of trade marks in respect of computer stationery computer manuals printed matter for computer instructional and teaching materials computer hardware and peripherals and machine and machine tools.
the appellant is infosys technologies limited.
it was incorporated and registered under the companies act1956 on july 21981 in the name of infosys consultants private limited.
on april 211992the name of the company infosys consultants pvt.
limited was changed to infosys technologies pvt. ltd and thereafter on june 21992the name was changed to the present name i e. infosys technologies limited.
on october 111996the appellant instituted a suit in the calcutta high court for perpetual injunction inter alia restraining the first respondent from infringing the appellant 's mark infosys by using the mark infosys by itself or in combination with other marks in course of its trade.
the appellant also prayed for an interim order in the suit.
on november 221996the calcutta high court by an ad interim order restrained the first respondent from using the word infosys in any manner in relation to the goods for the time being.
the ad interim order was confirmed on november 291996.
the first respondent is jupiter infosys limited.
the name of the first respondent was changed to jupiter infosys p limited in august1995 and now since july2003the name is changed to jupiter international limited.
cwhether the mark registered in favour of the respondent is a service mark.
fwhether the registered trade mark has lost its distinctiveness and is liable to be removed under section 32c.
hto what further relief.
perused the averments made in the suit and application which are duly supported by documents on record.
compliance of order xxxix rule 3 cpc within three days.
the ipab proceeded with the matter in light of the issues that were already framed by the high court and heard the parties.
we heard mr akhil sibal learned counsel for the appellant and mr vaibhav gaggar learned counsel for the first respondent at quite some length.
mr akhil sibal learned counsel for the appellant argued that an application for rectification whether under section 46 or section 56 of the 1958 act can only be preferred by a person aggrieved the applicant must not only be a person aggrieved on the date of the application but must continue to remain a person aggrieved until such time as the rectification application is finally decided.
he contended that the first respondent is not shown to have ever traded or intended to trade in any goods covered by the appellant 's registrations under classes 7 and 16 and as such the first respondent is not a person aggrieved with regard to the appellant 's registrations under these two classes.
he contended that the ipab erred in holding that software was a service and the subject registrations were in relation to goods without considering the wide definition of goods provided under section 2g of the 1958 act.
according to him the ipab sought to rely upon computer programming which is a service enumerated in class 42without considering the distinction between a computer programme and computer programming and without noticing the entry computer under class 9 which falls within goods.
he contended that the ipab failed to apply proper legal tests for determining goods of the same description and had that been done it would be evident that computer software amounts to goods of the same description as computer hardware.
in this regard he relied upon m s eagle potteries.
rpc 333 and australian wine importers trade mark.
6 rpc 311.
learned counsel for the appellant also submitted that in any view of the matter the ipab erred in exercising its discretion under section 46 of the 1958 act without taking into consideration the aspect of public interest.
vaibhav gaggar learned counsel for the first respondent contended that the appellant is registered as a manufacturer and trader under classes 79 and 16 even though it is a company engaged in software only.
in this regard he relied upon a decision of the madras high court in nestle 's products india.
in the counter affidavit a very vague objection in the following terms was raised that the present petition apart from being false and misconceived lacks the necessary jurisdiction hence deserves outright rejection.
b whether the respondent had a bonafide intention to use the mark applied for under section 18 of the trade and merchandise marks act.
ewhether the registered trade mark is disentitled for protection in a court of law under section 11e of the trade and merchandise marks act.
learned counsel would submit that in examining the question of non use under section 461bthe ipab failed to consider that the requisite use must be in relation to goods under registration which is extensively defined under section 22b of the 1958 act.
akhil sibal learned counsel also argued that the ipab failed to have regard to the proviso to section 461in terms of which it is open to the registered proprietor to rely upon use of the registered trade mark during the relevant period in relation to goods of the same descriptionin order to resist an application for rectification.
private ltd v. m s eagle flask industries pvt.
in reply to the arguments of learned counsel for the appellant mr vaibhav gaggar learned counsel for the first respondent strenuously urged that the plea of aggrieved person is a new plea and raised substantially for the first time before this court.
learned counsel submitted that the fact that the appellant continues to allege and that stance has not changed in the pleadings in slp as well that the first respondent is an infringer pilfriger defrauder someone who wants to ride on the goodwill of the appellant or someone who wants to mislead the public at large there is no question of the first respondent ceasing to be a person aggrieved at any stage.
ltd v. p thankaraja.
insofar as discretion exercised by ipab in ordering removal of the appellant 's registrations from the register under section 461b of the 1958 act is concerned learned counsel for the first respondent submitted that this court should not overturn the discretion so exercised by the ipab keeping in view the dishonest and fraudulent conduct of the appellant.
we are afraid this is hardly an objection about maintainability.
apart from it on september 122005 after hearing both parties special leave was granted by this court.
sections 46 and 56 read as follows s 46 removal from register and imposition of limitations on ground of non use 1 subject to the provisions of section.
the position that emerges from the above provisions is this.
section 461 of the 1958 act enables any person aggrieved to apply for removal of registered trade mark from the register on the ground of non use as stated in clause a andor clause b to be an aggrieved person under section 46he must be one whose interest is affected in some possible way it must not be a fanciful suggestion of grievance.
in kerly 's law of trade marks and trade names 11th edition at page 166the legal position with regard to person aggrieved has been summarized thus the persons who are aggrieved are all persons who are in some way or the other substantially interested in having the mark removed where it is a question of removal from the register including all persons who would be substantially damaged if the mark remained and all trade rivals over whom an advantage was gained by a trader who was getting the benefit of a registered trade mark to which he was not entitled.
we accept the above statement of law.
three sections viz sections 4656 and 69 of the act contain the phrase.
in the latter case the locus standi would be ascertained liberally since it would not only be against the interest of other persons carrying on the same trade but also in the interest of the public to have such wrongful entry removed.
but if the ground for rectification is merely based on non user i e under section 46 of the act that is not really on account of any public mischief by way of an incorrect entry.
addisons application was one under section 46 and the test to determine whether the applicant was a person aggrieved within the meaning of that section should have been the one laid down by romer j in wright case and not the one propounded by the house of lords in the matter of powell 's trade mark.
the applications having been transferred to the ipab in terms of section 100 of the 1999 act the ipab examined the matter in light of the issues that were framed by the high court although in the written submissions before it the objection was raised that the first respondent has ceased to have locus standi in view of the subsequent events particularly change of the name of the first respondent from jupiter infosys ltd to jupiter international ltd the question is whether in these circumstances it was incumbent upon the ipab to consider and satisfy itself about the locus standi of the first respondent to be heard as a person aggrieved.
the question then arises whether it is sufficient for the applicant to show that he is a person aggrieved when he makes his application or he must continue to remain a person aggrieved until such time as the rectification removal application is finally decided.
in our view the grievance of the applicant when he invokes section 461 must not only be taken to have existed on the date of making application but must continue to exist when such application is decided.
the appellant got the trade mark infosys registered in 1987 in classes 16 and 9 in connection with computer stationery computer manuals printed manual for computer instruction and teaching materials computer hardwares computer interface computer peripherals electronics telex interface and in 1988 in class 7 in connection with machine and machine tools and motors not for land vehicles the particulars with reference to the trade mark registered by the appellant are as follows.
the first respondent was incorporated and registered in september 1978 under the name of jupiter agencies pvt.
the 1958 act in o p no 764 of 2001the first respondent prayed for the removal rectification of the entry in the register of trade mark in respect of trade mark no 475269 in class 16 while in the other two applications being o p no 765 of 2001 and o p no 766 of 2001the first respondent prayed for removal rectification of trade mark no 475267 in class 9 and trade mark no 484837 in class 7 respectively.
