iminal Appeals Nos.
160 to 162 of 1960.
Appeals by special leave from the judgment and order dated January 20 1960 of the Allahabad High Court in Criminal Government Appeals Nos.
2011 to 2013 of 1958.
B C Misra and P K Chakravarti for the appellant.
G C Mathur and C P Lal for the respondent.
September 27.
The judgment of the Court was delivered by MUDHOLKAR J.
These three appeals arise out of three separate trials before the Additional Sessions judge Bulandshahr but were argued together as they arise identical questions.
In all these trials the appellant who was a postman attached to the Bulandshahr post office was tried for offences under section 52 of the Indian Post Office Act 1898 VI of 1898 and in two of  them also for offences under sections 467 and 471 of the Indian Penal Code.
Briefly stated the allegations against the appellant were that he either stole or secreted five registered letters and that he fabricated three receipts showing that the registered letters were received by the addressees.
The learned Additional Sessions judge acquitted the appellant of all these offences.
The State then preferred an appeal against his acquittal in these three cases to the High Court of Allahabad but restricted the appeal to the acquittal of the appellant in respect of offences under 410 section 52 of the Indian Post Office Act 1898 hereafter referred to as the Act.
The High Court held that the appellant had secreted the five registered letters in question and on this finding set aside his acquittal and convicted him in each of the three appeals for offences under section 52 of the Act and sentenced him to undergo rigorous imprisonment for a period of one year in each case.
The appellant has come up to this Court by special leave.
At the time of the search the appellant who happens to be a trade union official was not in Bulandshahr but was away on leave at Delhi in connection with a postal conference.
These articles were found in an almirah the key of which was produced by the appellant s father.
2 That it has not been established that the five registered letters were in the exclusive possession of the appellant.
The High Court has chosen to accept the evidence of the prosecution with regard to the fact of seizure and that being a question to be decided only by the Court of fact this Court would not re examine the evidence for satisfying itself as to the correctness or otherwise of the conclusions reached by the High Court.
In so far as section 52 of the Act is concerned the argument is that the prosecution having merely shown that the registered letters were recovered from an almirah in the house in which the appellant lives the 413 utmost that could be said is that he was in possession of letters that is assuming that he was in the exclusive possession of the house and the almirah.
In connection with a postal article addressed to some person the fact that it is retained in his possession by an officer of the post office in an almirah and that too for an inordinately long period would be tantamount to hiding that 414 article.
It seems to us that bearing in mind the  fact that an officer of the post office having in the course of his duties access to postal articles kept or lying in the post office the legislature has deliberately enlarged the scope of section 52 so as to encompass secretion destruction or throwing away of postal articles by an officer of the post office even though they may not have been entrusted to him or even though the are riot articles with which he is required or is competent to deal in the course of his duties.
The object of the provision is to prevent postal articles in course of transmission by post  from being tampered with and so the secreting destruction  etc of postal articles to which the provision is directed is to such secreting destruction etc as would frustrate or tend to frustrate their delivery to the addressees.
Then Mr Misra contended that it would not be correct to say that the five registered letters recovered from the almirah were in the course of transmission by post because that recovery was made 7 or 8 months after those letters had been despatched and that no complaint had ever been made regarding their nondelivery by the senders or the addressees of those letters.
 Before the High Court could take into consideration the circumstance that as between himself and his father the appellant had a better opportunity to 417 get at postal articles it had to find affirmatively that the almirah was in the exclusive possession of the appellant.
The third reason that the rather would not foist articles to incriminate the son and thus ruin his career assumes that had the father kept the articles he could have done so only if he wanted to incri minate the son.
Appeal allowed.
