c Such increments shall not however exceed four in number.
iii In the matter of adjustment all efficiency bars whether in the previously existing scales or in the scales provided by the Sastry award as modified should be ignored.
ivSubject to rules i to iii a workman s basic pay in the scale provided by the Sastry award as modified shall be fixed in the following manner aA workman shall first be fitted into the scale of pay of Sastry award as modified by placing him at the stage in the Sastry award scale as modified equal to or next above his basic pay as on 1st January 1959 in the scale then in force in the bank concerned hereinafter called the Bank s scale.
bTo the basic pay into which he is fitted under clause a annual increment or increment in scale provided by the Sastry award as modified as from that stage onwards should be added at the rate of one increment for every completed three years of his service in the same cadre as on 1st January 1959.
c Such increments shall not however exceed four in number.
It will be seen from the above comparison of the provisions in the two awards that the substantial provisions of the Desai award are exactly the same as the provisions of the Sastry award as modified except i for changes necessitated by the fact that the Desai award was being given in 1962 and ii the provision in the Sastry award corresponding to sub cl.
 The dispute between the bank and the workmen in the present case was this.
ii of the Desai award the adjusted basic pay in the new scale was not to exceed what point to point adjustment would give an employee on January 1 1962.
The bank further claimed that this being the maximum permissible under cl.
It is urged on behalf of the appellant that the Desai award made certain changes and therefore need not be interpreted in the same way as was done in Prakash Chand Mehra s case1.
It is true that the Desai award said that certain changes were being made but these changes were considered necessary having regard to the lapse of time.
ii the adjusted basic pay is to be as on January 1 1962.
Under sub cl.
ii is subject to cl.
b read with sub cl.
iv but this will be subject to cls.
i and ii and the adjusted basic pay arrived at by giving the increments under sub cls.
b and c cannot exceed the adjusted basic pay as arrived at by point to point adjustment in the Sastry award as modified or the maximum of that scale or the actual basic pay as on 1st January 1959 as the case may be.
iv and cl.
b read with sub cl.
iv have to be added but this is again subject to the provisions of cls.
i and ii.
The appellant bank s contention is that two further annual increments allowed under sub cl.
d cannot be permitted in view of cl.
But as we have held that in cl.
ii the adjusted basic pay has to be fixed as on January 1 1959 sub cl.
iv will take effect and give two annual increments for 1960 and 1961 which are beyond the date which we have accepted as the right date for purposes of cl.
ii provides cannot be given.
d as was done by the Labour Appellate Tribunal in its modification of the Sastry award.
But as stated by the Labour Appellate Tribunal when dealing with the Sastry award it was inherent in the Sastry award that increments for 1951 and 1952 should be provided after the basic pay was worked out as on January 31 1950.
Once it is held and that we hold that basic pay under cl.
ii has to be worked out as on January 1 1959 the two increments provided by sub cl.
a b and c of el.
iv of the Desai award.
a b and c of el.
d must always be given.
b read with sub cl.
This interpretation is in accord with what was decided by this Court in Prakash Chand Mehra s case1 and that decision in our opinion would govern the interpretation of para.
