Appeal No 801 of 1963.
Appeal by special leave from the judgment and decree dated September 2 1959 of the Madras High Court in Second Appeal No 774 of 1957.
In consequence the learned trial Judge also held that the appellants had proved their title to the suit properties.
The lower appellate Court made a finding against respondents 1 to 3 on point No 2.
In regard to the third point based on the appellants  claim that they had acquired title by adverse possession the lower appellate Court found that it was evident that from the very beginning Pachai Kandai Udayavar and his family had been claiming beneficial interest in the property and they were not holding the same as managers of the trust.
was upheld.
1962 p 282.
2 LR 27 IA 69.
At the same time section 10 of the Limitation Act was amended by addition of an explanatory clause which provided inter alia that for the purposes of section 10 any property comprised in a Hindu religious or charitable endowment shall be deemed to be property vested in trust for a specific purpose and the manager of any such property shall be deemed to be the trustee thereof.
Reverting then to the question as to whether a transfer effected by the manager of a temple in regard to properties belonging to the temple falls outside the purview of article 134 B if it is shown to have been made on the basis that the transferor treated the properties as his own it does appear that the two earlier Privy Council decisions in Gnanasambanda s2 and Damodar Das s3 cases lend some support to the contention.
2 LR 27 IA 69.
In appreciating the effect of this decision it is necessary to bear in mind that the plea of limitation with which the Privy Council was concerned in that case was based on article 124 of the Limitation Act.
It may be permissible to state that this latter observation was made in 1899 long before the Privy Council enunciated the true legal position in regard to the status of the managers of Hindu religious endowments in Vidya Varuthi s case1.
It does appear that Mr Justice Mukhejea had expressed this view as a Judge of the Calcutta High Court in the case of Hemanta Kumari Basu vs Sree Ishwar Sridhar Jiu 2 and had relied on the two Privy Council s decisions in Gnanasambanda s1 and Damodar Das s cases In the case of Hemanta Kumari Basa2 the attention of Mukherjea J was drawn to the fact that in an earlier decision of the Calcutta High Court in Ronald Duncan Cromartic and Francis Arthur Shephard Sutherland vs Sri Iswar Radha Damodar few and Others 4 D N Mitter J had made observations which were inconsistent with the view which Mukhejea J was disposed to take but the learned Judge commented on the said observations by saying that they were open to criticism.
It is open to doubt whether the said decision could lead to the inference that if a part of the property is transferred by the manager of a religious endowment on the basis that it belongs to him and not to the religious endowment the transfer is void ab initio with the result that the possession of the transferee is adverse to the religious endowment from the very beginning and the succeeding manager s right to challenge the said transfer would be lost if his predecessor who made the transfer lives for more than 12 years after effecting the transfer.
2 ILR 3 LR 37 IA 147.
Column 1 of article 134 B provides for suits brought inter alia by the manager of a Hindu religious or charitable endowment to recover possession of immovable property comprised in the endowment which has been transferred by a previous manager for a valuable consideration.
Confining ourselves to the first column of article 134 B at this stage the question which we have to decide is  does this article permit any distinction to be made between transfers effected by a previous manager on the basis that the property transferred belongs to the religious endowment and those made by him on the basis that the said property is his own private property  If the property is transferred by the manager on the basis that it belongs to the endowment article 134 B clearly applies but does it make any difference to the application of article 134 B if the transfer is made on the other basis that the property belongs not to the endowment but to the manager himself  In either case the successor who challenges the alienation will have to prove that the property in fact belongs to the religious endowment.
Article 134 B applies to all cases where it is shown that the immovable property was comprised in the endowment and that it has been transferred by a previous manager for a valuable consideration.
The character of the representations made by the previous manager in regard to his relation with the property which is the subject matter of transfer is irrelevant for the purpose of article 134 B 130 All transfers made would fall within article 134 B if the three essential facts are proved by the successor of the transferor manager of the Hindu religious endowment.
That is why we must reject the ingenious argument urged before us by Mr Tatachari that article 134 B does not apply to the present case.
