l Misc.
Petitions Nos.
401and 4012 of 1968.
Applications by respondent No 1 for revocation of the certificate granted by the Madras High Court on 15th October 1968 under article 1331a  b of the Constitution of India.
AND Civil Appeals Nos 2183 and 2184 of 1968.
MC Setalvad.
section Mohan Kumaramangalam.
The expression final order it has been held by a long course of authorities occurring in section 205 of the Government of India Act 1935 section 109 of the Code of Civil Procedure and article 1331 of the Constitution means a final decision on the rights of the parties in dispute in a suit or proceeding if the rights of the parties in dispute in the suit or proceeding remain to be tried after the order the order is not final.
Against that order an appeal was preferred to the Judicial Committee which was held not maintainable.
Mukherjea J in interpreting the expression judgment decree or final order in section 205 of the Government of India Act 1935 in Mohammad Amin Brothers Ltd and others vs Dominion India and others  3  observed The expression final order has been used in contradistinction to what is known as interlocutory order  .
During the pendency of the suit them Bombay Prevention of Ex communication Act 42 of 1949 was enacted and one of the issues raised in the suit was whether the order of ex communication was invalid.
The trial court decided the issue against the appellant and the order was confirmed in appeal by the High Court of Bombay.
Against the order deciding the issue an appeal was preferred to this Court with certificate granted by the High Court under article 132 and article 133 of the Constitution and it was held that the appeal was not maintainable since the decision on the issue did not finally dispose of the dispute between the parties.
In Srinivasa Prasad Singh vs Kesho Prasad Singh1 an order deciding that circumstances had not been established such as would justify an order for stay of execution of a decree under appeal was not a final order and was on that account not appealable to the judicial Committee.
Similarly in Druva Coal Company vs Benaras Bank2 it was held that an order by the High Court reversing the order of the Court of First Instance granting a temporary injunction was not a final order within the meaning of section 109 of the Code of Civil Procedure.
This Court held Bachawat  Mitter JJ dissenting that the order passed was a final order within the meaning of article 1341 c since the controversy between the parties when the the complaint in respect of offences under sections 467 and 468 read with section 114 IP Code was disposed of by the order of dismissal and the proceeding regarding that question was finally decided It was observed that the finality of that order was not to be judged by co relating it with the controversy in the complaint viz when then the appellant had committed the offence charged against him therein.
