Appeal No 1671 of 1966.
Appeal from the judgment and decree dated March 31 1965 of the Madras High Court in Appeal No 276 of 1962.
MK Ramamurthi Vineet Kumar L Ramamurthy and Shyamala Pappu for the appellant.
AV Rangam for the respondents.
425 The Judgment of the Court was delivered by Ramaswami J.
This appeal is brought by certificate from the judgment of the Madras High Court dated March 31 1965 in AS No 276 of 1962.
The appellant brought the suit in OS No 3 of 1961 in the Court of Subordinate Judge Nagapattinam for setting aside the order dated May 10 1960 of respondent No 1 the Commissioner of Hindu Religious and Charitable Endowments Madras who had affirmed earlier the order of the second respondent the Deputy Commissioner holding that the trusteeship of the Kumaran Koil in Manjakollai village was not hereditary.
The appellant was elected as a trustee by the Sengunatha Mudaliars of Manjakollai village at a meeting held on June 27 1957.
The appellant said that the temple was declared as an exempted temple under the provisions of Madras Act 1 of 1925.
The case of the appellant was that the trusteeship of the temple was hereditary.
Section 6 sub section.
Ordinarily a shebaitship or the office of dharmakartha is vested in the heirs of the founder unless the founder has laid down a special scheme of succession or except when usage or custom to the contrary is proved to exist.
In Sital Das vs Sant Ram5 the law was taken as wellsettled that succession to mahantship of a mutt or religious institution is regulated by custom or usage of the particular institution except where the rule of succession is laid down by the founder himself who created the endowment.
1954 SC 606.
Such a succession was described as not hereditary in the sense that on the death of an existing mahant his chela does not succeed to the office as a matter of course because the successor acquires a right only by appointment and the authority to appoint is vested in the assembly of the bairagis and the worshippets.
In Sri Mahant Paramanda Das Goswami vs Radhakrishna Das1 the Madras High Court took the view that where succession to the mahantship is by nomination by the holder in office it was not a hereditary succession.
Hereditary succession is succession by the heir to the deceased under the law the office must be transmitted to the successor according to some definite rules of descent which by their own force designate the person to succeed.
It is not possible to say that there is a succession of As office to another when on the efflux of the period for which A was appointed there is a vacancy and B is elected to that vacancy.
