The assessee is having construction contracts under the Railways as well as the Government.
The assessee also produced before him a statement showing various creditors from whom it had borrowed on Hundis during the accounting year in question.
As we are accepting the contention of the assessee that the impugned notice is invalid inasmuch as it did not comply with the requirements of section 1512 of the Act we have not thought it necessary to examine the other contentions advanced on behalf of the assessee.
When the appeal was taken up for hearing on the 18th January 1971 only the report submitted by the Income tax Officer to the Commissioner and the order of the Commissioner was produced.
Name and address of the assessee MS Chugamal Rajpal Muzaffarpur.
Whether it is a new case or one in which re assessment or recomputation has to be made Re assessment 5.
No AP Misc5DI63 645623 dated 13 8 65 forwarded to this office under CIT Bihar and Orissa Patna s letter No Inv.
Seth Bhagwan Singh Sricharan.
Sd section P Chaliha 30 4 66.
Income tax Officer A Ward Muzaffarpur.
 In his report the Income tax Officer does not set out any reason for coming to the conclusion that this is a fit case to issue notice under section 148.
The material that he had before him for issuing notice under section 148 is not mentioned in the report.
All that he says is that from those communications it appears that these persons alleged creditors are name lenders and the transactions are bogus.
Further his report mentions  Hence proper investigation regarding these loans is necessary In other words his conclusion is that there is a case for investigating as to the truth of the alleged transactions.
Before issuing a notice under section 148 the Income tax Officer must have either reasons to believe that by reason of the omission or failure on the part of these assessee to make a return under section 139 for any assessment year to the Income tax Officer or to disclose fully and truly all material facts necessary for his assessment for that year income chargeable to tax has escaped assessment for that year or alternatively not withstanding that there has been no omission or failure as mentioned above on the part of the assessee the Income tax Officer has in consequence of information in his possession reason to believe that income chargeable to tax has escaped assessment for any assessment year.
Unless the requirements of clause a or b of section 147 are satisfied the Income tax Officer has no jurisdiction to issue a notice under section 148.
From the report submitted by the Income tax Officer to the Commissioner it is clear that he could not have had reasons to believe that by reason of the assessee s omission to disclose fully and truly all material  facts necessary for his assessment for the accounting year in question income chargeable to tax has escaped assessment for that year nor could it be said that he as a consequence of information in his possession had reasons to believe that the income chargeable to tax has escaped assessment for that year.
b of section 147.
Therefore he could not have issued a notice under section 148.
The important safeguards provided in sections 147 and 151 were lightly treated by the Income tax Officer as well as by the Commissioner.
GC Appeal allowed.
