Appeal No 1604 of 1967.
1  2.
Whether the Federation of Indian Chambers of Commerce and Industry New Delhi Respondent 1 is a commercial establishment within the meaning of s25 of the Delhi Shops and Establishments Act 1954 for short the Act is the sale question that falls for determination in this appeal by certificate directed against the judgment dated February 8 1967 of the High Court of Delhi.
Before the High Court the contention of the Federation was that the premises in which the registered office of the Federation is located is not a commercial establishment within the meaning of section 25 of the Act which in consequence had no application.
 352 It was then contended that the activities of the Federation carried on in the premises in question amounted to work in connection with or incidental or ancillary to trade or business in general within the latter part of the definition of commercial establishment.
They read Commercial establishment means any premises wherein any trade business or profession or any work in connection with or incidental or ancillary thereto is carried on and includes a society registered under the  and charitable or other trust whether registered or not which carries on any business trade or profession or work in connection with or incidental or ancillary thereto  journalistic and printing establishments quarries and mines not governed by the  educational or other Institutions run for private gain and premises in which business of banking insurance stocks and shares brokerage or produce exchange is carried on but does not include a shop or a factory registered under the  or theaters cinemas restaurants eating houses residential hotels clubs or other places of public amusement or entertainment.
 It will be seen that while the definition of establishment includes a shop  and commercial establishment the definitions of shop  and commercial establishment  are mutually exclusive.
 Mr Pai further maintains that the ratio in R K Mittal s case supra is not applicable to the instant case because the definition of  industry in section 2j of the is far wider than that of commercial establishment in section 25 of the Act.
It is pointed out that it was wrongly assumed in Mittal s case supra that the Federation was systematically assisting not only its members but also other business men and industrialists even if they were not its members.
Alternatively it was contended that the case fell within part b of the definition of commercial establishment inasmuch as its activities were connected with trade and business generally.
