243 The appellants wrote a letter on 20 February 1975 to the President with copies to the Prime Minister Chief Justice of India the Chief Minister of Haryana and the Chief Jus tice of Punjab and Haryana High Court.
In that letter they further stated as follows The learned Judge met the members of the Bar on 15 February 1975 in the Bar Room Bhiwani.
Chandrawati.
The letter in question was addressed by the deponent to the President of India with copies to others with the sole object of conveying the opinion that the public expression by the Hon ble Judge of his personal views on controversial political matters con cerning the merits and demerits of the present system of the Government was not in keeping with the well accepted role of proverbial aloofness of a Judge.
In order to prevent unwanted disclosure of its contents the communica tion in question was brought personally by two members of the Bar Association Bhiwani to Chandigarh in a closed cover addressed to the Chief Justice for being handed over to him for his personal attention.
 The Full Bench of the High Court consisting of Justice Surjit Singh Sandhawalia Justice Prem Chand Jain and Jus tice Bhupinder Singh Dhillon extracted portions from the affidavit of the appellants to which references has been made.
The Full Bench thereafter referred to paragraph 9 of the affidavit where the deponents said that if in view of this Hon ble Court the action of the deponent in addressing the letter in question constituted for any reason contempt of court no one would be more sorry than the deponent himself.
Therefore the deponent tender his apology to this Hon ble Court for the same and prays for its acceptance.
The elementary basis of acceptance of apology is that there is to be a finding of committal of contempt.
In the absence of any finding by the High Court that the appellants committed any contempt of court there was never any occasion for acceptance of apology.
It is necessary to state here that if any Judge address es on political problems or controversies the Judge exposes himself to discussion by public.
In view of the fact that the High Court proceeded on the basis that the allegations in the letter were unchallenged we are of opinion that the matters did not constitute any contempt.
The High.
