The acquittal was reversed by the High Court of Andhra Pradesh and the appellant was convicted under Section 302 Indian Penal Code and sentenced to suffer imprisonment for life.
About three months before the occurrence the deceased gave birth to a female child in the house of the accused at Cherlopalle.
On 18th December 1972 according to the case of the prosecution the accused once again requested his mother in law to send his wife to his house.
The accused the deceased her brother PW 1 her mother PW 2 and her grand mother PW 3 were all sleeping in the room.
Thereafter P W 9 prepared his own report exhibit P 4 and sent it alongwith exhibit P 1 and MO 1 to the Police Station at Renigunta.
When the Police officers went to the village they 366 found the accused tied to a pole.
The stab injury had gone through the third intercostal space and through the upper lobe of the left lung in an upward and medial direction.
There was no fracture.
They insulted him.
He felt giddy and was about to lose consciousness.
P W 1 came upon him with a knife to stab him.
The High Court observed that the learned Sessions Judge had magnified the importance to be attached to minor discrepancies.
The High Court also concluded from the medical evidence that it was more probable that the deceased was stabbed when she was lying down.
Accepting the evidence of P Ws 1 to 3 which was corroborated by the evidence of P Ws 4 and 5 who came to the scene soon afterwards the High Court convicted the accused under Section 302 and sentenced him as aforesaid.
In this appeal the learned Counsel for the appellant argued that the accused had no motive to kill his wife and that his version was more probable than the version of the prosecution.
He submitted that the version of the accused that the occurrence took place at about 10 pm was substantiated by what was mentioned in exhibit P 15 the wound certificate given by PW 13 the Medical officer in respect of the injuries which he found on the person of the accused.
He urged that the knife was not seized by the Police under any seizure Memo nor was the knife sent to any finger print expert.
We are unable to find any substance in the submissions made by the learned Counsel for the appellant.
The High Court was well justified in commenting that the discrepancies on the basis of which the Trial Court rejected the evidence of P Ws 1 2 and 3 were of a minor character and that they have been unduly magnified by the learned Sessions Judge.
The discrepancies were in regard to which of them woke up first where was the lantern and which of the neighbours came first to the scene on hearing their cries.
The High Court was also right in holding that the medical evidence supported the prosecution version and not the defence version.
Merely because the Medical Officer stated that the victim could have received the injury if she was standing it did not follow that the injury could have been received in the circumstances mentioned by the accused.
below the arm pit on the left side.
According to the accused the deceased received the injury when she placed herself between P W 1 and himself.
We do not think that an injury of the nature received by the deceased could have been caused in the manner suggested by the accused.
We may also refer here to the comment of the learned Counsel for the appellant that realizing that the motive would assume considerable importance if the case was one based on circumstantial evidence the prosecution tried to make P W 3 depose as if she had witnessed occurrence.
The Inspector of Police P W 15 however stated that P W 3 did not state before him that she saw the accused making a gesture as if he was stabbing the deceased.
After Sanwat Singh vs State of Rajasthan this Court has consistently recognised the right of the Appellate Court to review the entire evidence and to come to its own conclusion bearing in mind the considerations mentioned by the Privy Council in Sheo Swarup s case.
This of course is not a new principle.
vs State of UP  Anr1.
