minal Appeals Nos.
91 to 93 of 1954.
The petition was heard by Ali Khan and Reddy JJ.
They say they saw all five accused striking him the three appellants Pandurang Tukia and Bhilia with axes the other two who have not appealed with sticks.
Rasika Bai s version is that on seeing the assault she called out to the accused not to hit but they  raised their axes and sticks and threatened her and then ran away.
But what the learned counsel for the appellants says is that he saw Narsabai on the evening of the murder and as she did not give him any names it is evident that no one knew who the assailants were and that therefore the accusation made against the accused was a subsequent concoction and that it was for that reason that they waited till the next morning before reporting the matter to the police.
He also admits that he saw Narsabai there but says he did not speak to her.
The absence of the names in the report is therefore not of much consequence in this case especially as the names were disclosed in full at the time of the inquest.
We are prepared to disregard the evidence of Rasika and Subhana in so far as they say that Tukaram and Nilia also beat Ramchander because the medical evidence does not disclose any injuries which could have been caused by a stick or sticks.
As a matter of fact Subhana does not ascribe any particular blow either to Tukaram or to Nilia though he does describe in detail what the other three did.
This sort of omnibus accusation is not of much value and Rasikabai is not much better though she does say that Nilia bit Ramchander on the thigh.
We think Rasika and Subhana are telling the truth when they say that these two accused were also there but we think that because of that they think they must have joined in the attack and so have added that detail to their story.
We refer to the other eye witnesses here to show that there is no discrepancy on this point but we only rely on Rasikabai and Subhana for determining the fact Bhilia was directly charged with the murder and the injury on the throat is ascribed to him in the charge.
We uphold his conviction under section 302 of the Indian Penal Code.
In the present case there is no evidence of any prior meeting.
We do not intend to examine that here because we are of opinion that the sentence should be reduced to transportation in these two cases mainly because of the difference of opinion in the High Court not only on the question of guilt but also on that of sentence.
