The question involved in these appeals by special leave which are filed against the judgment dated August 17 1985 of the High Court of Allahabad in Civil Miscellaneous Writ No 6849 of 1984 relates to the constitu tional validity of regulation 192 of the Life Insurance Corporation of India Staff Regulations 1960 hereinafter referred to as the Staff Regulations 1960  as amended on 211.
1977 by the Life Insurance Corporation of India hereinafter referred to as the Corporation  which pro vides that an employee belonging to Class I or Class II appointed to the service of the Corporation on or after 1st September 1956 shall retire on completion of 58 years of age but the competent authority may if it is of the opinion that it is in the interest of the Corporation to do so direct such employee to retire on completion of 50 years of age and at any time thereafter on giving him three months  notice or salary in lieu thereof.
Pursuant to the said decision the President of India promulgated the Life Insurance Emergency Provisions Ordi nance 1956 on January 19 1956 providing for the vesting of the management of the life insurance business which was called the controlled business under the Ordinance which was being carried on by any insurer in India on that day in the Central Government and providing for its management.
The appointed day for the purposes of the Act is therefore September 1 1956.
The proviso to that sub section provided that nothing contained in sub section 1 of section 11 of the Act would apply to any such employee who had by notice in writing given to the Central Government prior to September 1 1956 intimated his intention of not becoming an employee of the Corporation.
As mentioned earlier there were more than 200 insurers whose controlled business had been taken over by the Corporation and we are informed that there were about 27000 whole time employees working in them.
The conditions of service of these transferred employ ees of the Corporation whose services were transferred to the Corporation under section 111 of the Act were not uniform.
The above decision of the Bombay High Court was delivered on 1641957.
To remove the above doubt by Act 17 of 1957 section 49 of the Act was amended by introducing clause bb in sub section 2 of section 49 of the Act which expressly conferred power on the Corporation to make regulations with the previous approval of the Central Government as regards the terms and condi tions of service of persons who have become employees of the Corporation under sub section 1 of section 11 .
The above clause was introduced into the Act with retrospective effect along with the new sub 194 section 2 of section 11 of the Act.
Regulation 21 reads as follows 21.
 The above regulation fixed the age of retirement of an employee at 55 years while empowering the authority to extend the service of an employee at its discretion every year upto 60 years of age.
This order is called the standardisation order .
Clause 6 of that order originally read as follows 6.
Most of the insurers permitted their officers to continue in service upto 60 years of age and even beyond depending upon their efficiency.
Regula tion 19 of the Staff Regulations 1960 dealt with the subject of superannuation and retirement of the employees of the Corporation.
All employees appointed to the service of the Corporation on or after 1st September 1956 were required to retire on completion of 58 years of age but the appointing authority was empowered to retire any such employee on completion of 55 years of age or at any time thereafter if his efficiency was found to have been impaired.
The relevant part of the amended regulation 19 which was noti fied on 1961965 read thus 191.
An employee belonging to Class III or Class IV and a transferred employee belonging to Class I or Class II shall retire on completion of age 60 but the appointing authority may direct such employee to retire on completion of 55 years of age or at any time thereafter if his efficiency is found to have been impaired.
All the employees belonging to Class III and Class IV irrespective of the fact whether they were transferred employees or employees appointed after 1st September 1956 were entitled to continue in service till 60 years of age but the employees belonging to Class I and Class II who were appointed to the service of the Corpora tion on or after 1st September 1956 had to retire on the completion of 58 years of age subject to the usual clause relating to premature retirement.
Sub regulation 2 of regulation 19 which affected the employees belonging to Class I and Class II appointed to the service of the Corpo ration on or after 1st September 1956 was substituted by a new sub regulation which was notified on September 3 1966.
From the said Class III post he was promoted to the Class I post since there was no necessity to pass through a Class II post before entering a Class I post on 8101963 and was appointed as Assistant Branch Manager Admn.
Hence he was not retired on the 30th June 1984 as originally notified and allowed to continue in service.
The Writ Petition was allowed striking down regulation 192 as being violative of Articles 14 and 16 of the Constitution of India and the Corporation was directed not to retire the 1st Respondent before he attained the age of 60 years.
In other words the contention of the 1st Respondent before the High Court was that since he had the fight to continue in service if he had remained in Class III only till he attained the age of 60 years as a Class III employee by virtue of the settlement and the amendment of the regula tion 19 in the year 1965 the age of retirement in his case could not be reduced to 58 years only because he had been promoted to a Class I post.
It was urged on behalf of the Corporation and the Union of India that the transferred employees and the employees who joined the service after 1st September 1956 belonged to two distinct and separate classes which had been treated differently throughout for valid reasons.
That power is to be exercised when the Central Government is satisfied that the interests of the Corporation and its Policy holders require such reduction of revision.
The observation made by Pathak J in the course of his judgment that there is no danger of an order made by the Central Government under the second limb of sub section 2 in respect of transferred employeesbeing struck down on the ground that it violates the equality provisions of Part III of the Constitution because similar action has not been taken in respect of newly recruited employees is signifi cant.
Their complaint was that the Rules created without any valid justification two cadres the State cadre and the provincialised cadre the former including not only the Government School teachers but also those recruited after October 1 1957 and posted in the provincialised schools that by reason of having two cadres and providing for both a uniform 15 per cent for selection grade posts coupled with making the provincialised cadre a diminishing one the result had been that teachers deemed to have been appointed to the State cadre with effect from October 1 1957 and even those recruited thereafter had been promoted to the selec tion grade while those in the provincialised cadre though senior in service and performed identical duties and had identical scales of pay remained in the ordinary grade.
This position remained as late as February 13 1961.
Having regard to the lower emoluments and other benefits which the employees belonging to Class III and Class IV are entitled to get from the Corporation and the higher emoluments and other benefits to which officers belonging to Class I and Class II are entitled and also the nature of their work and the powers enjoyed by them we are of the view that fixation of different ages of retirement to the different classes of employees would not by itself be violative of Articles 14 and 16 of the Constitution.
This Court held that when once the direct recruits and promoters were absorbed in one cadre they formed one class and they could not be distinguished again for the purpose of further promotion to the higher grade C  The Court further ob served that before the impugned notification was issued there was only one rule of promotion applicable to both direct recruits and promoters but by the impugned notifica tion discriminatory treatment was made in favour of the apprentice train examiners who had already been absorbed in grade D .
Classification of employees into two categories for purposes of fixing the age of superannuation depending upon their dates of entry into service when the necessity for doing so arises on account of certain historical reasons is not unknown.
On the absorption of the services of the servants of the previous railway companies it became necessary for the Indian Railway Administration to frame rules with regard to their conditions of service including the determination of the age of retirement of those railway employees.
