The first lease Ext.
The second lease deed Ext.
They claimed that under both the lease deeds what had been leased out to them was only a vacant land and that the superstructure had been built by them.
The order of the Rent Controller was dated 93.
There were appeals to the Court of Small Causes.
It came to the conclusion that exhibit P 1 did not in law create a valid lease between the co owners and the tenants.
The tenants filed an appeal being OSA No 62 of 1973.
So far as the first question is concerned we have no doubt that the Division Bench of the High Court has come to the correct conclusion.
We therefore answer the first question posed by us in the affirmative.
When a petition under section 4 is filed the Rent Controller on the language of section 4 has to decide 1 whether the applicant is a tenant in or landlord of the building and 2 what the fair rent of the premises should be in accordance with the provisions of the Act.
The respondents denied that the LIC was the landlord or they the tenants in respect of the property.
The Rent Controller and on appeal the Court of Small Causes were therefore called upon to give their decision on this question which was completely within their statutory jurisdiction and this decision certainly constitutes res judicata between the parties see also Explanation VIII to section 11 of the Code of Civil Procedure.
It was therefore not open to the High Court to entertain a collateral attack on the validity of binding nature or correctness of the order of the Court of Small Causes and to consider and determine afresh the issue as to whether the LIC is the owner of the premises as claimed or not.
An appeal by the tenant also failed but here again the above point was not taken.
It was only this limited aspect eviction on the ground of non bona fide denial of title that was under consideration of the Court under section 102vii of the Act read with the proviso to section 101 and the Court s observa tions on the question of title were one on a collateral issue.
The trial Judge rejected the application holding that question of the applicability of the Act was res judicata since it had been finally decid ed by the High Court between the same parties in respect of the same land in the earlier proceeding for fixation of standard rent.
In order to operate as res judicata the finding must be one disposing of a matter directly and substantially in issue in the former suit and the issue should have been heard and finally decided by the court trying such suit.
It has long been held that a question of title in a Small Cause suit can be regarded as incidental only to the substantial issue in the suit and cannot operate 8as res judicata in a subsequent suit in which the question of title is directly raised  .
It also took a technical plea that the decision of the Additional Settlement Officer that the suit land was poramboke and not ryoti  land was final and the Civil Court s jurisdiction to decide that question was barred under section 64 C of the Tamil Nadu Estates Abolition and Conversion into Ryotwari Act 1948 which ran as follows 64 C Finality of orders passed under this Act 1 Any order passed by the Government or other authority under this Act in respect of matters to be determined for the purposes of this Act shall subject only to any appeal or revision provided by or under this Act be final.
