on the 10th june 1891 he made and published his last will and testament whereby he dedicated to this family idol.
dwarka nath died on the 16th march 1892 leaving him surviving his widow golap sundari and his two sons rajendra and jogendra.
on the 19th july 1899 rajendra made and published his last will and testament whereby he confirmed the dedication made by dwarka nath with regard to premises nos.
and nagendra then a minor the three sons of rajendra filed a suit being suit No 969 of 1909on.
the original side of the high court at calcutta against jogendra golap sundari and padma dassi the widow of sidheswar another son of rajendra for the construction of the wills of dwarka nath and rajendra for partition and other reliefs.
one dwarka nath ghose was the owner of considerable moveable and immoveable properties.
shree shree iswar sridhar jew his two immoveable properties to wit.
No 41 and No 401.
grey street in the city of calcutta.
he appointed his two sons rajendra and jogendra executors of ms will and provided that his second wife golap sundari and the two sons rajendra and jogendra should perform the seva of the deity and on their death their heirs and successors would be entitled to perform the seva.
41 and 401 grey street and appointed his brother jogendra the sole executor thereof.
the idol was not made a party to this suit.
No 401.
grey street.
the portions allotted to jogendra were subsequently numbered 402 a grey street and the portion of the premises.
41 grey street allotted to the branch of rajendra was subsequently numbered 41 a grey street.
disputes arose between bhupendra jnanendra and nagendra the sons of rajendra and one kedar nath ghosh was appointed arbitrator to settle those disputes.
nagendra thereafter executed several mortgages of the said premises.
hari pada.
dutt and durga charan dutt for a sum of rs 19000.
haripada dutt died on the 3rd june 1941 leaving him surviving his three sons pashupati nath dutt shambhunath dutt and kashinath dutt the appellants before us.
andor rajendra relating to the said premises or any of them purporting to affect its rights in the said premises were invalid and inoperative in law and not binding on it for an account of the dealings with the said premises for a scheme of management of the debutter properties and for its worship for discovery receiver injunction and costs.
the said suit was heard by mr justice bose who declared the premises.
in respect of the said two properties will be paid for the purpose of the carrying on the daily and periodical sheba and the festivals etc of the said sri issur sridhar jew salagram sila thakur my said second wife srimati golap moni dasi and 1st sriman rajendara nath and 2nd sriman jogendra nath ghose born of the womb of my first wife on living in the said house.
the question whether the idol itself shall be considered the true beneficiary subject to a charge in favour of the heirs or specified relatives of the testator for their upkeep or that on the other hand these heirs shall be considered the true beneficiaries of the property subject to a charge for the upkeep worship and expenses of the idol is a question which can only be settled by a conspectus of the entire provisions of the will pande har narayan v surja kunwari 1921 l r 48 i a 143 145 146 1921 indlaw pc 56.
grey street to the idol as its permanent habitation with only the right given to the sevayats to reside in the said premises for the purposes of carrying on the daily and periodical seva and the festivals etc.
so far as nagendra is concerned there is a clear finding of fact recorded by mr justice bose on a specific issue raised in that behalf viz did nagendra act as shebait of the plaintiff deity under the wills of dwarka nath ghosh and rajendra nath ghosh.
that he did act as such shebait and that his possession of the premises.
the fact of their possession is in accordance with the idol 's title and the question is whether the change made by them in the intention with which they hold evidenced by an application of the rents and profits to their own purposes and other acts extinguishes the idol 's right.
but such persons have no legal duty to protect the endowment and until the shebait is removed or controlled by the court he alone can act for the idol.
this is an appeal on a certificate article 1331 of theconstitution from a judgment and decree passed by the appellate bench of the high court of calcutta.
modifying on appeal the judgment and decree passed by mr justice bose on the original side of that court.
he died on the 31st january1900 and jogendra obtained on the 24th april 1900.
probate of his said will.
probate of the will of dwarka nath was also obtained by jogendra on the 31st august 1909.
on the 4th september 1909 bhupendra jnanendra.
