the high court after deciding various issues remanded the cases to the compensation officer under the act after over ruling most of the contentions pressed before it by the appellant.
shri achutananda purohit appellant was the intermediary in respect of vast forests and other lands comprised in the estate of jujumura in the district of sambalpur.
the appellant has received around rs 300000 but much more according to him is due and this controversy can be settled by examining his specific points.
shri purohit appellant is an advocate by profession and is 83 years old.
he has argued in person and with passion.
we have listened with patience to all his submissions good bad and indifferent.
although he waxed sentimentally on this note he did not convince us on his contentions.
with these prefatory observations we proceed to formulate the many points urged and give our findings and reasons one after the other.
the compensation officer is charged with fixing the quantum in the prescribed manner.
a compensation assessment roll containing the gross asset and net income of each estate together with the compensation payable in respect of such estate has to be prepared by him.
of course when there is joint ownership section 24 stipulates that the compensation shall be determined for the estate as a whole and not separately for each of the shares therein.
section 26 has great relevance as it lays down the method of arriving at the gross asset and section 27 has like significance as it focuses on the manner in which the net income from an estate shall be computed by deducting certain items from the gross asset of the estate.
section 28 states how the amount of compensation is to be determined and the methodology of payment.
there are a few other s s in chapter vi which deal with payment of compensation.
as admittedly compensation had not been calculated by the date of vesting the compensation officer lost his statutory jurisdiction to do so.
a1 is inadmissible in evidence.
this estate vested in the state on april 1 1960 by force of the act and the crucial question agitated before us consequentially turns on the quantum of compensation awardable under chapter v of the act.
we are directly concerned with the issue of compensation which is dealt with as earlier stated in chapter v of the act.
the act also provides for appeal second appeal and revision the last being to the high court and the earlier ones being to the collector and a board constituted under section 22.
these furnish in bare outline the provisions with which we are directly concerned.
the provisions of section 373 read with section 262.
b v of the act make it clear that the date of vesting is the last date by which the calculation of compensation should have been made.
b v of the act but in spite of it the direction was that the divisional forest officer should make the appraisement.
there was no direction that this report of the d f o should be further subject to the approval of the chief conservator of forests.
the calculation made by the chief conservator of forests therefore has no statutory force but could be just a piece of evidence.
3 assuming that in spite of the directions of the court the compensation offi cer is entitled to follow the procedure laid down in section 262bv the expression subject to the approval of the chief conservator of forests does not refer to the appraisement made by the d f o but refers to his appointment.
4 assuming that section 262 b v would have full force what it contemplates is that the appraisement must be made by the d f o and it is subject to the approval by the chief conservator of forests.
the report of the chief conservator of forests is also invalid because of the fact that the appraisement is made only with reference to the area of the disputed forests without taking into consideration the density of growth therein.
the slab system of calculation of compensation in the act providing smaller multiples for estates yielding larger income is unconstitutional.
the policy of the law of agrarian reform postulates the extinguishment of ancient privileges and cornering of land resources and the socioeconomic yardstick is different from what applies to ordinary purchases of real estate and this is manifest in the special provisions contained in article 31a and article 31b of the constitution.
the dynamic rule of law with a social mission makes a meaningful distinction between rights steeped in the old system and compensation for deprivation of those interests on the one hand and the ordinary commercial transactions or regulation of rights untinged by social transformation urges on the other.
holmes once commented it is revolting to have no better reason for a rule of law than that.
so it was laid down in the time of henry iv.
the appellant challenges the slab system of compensation provided in the act which awards smaller multiples for estates yielding larger incomes on the score of violation of the fundamental rights under the constitution.
here again the flaw in the submission consists in mis reading section 27 of the act which expressly states that the net income from an estate shall be computed by deducting from the gross assets of such estate any sum which was payable by the intermediary as income tax in respect of any income derived from such estate for the previous agricultural year.
those officers ascertain the income from the forest concerned and the figure so fixed is subject to the approval of the c c f chief conservator of forests presumably the top expert in the department.
three civil appeals stemming from three revision petitions to the high court of orissa under the orissa estates abolition act 1951 orissa act i of 1952 for short the act have reached this court thanks to special leave granted to the appellant who is common in all the cases.
