the main question raised in this appeal by special leave at the instance of state of gujarat and the collector of sabarkantha against the gujarat high court 's judgment and order dated january 30311975 allowing the writ petition of the respondent is whether once the competent authority under s 24 i of the bombay merged territories and areas jagirs abolition.
the facts giving rise to the said question are these by hajur order no 116 dated october 271933the respondent maharaj shri amar singji himatsingji was granted daljitgarh jagir comprising of 10 villages mentioned in the said order in jivarak for maintenance by the then ruler of idar by another hajur order no 807 dated january 121934the respondent was given a further grant in jivarak of 3 villages mentioned in that order with effect from october 11933 by yet another hajur order no 964 dated november 21194714 villages including kapoda and isarwada were granted in jivarak to the respondent by the ruler of idar in substitution of the villages mentioned in the previous two orders.
according to the respondent by these grants parvanas read together he was given full proprietary rights in the soil of the said villages that is to say it was a proprietary jagir that was granted to him by the then ruler.
according to learned counsel the mere circumstance that the respondent 's jagir was found under s 24.
ithe further inquiry initiated by the collector under s 372 was misconceived and uncalled for.
s 2 contains the definitions of various expressions some of which are material s 2vi defines the expression jagir as meaning the grant by or recognition as a grant by the ruling authority for the time being before the merger of a village whether such grant is of the soil or an assignment of land revenue or both there is also an inclusive part of definition with which we are not concerned.
s 2vii defines jagirdar as meaning a holder of a jagir village and includes his co sharer.
if any question arises.
i whether a jagir is proprietary or non proprietary iiwhether any land is ghatked or jiwai or iiiwhetherany person is a permanent holder.
ss 13 and 14 provide for methods of awarding compensations to jagirdars by the collector and against the awards of the collector under either of these provisions a appeal has been provided at the instance of the aggrieved party to the revenue tribunal under s 16 s 17 provides the procedure for disposal of appeals by the revenue tribunal while s 18 prescribes a period of limitation for preferring such appeals and s 20 gives finality to the award made by the collector subject to appeal to the revenue tribunal.
the rest of the sections are if formal character and not material for our purposes.
there is yet one more aspect emerging from the definition of the expression proprietary jagir which leads to the same inference.
proprietary jagir has been defined in s 2xviii to mean a jagir in respect of which the jagirdar under the terms of a grant or agreement or by custom or usage is entitled to any rights or interest in the soil.
it is therefore not possible to accept the contention of learned counsel for the respondents that a determination under s 2 4 i of the act to the effect that a particular jagir is a proprietary one necessarily implies that the grantee is entitled to mines and mineral products in the villages comprised in the grant especially when having regard to the definition given in s 2xviii a jagir could be proprietary without a right to mines and mineral products.
in other words our answer to the general question raised above would be that even after the competent authority has declared a particular jagir to be a proprietary one under s 24.
act1953 bombay act.
No v of 1879 with a view to determining whether the jagirdar had any rights to mines or mineral products in his jagir granted or recognised under any contract grant or law for the time being in force or by custom or usage is competent.
admittedly on the coming into force of the bombay merged territories and areas jagirs abolition act1953 hereinafter referred to as the act i e with effect from respondent 's daljitgarh jagir stood abolished and all his rights in the jagir villages save as expressly provided by or under the act were extinguished and the respondent became entitled to compensation under s 11 of the act.
learned counsel for the appellants has contended that the high court has adopted an erroneous view of the scope and ambit of the inquiry contemplated under s 24i of the act by the competent authority in as much as under the said provision the competent authority had power merely to decide the question whether the respondents jagir was a proprietary or a non proprietary jagir and had no dower or jurisdiction to determine whether on the appointed date that is on august 11954 when the act came into force the respondent had subsisting rights to mines and minerals products in the jagir villages so as to be saved under s 10 of the act.
he urged that it would be for the collector acting under s 372 of the bombay land revenue code to decide the latter question in an inquiry initiated under that provision.
he urged that having regard to such determination that was made by the competent authority under s 2 4 i of the act it would be clear that a further inquiry into the respondent 's rights to mines and mineral products particularly gravel and stones under s 372 of the code would be misconceived and incompetent.
the general question is whether once the competent authority under s 2 4 i of the act declares that the particular jagir is a proprietary one a further inquiry under s 372 of the land revenue code with a view to determining whether the jagirdar had rights to mines and mineral products in such jagir subsisting on the appointed date is competent.
dealing with the first question which is of a general character it is clear that the answer thereto depends upon the true scope and ambit of the inquiry under s 2 4 i of the act and to determine the same it will be necessary to consider the scheme and object of the act and in particular the purpose of the said inquiry.
s 24though it forms part of a definition section contains a substantive provision which is material for our purposes and it runs thus 24.
section 3which contains the main provision dealing with abolition of jagirs provides that notwithstanding anything contained in any usage grant sanad order agreement or any law for the time being in force on and from the appointed date which under s 2 1 i is a date on which the act comes into force which is august 11954all jagirs shall be deemed to have been abolished and save as expressly provided by or under the provisions of this act the right of a jagirdar to recover rent or assessment of land or to levy or recover any kind of tax cess fee charge or any hak and the right of reversion or lapse if any vested in a jagirdar and all other rights of a jagirdar or of any person legally subsisting on the said date in respect of a jagir village as incidents of jagir shall be deemed to have been extinguished.
as a consequence of the abolition of jagirs under s 3 all jagir villages became unalienated villages and therefore under s 4 it has been provided that all jagir villages shall be liable to the payment of land revenue in accordance with the provisions of the code and the rules made thereunder and the provisions of the code and the rules relating to unalienated land shall apply to such villages.
s 8 declares that all public roads lands paths bridges titches dikes and fences on or besides the same the bed of the sea and of harbours creeks below high water mark and of rivers streams nalaps lakes wells and tanks and all canals and water courses etc situated in jagir village shall vest in the state government and shall be deemed to be the property of the state government and all rights held by such jagirdars in such property shall be deemed to have been extinguished s 10 contains an express saving provision relating to rights to mines and mineral products and it provides that nothing in this act or any other law for the time being in force shall be deemed to affect the rights of any jagirdar subsisting on the appointed date to mines or mineral products in a jagir village granted or recognised under any contract.
grant or law for the time being in force or by custom or usage.
s 11 1 provides for the quantum of compensation payable to a non proprietary jagirdar on account of abolition of his jagir and extinguishment of his rights while s 112 makes similar provision for quantum of compensation to a proprietary jagirdar on account of the abolition of his jagir and extinguishment of his rights.
the aforesaid survey of the material provisions of the act will bring out two or three aspects very clearly.
in the first place the preamble and s 3 of the act clearly show that the object of the enactment is to abolish jagirs of all kinds in the merged territories and merged areas in the state of bombay and to convert all jagir villages into unalienated villages liable to the payment of land revenue in accordance with the provisions of the bombay land revenue code.
secondly compensation is made payable under s 11 of the act to jagirdars whose jagirs and other incidental rights have been extinguished but it will be pertinent to note that no provision has been made for payment of compensation in respect of rights to mines and mineral products in a jagir village obviously because if by the grant in question the jagirdar has not been given any rights to mines and mineral products no compensation would be payable and if there be a grant of mines and mineral products the same have been saved to the jagirdar under s 10 of the act.
in other words the competent authority holding an inquiry under s 24 i can come to the conclusion that a particular jagir is proprietary if it finds that the jagirdar under the terms of a grant or agreement is entitled to some rights or interest in the soil other than mines or mineral products.
no xxxix of 1954 declares that a particular jagir is a proprietary one a further inquiry under s 37 2 of the bombay land revenue code bombay act.
aggrieved by this order passed by the collector on february 231973the respondent preferred a writ petition special civil application no 1224 of 1973 under art 227 of the constitution to the gujarat high court and writ of certiorari quashing the order dated february 231973 and a direction restraining the collector from further proceeding with the inquiry under s 372 of the land revenue code were sought.
