hereinafter called the rent act is the question involved in this appeal by special leave from the judgment and order of the high court of gujarat dated 21st of august1979.
the appellant claimed to be the tenant in respect of the two premises which are quite adjacent to each other one of which is involved in this appeal.
the respondent had alleged in the two suits that the appellant was his tenant in the suit premises which were leased out to him and before him his father for conducting the business in the name of ahmedabad fine.
the respondent had further alleged that the appellant no 1 had closed the business and he was not using the said premises for the purpose for which it was let to him.
whether the appellant herein and his father had sublet the premises in question in or about 1960 in terms of section 131e of the bombay rents hotel and lodging house rates control act1947.
to decide this facts must be referred to.
the respondent is the landlord of the two premises and these were situated at raikhad ward ahmedabad.
weaving works and according to the terms of tenancy suit premises were leased for manufacturing cloth in the name of ahmedabad fine.
weaving works.
at the time of the institution of the suit the defendants nos 2 to 5 were admittedly the partners.
the said partnership deed records six persons who were to run the business in manufacturing and selling bharat neon signs tubes.
however the document is silent as to where the business was started.
on or about 24th of october1960.
nos 34 and 5.
indlaw sc 748.
the trial court in the instant appeal held that there was subletting.
there was an appeal before the court of small causes bombay and by judgment and order delivered by the court of small causes bombay on 18th of august1977it was held that the learned trial judge had erred in passing a decree for possession on the ground of subletting change of user and breach of terms of tenancy.
he contended further that the suit premises was with him and the defendants nos 2 to 5 had not acquired any tenancy rights in the suit premises.
these facts were accepted that there was a partnership.
the first question therefore is what is a partnership.
that has to be found in section 4 of the indian partnership act1932it says partnership is the relation between persons who have agreed to share the profits of a business carried on by all or any of them acting for all emphasis supplied.
the agreement must be to share profits of business and 3 the business must be carried on by all or any of the persons concerned acting for all.
the partnership deeds were there entitling the petitioner to share in the partnership.
in order to decide this question it is necessary to decide the scope and ambit of section 292 of the rent act.
it is true that since after 4th of october1960 the partnership firm was carrying on business in the premises in question.
this view is now concluded by the decision of this court in madras bangalore transport co west v inder singh and others1986 3 s c c 62 1986.
the court of small causes came to the conclusion on an analysis of the evidence before it and the terms of the three partnership deeds referred to hereinbefore that there was a genuine partnership in law which was acted upon.
the high court in revision reversed that finding.
whether there was a partnership or not may in certain cases be a mixed question of law and fact in the sense that whether the ingredients of partnership as embodied in the law of partnership were there in a particular case or not must be judged in the light of the principles applicable to partnership.
section 6 of the said act reiterates that in determining whether a group of persons is or is not a firm or whether a person is or is not a partner in a firm regard shall be had to the real relation between the parties as shown by all relevant facts taken together.
the following important elements must be there in order to establish partnership1 there must be an agreement entered into by all parties concerned2.
there is nothing inherently illegal or improbable making a provision of such a type.
in the eye of law such a clause is really non sequitur or neutral proving neither the existence nor non existence of a genuine firm.
the high court on a reappraisal of these very evidence came to the conclusion that the partnerships were camouflages and were not acted upon and in fact and in reality the partnership firm was a sub tenant of the appellant herein.
the question is can the high court do so in law.
the power of the high court to revise the order is contained in section 292 of the bombay rent act as applicable at the relevant time to gujarat the said provision reads as follows 292.
the ambit and power of revision generally and in particular with respect to the provisions with which we are concerned have from time to time come up for consideration by this court.
this court in hari shankar v rao girdhari lal chowdhury1962 1 suppl.
it was held in the majority judgment by hidayatuiiah j as the learned chief justice then was that though section 35 of the delhi and ajmer rent control act was worded in general terms but it did not create a right to have the case re heard.
this court emphasised that the distinction between an appeal and revision is a real one.
a right to appeal carries with it right of re heating on law as well as fact.
the expression according to law in section 35 of the said act referred to the decision as a whole and was not to be equated to errors of law or of fact simpliciter.
this court was of the view that what the high court could see is that there has been no miscarriage of justice and that the decision was according to law in the sense mentioned.
kapur j who delivered a separate judgment however observed that the power under section 351 of the said act of interference by the high court is not restricted to a proper trial according to law or error in regard to onus of proof or proper opportunity of being heard.
it is very much wider than that when in the opinion of the high court the decision is erroneous on the question of law which affects the merits of the case or decision was manifestly unjust the high court is entitled to interfere.
the revisional authority could ensure that there was no miscarriage of justice and the principles of law have been correctly borne in mind the facts had been properly comprehended in that light.
if that was done in a particular case then the fact that the revisional authority or the high court might have arrived to a different conclusion is irrelevant.
this view had also been expressed in the decision of this court in puranchand v motilal1963.
it was observed that under section 392 of the said act the high court could interfere in second appeal only if there was a substantial question of law.
in that case the question whether the appellant was legally married no finding was necessary in the eviction suit.
it was further held that whether there was subletting was not a mixed question of law and fact.
in phiroze bamanji desai v chandrakant m patel ors 1974 3 scr 267 1974 indlaw sc 282 the question involved was whether there was reasonable and bona fide requirement of premises for personal use and occupation as also the question of greater hardship under the bombay rent act and the ambit and scope of the power of section 293 of the said act with which we are concerned came up for consideration.
it was the case of the appellant that in respect of the suit premises he was carrying on his business with respondents.
we are concerned in this appeal with only one of the premises which was involved in suit no 553 of 1969 it is not in dispute and it never was that the premises was being used by bharat neon signs firm being the defendant no 2 in the original suit.
