this civil appeal by special leave is directed against the judgment and decree dated 29th november1977 rendered by a single judge of the gujarat high court in second appeal no 348 of 1973which arose out of regular civil suit no 921 of 1966 filed in the court of joint civil judge baroda civil court by the appellant herein as plaintiff against respondents 1 and 2 herein.
defendants 1 and 2 for redemption of suit properties which were mortgaged as security for certain monies borrowed by the plaintiff from defendant l under two deeds of mortgage executed in the year 1961.
plaintiff filed the suit for redemption of the said mortgages in the year 1966 defendant 2brother of defendanti had been joined in that suit on the allegation that the latter was put in possession of mortgage properties by the former subsequent to the coming into existence of the mortgages.
that suit was resisted by the defendants each of them having filed separate written statements which in sub stance did not differ from each other.
even if the sale of said properties in favour of defendant l it was asserted therein was not proved they continued to be tenants of the said properties on the date of suit as they were tenants even before the date of coming into existence of the mortgages.
such findings were firstly that the defendants had failed to prove that the suit properties were sold in favour of defendant l subsequent to the giving of security of those properties in his favour under the mortgage deeds secondly that the defendants had failed to prove the past tenancy of the suit properties on its view that what was pleaded by them in the written statements was tenancy prior to the date of filing of the suit and thirdly that the mortgages of the suit properties were mortgages by conditional sale.
however the defendants questioned the judgments and decrees of the trial court and the appellate court by filing a second appeal against the same in the high court of gujarat.
a learned single judge of the high court who heard the second appeal while upheld the concurrent findings of the courts below that the deeds of mortgage executed by the plaintiff in respect of the suit properties in favour of defendant l were mortgages by conditional sale and the defendants had failed to prove that there was sale of the suit properties in their favour subsequent to the coming into existence of the said mortgages found that the defendants had raised in their written statements the plea that they were tenants not only prior to the date of suit but also at the time of the filing of the suit and having regard to that plea the suit ought to have been stayed by the civil court and the issue of tenancy should have been referred to the mamlatdar for obtaining a finding from him thereon both under section 85 a of the bt.
al act as it stood before its amendment at the time of filing of the suit and as it stood after its amendment after the filing of the suit.
according 10 him a mortgagee in possession being a person who can not be deemed to be a tenant under section 4 of the bt al act it was not open to the defendants to claim that they were the tenants of suit properties and if that be so question of raising issue of tenancy by the civil court in the suit before it did not arise at all nor was it necessary to refer such issue to the mamlatdar under section 85 a of the bt al act and stay the suit till receipt of the finding on such issue as was directed by the high court in its judgment under appeal.
in support thereof he sought to place reliance on the decisions of this court in shah mathuradas maganlal and co v. nagappa shankarappa malaga and others 1976 indlaw sc 400 and gambangi appalaswamy naldu and others v behara venkataramanayya patro.
in this regard support was sought from the decision of this court in raizada topandas and another v m s gorakhram gokalchand 1963 indlaw sc.
as the said questions could be dealt with appropriately with reference to the statutory provisions which bear upon them it would be convenient to advert to such statutory provisions here.
the transfer of property act1882 tp act 111 a lease of immoveable property determines a b c d in case the interests of the lessee and the lessor in the whole of the property become vested at the same time in one person in the same right.
this act unless there is anything repugnant in the subject or context18 tenant means a person who holds land on lease and include a a person who is deemed to be tenant trader section 4 b a person who is a protected tenant and c a person who is a permanent tenant and the word landlord shall be construed accordingly.
4 a person lawfully cultivating any land belonging to another person shall be deemed to be a tenant if such land is not cultivated personally by the owner and if such person is not a a member of the owner 's family or b a servant on wages payable in cash or kind but not in crop share or a hired labourer cultivating the land under the personal supervision of the owner or any member of the owner 's family or c a mortgagee in possession.
section 85a as it stood before the amendment of this act by gujarat act no 5 of 1973 w e f 3rd march1973.
2 on receipt of such reference from the civil court the competent authority shall deal with and decide such issues in accordance with the provisions of this act and shall communicate its decision to the civil court and such court shall thereupon dispose of the suit in accordance with the procedure applicable thereto.
interests of the lessee and the lessor in the whole of the property become vested at the same time in one person in the same right because of section 11 ld of the t p act.
what is enunciated in section 111 d of the t p act can not be doubted is the doctrine of merger.
former lessor this court dealing with the said question said that all depends upon whether there was an implied surrender of the lessee 's rights when the usufructuary mortgage was executed in his favour by the lessor mortgagor and only if an implied surrender of lossee 's rights could be inferred then the mortgagor would be entitled to have delivery of physical possession upon redemption but not otherwise.
dealing with the question of non merger this court approved the ratio of the decision in shah mathuradas 1976 indlaw sc 400 supra thus in our view there can be no merger of a lease and a mortgage even where the two transactions are in respect of the same property.
the argument which was strenuously advanced on behalf of the appellant plaintiff was that in a suit for redemption filed by the mortgagor in a civil court in respect of property notwithstanding the plea of the defendants claim that they were tenants of that property under the bt al act and under the provisions of that act the issue of tenancy had to be referred by the civil court to the mamlatdar for recording a finding thereon and the civil court can proceed to dispose 0.
we find it difficult to accept the said argument and the aforesaid decision of this court relied upon in support thereof can render no assistance.
the plaint averments were that appellant 1 defendant 1 had appointed the respondent as his commission agent for the sale of the appellants cloth in the shop in question.
the appeal in this court had arisen out of the finding recorded on that issue and in dealing with that matter this court had to consider the true effect of sub section 1 of section 28 of the rents control act to find whether it means that a defendant if raises a claim or question as to the existence of relationship of landlord and tenant between him and plaintiff the jurisdiction of the civil court is ousted even though the plaintiff pleaded that there is only exclusive jurisdiction to decide the case with the court of small causes bombay.
dealing with the matter this court referred to the general principle which covers the question of jurisdiction at the inception of suits which was not disputed thus the plaintiff chooses his forum and files his suit.
then there will be no question of returning the plaint for presentation to the proper court for the plaint as framed would not justify the other kind of court to grant him the relief.
by referring to the material portion of section 28 of the rents control act the argument made on behalf of the appellants was found by this court to be untenable by stating thus we do not think that the section says or intends to say that the plea of the defendant will determine or change the forum.
it does not invest those courts with exclusive power to try questions of title such as questions as between the rightful owner and a trespasser or a licensee for such questions do not arise under the act.
the defence in those written statements was that defendant l and his family members had become tenants of the suit properties in the year 1959 1960 and had continued to be such tenants at the time of mortgage deeds executed in respect of those properties in the year 1961 and thereafter.
it is the judgment and order of the learned single judge of the high court by which he allowed the second appeal and remanded the suit which is appealed against in this civil appeal of the plaintiff as is stated at the outset.
