initially the writ petitions were filed before the high court but after constitution of the tamil nadu taxation special tribunal hereinafter referred to as the tribunal the writ petitions were transferred to the tribunal which held that on application of the principles of promissory estoppel and legitimate expectation the withdrawal of benefit was not sustainable in law.
the state questioned correctness of the judgment before the high court which as noted above held the g o ms and the govt.
letter to be valid reversing the conclusions arrived at by the tribunal.
the high court erroneously came to hold that the state government had not filed any counter.
the materials which were produced before the high court and on the basis of which it is decided that the decision of the government is in order were not even pleaded in the pleadings and during arguments.
in any event the retrospective withdrawal of the benefit on the basis of an executive decision is impermissible.
in response learned counsel for the respondent state submitted that the appellants have failed to adduce any evidence or material to show that were in any way induced by any governmental action to set up industries.
in fact the government of tamil nadu vide g o ms.
the appellants only made representation to government subsequently claiming exemption at par with the cooperative and public sector mills.
the respondents have established their units prior to the government orders granting the subsidy and they have no vested right to claim exemption.
no inducement was made in the government orders to establish the units.
the respondents have not acted on the basis of the government orders for establishing the units.
the grant of subsidy is a concession and the government has got good reasons for modifying the scheme in public interest.
the government has exercised their right to modify the scheme in the interest of public revenue.
but that principle does not create any cause of action which did not exist before so that where a promise is made which is not supported by any consideration the promise can not bring an action on the basis of that promise.
these two appeals involve identical questions and therefore are disposed of by this common judgment after noticing the factual position so far as they are relevant.
the appellants question correctness of the judgment rendered by a division bench of the madras high court which held that the withdrawal of benefits extended to the appellants as subsidy was in order.
the judgment forms subject matter of challenge in these appeals.
in support of the appeals the primary stands raised by the appellants are.
there was no material to show existence of any overriding public interest to rule out application of the aforesaid doctrine there was no scope for retrospective withdrawal.
in any event before withdrawal of the benefits no opportunity of hearing was granted.
the appellants were taken by surprise by production of materials which were not even disclosed to the appellants.
the contents of the files which were produced before the high court and on which reliance was placed to hold against the appellants are not known to the appellants.
in other words there was clear violation of the principles of natural justice.
the high court recorded the following findings on the factual aspects.
no prejudice is caused to the respondents since the scheme was interested to make the units viable and the modified scheme provides for safeguards to that extent.
the order granting subsidy can be withdrawn in public interest.
the stand taken by the present appellants before the tribunal and the high court was rejected.
with reference to the files produced certain factual conclusions were arrived at the correctness of those form the core challenge in these appeals.
estoppel is a rule of equity which has gained new dismensions in recent years.
a new class of estoppel has come to be recognized by the courts in this country as well as in england.
the doctrine of promissory estoppel has assumed importance in recent years though it was dimly noticed in some of the earlier cases.
doctrine of promissory estoppel has been envolved by the courts on the principles of equity to avoid injustice.
in the backdrop let us travel a little distance into the past to understand the evolution of the doctrine of promissory estoppel.
although substantially such a statement is correct and leads to no misunderstanding it does not bring out clearly the basal purpose of the doctrine.
that purpose is to avoid or prevent a detriment to the party asserting the estoppel by compelling the opposite party to adhere to the assumption upon which the former acted or abstained from acting.
this means that the real detriment or harm from which the law seeks to give protection is that which would flow from the change of position if the assumptions were deserted that led to it.
this principle has been evolved by equity to avoid injustice.
it is nether in the realm of contract nor in the realm of estoppel.
no vested right as to tax holding is acquired by a person who is granted concession.
if any concession has been given it can be withdrawn at any time and no time limit should be insisted upon before it was withdrawn.
it was held that the doctrine of promissory estoppel represents a principle evolved by equity to avoid injustice.
it is generally agreed that legitimate expectation gives the applicant sufficient locus standi for judicial review and that the doctrine of legitimate expectation to be confined mostly to right to a fair hearing before a decision which results in negativing a promise or withdrawing an undertaking is taken.
the doctrine does not give scope to claim relief straightway from the administrative authorities as no crystallized right as such involved.
the commercial productions were started in case of appellants in c a No 86062002 i e ponni sugars erode ltd v govt.
as there was no inducement or assurance the question of any promissory estoppel did not arise.
so far as legitimate expectation aspect is concerned it is too well known that the benefit extended can be withdrawn and with this knowledge if the units are set up the principle of legitimate expectation does not apply.
that principle was adopted by this court in union of india v indo afghan agencies ltd air 1968.
so far as this court is concerned it invoked the doctrine in indo afghan agencies 's case 1967 indlaw sc 411 supra in which is was inter alia laid down that even though the case would not fall within the terms of section 115 of the indian evidence act 1872 in short the evidence act which enacts the rule of estoppel it would still be open to a party who had acted on a representation made by the government to claim that the government should be bound to carry out the promise made by it even though the promise was not recorded in the form of a formal contract as required by article 299 of the constitution.
dixon j an australian jurists in grundt v great boulder gold mines prorietary ltd 1939 59 clr 641 aust laid down as under it is often said simply that the party asserting the estoppel must have been induced to act to his detriment.
where a particular mode is prescribed for doing an act and there is no impediment in adopting the procedure the deviation to act in different manner which does not disclose any discernible principle which is reasonable itself small be labelled as arbitrary.
in hindustan development corporation 's case1993 indlaw sc 1085 supra it was observed that decision taken by the authority must be found to be arbitrary unreasonable and not taken in public interest where the doctrine of legitimate expectation can be applied.
if it is a question of policy even by ways of change of old policy the courts can not intervene with the decision.
in a given case whether there are such facts and circumstances giving rise to legitimate expectation would primarily be a question of fact.
as was observed in punjab communications ltd v union of india of others air 1999 sc 1801 1999 indlaw sc 1548 the change in policy can defeat a substantive legitimate expectation if it can be justified on wednesbury reasonableness.
the decision maker has the choice in the balancing of the pros and cons relevant to the change in policy.
its uniqueness lies in the fact that it covers the entire span of time present past and future.
legitimacy of an expectation can be inferred only if it is founded on the sanction of law.
as observed in attorney general for new south wale v quinn 1990 64 australian ljr 327 to strike the exercise of administrative power solely on the ground of avoiding the disappointment of the legitimate expectations of an individual would be to set the courts adrift on a featureless sea of pragmatism.
sc 1823 1964 indlaw sc 103 held that the provisions of the article were only directory and not mandatory in character and if they were not complied with it could still be established as a question of fact that the impugned order was issued in fact by the state government or the governor.
v shree durga oil mills and anr.
the question of legitimate expectation arises according to the appellants after the benefits were granted by the concerned g o ms.
the appellants questioned legality or the g o ms No 989 dated 1 9 1988 directing discontinuance of purchase tax exemption in case of mills which exceeded the ceiling of rs 300 lakes during the period of five years and government letter dated 28 12 1988 which made the aforesaid g o ms No 989 of 1 9 1988 operative retrospectively from 1 4 1988.
the doctrines of promissory estoppel and legitimate expectation were applicable to the facts of the case.
the government 's letter dated 28 12 1988 refers to some decision but in the absence of any authentication as required under article 166 of the constitution of india 1950 in short the constitution the same is ineffective.
No 1294 dated 24 10 1975 granted exemption from purchase tax on sugarcane in favour of sugar mills established in co operative and public sectors in the form of annual subsidy equivalent to purchase tax on sugarcane.
there was no scope for any mis understanding that it applied to any private sector participation in the sphere of sugar manufacturing.
of tamil nadu ors on 27 1 1984 and in c a 86052002 i e bannari amman sugars ltd v commercial tax officer.
on 22 1 1986.
the leading case on the subject is central london property trust ltd v high trees house ltd 1947 1 k b 130.
the rule laid down in high trees case supra again came up for consideration before the king 's bench in combe v bombe 1951 2 k b 215.
