and she was married to appellant No 1.
the appellant No 2 kadubai is the mother of the appellant No 1 and both the appellants were residing in the same house in village palshi.
on the basis of the said accidental death report pw 6 sandeepan kamble police sub inspector visited the house of the accused held inquest on the dead body of bhimabai and thereafter sent the same for post mortem examination.
pw 1 tukaram lodged the fir of the incident at 7 00 p m on 16 september 1991 at p s chikalthana on the basis of which case crime No 144 of 1991 was registered against the appellants under sections 498 a 306 and 304 b ipc.
we have heard learned counsel for the appellants learned counsel for the state of maharashtra and have perused the records.
bhimabai had complained to him that she was not being given proper food clothings and even footwear and occasionally the appellant No 1 used to beat her.
he has admitted that it was appellant No 1 who had sent a person on motorcycle who had given information regarding bhimabai being unwell and that both the appellants were present at the time of her funeral.
he has deposed that on an earlier occasion he had gone along with pw 1 and some others to the house of appellant no 1 to persuade him not to harass bhimabai and to treat her well.
the deceased bhimabai was daughter of pw 1 tukaram eknath tambe resident of village sanjkheda.
for about six months bhimabai was treated well but thereafter the accused started asking her to bring rs 1000 1200 from her parents to meet the household expenses and also for purchasing manure.
whenever bhimabai went to her parental home she used to tell her parents that her husband and mother in law accused appellants were harassing her and used to occasionally beat her.
her father pw 1 tukaram along with some of his relatives went to the house of the accused and tried to persuade them not to ill treat bhimabai.
thereafter the accused treated bhimabai properly but after about four months they again started harassing her.
a few days before nag panchami festival bhimabai came to her parental home and complained that the accused were not giving her proper food clothing and even footwear.
she also told her parents that her husband had asked her to bring an amount of rs 1000 1200 for the purpose of household expenses and manure.
pw 1 then immediately went to the house of the accused along with some of his relatives.
there he saw that bhimabai was lying dead and froth was coming out of her mouth which indicated that she had consumed some poisonous substance.
the learned sessions judge framed charges under sections 498 a 304 b read with section 34 ipc and section 306 read with section 34 ipc against both the appellants.
the appellants pleaded not guilty and claimed to be tried.
the learned sessions judge after consideration of the material on record acquitted the appellants of the charges under sections 498 a and 306 read with section 34 ipc but convicted them under section 304 b ipc and imposed a sentence of 7 years ri thereunder.
the doctors did not find any sign of external or internal injury on the body of the deceased and in their opinion the cause of death was insecticide poisoning.
the viscera were preserved for chemical analysis.
the report of the post mortem examination was admitted by the defence.
it is therefore necessary to briefly examine the evidence of the prosecution witnesses.
1 tukaram father of the deceased has given details of the prosecution version of the incident in his statement in court.
he has deposed that in the marriage he had given rs 20000 as dowry.
initially bhimabai was treated well for about six months but thereafter the appellants started ill treating her.
in his cross examination he has admitted that his statement that he had given rs 20000 in dowry at the time of marriage was incorrect and in fact he had given rs 5000 as dowry and the total expenses incurred in the marriage was about rs 20000.
the explanation appended to sub section 1 of section 304 b ipc says that dowry shall have the same meaning as in section 2 of dowry prohibition act 1961.
section 2 of dowry prohibition act reads as under 2.
being a penal provision it has to be strictly construed.
it is well settled principle of interpretation of statute that if the act is passed with reference to a particular trade business or transaction and words are used which everybody conversant with that trade business or transaction knows or understands to have a particular meaning in it then the words are to be construed as having that particular meaning.
the evidence adduced by the prosecution does not therefore show that any demand for dowry as defined in section 2 of the dowry prohibition act was made by the appellants as what was allegedly asked for was some money for meeting domestic expenses and for purchasing manure.
the appeal before the high court and also in this court has been preferred by the appellants challenging their conviction under section 304 b read with section 34 ipc.
this appeal by special leave has been preferred against the judgment and order dated 23 february 2005 of bombay high court aurangabad bench by which the appeal preferred by the appellants was dismissed and their conviction under section 304 b read with section 34 ipc and sentence of 7 years ri imposed thereunder by the learned sessions judge aurangabad was affirmed.
appasaheb son of sheshrao palaskar about two and half years prior to the date of incident which took place on 15 september 1991.
according to the case of prosecution a sum of rs 5000 and some gold ornaments had been given at the time of marriage of bhimabai.
the case of the prosecution futher is that in the evening of 15 september 1991 a person came from village palshi on a motorcycle and informed pw 1 tukaram that bhimabai was unwell.
the police patil of the village pw 3 sandu mohanrao patil lodged an accidental death report at 9 00 p m on 15 september 1991 at the police station.
after completion of investigation charge sheet was submitted against the appellants and in due course the case was committed to the court of sessions.
the prosecution in order to establish its case examined six wintesses and filed some documentary evidence.
