learned counsel for the respondent state on the other hand supported the impugned judgment of the high court.
u art 226 an order direction or writ is to issue to a person authority or the state.
in a proceeding under that article the person authority or state against whom the direction order or writ is sought is a necessary party.
it is true as submitted by learned counsel for the appellant that the order of the learned single judge nowhere stated that the court was considering the writ petition u art 226 of the constitution of india.
madon j speaking for the court made the following pertinent observations petitions are at times filed both u arts 226 and 227 of the constitution.
leave granted.
learned counsel for the appellant submitted that the order of this court is very clear and the conclusions of the high court that merely limitation was waived is contrary to the clear terms of the earlier order of this court.
it is the nature of the relief sought for and the controversy involved which determines the article which is applicable.
since the impugned order is passed by a learned single judge.
since we had entertained the special leave petition against the learned single judge 's order it would be appropriate to grant three weeks time to the petitioner to prefer the lpa which if otherwise free from defect shall be entertained for being considered on merits.
underlined for emphasis.
a bare reading of the order shows that the direction was to consider the lpa on merits and time was granted to prefer the lpa within three weeks.
the high court was directed to dispose of the lpa on merits if it was otherwise free from defect.
on that score alone the high court 's order is unsustainable.
in addition the high court seems to have gone by the nomenclature gone by the nomenclature i e the discription given in the writ petition to be one u art 227 of the constitution.
the high court did not consider the nature of the controversy and the prayer involved in the writ petition.
an appeal shall lie from a judgment or order passed by the one judge of the high court in exercise of original jurisdiction u art 226 of the constitution of india to a division bench comprising of two judges of the same high court.
it was noted as follows.
that being so the mere fact that the writ petition was styled u art 227 of the constitution is of no consequence.
the high court was therefore not justified in holding that this court 's earlier order only waived the limitation for filing a letters patent appeal.
s 2 of the act reads as follows 21.
a series of decisions of this court has firmly established that a proceeding u art 226 is an original proceeding and when it concerns civil rights it is an original civil proceeding see for instance state of u p v. vijay anand maharaj.
the word finally used in rule 18 of chapter xvii of the appellate side rules does not and can not possibly have the effect of barring a right of appeal conferred by the letters patent.
the findings of the rent controller and resident deputy collector were set aside on the question of habitual defaulter as well as on the ground of bona fide need.
it was observed as follows it is therefore obvious that the writ petition invoking jurisdiction of the high court both u arts 226 and 227 of the constitution had tried to make out a case for the high court 's interference seeking issuance of an appropriate writ of certiorari u art 226 of the constitution of india.
basic averments for invoking such a jurisdiction were already pleaded in the writ petition for the high court 's consideration.
in addition a bare reading of this court 's earlier order shows that the impugned order is clearly erroneous.
challenge in this appeal is to the judgment of a division bench of the madhya pradesh high court dismissing the writ appeal filed by the appellant on the ground that it was not maintainable.
the appeal was filed u s 21 of the m p uchacha nyayalay khand nyaypeth ko appeal adhiniyam2005.
hereinafter referred to as the act it was held that the order was passed in exercise of power of superintendence u art 227 of the constitution of india1950 in short the constitution against which the letters patent appeal is not maintainable.
