on the basis of the aforesaid f i r investigation was taken up initially by p w 40.
subsequently on the basis of the order of the high court such investigation was completed by p w 42 the accused is stated to have been arrested on suspicion on 26 4 2003 on the basis of the statement of the accused prosecution discovered many materials including a knife and a log allegedly used for killing.
challenge in this appeal is to the order of a division bench of madras high court allowing the appeal filed by the respondent hereinafter referred to as the accused the accused was convicted for offence punishable under section 302 of the indian penal code1860 in short the ipc and sentenced to undergo imprisonment for life and to pay a fine of rs 10000 with default stipulation by principal district judge madurai.
he was also convicted for offences punishable under section 392 read with section 397 ipc and sentence to undergo rigorous imprisonment for 10 years and to pay a fine.
background facts in a nutshell are as follows.
the deceased is one mayurani a sri lankan student who was residing in the first floor of the house belonging to one solsimalai p w 1 the accused is also a sri lankan student studying in a different college but staying in the second floor of the same premises.
on opening the window he noticed that mayurani was lying in a pool of blood with her face covered with a bag.
the prosecution relied upon only circumstantial evidence namely confessional statements of the accused leading to recovery of various incriminating materials.
the conviction based on circumstantial evidence has been highlighted by this court in various orders of this court.
it has been observed thus.
in a case based on circumstantial evidence the settled law is that the circumstances from which the conclusion of guilt is drawn should be fully proved and such circumstances must be conclusive in nature.
sir alfred wills in his admirable book wills circumstantial evidence chapter vi lays down the following rules specially to be observed in the case of circumstantial evidence 1 the facts alleged as the basis of any legal inference must be clearly proved and beyond reasonable doubt connected with the factum probandum 2 the burden of proof is always on the party who asserts the existence of any fact which infers legal accountability 3 in all cases whether of direct or circumstantial evidence the best evidence must be adduced which the nature of the case admits 4 in order to justify the inference of guilt the inculpatory facts must be incompatible with the innocence of the accused and incapable of explanation upon any other reasonable hypothesis than that of his guilt 5 if there be any reasonable doubt of the guilt of the accused he is entitled as of right to be acquitted.
there is no doubt that conviction can be based solely on circumstantial evidence but it should be tested by the touch stone of law relating to circumstantial evidence laid down by the this court as far back as in 1952.
pradeshair 1952 sc 343 1952 indlaw sc 89wherein it was observed thus it is well to remember that in cases where the evidence is of a circumstantial nature the circumstances from which the conclusion of guilt is to be drawn should be in the first instance be fully established and all the facts so established should be consistent only with the hypothesis of the guilt of the accused.
again the circumstances should be of a conclusive nature and tendency and they should be such as to exclude every hypothesis but the one proposed to be proved.
in other words there must be a chain of evidence so far complete as not to leave any reasonable ground for a conclusion consistent with the innocence of the accused and it must be such as to show that within all human probability the act must have been done by the accused.
the conditions precedent in the words of this court before conviction could be based on circumstantial evidence must be fully established.
they are 1 the circumstances from which the conclusion of guilt is to be drawn should be fully established.
the circumstances concerned must or should and not may be established 2 the facts so established should be consistent only with the hypothesis of the guilt of the accused that is to say they should not be explainable on any other hypothesis except that the accused is guilty 3 the circumstances should be of a conclusive nature and tendency 4 they should exclude every possible hypothesis except the one to be proved and 5 there must be a chain of evidence so compete as not to leave any reasonable ground for the conclusion consistent with the innocence of the accused and must show that in all human probability the act must have been done by the accused.
the main circumstances relied upon by the prosecution relates to the statements of the accused leading to discovery of materials facts admissible under section 27 of the indian evidence act1872 in short the evidence act.
law is well settled that the prosecution while relying upon the confessional statement leading to discovery of articles under section 27 of the evidence act has to prove through cogent evidence that the statement has been made voluntarily and leads to discovery of the relevant facts.
the scope and ambit of section 27 of the evidence act had been stated and restated in several decisions of this court.
however in almost all such decisions reference is made to the observation of the privy council in pulukuri kotayya v emperor air 1947 pc 67 1946 indlaw pc 23 it is worthwhile to extract such quoted observation it is fallacious to treat the fact discovered within the section as equivalent to the object produced the fact discovered embraces the place from which the object is produced and the knowledge of the accused as to this and the information given must relate distinctly to this fact.
the occurrence allegedly took place in the afternoon of 22 4 2003.
