the appellants challenge the acquisition of their agricultural lands by the state of uttar pradesh for the construction of the district jail of shahjahanpur.
the appellants themselves are bhumidar with transferable rights and are residents of village murchha tehsil puwayan in the district of shahjahanpur uttar pradesh.
the state of uttar pradesh vide its office memorandum dated 25 10 2004 constituted a committee under the chairmanship of the honourable minister of revenue to suggest its recommendations for transfer of prisons situated in the congested areas of various districts.
january2005the said committee recommended to the state government the shifting of the district jails from congested areas to outside the city limits within the district.
leave granted.
after conducting its second and final meeting on 10th.
as per the schedule this shifting was to be done in two phases 1 st phase 1 district jail shahjahanpur 2 district jail azamgarh 3 district jail jaunpur and 4 district jail moradabad 2 nd phase 1 district jail badaun 2 district jail varanasi 3 district jail barielly and 4 district jail muzaffarnagar.
the existing district jail of shahjahanpur constructed in 1870was one of the oldest and required shifting to new premises.
prisons in the districts of lucknow moradabad were added to the list.
this committee was also to evaluate and recommend the means for modernisation of existing old prisons.
one admeasuring 25 89 hectares 63 93 acres in village morchha tehsil puwayan in the district of shahjahanpur.
the concept of public purpose can not remain static for all time to come.
the said definition having suffered several amendments has assumed the character of an inclusive one.
it must be accepted that in construing public purpose a broad and overall view has to be taken and the focus must be on ensuring maximum benefit to the largest number of people.
in construing the concept of public purpose the mandate of art 13 of the constitution that any pre constitutional law can not in any way take away or abridge rights conferred under part iii must be kept in mind.
by judicial interpretation the contents of these part iii rights are constantly expanded.
the meaning of public purpose in acquisition of land must be judged on the touchstone of this expanded view of part iii rights.
the open ended nature of our constitution needs a harmonious reconciliation between various competing principles and the overhanging shadows of socio economic reality in this country.
however the provisions of section 5a inquiry were dispensed with.
the high court also approved the invoking of emergency provisions u s 17 of the act as per the guidelines given in essco fabs private limited and another vs state of haryana and another.
it was urged that it was clear from the counter of the respondent that the contemplation of a new prison was under consideration of the state government for several years.
committee was formed matter was discussed at a leisurely pace at various levels and there is no material fact to justify the abridgement of the appellants right of raising an objection to acquisition and of a hearing under section 5a of the act.
this court finds a lot of substance in the contentions of the appellants.
in connection with land acquisition proceeding whenever the provision of s 17 and its various sub sections including s 174 is used in the name of taking urgent or emergent action and the right of hearing of the land holder under section 5a is dispensed with the court is called upon to consider a few fundamentals in the exercise of such powers.
the concept even though sought to be defined u s 3f of the act is not capable of any precise definition.
even though the concept of public purpose was introduced by pre constitutional legislation its application must be consistent with the constitutional ethos and especially the chapter under fundamental rights and also the directive principles.
therefore the concept of public purpose on this broad horizon must also be read into the provisions of emergency power u s 17 with the consequential dispensation of right of hearing under section 5a of the said act.
if public purpose can be satisfied by not rendering common man homeless and by exploring other avenues of acquisition the courts before sanctioning an acquisition must in exercise of its power of judicial review focus its attention on the concept of social and economic justice.
while examining these questions of public importance the courts especially the higher courts cannot afford to act as mere umpires.
in this context we reiterate the principle laid down by this court in authorised officer thanjavur and another vs s naganatha.
the aforesaid principles in our jurisprudence compel this court to construe any expropriartory legislation like the land acquisition act very strictly.
in dlf qutab enclave complex educational charitable trust vs state of haryana and ors 2003 5 scc 622 2003 indlaw sc 124this court construed the statute on town planning law and held expropriatory statute as is well known must be strictly construed.
the same principle has been reiterated subsequently by a three judge bench of this court in state of maharashtra and anr vs b e billimoria and ors 2003 7 scc 336 2003 indlaw sc 618 in the context of ceiling law.
these principles again found support in the decision of this court in chairman indore vikas pradhikaran vs pure industrial coke and chemicals.
while discussing the ambit and extent of property right this court reiterated that expropriatory legislation must be given strict construction.
in the background of the aforesaid discussion this court proceeds to examine the scope of a person 's right under section 5a of the act.
initially section 5a was not there in the land acquisition act1894 but the same was inserted long ago by the land acquisition amendment act1923 vide s 3 of act 38 of 1923.
the history behind insertion of section 5a in the act of 1894 seems to be a decision of the division bench of calcutta high court in j e d ezra vs the secretary of state for india and ors reported in 7 c w n 249 in that case the properties of ezra were sought to be acquired under the pre amended provision of the act for expansion of the offices of the bank of bengal.
however the judges found that there was no such provision in the act.
the importance and scheme of section 5a was construed by this court in several cases.
as early as in 1964this court in nandeshwar prasad and ors vs u p government and ors.
a of the act.
this court made it clear that declaration u s 6 has to be made only after the appropriate government is satisfied on a consideration of the report made by the collector under section 5a the court however made it clear that only in a case of real urgency the provision of section 5a can be dispensed with.
in hindustan petroleum corporation limited vs darius shahpur chennai and ors.
these appeals have been preferred from the judgment and order of the high court dated 25 11 2009 in writ petitions civil no 464572009.
being aggrieved by the aforesaid notifications the appellants moved a writ petition before the high court u art 226 of the constitution of india.
