brief facts a the appellant accused was working as a head clerk in the traffic cadre section in the office of the senior divisional personnel officer south central railway vijayawada during the period from april1992 to november1997 the nature of duties of the appellant accused included dealing with and processing of the matters like promotions transfers seniority list roster list pay fixation on promotions retirements resignations etc of the personnel.
on 11 11 1997again he went to the office of the appellant but he could not find him on his seat.
13 11 1997when he met the appellant accused he informed him that his request for transfer has been processed and the order is ready and the same has been placed before the a p o for signature and asked him to come on the next day i e on 14 11 1997and demanded rs 200 for releasing the said office order.
one k rama rao the complainant who was examined as pw 1was posted as yard points man grade a under station superintendent south central railway tanuku from december1995 to june1997 in june1997due to excess staff at tanuku.
thereafter he went back to tanuku from where he was subsequently transferred to rajahmundry.
thereafter pw 1 made a representation to his senior officer requesting him for posting at vijayawada cheerala vetapalam or tenali.
later pw 1 was transferred to vijayawada.
again a day after i e on.
on the same daypw 1 reported the matter in writing to the inspector of police central bureau of investigation in short the cbivijayawada.
on 14 11 1997a trap was laid by the cbi officials along with panchas and when the accused demanded and accepted a sum of rs 200 as illegal gratification he was caught red handed along with the money which was recovered from the right hand side pocket of his pant.
the trial court ordered that both the sentences of imprisonment shall run concurrently.
the said conviction and sentence was affirmed by the high court.
emphasis supplied.
the high court as an appellate court once again analysed all the material discussed the oral and documentary evidence and finding that the prosecution had proved the guilt of the accused beyond reasonable doubt concurred with the conclusion arrived at by the trial court and dismissed the appeal of the appellant.
quantum of sentence.
whether requires any reduction.
s 13 deals with criminal misconduct by a public servant.
for clarity we reproduce the said section hereunder criminal misconduct by a public servant 1.
a public servant is said to commit the offence of criminal misconduct a if he habitually accepts or obtains or agrees to accept or attempts to obtain from any person for himself or for any other person any gratification other than legal remuneration as a motive or reward such as is mentioned in section 7 or b if he habitually accepts or obtains or agrees to accept or attempts to obtain for himself or for any other person any valuable thing without consideration or for a consideration which he knows to be inadequate from any person whom he knows to have been or to be or to be likely to he concerned in any proceeding or business transacted or about to be transacted by him or having any connection with the official functions of himself or of any public servant to whom he is subordinate or from any person whom he knows to be interests in or related to the person so concerned or c if he dishonestly or fraudulently misappropriates or otherwise converts for his own use any property entrusted to him or under his control as a public servant or allows any other person so to do or d if he i by corrupt or illegal means obtains for himself or for any other person any valuable thing or pecuniary advantage or ii by abusing his position as a public servant obtains for himself or for any other person any valuable thing or pecuniary advantage or iii.
read with s 132 of the act.
he was also convicted for the offence under s 131dii read with s 132 of the act and sentenced to undergo rigorous imprisonment for one year and fine of rs 500 in default simple imprisonment for one month.
this court referred to the supreme court rules1966 which have been framed u art 145 of the constitution and also considered scope of its power u art 142 as well as order 47.
as a matter of fact the last sentence in para 18 makes it clear that in the facts and circumstances of that case they permitted the appellants to urge all points on merits.
it is not in dispute that the provisions of the prevention of corruption act1988 alone are applicable since the incident occurred on 14 11 1997 i e subsequent to the act.
s 7 of the act relates to public servant taking gratification other than legal remuneration in respect of an official act.
for the purposes of this section known sources of income means income received from any lawful source and such receipt has been intimated in accordance with the provisions of any law rules or orders for the time being applicable to public servant.
thereafter the same was challenged before this court.
this court after holding that the conclusion of the trial court and high court does not suffer from any infirmity considered the alternative submission which related to harshness of sentence.
in that case taking note of the fact that the occurrence took place nearly seven years back and also of the fact that the appellant had suffered custody for more than six months considering all these aspects while maintaining the conviction this court reduced the sentence to the period already undergone.
since the appellant therein was convicted only u s 7 and s 161 cr.
pc the minimum sentence being six months and of the fact that he had suffered custody for more than six months the course adopted by this court is perfectly in order and the same can not be applied to the case on hand wherein the appellant had undergone only 52 days when the minimum sentence was six months u s 7 and one year u s 13.
inasmuch as the conviction on both counts have been confirmed by this court and we are confined to sentence part alone and in view of the minimum sentence prescribed u ss 7 and 13 of the act we are of the view that though long delay may be a ground for reduction of sentence in other cases the same may not be applicable to the case on hand when the statute prescribes minimum sentence.
about the request based on delay that the appellant has lost his job undergone the ordeal all along etc a lenient view be taken in this case it is useful to refer decision of this court in state of m p vs shambhu dayal.
as has been aptly observed in swatantar singh v state of haryana1997 4 scc 14 1997 indlaw sc 1061corruption is corroding like cancerous lymph nodes the vital veins of the body politics social fabric of efficiency in the public service and demoralising the honest officers.
similar claim based on art 142 has been negatived in several decisions by this court we need to refer only the latest decision of this court in manish goel vs rohini goel2010 4 scc 393 2010 indlaw sc 301 the facts in that case are that the parties by persuasion of the family members and friends entered into a compromise and prepared a memorandum of understanding dated 13 11 2009in the proceedings pending before the mediation centre delhi by which they agreed on terms and conditions incorporated therein to settle all their disputes and also for dissolution of their marriage.
however the court rejected the said application vide order dated 01 12 2009 observing that the court was not competent to waive the required statutory period of six months under the act and such a waiver was permissible only under the directions of the supreme court as held by this court in anil kumar jain vs maya jain2009.
the relevant paras which are useful may be quoted we are fully alive of the fact that this court has been exercising the power u art 142 of the constitution for dissolution of marriage where the court finds that marriage is totally unworkable emotionally dead beyond salvage and has broken down irretrievably even if the facts of the case do not provide a ground in law on which the divorce could be granted.
decree of divorce has been granted to put quietus to all litigations between the parties and to save them from further agony as it is evident from the judgments in romesh chander v savitri.
generally no court has competence to issue a direction contrary to law nor can the court direct an authority to act in contravention of the statutory provisions.
an order which this court can make in order to do complete justice between the parties must not only be consistent with the fundamental rights guaranteed by the constitution but it can not even be inconsistent with the substantive provisions of the relevant statutory laws.
the constitution benches of this court in supreme court bar assn v. union of india 1998 4 scc 409 1998 indlaw sc 688 and e s p rajaram v union of india 2001 2 scc 186 2001 indlaw sc 20411 held that u art 142 of the constitution this court can not altogether ignore the substantive provisions of a statute and pass orders concerning an issue which can be settled only through a mechanism prescribed in another statute.
this court held as under sympathy or sentiment by itself can not be a ground for passing an order in relation whereto the appellants miserably fail to establish a legal right.
despite an extraordinary constitutional jurisdiction contained in art 142 of the constitution of india this court ordinarily would not pass an order which would be in contravention of a statutory provision.
in laxmidas morarji v behrose darab madan 2009 10 scc 425 2009 indlaw sc 1154while dealing with the provisions of art 142 of the constitution this court has held as under.
though the supreme court would not pass any order u art 142 of the constitution which would amount to supplanting substantive law applicable or ignoring express statutory provisions dealing with the subject at the same time these constitutional powers can not in any way be controlled by any statutory provisions.
the power is to be used sparingly in cases which can not be effectively and appropriately tackled by the existing provisions of law or when the existing provisions of law can not bring about complete justice between the parties.
after elaborately discussing almost all the case laws on this subject about jurisdiction of this court under article 142summarised the same in the following words therefore the law in this regard can be summarised to the effect that in exercise of the power u art 142 of the constitution this court generally does not pass an order in contravention of or ignoring the statutory provisions nor is the power exercised merely on sympathy.
in mota ram vs state of haryana2009 12 scc 727 2009 indlaw sc 682this court while reiterating the above principles has concluded that art 142 can not be exercised to negate the statutory provisions.
in academy of nutrition improvement and others vs union of india jt 2011 8 sc 16 2011 indlaw sc 515the following conclusion about the applicability of art 142 is relevant.
this appeal is directed against the final judgment and order dated 03 10 2007 passed by the high court of judicature andhra pradesh at hyderabad in criminal appeal no 436 of 2001 whereby the high court dismissed the appeal filed by the appellant herein and confirmed the judgment dated 19 03 2001 passed by the special judge c b i cases visakhapatnam in c c no 2 of 1998.
he was instructed to report at head quarters vijayawada and accordingly when he reported there he was asked to go back to tanuku.
as the appellant accused was dealing with the transfers the complainant pw 1 met him on 05 11 1997 at his office to pursue about the issuance of the said transfer order.
