this is an appeal on a certificate article 1331 of the constitution from a judgment and decree passed by the appellate bench of the high court of calcutta.
on the 10th june 1891 he made and published his last will and testament whereby he dedicated to this family idol.
no 41 and no 401.
grey street in the city of calcutta.
he appointed his two sons rajendra and jogendra executors of ms will and provided that his second wife golap sundari and the two sons rajendra and jogendra should perform the seva of the deity and on their death their heirs and successors would be entitled to perform the seva.
dwarka nath died on the 16th march 1892 leaving him surviving his widow golap sundari and his two sons rajendra and jogendra.
on the 19th july 1899 rajendra made and published his last will and testament whereby he confirmed the dedication made by dwarka nath with regard to premises nos.
41 and 401 grey street and appointed his brother jogendra the sole executor thereof.
he died on the 31st january1900 and jogendra obtained on the 24th april 1900.
probate of his said will.
probate of the will of dwarka nath was also obtained by jogendra on the 31st august 1909.
on the 4th september 1909 bhupendra jnanendra.
and nagendra then a minor the three sons of rajendra filed a suit being suit no 969 of 1909on.
41 grey street was allotted to the branch of rajendra and the remaining portion was allotted to jogendra absolutely and in consideration of a sum of rs 6500 to be paid to the plaintiffs jogendra was declared entitled absolutely to the premises.
41 grey street allotted to the branch of rajendra was subsequently numbered 41 a grey street.
jogendra died on the 5th august 1911 leaving a will whereby he appointed his widow sushilabala the executrix thereof.
she obtained probate of the will on the 6th august 1912.
disputes arose between bhupendra jnanendra and nagendra the sons of rajendra and one kedar nath ghosh was appointed arbitrator to settle those disputes.
nagendra thereafter executed several mortgages of the said premises.
a consent decree was passed in the said suit on the 9th september 1929.
dutt and durga charan dutt for a sum of rs 19000.
a petition made by the purchasers on the 12th january 1937 for setting aside the sale was rejected by the court on the 15th march 1937.
on the 19th july 1948 the family idol of dwarka nath sree sree iswar sridhar jew by its next friend debabrata ghosh the son of nagendra filed the suit out of which the present appeal arises against the appellants as also against susilabala and the two sons of jogendra by her amongst others for a declaration that the premises nos.
andor rajendra relating to the said premises or any of them purporting to affect its rights in the said premises were invalid and inoperative in law and not binding on it for an account of the dealings with the said premises for a scheme of management of the debutter properties and for its worship for discovery receiver injunction and costs.
a certificate article 1331 of theconstitution was granted on the 4th june 1951 and the high court admitted the appeal finally on the 6th august 1951.
it was contended on behalf of the appellants that the dedication of the premises.
it was further contended that nagendra by virtue of the award dated the 12th october 1920 claimed to be absolutely entitled to the premises.
No 41 grey street together with land thereunder to the said sri sri issur sridhar jew.
on my demise none of my heirs and representatives shall ever be competent to take the income of the said land No 401 and spend the samefor household expenses.
in respect of the said two properties will be paid for the purpose of the carrying on the daily and periodical sheba and the festivals etc of the said sri issur sridhar jew salagram sila thakur my said second wife srimati golap moni dasi and 1st sriman rajendara nath and 2nd sriman jogendra nath ghose born of the womb of my first wife on living in the said house.
and shall take the municipal bills in his name.
3 of the will is an absolute dedication of the premises.
it was observed by lord buckmaster in delivering the judgment of the privy council in gnanendra nath das v surendra nath das 1920 24 c w n 1926 at p 1030.
in that case it is provided that the shebait for the time being shall be entitled to reside with his family in the said dwelling house but the dwelling house itself is the place specially set apart for the family idols to which specific reference is made in the will and in their lordships opinion the gift is only a perfectly reasonable arrangement to secure that the man in whose hands the supervision of the whole estate is vested should have associated with his duties the right to reside in this named dwelling place.
41 grey street to the idol was an absolute dedication.
if nagendra was thus a sevayat of the idol it could not be urged that his possession could in any manner whatever be adverse to the idol and his dealings with the said premises in the manner he purported to do after the 12th october 1920 could not be evidence of any adverse possession against the idol.
cal 54 1932 indlaw cal 59.
but in the present case we have to see whether the possession of two joint shebaits becomes adverse to the idol when they openly claim to divide the property between them.
i am quite unable to hold that it does because such a change of intention can only be brought home to the idol by means of the shebait s knowledge and the idol can only react to it by the shebait.
adverse possession in such circumstances is a notion almost void of content.
against the shebaits on the idol s behalf and in the present case it may be said that the acts of the shebaits must have i been notorious in the family.
but such persons have no legal duty to protect the endowment and until the shebait is removed or controlled by the court he alone can act for the idol.
no shebait can so long as he continues to be the sevait ever claim adverse possession against the idol.
neither nagendra nor the appellants who derive their title from the auction sale held on the 9th december 1936 could therefore claim to have perfected their title to the premises.
grey street by adverse possession.
he result therefore is that the appeal fails and must stand dismissed with costs.
