dividend on ordinary shares being the maximum that could be paid under the public companies limitation of dividend ordinance of 1948 and also paid to the workers their full share of bonus at annas 4 in a rupee of their basic earnings.
below those obtained in 1948.
there was moreover indiscipline amongst the workers and production suffered.
a sum of rs 250000 being the excess reserve for taxation was written back and a sum of rs 1001871 13 5 being the amount of reserve transferred from the investment account was also brought in.
the balance which had been brought forward from the previous year was added thereto and a dividend of 2434 per cent.
the conciliation board by a majority decision repelled the contention of the appellant and awarded the payment of bonus at annas 4 per rupee.
the appellant filed this appeal against that decision after obtaining special leave from this court.
that the dividend of 2434 per cent.
the oxford concise dictionary defines it as something to the good into the bargain and as an example gratuity to workmen beyond their wages.
it is classified amongst the methods of wage payment.
it is usually intended as a stimulus to extra effort but sometimes represents the desire of the employer to share with his workers the fruits of their common enterprise.
the pocket part of the corpus juris secundum volume xi under the heading as compensation for services quotes the following passage from attorney general v city of woburn 317 mass 465 the word bonus is commonly used to denote an increase in salary or wages in contracts of employment.
the offer of a bonus is the means frequently adopted to secure continuous service from an employee to enhance his efficiency and to augment his loyalty to his employer and the employee s acceptance of the offer by performing the things called for by the offer binds employer to pay the bonus so called.
it also gives another meaning of the word bonus viz increased compensation for services already rendered gratuitously or for a prescribed compensation where there is neither express or implied understanding that additional compensation may be granted.
the same would ripen into a legally enforceable claim.
t l r 294 297 where the earl of birkenhead observed the term bonus may of course be properly used to describe payments made of grace and not as of right.
a c 166 i87 this payment if made can not properly in my opinion be regarded as a mere gratuity.
but second the meaning of the word bonus is not given to it by the objection.
d l r 25 233.
a bonus may be a mere gift or gratuity as a gesture of goodwill and not enforceable or it may be something which an employee is entitled to on the happening of a condition precedent and is enforceable when the condition is fulfilled.
it generally represents the cash incentive given conditionally on certain standards of attendance and efficiency being attained.
2 l l j 247as.
both labour and capital contribute to the earnings of the industrial concern it is fair that labour should derive some benefit if there is a surplus after meeting prior or necessary charges and the following were prescribed as the first charges on gross profits viz 1 provision for depreciation 2 reserves for rehabilitation 3 a return at 6 per cent.
the surplus that remained after meeting the aforesaid deductions would be available for distribution as bonus.
it is therefore clear that the claim for bonus can be made by the employees only if as a result of the joint contribution of capital and labour the industrial concern has earned profits.
if in any particular year the working of the industrial concern has resulted in loss there is no basis nor justification for a demand for bonus.
bonus is not a deferred wage.
because if it were so it would necessarily rank for precedence before dividends the dividends can only be paid out of profits and unless and until profits are made no occasion or question can also arise for distribution of any sum as bonus amongst the employees.
i l l j 466this was also the basis of the demand of the respondent in the case before us its case being that the appellant had reaped substantial profits during the year 1949.
as at present advised a claim for bonus which had been rested on profits earned should ordinarily be determined on the basis of the profits earned in the year under claim and that the scale of bonus should be determined on the quantum of profits earned in the year.
so it would follow that if there is trading loss in the year under claim bonus should not ordinarily be awarded.
considerations of social justice can not be disregarded altogether in relations between capital and labour.
the labour appellate tribunal did not accept the contention of the respondent that bonus should be linked to dividends nor did it rest its decision on the respondent having a right title and interest in the reserves and the undistributed profits of the appellant.
linking of bonus to dividend would obviously create difficulties.
a transfer of moneys from these reserves or the undistributed profits would therefore not enure for the benefit of the workers.
no further claimed payment of bonus out of those reserves or undistributed profits can therefore survive.
the labour force which earns the profits of a particular year by collaborating with the employers is distinct from the one which contributed to the profits of the previous years and there is no continuity between the labour forces which are employed in the industrial concern during the several years.
the considerations of social justice imported by the labour appellate tribunal in arriving at the decision in favour of the respondent were not only irrelevant but untenable.
social justice is a very vague and indeterminate expression and no clear cut definition can be laid down which will cover all the situations.
attempted to give a definition in the following terms social justice connotes the balance of adjustments of the various interests concerned in the social and economic structure of the state in order to promote harmony upon an ethical and economic basis and he stated that there were three parties concerned here viz the employers the labour and the state itself and the conception of social justice had to be worked out in this context.
in our full bench decision see 1950 2 l l j 1247 we carefully considered the question of social justice in relation to bonus and there we equated the rights and liabilities of employers and workmen with a view to achieving a just formula for the computation of bonus.
it is also significant to note that even while importing considerations of social justice the labour appellate tribunal was oblivious of the fact that it was by their own acts of indiscipline and strike that the workers of the appellant company themselves contributed to the trading losses incurred by the appellant and it hardly lay in their mouth then to contend that they were none the less entitled to a payment of bonus commensurate with the dividend paid to the shareholders out of the undistributed profits of the previous years.
ordinance of 1948 the whole of the profits of 1948 could have been distributed after paying the workers bonus in that year of four annas in the rupee.
the appeal will accordingly be allowed with costs.
