act liii of 1961 hereinafter referred to as the act which in view of s 21 of the act is the law applicable even to women workers employed in plantations.
it appears that in october1967subbammal respondent no 2 herein who is a woman worker employed in mount stuart estate hereinafter referred to as the establishmentwhich is carrying on plantation industry was allowed leave of absence by the establishment on the basis of a notice given by her of her expected delivery which actually took place on december 161967 after her delivery the respondent was paid by her employers on account of maternity benefit an amount equivalent to what she would have earned on the basis of her average daily wage in 72 working days falling within twelve week s of the maternity period.
dissatisfied with this computation the respondent made a representation to her employers claiming maternity benefit for the entire period of twelve weeks under the act i e for 84 days on the plea that a week consisted of seven days.
dissatisfied with this decision the establishment has already stated come up in appeal to this court by special leave.
we place on record our deep appreciation of the valuable assistance rendered to us by both of them.
assailing the judgment and order under appeal mr pai has urged that since legislative intent as revealed from the scheme of s 51 of the act is to compensate the woman worker who expects delivery for the loss that her forced absence from work on account of pregnancy and confinement may entail the liability which has to be imposed on her employer can not exceed the amount that she would have earned if she had not been compelled to avail of the maternity leave and since sunday is a non working wageless day the employer can not be made to pay for that day.
in support of his contention.
cochin v.
i c 848  a i r 1975.
ker 86 1974 indlaw ker 91and to convention no 103 concerning maternity protection convention revised1952 adopted by the general conference of the international labour organisation.
bhatt has on the other hand urged that the scheme of s 5 of the act clearly indicates that a woman worker who expects delivery had to be paid maternity benefit for all the seven days of the week including sundays falling within the ante natal and post natal periods specified in the section.
for a proper determination of the question involved in the appeal it would we think be useful to refer to certain provisions of the act which have a bearing on the subject matter of the controversy before us.
2 incentive bonus and 3 the money value of the concessional supply of food grains and other articles but does not include.
i any bonus other than incentive bonus ii over time earnings and any deduction or payment on account of fines iii any contribution paid or payable by the employer to any pension fund or provident fund or for the benefit of the woman under any law for the time being in force and iv any gratuity payable on the termination of service.
no woman shall be entitled to maternity benefit unless she has actually worked in an establishment of the employer from whom she claims maternity benefit for a period of not less than one hundred and sixty days in the twelve months immediately preceding the date of her expected delivery.
provided that the qualifying period of one hundred and sixty days aforesaid shall not apply to a woman who has immigrated into the state of assam and was pregnant at the time of the immigration.
for the purpose of calculating under this sub section the days on which a woman has actually worked in the establishment the days for which she has been laid off during the period of twelve months immediately preceding the date of her expected delivery shall be taken into account.
provided that where a woman dies during this period the maternity benefit shall be payable only for the days up to and including the day of her death.
s 6 of the act which deals with notice of claim for maternity benefit and payment thereof is to the following effect 6 notice of claim for maternity benefit and payment thereof.
the benefit has to be calculated for the aforesaid two periods on the basis of the average daily wage.
according to the explanation appended to s 51 of the act the average daily wage has to be computed taking into consideration the average of the woman s wager payable to her for the days on which she has worked during the period of three calendar months immediately preceding the date from which she absents herself on account of maternity or one rupee a day whichever is higher.
for fixing the average daily wage it has therefore first to be ascertained whether the wages with were paid or were payable to the woman was for time work or for piece work.
it has next to be ascertained as to what were the cash wages paid or payable to her in terms of the definition contained in s 3 n of the act for the days on which she worked during the period of three calendar months immediately preceding the date of delivery reckoned according to the british calendar month.
after thus finding out the average daily wage the liability of the employer in respect of the maternity benefit has to be calculated in terms of s 5 of the act for both ore natal and post natal period indicated above.
in the shorter oxford english dictionary third editionthe word week has been described as meaning the cycle of seven days recognized in the calendar of the jews and thence adopted in the calendars of christian mohammedan and various other peoples.
seven days as a term for periodical payments of wagerrent or the likeor as a unit of reckoning for time of work or service.
a week according to halsbury s laws of england.
revised1952 adopted by the general conference of the international labour organisation which are extracted below for facility of reference art 4.
in view of what we have stated above we can not uphold the view of the law expressed by the full bench of kerala high court in malayalam plantations ltd inspector of plantations mundakayam ors 1974 indlaw ker 91 supra.
in the result the appeal fails and is hereby dismissed.
although costs have to be paid by appellant to respondent no 2 in terms of the court s order dated october 301975yet in view of the fact that the said respondent has not chosen to appear at the hearing of the case and mr k n bhat has assisted the court as amicus curiae we direct the appellant to pay rs 1000 to mr bhat as his fee.
