he was also to be the chairman of the departmental promotion committee for non ministerial post of the revenue department.
appointments were made on 11 09 199722 11 1997 and 5 12 1997 a sample copy of the offer of appointment reads as under no 11497 com rev on the recommendation of d p c and under the directives issued by the honourable gauhati high court the following persons are hereby appointed as mandols on temporary basis in the scale of pay of rs 950 20 1150 eb 25 1400 per month with usual allowances against thereto existing clear vacancies of mandals under revenue department from the date of their joining on duties.
2 further they are posted at the places indicate against their names 3 the expenditure is debitable under appropriate heads of accounts of the departments offices concerned.
no record in regard to the said recruitments was maintained.
an inquiry was therefore made to find out the authority which had issued the said offers of appointments.
shri tayeng by a uo note dated 12 01 1998 denied to have made such an appointment stating confidential u o no 21593 com r pt.
1998 sub submission of report.
dated 6th january1998 regarding the alleged appointment of ad hoc regular appointment to the post of lambus mandols.
shri robert shaiza was instructed to take care.
i therefore deny making of such appointments.
on the other hand md.
a r khan secretary revenue has made many appointments of mandols process servers zilladars in the recent months against which i have been complaining that the secretary revenue has no power or authority to make any appointments of field staff as per rules provided under m l r act1960 in this regard i have apprised the matter to the honourable minister revenue already and also informed the chief secretary manipur explaining that the secretary revenue can not make such appointments of field staffs even if he wanted to do so all the relevant files should have been routed through the undersigned so that the same may be brought to the notice of the honourable minister revenue his action has created lots of misunderstanding and confusion.
he has been making false and wrong allegations against the commissioner revenue and putting him false position.
it is for this reason i have been writing to all the deputy commissioners in the districts even by sending w t messages clarifying the actual position of making any appointment of revenue field staff.
i still deny that i have made any appointment of field staffs of revenue department during the recent months.
sd 12198 annayok j tayeng.
govt of manipur minister revenue.
in view of the aforementioned stand taken by the said shri tayeng the offers of appointment issued in favour of the respondents were cancelled by an order dated 17 02 1998 a corrigendum thereto was however issued on 21 02 1998 stating no 21593 comrev.
i also issued appointment order under my signature.
after my retirement from service i have no access to such files.
as stated above i was transferred and posted to the manipur electronics development corporation during 1997.
4 that after my retirement some of the writ petitioners civil rule no 568 of 1998came to me and show copy of the writ petition and the counter affidavit of the respondent no 12 and 3 i have gone through the copy of the writ petition and the counter affidavit and annexures thereto.
com rev dated 11 9 97 annexure a1 to the writ petition appointing 3 persons to the post of mandol and no 11497 com rev.
dated 11 9 97 annexure a2 to the writ petition appointing 4 persons to the post of mandol are perused by me minutely.
i submit that these appointment orders annexures a1 and a2 bear my signature initial and appear to have been issued under my signature.
it appears that the appointment orders were issued after complying the formalities prescribed there for which can be ascertained from the relevant official file.
chief election commissioner delhi and ors air 1978 sc 851 1977 indlaw sc 53.
so far as the matter relating to civil appeal arising out of slp c no 19375 19376 of 2005 is concerned it was directed that as the appointment of the respondents were made for a period of six months the employees were only entitled to the salary for the said period.
mr jaideep gupta learned senior counsel appearing on behalf of the appellants would submit that the high court went wrong in passing the impugned judgment insofar as it failed to take into consideration that in a case of this nature it was not necessary to comply with the principles of natural justice.
air 1958 sc 36 1957 indlaw sc 103murugayya udayar and another.
1991 supp 1 scc 331 1991 indlaw sc 904 and kumari shrilekha vidyarthi and others v state of u p and others 1991 1 scc 212 1990 indlaw sc 463.
any action which had not been taken by an authority competent therefor and in complete violation of the constitutional and legal framework would not be binding on the state.
in any event having regard to the fact that the said authority himself had denied to have issued a letter there was no reason for the state not to act pursuant thereto or in furtherance thereof.
he was merely put a chairman of the dpc for non ministerial post of the revenue department.
even the affidavit affirmed by shri tayeng before the high court in this behalf is silent.
he therefore was wholly incompetent to issue the appointment letters.
in a case of this nature where the facts are admitted the principles of natural justice were not required to be complied with particularly when the same would result in futility.
it is true that where appointments had been made by a competent authority or at least some steps have been taken in that behalf the principles of natural justice are required to be complied with in view of the decision of this court in murugayya udayar 1991 indlaw sc 904 supra.
in kumari shrilekha vidyarthi 1990 indlaw sc 463 suprathis court was dealing with a question in regard to continuance of the law officers.
it was held 34 in our opinion the wide sweep of art 14 undoubtedly takes within its fold the impugned circular issued by the state of u p in exercise of its executive power irrespective of the precise nature of appointment of the government counsel in the districts and the other rights contractual or statutory which the appointees may have.
it is for this reason that we base our decision on the ground that independent of any statutory right available to the appointees and assuming for the purpose of this case that the rights flow only from the contract of appointment the impugned circular issued in exercise of the executive power of the state must satisfy art 14 of the constitution and if it is shown to be arbitrary it must be struck down.
35 it is now too well settled that every state action in order to survive must not be susceptible to the vice of arbitrariness which is the crux of art 14 of the constitution and basic to the rule of law the system which governs us.
arbitrariness is the very negation of the rule of law.
in parshotam lal dhingra 1957 indlaw sc 103.
chief constable of the thames valley police forces ex p cotton by giving six reasons see also his article should public law remedies be discretionary.
a detailed and emphatic criticism of the useless formality theory has been made much earlier in natural justice substance or shadow by prof d h clark of canada 1975 pl27 63 contending that malloch and glynn were wrongly decided.
foulkes craig and others say that the court can not prejudge what is to be decided by the decision making authority de smith says courts have not yet committed themselves to any one view though discretion is always with the court.
in kendriya vidyalaya sangathan 2002 indlaw sc 287 suprait was held it is clear that if after the termination of services of the said dr k c rakesh the orders of appointment are issued such orders are not valid.
if such appointment orders are a nullity the question of observance of principles of natural justice would not arise.
it is necessary to emphasize that the state did not proceed on the basis that the amendment to the rules was not necessary.
for the reasons aforementioned the impugned judgments can not be sustained.
