an ex parte order of injunction was passed on 19 12 1985 against the defendant appellant herein to the following effect.
notice for april 81986 meanwhile a temporary ex parte injunction is issued against the defendants restraining them from manufacturing or selling either themselves or through any dealer or representative diesel oil engines or parts thereof with the trade mark field marshal andor any other trade mark identical therewith and all goods falling in cl 7 of the trade and merchandise mark rules.
indisputably during the proceedings in the above suit m s.
one of the stipulations contained therein reads as under that the party of the second part has satisfied the party of the first part of having used the mark field marshal in respect of centrifugal pumps and valves since 1973.
indisputably appellant filed an application in form tm 24 on 17 6 1986 the assistant registrar trade marks passed an order on 10 11 1986 certifying that the trade mark field marshal brand word per se is registered under no 228867 in part a of the register as of the date 13th.
may1965 in class 7 in respect of flour mills circulating and centrifugal pumps coupling for machines pulleys included in class 7and valves parts of machines in the name of pooran chand jain and kailash chand jain trading as jain industries1166phatak.
that pursuant to a request on form tm 23 dated 17th june1986 and order thereon dated 24th october1986.
ganga ram anil kumar hufsunil kumar and sumitra rani trading as thukral mechanical works railway road sirhind punjab are registered as subsequent proprietors of this mark as from 30th may1986 by virtue of agreement dated 30th may1986 and.
may1986 and may be renewed at the expiration of that period and of each succeeding period of a seven years.
in the said c o no 9 of 1986 filed by the first respondent against m s jain industries despite service of notice nobody appeared on behalf of the defendant 16 1 1987 was the date fixed in the said suit.
appellant s counsel appeared on that date and inter alia contended that presently it was the registered owner of the trade mark which was sought to be cancelled.
mr singh has filed a reply in this petition bringing out that presently he is the registered owner of the trademark which is sought to be cancelled in this petition.
in view of this situation learned counsel for the petitioner has submitted that he may be permitted to withdraw this petition with permission to file a fresh petition on this very cause of action after impleading m s thakural mechanical works etc.
let the statement of learned counsel for the petitioner be recorded.
statement of shri k l aggarwal counsel for petitioner without oath.
in view of the submissions of m s thakural mechanical works i may be permitted to withdraw this petition with permission to file a fresh petition on this very cause of action.
i have no objection if the petitioner is permitted to withdraw this petition with permission to file a fresh petition on this very cause of action.
against m s jain industries and the dy.
registrar of trade marks under section 4656 and 107 of the trade and merchandise marks act1958 for rectification of entry relating to the registered trade mark no 228867 in class 7 after.
in these circumstances the request of the plaintiff is granted and petitioner is permitted to withdraw this petition and file a fresh petition on this very cause of action.
a fresh application was filed by the first respondent.
the cause of action is continuous from day to day till the impugned registration is cancelled rectified.
correctness or otherwise of the said order has not been questioned.
a writ petition was filed there against by the first respondent.
a learned single judge of the delhi high court however refused to stay the operation of the order of the board dated 27 10 2004 an appeal was preferred there against.
section 56 power to cancel or vary registration and to rectify the register  1.
on application made in the prescribed manner to a high court or to the registrar by any person aggrieved the tribunal may make such order as it may think fit for cancelling or varying the registration of a trade mark on the ground of any contravention or failure to observe a condition entered on the register in relation thereto.
indisputably the scope of the provisions for removal from register in terms of s 46 and 56 of the act stand on different footings.
for the purpose of appreciation of the rival contentions we may notice the findings of the board as also the high court.
the act was enacted to provide for the registration and better protection of trademarks and for the prevention of the use of fraudulent marks of merchandise.
it is in the aforementioned situation we are called upon to determine the meaning of the words for the time being occurring in s 461b of the act.
3 scc 576 1992 indlaw sc 1107 or in the context of cl 22 of art 366 of the constitution as has been held in h h maharajadhiraja.
madhav rao jivaji rao scindia bahadur of gwalior h h maharajadhiraja.
sc 530 1970 indlaw sc 300 para 88 to mean by the use of the expression for the time being in cl 22 of art 366.
it confers an exclusive right of use of the trade mark in relation to the goods in which the trade mark is registered.
indisputably it would be the registered proprietor.
s 46 is a penal provision.
it provides for civil or evil consequences.
a registered proprietor of a trade mark should not be permitted to circumvent the law of user of the trade mark for a long time by assigning the same from time to time.
allegation of trafficking is a serious one.
renewal of registration in a sense also is not automatic.
as a person obtains a right on and from the date of registration andor renewal thereof he can ordinarily be deprived of his right unless it is shown that the assignment thereof by his holder was not a bona fide one or had been made by way of camouflage.
if the assignee has obtained assignment for bona fide use he may not be fastened with any liability owing to non user on the part of his predecessor.
in other words the mistake of the predecessor should not be visited with non use of the present registered owner.
cls a and b operate in different fileds.
had the intention of the parliament been that sub s 3 covers cases falling under cl b and clause ahaving regard to the similarity of the expressions used there was no reason as to why it could not be stated so explicitly.
such non user for a temporary period may be due to any exigency including a bar under a statute or a policy decision of the government or any action taken against the registrant.
it was observed that in cases of intermittent use also cl b shall apply.
in kabushiki kaisha toshiba this court relied upon hardie trading ltd anr.
that the appellant was an infringer both of the right of m s jain industries as also the first respondent and thus its use was not bona fide in a case of this nature can not be accepted.
if appellant infringed the right of m s jain industries it was for it to take action there for.
prima facie therefore appellant has been held to be the registered owner of the trade mark.
but it is another thing to say that the appellant could be proceeded against alone for non user of the registered trade mark for a period of more than five years.
the clause is proposed to be modified to clarify that special circumstances in the trade will include restrictions imposed by any law or regulation on the use of trade mark in india.
consequential amendments have been made to cover services cl 47 of the bill.
such an application may be maintainable in terms of s 56 of the act but strictly not in terms of s 461b thereof and that too in the absence of the original registered proprietor.
it only consented for grant of liberty in favour of the first respondent for filing of an application for the self same cause of action.
its non user and rectification of the register could not in the aforementioned situation have been tagged with the cause of action if any against the appellant.
it is not correct that no cause of action survived against jain industries.
both the appellant and the respondent no 1 were the infringers of the right of m s jain industries as it was the registered proprietor of the trade mark in respect of the goods in question namely centrifugal pumps.
as it takes away somebody s right it deserves strict construction.
jurisdiction of the board being dependent on determination of the foundational facts the same was required to be established on the basis of the averments made in the application and not otherwise.
it does not provide for a sun set law.
so long as the right to assign a registered trade mark remains valid once the same is validly assigned the assignee derives the same right as that of the assignor in terms of the statute.
a title to a trade mark derived on assignment as provided for under the act can not be equated with a defective title acquired in any other property as admittedly on the date of assignment the right of the registered trade mark was not extinguished.
both the findings of the high court which we have noticed hereinbefore are findings on question of law and in that view of the matter the contention of mr sudhir chandra that the merit of the matter is yet to be gone into by the board can not be a ground for ignoring the submissions made at the bar.
it would appear that neither the u k act nor the indian act at any time envisaged that the commencement of 5 year period of non use is to be delinked from the date of registration of the mark so as to give a fresh lease of life to the registration every time there is change in the ownership of the mark.
if that be so any registered proprietor could easily defeat an application for rectification by assigning the mark to some other person to have a fresh period of 5 years from the date of assignment and thus effectively frustrate the very object of the provision in s 471a and b further it is to be noted that an assignment is subject to the provisions of the act and any rights vested in any other person see.
if his title is not extinguished by reason of a provision of a statute for non user of the trade mark for a period of five years any assignment made shall be valid subject to such situation which we have noticed in paragraph 25 supra.
for the views we have taken we are of the opinion that the impugned judgment can not be sustained.
it is set aside accordingly.
the board shall however proceed to determine afresh the application filed by the first in the light of the legal principles explained above.
the appeal is allowed with costs.
counsel s fee assessed at rs 100000.
