it was an arranged marriage.
at the time of marriage it was promised that a dowry of rs 25000 besides other formalities would be paid by the side of the wife to the husband.
out of this amount a sum of rs 15000 was paid at that time and it was promised that the balance dowry of rs 10000 would be paid in the month of october2002upon which the marriage was performed.
the accused pathan hussain basha his father pathan khadar basha and mother pathan nazeer abi forced her to get the balance amount of dowry.
despite such pressure she was not able to get that money from her family.
she was unable to bear the cruelty to which she was subjected by the accused persons.
on 15th february2003at about 11 a m the deceased committed suicide by hanging herself in the house of the accused.
subsequently lw 3 pathan basheerunnisa sent her grandson pathan inayatullah khan lw 4 to the house of the parents of the deceased to inform them about the incident.
however upon medical examination by the doctor she was declared brought dead.
the father of the deceased pathan yasin khan lw 1 and her mother pathan shamshad begum lw 2 were present at that time.
lw 1lodged the report which was registered by sri k srinivasarao lw 16the sub inspector of police.
the fir was registered under section 304b and section 498a of the indian penal code1860 for short the ipc thereafter investigation was conducted by one shri p devadass lw 17 he inspected the site from where he recovered and seized the saree that had been used for hanging.
m madhusudana reddy conducted autopsy over the body of the deceased and prepared post mortem certificate giving the cause of death as asphyxia as a result of hanging.
on 16th february2003at about 5 p m.
investigating officer arrested all the three accused persons.
and further a 1 to a 3 are sentenced to undergo imprisonment for life for the offence u s 304 b ipc both the sentences shall run concurrently.
p c m o 1 shall be destroyed after expiry of appeal time.
first and the foremost we must consider what is the evidence led by the prosecution to bring home the guilt of accused.
accused were charged with offences under sections 498a and 304b of the ipc the fir in the present case was lodged by lw 1who is the father of the deceased.
according to this witness on 23rd january2002the marriage of his daughter was solemnised with accused pathan hussain basha and he had accepted to give rs 25000 in marriage.
he had given only rs 15000 and had agreed to pay rs 10000 after four months.
in the marriage he had also given a gold chain a double bed an iron safe and other items.
he had called his son in law accused no 1to his house as per custom at that point the accused demanded a ceiling fan.
his daughter after the ramzan festival had informed him that the accused persons were harassing her and were even beating and abusing her.
after seeing this she raised cries and people came to the scene.
in fact there is no dispute to the fact that the deceased died of hanging.
dr m madhusudana reddy lw 13 who was the associate professor in forensic medicine at guntur medical college performed the post mortem over the body of the deceased.
in the medical report lw13he noticed oblique ligature mark of 17 x 2 5 cm present over front and left sides of neck as well as noticed abrasion 1 5 x 1 cm present over lower part of middle of chin.
from the above evidence it is clear that the dowry demands were being raised by the accused persons persistently from the family of the deceased and for that they even harassed the deceased by beating and abusing her.
the period intervening between the marriage and the death of the deceased is very small.
12 explanation appended to section.
amongst others lapse of time between the date of marriage and the date of death is also a relevant consideration for the court while examining whether the essential ingredients of the provision are satisfied or not in a given case.
in this actdowry means any property or valuable security given or agreed to be given either directly or indirectly a by one party to a marriage to the other party to the marriage or b by the parents of either party to a marriage or by any other person to either party to the marriage or to any other person at or before or any time after the marriage in connection with the marriage of the said parties but does not include dower or mahr in the case of persons to whom the muslim personal law shariat applies.
all the expressions used under this section are of a very wide magnitude.
the expression in connection with the marriage can not be given a restricted or a narrower meaning.
the expression in connection with the marriage even in common parlance and on its plain language has to be understood generally.
scc 424 1987 indlaw sc 28308 held that furnishing of a list of ornaments and other household articles such as refrigerator furniture and electrical appliances etc to the parents or guardians of the bride at the time of settlement of the marriage prima facie amounts to demand of dowry within the meaning of s 2 of the act.
raj gopal asawa20044 scc 470 2004 indlaw sc 205.
the courts have also taken the view that where the husband had demanded a specific sum from his father in law and upon not being given harassed and tortured the wife and after some days she died such cases would clearly fall within the definition of dowry under the act.
in our view the expression soon before her death can not be given a restricted or a narrower meaning.
further the interpretation given should be one which would avoid absurd results on the one hand and would further the object and cause of the law so enacted on the other.
in other words there should be a reasonable if not direct nexus between her death and the dowryrelated cruelty or harassment inflicted on her.
if this is so the legislature in its wisdom would have specified any period which would attract the provisions of this section.
for want of any specific period the concept of reasonable period would be applicable.
such demand or harassment may not strictly and squarely fall within the scope of these provisions unless definite evidence was led to show to the contrary.
it is of some significance that these expressions should be given appropriate meaning to avoid undue harassment or advantage to either of the parties.
in other words the rule of law requires a person to be innocent till proved guilty.
the concept of deeming fiction is hardly applicable to the criminal jurisprudence.
in contradistinction to this aspect the legislature has applied the concept of deeming fiction to the provisions of section 304 b where other ingredients of section 304 b are satisfied in that event the husband or all relatives shall be deemed to have caused her death.
in other words the offence shall be deemed to have been committed by fiction of law.
once the prosecution proves its case with regard to the basic ingredients of section 304 b the court will presume by deemed fiction of law that the husband or the relatives complained of has caused her death.
by a deeming fiction in law the onus shifts on to the accused to prove as to how the deceased died.
it is for the accused to show that the death of the deceased did not result from any cruelty or demand of dowry by the accused persons.
the accused did not care to explain as to how the death of his wife occurred.
onus has to be discharged by leading proper and cogent evidence.
it was expected of the accused to explain as to how and why his wife died as well as his conduct immediately prior and subsequent to the death of the deceased.
maintaining silence can not be equated to discharge of onus by the accused.
in the present case the prosecution by reliable and cogent evidence has established the guilt of the accused.
the high court acquitted pathan khadar basha the fatherin law of the deceased as there was no direct evidence against him.
his acquittal has not been challenged by the state before us thus we are not called upon to discuss this aspect of the matter.
consequently we award ten years rigorous imprisonment to the appellants.
the appeals are partially accepted to the extent afore indicated.
