the basic wages were increased from the 1st december 1948 by order of the government of uttar pradesh and the total wages paid were therefore higher than those in the previous year.
there was a strike in the month of october and the mills were closed for nearly a month.
as a result of all these circumstances the appellant suffered a trading loss of rs 502563 1 10.
the appellant also paid ex gratia to the workmen bonus at the rate of annas 2 per rupee of their basic earnings making it clear by their notification dated the 7th april 1950 that the directors had sanctioned the payment at that rate in spite of the appellant having suffered a trading loss for the year that it was being paid entirely at the discretion of the appellant and was not related to or connected with any contract of employment of any worker.
the conciliation board by a majority decision repelled the contention of the appellant and awarded the payment of bonus at annas 4 per rupee.
the appellant filed this appeal against that decision after obtaining special leave from this court.
this appeal with special leave is directed against the judgment and order of the labour appellate tribunal of india in a dispute regarding the workers claim for bonus.
it paid 24 3 per cent.
there was moreover indiscipline amongst the workers and production suffered.
further the management were unable to secure cotton which resulted in the curtailment of the working hours.
a sum of rs 250000 being the excess reserve for taxation was written back and a sum of rs 1001871 13 5 being the amount of reserve transferred from the investment account was also brought in.
an aggregate sum of rs 1251871 13 5 was thus brought into the balance sheet by these two transfers.
the trading loss was deducted from this amount leaving a credit balance of rs 749308 11 7 and that amount was shown as the profit for the year 1949 in the balance sheet for that year.
the balance which had been brought forward from the previous year was added thereto and a dividend of 2434 per cent.
was paid to the ordinary shareholders.
the industrial dispute which thus arose was referred for enquiry and recording of an award to the regional conciliation board textile kanpur.
both the industrial court as well as the labour appellate tribunal found as a fact that there was a trading loss of rs 502563 1 10 during the year 1949 and also.
that the dividend of 2434 per cent.
to the ordinary shareholders was distributed after transferring the aggregate sum of rs 1251871 13 5 from the reserves.
the primary meaning of the word bonus according to the definition given in the new english dictionary is a boon or gift over and above what is nominally due as remuneration to the receiver and which is therefore something wholly to the good.
this definition was adopted by stirling j in in re eddystone marine insurance co l r i894 w n 30 webster 's international dictionary defines bonus as something given in addition to what is ordinarily received by or strictly due to the recipient.
the oxford concise dictionary defines it as something to the good into the bargain and as an example gratuity to workmen beyond their wages.
this imports the conception of a boon a gift or a gratuity otherwise described as an ex gratia payment.
the word bonus has however acquired a secondary meaning in the sphere of industrial relations.
it is classified amongst the methods of wage payment.
it has been used especially in the united states of america to designate an award in addition to the contractual wage.
it is usually intended as a stimulus to extra effort but sometimes represents the desire of the employer to share with his workers the fruits of their common enterprise.
vide encyclopaedia britannica volume iii page 856.
the question which therefore arises for our consideration is mainly whether the workers are entitled to the payment of a bonus in spite of the employer having worked at a loss during the year and incidentally whether the workers have any right title or interest in the reserves and the undistributed profits of the previous years.
the pocket part of the corpus juris secundum volume xi under the heading as compensation for services quotes the following passage from attorney general v city of woburn 317 mass 465 the word bonus is commonly used to denote an increase in salary or wages in contracts of employment.
to a similar effect are the observations in kenicott v supervisors of wayne county 1873 83 u s 452 21 l ed.
2 l l j 247as.
both labour and capital contribute to the earnings of the industrial concern it is fair that labour should derive some benefit if there is a surplus after meeting prior or necessary charges and the following were prescribed as the first charges on gross profits viz 1 provision for depreciation 2 reserves for rehabilitation 3 a return at 6 per cent.
it however observed but in our opinion that should not be the universal rule.
the shareholders only would be entitled to such benefit and the mere fact that dividends were declared and paid to the shareholders out of such reserves and undistributed profits would not entitle the workers to demand bonus when in fact the working of the industrial concern during the particular year had showed a loss.
social justice is a very vague and indeterminate expression and no clear cut definition can be laid down which will cover all the situations.
we may before concluding refer to an argument which was addressed to us by mr isaacs the learned counsel for the respondent that this court under article 136 should not interfere with the decisions of the tribunals set up by the industrial disputes act 1947.
during the year 1948 the appellant made a profit of rs 1197648 11 9.
dividend on ordinary shares being the maximum that could be paid under the public companies limitation of dividend ordinance of 1948 and also paid to the workers their full share of bonus at annas 4 in a rupee of their basic earnings.
during the year 1949 the selling rates for cloth and yarn were controlled by the government and were approximately 4 per cent.
below those obtained in 1948.
on the 4th may 1950 the secretary of the respondent union petitioned to the provincial conciliation officer textile that there was more production in 1949 than in 1948 that there was no reason to hold that the profit in 1949 was less than in the previous year and that the rate of bonus was wrongly reduced and asked that bonus for 1949 should also be paid at the rate of annas 4 per rupee.
on an appeal taken by the appellant to the industrial court textiles and hosiery kanpur the industrial court accepted the contention of the appellant allowed the appeal and set aside the award.
