the appellant had filed a suit on october 24 1942 for the recovery of rs 2 lakhs and interest thereon from the date of suit and for costs originally against the state of travancore now the state of kerala the respondent and three others who however were not made parties in the appeal before the high court.
it has alleged in the plaint that the plaintiff appellant was wrongfully dispossessed from 160 acres of land along with the improvements which had been effected by him and as the state had appropriated those improvements without any right or title thereto he claimed the value of those improvements.
it was the appellant 's case that he had been in occupation of the said 160 acres of cherikkal land unregistered dry lands in hilly tracts about which and the adjoining lands there was a dispute as to whether the same belonged to a jenmi family known as koodalvalli illom hereinafter called the illom or to the government of the erstwhile travancore state.
the appellant 's father and the appellant had occupied these lands made improvement thereon by planting coconut trees arecanut palms peppervines rubber trees jack trees other trees and by constructing bungalow huts wells etc.
in the bona fide belief that the lands belonged to the illom.
the trial court also held that all through these long years there had been a dispute as to the title between the illom and the state and after the suit of the illom was dismissed and the illom 's title was not sustained the allegation that the improvements were effected can not be stated to be bona fide.
the high court accepted the finding of the trial court on issue.
it then said if the possession commenced only about the year 1100 it certainly can not be under any bona fide claim of title for even on.
the contention of the appellant that the trees which are the subject matter of the appeal should have been forfeited by an order passed under section 9 of the act and in the absence of such.
an order his right to the value of those trees had to be adjudged and paid.
to him was also negatived as the court held that the words any crop or other product raised on the land occurring in section 9 of the act would not include trees.
in its view these words take in what is familiarly known in law as emblements which according to black 'section law dictionary mean such products of the soil as are annually planted served and saved by manual labour as cereals vegetables grass maturing for harvest or harvested etc but not grass on lands used for pasturage.
in this view it held that compensation for trees which are to be dealt with under the general law can not be decreed in favour of a mere trespasser who had no rights therein.
it was also of the view that the claim for compensation for trees which has to be dealt with under the general law under which a mere trespasser would have no rights to the payment of compensation nor could be.
the learned advocate for the appellant has reiterated the submissions made before the trial court and the high court and contends that there is no order forfeiting the improvements as required under section 9 of the act and if section 9 does not apply and there is no right of forfeiture as contemplated under section 9 then the appellant is entitled to compensation under the general law.
from the lands from which he was evicted he would be entitled to claim compensation for the improvements made by him.
we have earlier adverted to ext.
forfeiture under this section shall be disposed of as the division peishkar may direct.
it was conceded before the trial court and no attempt was made to establish anything to the contrary before the high court that no notice of forfeiture as required under section 9 was given to the appellant.
this practice it seems was also current in respect of lands belonging to the government before the travancore land conservancy act 4 of 1091 24 7 1916 hereinafter called the act.
the high court issued a commission for inspecting the properties and the commissioner in his report part 13 of ext.
it was observed by the trial court that though there is no specific evidence to show when exactly the possession of the appellant had commenced the evidence however indicated that it must have started close to the year i 100 m e and that in any case the claim of the appellant that possession was from 1030 m e was not true inasmuch as from the year 1067 m e when the act was passed possession without permission was penal and it could not be imagined that the appellant was left in peace for all these long years.
in the circumstances the question that had to be considered was whether without an order of forfeiture being passed the respondent could forfeit the improvements.
need be given under section 9 of the act and therefore no compensation or damages were payable in respect thereof.
this finding is fortified by section 5 of the act which provides that from and after the commencement of the act it shall not be lawful for any person to occupy land which is the property of the government whether poramboke or not without the permission from the government or such officer of the government as may be empowered in that behalf.
in these circumstances the question that would arise for determination is whether the trees come within the description of other product raised on the land.
this view of ours is supported by the case of clark and another v gaskarth 8 taunt 431.
that was a case of a trespass for breaking and entering the closes of the plaintiffs and tearing up digging up cutting down and carrying away the plaintiff 's trees plants roots and seeds growing on the closes.
the question before the court was whether the plaintiffs were entitled to recover against the defendant damages caused to them by cutting down and carrying away the plaintiffs trees.
in our view therefore trees are not included within the meaning of other products raised on the land in section 9 of the act and there is therefore no obligation on the government to give notice of forfeiture under that section.
on these findings it was observed that the government were in a position by law at any rate to regularize their possession by such a notification a fact which becomes material when it has to be considered what the nature of the trespass is.
this case does not support the contention that a mere trespasser who has deliberately and wrongfully contrary to the provisions of section 5 of the act entered upon another 's land which makes such an act even punishable under section 6 thereof is entitled to compensation for the trees planted by him on the land.
in any case as the high court rightly observed the position of a trespasser can not be better than that of a lawful tenant who having lost his possession can not claim compensation or damages for anything erected on the land or any improvements made therein.
while these passages might show that no notice of eviction was given even at that stage there was no application for an issue being framed nor has such an application been made in the appeal before the high court nor even before this court.
this appeal is by special leave against the judgment and decree of the high court of kerala which dismissed an appeal against the judgment and decree of the subordinate court of havelikkara.
it is the case of the appellant that even after the act was passed unauthorised occupants of land belonging to the government who had made improvements therein had under the rules made both under the act and the land assignment act a preferential claim over others for getting kuthakapattom or assignment of the property in their possession.
january 1918 in the district court at quilon for a declaration of its title to those properties.
thereafter the suit filed by the illom was dismissed on 28 6 1109 february 10 1934.
an appeal against it was dismissed on september 27 1943.
o s 156 of 1103 m e 1927 28 a d in the district court at quilon against the respondent to establish his right and title to the said 160 acres and in the adjoining cherikkal lands in his possession.
in that suit an injunction was prayed for in respect of 100 acres of the property involved in the suit but the prayer was rejected.
