the appellant nos 1 and 2 are degree holders in civil engineering and appellant nos.
they having come to learn that certain vacancies exist in the respondent authority applied therefor although no advertisement in that behalf was issued.
the respondent authority appointed the appellants and posted them to an overseas project known as indore habitat project which was implemented through the agency of overseas development authority hereinafter referred to as the oda on daily wages.
the said dispute was referred for adjudication of the labour court indore by the state of madhya pradesh on the following questions.
the parties filed their respective pleadings before the labour court and also adduced their respective evidences.
the labour court on the basis of the materials produced before it arrived at the following findings 1.
background facts.
rs 63 per day for the degree holders and rs 52 50 per day for the diploma holders.
allegedly from their salary provident fund was being deducted.
they were also being granted the benefit of leave.
an industrial dispute was raised by the appellants herein as their services were not being regularized by the respondent.
1whether non regularisation of the sub engineers as per the listed enclosed is valid and proper.
if no then to which relief they are entitled and what directions should be given to the employer.
2whether it is valid and proper for not giving equal salary to these sub engineers like other sub engineers in accordance with the equal work.
proceedings before the tribunal.
the appellants were appointed by the indore development authority.
all the employees have been working in the establishment of the respondents for last 5 6 years.
their work was satisfactory.
work has been taken by the respondent from all the appellants except four.
respondents had also mentioned in their claim that there was a proposal to hand over the colony of oda project to indore municipal corporation.
the salary fixed by the commissioner was earlier given to all engineers and later on they were given the salary fixed by the collector.
there is no difference in their work and the work of the employees of indore development authority.
high court judgment.
the high court accepted the contention of the respondent authority that the appellants were not appointed against the sanctioned posts and their services were taken on account of the said oda project which was implemented through the agency of the respondent authority.
the oda project is said to have been completed and only the maintenance thereof was to be looked after by the indore municipal corporation.
it was held that the services of the appellants can not be directed to be regularized in services.
before the high court various documents were produced by the appellants herein to show the nature of their employment but the same had not been taken on records by the high court.
placing reliance on several documents which have come into existence at a subsequent stage dr dhawan would contend that vacancies in fact had arisen after passing of the judgment of the high court and thus the services of the appellants should be regularized there against.
the learned counsel would urge that a seniority list was also drawn up and an employment code was assigned to each one of the appellants from which fact the nature of their employment should be judged.
mr v r reddy learned senior counsel appearing on behalf of the respondents on the other hand would contend that indisputably the appellants were engaged by the respondent authority but such appointments were made for the purpose of the project financed by oda.
the learned counsel would submit that in the aforementioned premise the question of regularization of the services of the appellants does not arise.
provisions section 22 of the 1961 act.
classification of employees.
employees shall be classified as i permanent ii permanent seasonaliii.
probationers iv badlies v apprentices and vi temporary.
temporary employee means an employee who has been employed for work which is essentially of a temporary character or who is temporarily employed as an additional employee in connection with the temporary increase in the work of a permanent nature provided that in case such employee is required to work continuously for more than six months he shall be deemed to be a permanent employee within the meaning of cl.
the question therefore which arises for consideration is as to whether they could lay a valid claim for regularization of their services.
a daily wager in absence of a statutory provision in this behalf would not be entitled to regularization.
see state of u p others vs ajay kumar 1997 4 scc 88 1997 indlaw sc 833 jawaharlal nehru krishi viswa vidyalaya jabalpur m p vs bal kishan soni and others 1997 5 scc 86 1997 indlaw sc 928.
in hindustan shipyard ltd and others vs dr p sambasiva rao and others 1996 7 scc 499 1996 indlaw sc 3441 a division bench of this court observed.
in a umarani vs registrar cooperative societies and ors.
vs state of jammu kshmir ors.
in dr a k jain and others etc.
vs union of india and others 1987 supp.
in niadar and another vs delhi administration and another 1992 4 scc 112 1988 indlaw sc 244 again no law has been laid down.
application of the act and the rules.
by reason of the provisions of the said act application of standard standing orders to undertakings has been provided in terms whereof the matters to be provided in the standard standing orders have been specified.
sub s 2 of section 6 reads as under where immediately before the commencement of this act standing order are in force in respect of any undertaking such standing orders shall until standard standing orders are applied to such undertaking under sub section 1 continue in force as if they were made under this act.
the said provisions were not complied with.
they might have been subjected to the provisions of the employees provident fund and might have been granted the benefit of leave or given some employment code and their names might have found place in the seniority list amongst others but thereby they can not be said to have been given a permanent ticket.
the standing orders governing the terms and conditions of service must be read subject to the constitutional limitations wherever applicable.
in m p vidyut karamchari sangh vs m p electricity board 2004 9 scc 755 2004 indlaw sc 198 a three judge bench of this court held that a regulation which is not inconsistent with the provisions of the 1961 act and the rules can be issued by a statutory authority.
we have noticed the provisions of the act and the rules.
the nature of their employment continues save and except a case where a statute interdicts which in turn would be subject to the constitutional limitations.
if the appellants were appointed for the purpose of the project they would be deemed to have been appointed therefor and only because such appointments had been made by the respondent would by itself not entitle them to claim permanency.
the appellants were aware of the said fact and thus raised an alternative plea in their statements of claims.
such additional documents had been kept out of consideration by the high court as also by us.
we have referred to the said fact only for the purpose of showing that it would not be correct to contend that the appellants had no access to the said documents.
recently in m p electricity board vs hariram etc.
we can not but bear in mind the fact that the initial burden of establishing the factum of their continuous work for 240 days in a year rests with the applicants respondents.
this is what this court had to say in that regard.
a court of law even in a case where provisions of the indian evidence act apply may presume or may not presume that if a party despite possession of the best evidence had not produced the same it would have gone against his contentions.
these appeals arising out of a judgment and order dated 26 4 2000 passed in writ petition no 1188 of 1997 by the high court of madhya pradesh indore bench involving similar questions of law and fact were taken up for hearing together and are being disposed of by this common judgment.
3 and 4 are diploma holders in civil engineering.
on or about 17 3 1997 however they began receiving a salary of rs 1500 per month.
