one shri a j tayeng was the revenue commissioner of government of manipur.
the state of manipur had not framed any recruitment rules for appointment inter alia in the revenue department and in particular the field staff thereof.
the commissioner allegedly made certain appointments in the posts of mandols process servers and zilladars which was not within the knowledge of the state.
the said appointments were made on temporary basis.
dated 6th january1998 regarding the alleged appointment of ad hoc regular appointment to the post of lambus mandols.
a r khan secretary revenue has made many appointments of mandols process servers zilladars in the recent months against which i have been complaining that the secretary revenue has no power or authority to make any appointments of field staff as per rules provided under m l r act1960 in this regard i have apprised the matter to the honourable minister revenue already and also informed the chief secretary manipur explaining that the secretary revenue can not make such appointments of field staffs even if he wanted to do so all the relevant files should have been routed through the undersigned so that the same may be brought to the notice of the honourable minister revenue his action has created lots of misunderstanding and confusion.
the commissioner of revenue department was conferred with a power of being the cadre controlling authority for non ministerial post of the revenue department.
he was also to be the chairman of the departmental promotion committee for non ministerial post of the revenue department.
2 further they are posted at the places indicate against their names 3 the expenditure is debitable under appropriate heads of accounts of the departments offices concerned.
no record in regard to the said recruitments was maintained.
an inquiry was therefore made to find out the authority which had issued the said offers of appointments.
imphal the 12th jan.
with reference to the u o letter no 21593 comr pt.
etc of.
shri robert shaiza was instructed to take care.
i therefore deny making of such appointments.
on the other hand md.
he has been making false and wrong allegations against the commissioner revenue and putting him false position.
it is for this reason i have been writing to all the deputy commissioners in the districts even by sending w t messages clarifying the actual position of making any appointment of revenue field staff.
i still deny that i have made any appointment of field staffs of revenue department during the recent months.
submitted for information and consideration.
sd 12198 annayok j tayeng.
commissioner revenue.
govt of manipur minister revenue.
their appointments were also cancelled on similar grounds.
i also issued appointment order under my signature.
after my retirement from service i have no access to such files.
i submit that these appointment orders annexures a1 and a2 bear my signature initial and appear to have been issued under my signature.
it appears that the appointment orders were issued after complying the formalities prescribed there for which can be ascertained from the relevant official file.
since i have retired from service i have no access to the file and do not know what might have been in the file and where is the file.
verified that the above statements are true to the best of my knowledge and no part of it is false.
the purported appointment letters were fake ones.
they were not issued by any authority competent therefor.
they had inter alia prayed for issuance of a writ of or in the nature of mandamus.
it was thus for them to establish existence of a legal right in their favour and a corresponding legal duty in the respondents to continue to be employed.
it was argued that the question as to whether appointments were made without the knowledge of the department or for that matter whether any record was available there for was of not much significance as in effect and substance they lead to the same inference and in that view of the matter the decision of this court in mohinder singh gill 1977 indlaw sc 53 supra was not attracted.
s b sanyal learned counsel appearing on behalf of the respondents on the other hand would submit that the question as to whether the appointments of the respondents were nullities or not having not been raised before the high court this court should not permit the appellants to raise the said contention at this stage.
strong reliance in this behalf has been placed on parshotam lal dhingra v union of india.
v kothampatti muniyandavar temple by trustee pappathi ammal.
the offers of appointment were cancelled not on the ground that some irregularities had been committed in the process of recruitment but on the ground that they had been non est in the eye of law.
the respondents had not been validly appointed and in that view of the matter the question of their case being considered for promotion and or recruitment by the dpc did not and could not arise.
the question which arose herein was not raised.
this too is relevant for deciding the question of arbitrariness alleged in the present case.
35 it is now too well settled that every state action in order to survive must not be susceptible to the vice of arbitrariness which is the crux of art 14 of the constitution and basic to the rule of law the system which governs us.
arbitrariness is the very negation of the rule of law.
his work is also subject to strict supervision.
in m c mehta v union of india and others 1999 6 scc 237 1999 indlaw sc 1396this court developed the useless formality theory stating more recently lord bingham has deprecated the useless formality theory in r v. chief constable of the thames valley police forces ex p cotton by giving six reasons see also his article should public law remedies be discretionary.
in kendriya vidyalaya sangathan 2002 indlaw sc 287 suprait was held it is clear that if after the termination of services of the said dr k c rakesh the orders of appointment are issued such orders are not valid.
if such appointment orders are a nullity the question of observance of principles of natural justice would not arise.
their application may be subject to the provisions of a statute or statutory rule.
the state of manipur is in appeal before us questioning the judgment and order dated 29 07 2005 passed by a division bench of the guwahati high court in wa nos 61787995 and 100 of 1999 upholding a judgment and order of a learned single judge of the said court dated 19 02 1999 in c r nos 32410125681022 and 1023 of 1998.
appointments were made on 11 09 199722 11 1997 and 5 12 1997 a sample copy of the offer of appointment reads as under no 11497 com rev on the recommendation of d p c and under the directives issued by the honourable gauhati high court the following persons are hereby appointed as mandols on temporary basis in the scale of pay of rs 950 20 1150 eb 25 1400 per month with usual allowances against thereto existing clear vacancies of mandals under revenue department from the date of their joining on duties.
shri tayeng by a uo note dated 12 01 1998 denied to have made such an appointment stating confidential u o no 21593 com r pt.
