before embarking upon the issue involved in this appeal we may notice the admitted fact of the matter.
appellant was a tenant under the said respondent in respect of plot no 178 admeasuring 1067 sq m. he used to run a business of marble and stone therein.
notices therefor were issued both to the appellant as also the respondent No appellant objected thereto.
in respect of the proceedings initiated for the purpose of re allotment of the land despite a public notice the appellant did not file any objection.
thereafter the notice below s 67 for the change in occupation was issued on 15 1 2000 to you.
in spite of this you have not handed over the possession.
therefore as per the gujarat town planning and urban development rules1979 rule 33 the undersigned in exercise of powers conferred below s 681 and 82 of the bombay provincial municipalities act and below the s 68 notice under the gujarat town planning and urban development act this is to inform you that as shown in the sketch on the reverse the premises marked should be vacated within 7 days from receipt of the notice and had over the possession to the surat municipal corporation.
plot nos 177 and 178 were owned by respondent no 4 herein.
a road widening project was proposed in terms of the said scheme.
for the said public purpose viz. widening of the road867 sq m of land was taken over leaving only 200 sq m of land.
he did not take any part in the proceedings therefor.
respondent no 4 was allotted a final plot bearing no 157 and the said 200 sq m of land of plot no 178 has merged in final plot no 165 owned by the respondent no 3.
the said final plot original plot is allotted in lieu of your no 177178 paiki land.
and the said land is now vested in the municipal corporation from 1 7 1999and is of the ownership of the municipal corporation.
the action as per the s 188 of the indian penal code will be initiated against you before the criminal court pleased take note of the same.
suffice it to say that the tenant will be at liberty to resort to appropriate proceedings against the landlord for the inter se rights and also for entitlement of the compensation.
a division bench of the high court dismissed an intra court appeal preferred thereagainst.
the tenant 's interest being distinct and separate could not have been held to be merged with the interest of the landlord either for the purpose of allotment of a final plot or otherwise in favour of the landlord.
prashant g desai learned counsel appearing on behalf of the respondent no 1on the other hand would submit.
i public notices having been issued in terms of the rule 26 of the rules an objection which would nullify the scheme can not be entertained at this stage.
ii respondent no 1 corporation merely being interested in the implementation of the scheme is entitled to obtain vacant possession from him so as to enable it to deliver it to the respondent no 3 in whose favour plot no 165 has been finally allotted.
s 45 provides for reconstitution of the plots sub s 2.
whereof inter alia enables allotment of a final plot from an original plot by transfer of any adjoining lands.
a all lands required by the appropriate authority.
rules 261263 and 33 of the rules read as under 26 procedure to be followed by town planning officer u s 51 and under sub s 1 of s 52 1.
33 procedure for eviction u s 68 1.
c if the person to be evicted resists or obstructs the officer or servant deputed u cl b or.
if he re occupies the land after eviction.
the appropriate authority shall prosecute him under s 188 of the indian penal code.
for short the bombay rules are in pari materia with the rules.
with a view to give effect to the provisions of the act and the rules framed thereunder proceedings were initiated for allotment of the said land in terms of the act 20 of the land was taken over without payment of any compensation.
a tenant having regard to the provisions of the transfer of property act or otherwise having an interest in the property can not be deprived therefrom without following the procedure established by law and without initiation of any proceedings for acquisition of land.
the scheme in terms of sub s 3 of s 65 of the act having become a part of the act validity thereof can not be questioned at this stage as modification of the scheme if any will have to undergo the entire process once over again which is not contemplated under the act.
it is not necessary for us to delve deep into the statutory scheme.
suffice it to say that chapter iv of the act deals with control of development and use of land included in the development plans.
chapter v of the act provides for town planning schemes.
s 40 of the act empowers the appropriate authority to make one or more schemes.
s 52 of the act provides for the contents of preliminary and final scheme.
further sub s 3 of section 65ss 67 and 68 of the act read as under 65 power of government to sanction or refuse to sanction the scheme and effect of sanction.
shall unless it is otherwise determined in such scheme vest absolutely in the appropriate authority free from all encumbrances b all rights in the original plots which have been re constituted into final plots shall determine and the final plots shall become subject to the rights settled by the town planning officer.
darji1991 indlaw sc 975 supra wherein this court opined that sub rule 3 of rule 21 of the bombay rules was mandatory in nature subject of course to the condition that on the crucial date viz when the town planning scheme is notified in the official gazette he whether an owner or tenant or sub tenant must be in possession of the property.
in that context it was held the question is whether the tenant or a sub tenant is a person interested and is entitled to notice.
it is obvious that u s 105 of transfer of property act a lease creates right or an interest in enjoyment of the demised property and a tenant or a sub tenant is entitled to remain in possession of the demised property until the lease is duly terminated and eviction takes place in accordance with law.
we are however not unmindful of the fact that a statute of town planning ex facie is not a statute for acquisition of a property.
it was on that legal principle this court in state of gujarat v shantilal mangaldas ors 1969 3 scr 341 1969 indlaw sc.
254opined that when a development is made the owner of the property gets much more than what would have he got if the same remained undeveloped in the process as by reason thereof he gets the benefit of living in a developed town having good town planning.
s 67 of the act provides that all lands required by the appropriate authority shall unless it is otherwise determined in such scheme vest absolutely in the appropriate authority free from all encumbrances with effect from the date on which the preliminary scheme comes into force.
what would be the quantum of payment of compensation therefor is also provided in s 82 of the act.
indlaw sc 138 suprait was held therefore having due regard to the substantive and procedural aspects we are satisfied that the act imposes only reasonable restrictions in which case it is saved u art 195 of the constitution.
b he did not file objections for re allotment and did not participate in the proceedings following acquisition instituted by the authorities under the act.
as sir johan romilly m r has observed in vyvyan v vyvyan.
in that case an applicant to bring lands under the real property act filed his case in court under section 21more than three months after a caveat had been lodged and thereafter obtained an order that the caveator should file her case which she accordingly did.
it was held that he had thereby waived his right to have the caveat set aside as lapsed u s 23 the privy council held that the limitation of time contained in s 23 was introduced for the benefit of the applicant to enable him to obtain a speedy determination of his right to have the land brought under the provisions of the act and that it was competent for the applicant to waive the limit of the three months and that he did waive it by stating a case and applying for and obtaining an order upon the appellant to state her case both which steps assumed and proceeded on the assumption of the continued existence of the caveat.
they referred with approval to the decision in phillips v martin where the chief justice said here there is abundant evidence of waiver and it is quite clear that a man may by his conduct waive a provision of an act of parliament intended for his benefit.
it is to my mind a clear principle of equity and i have no doubt there are abundant authorities on the point that equity will interfere to prevent the machinery of an act of parliament being used by a person to defeat equities which he has himself raised and to get rid of a waiver created by his own acts.
a right can be waived by the party for whose benefit certain requirements or conditions had been provided for by a statute subject to the condition that no public interest is involved therein.
ltd v. arvindbhai rambhai patel and ors 2006 8 scale 631 2006 indlaw sc 786this court observed the matter may be considered from another angle.
waiver of this kind depends upon consent and the fact that the other party has acted upon it is sufficient consideration it seems that in general where one party has by his words or conduct made to the other a promise or assurance which was intended to affect the legal relations between them and to be acted on accordingly then once the other party has taken him at his word and acted on it so as to alter his position the party who gave the promise or assurance can not afterwards be allowed to revert to the previous legal relationship as if no such promise or assurance had been made by him but he must accept their legal relations subject to the qualification which he has himself so introduced even though it is not supported in point of law by any consideration see 16 halsbury 's laws 4th edn para 1471.
interpretation and or application of the provisions of the gujarat town planning and urban development act1976 for short the act and the rules framed thereunder known as the gujarat town planning and urban development rules1979.
for short the rules is in question in this appeal which arises out of a judgment and order dated 27 12 2006 passed by a division bench of the high court of gujarat at ahmedabad in letters patent appeal no 1611 of 2006 arising out of a judgment and order dated 23 11 2006 passed by a learned single judge of the said court in sca no 7092 of 2001.
