a ct scan disclosed that large extra dural haematoma was found in the frontal region with mass effect and sukhbir needed urgent surgery and he was operated upon and the large extra dural haematoma was removed.
he examined the witnesses and after completion of investigation challan was filed under sections 307 325 324 read with section 34 ipc.
raju a 2 and madan a 3 stated that they were not present on the spot and they have been falsely implicated.
upon consideration of oral and documentary evidence the learned additional sessions judge vide judgment dated 17 2 2000 convicted all the accused persons sections 307 and 325 ipc and sentenced them to undergo rigorous imprisonment for five years and one year respectively and a fine of rs 500 each with default clause.
aggrieved by the said judgment the accused appellants filed criminal appeal before the high court of punjab and haryana.
per contra learned counsel appearing for the respondent state contended that the evidence of all the witnesses satisfactorily establishes the overt act of the accused persons and jagdish pw 5 and mange ram pw 6 being the injured witnesses the veracity of these witnesses can not be doubted.
they have also stated that madan and rakesh caused injuries to pw5 jagdish with lathi on shoulder and left elbow respectively.
2 dr pardeep kumar in his evidence stated that he has examined pws 5 and 6 and noted the injuries on the body of pws 5 and 6 and issued wound certificates.
at that time jage ram a 1 and his sons rajbir singh.
raju a 2 rakesh a 3 and madan a 4 armed with jaily pharsi and lathis respectively entered the land where the complainant was working with his sons and asked them not to cut the pullas as it was jointly held by both the parties.
wordy altercations ensued between the parties and jage ram insisted that he would take away the entire pullas.
in the fight the accused persons started inflicting injuries to the complainant and his sons rajbir.
raju a 2 gave a pharsi blow on the head of sukhbir jage ram a 1 caused injury to jagdish pw 5 with two jaily blows.
additionally madan and rakesh attacked the complainant with lathi blows on shoulder and left elbow respectively and caused several other injuries to the complainant party.
jagdish and his injured sons raised alarm hearing which rajesh and usha came to rescue them and on seeing them the accused persons fled away.
the injured witnesses were taken to the primary health centre taoru where dr pardeep kumar medical officer medically examined the injured persons.
injured sukhbir was vomiting in the hospital and later on he was referred to general hospital gurgaon as his condition deteriorated.
dr pardeep kumar pw 2 also examined the other injured persons pw 5 jagdish and pw.
6 mange ram.
statement of jagdish was recorded based on which f i r was registered at police station taoru gurgaon under sections 323 324 325 and 307 read with section 34 ipc.
pw 8 ramesh kumar asi had taken up the investigation.
in the trial court prosecution examined nine witnesses including jagdish pw5 mange ram pw6 and dr prem kumar pw2 and dr hiiol kanti pal pw9.
neuro surgeon pw8 investigating officer and other witnesses.
the accused were examined section 313 cr.
p c about the incriminating evidence and circumstances.
first accused jage ram pleaded that on the date of occurrence complainant party jagdish and his sons mange ram and sukhbir forcibly trespassed into the land belonging to the accused and attempted to forcibly cut the pullas.
jagdish further claims that he along with rakesh caused injuries to the complainant party in exercise of right of private defence of property.
he has denied that rajesh and usha had seen the incident.
rakesh a 4 adopted the stand of his father jage ram.
the high court vide impugned judgment dated 19 8 2011 modified the judgment of the trial court thereby convicted jage ram a 1 section 325 ipc and sentenced him to undergo rigorous imprisonment for one year convicted second accused rajbir.
raju section.
pws 5 6 have clearly spoken about the overt act of the accused that a 1 jage ram attacked and caused injury to pw 5 jagdish with jaily blows and that second accused rajbir.
in the light of the fact that pws 5 and 6 were injured witnesses courts below tested their evidence for its credibility and recorded concurrent findings that pws 5 and 6 are trustworthy witnesses.
for the purpose of conviction section 307 ipc prosecution has to establish i the intention to commit murder and ii the act done by the accused.
although the nature of injury actually caused may be of assistance in coming to a finding as to the intention of the accused such intention may also be adduced from other circumstances.
in the case of state of m p vs kashiram ors.
2009 4 scc 26 2009 indlaw sc 92 the scope of intention for attracting conviction section 307 ipc was elaborated and it was held as under.
it is sufficient to justify a conviction section 307 if there is present an intent coupled with some overt act in execution thereof.
the section makes a distinction between the act of the accused and its result if any.
the court has to see whether the act irrespective of its result was done with the intention or knowledge and under circumstances mentioned in the section.
therefore an accused charged section 307 ipc can not be acquitted merely because the injuries inflicted on the victim were in the nature of a simple hurt.
whether there was intention to kill or knowledge that death will be caused is a question of fact and would depend on the facts of a given case.
state of m p v saleem 2005 5 scc 554 2005 indlaw sc 413 undue sympathy to impose inadequate sentence would do more harm to the justice system to undermine the public confidence in the efficacy of law and society could not long endure under such serious threats.
placing reliance upon the judgment of this court in hari singh vs sukhbir singh ors 1988 4 scc 551 1988 indlaw sc 27 learned counsel for the appellants additionally submitted that in terms of section 357 3 cr.
for the conviction section 307 ipc courts below imposed upon the 2nd appellant rigorous imprisonment of five years while imposing punishment courts have an obligation to award appropriate punishment.
question of awarding sentence is a matter of discretion and the same has to be exercised by the courts taking into consideration all the relevant circumstances.
the said amount of rs 500000 is now kept in fixed deposit in the registry of this court.
this appeal is preferred against the judgment dated 19 8 2011 passed by the high court of punjab and haryana in criminal appeal no 181 sb of 2000 whereby the high court partly allowed the appeal filed by the appellants thereby confirming the conviction of the appellants with certain modifications.
briefly stated case of the prosecution is that on the fateful day i e 18 11 1994 at about 8 00 a m in the morning the complainant jagdish pw 5 along with his two sons namely sukhbir and mange ram pw 6 were busy in cutting pullas reeds from the dola of their field.
in this appeal the appellants assail the correctness of the impugned judgment.
we have carefully considered the rival contentions and gone through the impugned judgment and perused the materials on record.
injured sukhkbir was found vomiting in the hospital and he was examined by a neuro surgeon dr hilol kanti pal pw 9 of safdarjung hospital delhi on 19 11 1994 i e the day after the incident.
whether the accused person intended to commit murder of another person would depend upon the facts and circumstances of each case.
air 2009.
