in other words that she should take an estate very much like the ordinary estate of a hindu widow.
there it was said that the widows of sivaji raja got the gift of a life estate very much resembling the ordinary estate of a hindu widow and with all the incidents of a widow 's estate except the liability to be divested but nevertheless a life estate rather than an estate of inheritance.
the restraint against alienation was repugnant to both a life estate and a widow estate and was not therefore taken into account.
but there were other indications in that will showing that a widow 's estate had been given.
they could not enjoy the same properties in the manner directed if the widow had a full hindu widow 's estate and had the power for any purpose to dispose of them and did so.
the defendants pleaded that the plaintiff had no title to maintain the suit that the widow was entitled under the will to an absolute estate or at least to an estate analogous to and not less than a widow 's estate that the estate given to ramalakshmi under the will was but a contingent one and she having predeceased the widow no interest in the suit properties devolved on the plaintiff.
at one time it was a moot point whether a hindu widow 's estate could be created by will it being an estate created by law but it is now settled that a hindu can confer by means of a will oil his widow the same estate which she would get by inheritance.
the decision of the appeal thus turns upon the question whether the testator 's intention was to give to his widow ail ordinary life estate or an estate analogous to that of a hindu widow.
the will was construed as giving the self acquired properties ultimately to the grandsons and the estate of the daughter was likened to an estate which she would take under the law of inheritance that is a limited estate analogous to a widow 's estate.
these observations are unexceptionable but it may also be pointed out that it is open to a hindu to confer a limited life estate on his widow or even a larger estate than a widow takes as an heir and that in every case he may not confer upon her by will a hindu widow 's estate which she would otherwise get by inheritance.
mr krisbnaswami lyengar on the other hand contended that the absence of any words in the will restricting her powers of alienation and putting a restraint on them suggested a contrary intention and that the daughter 's estate was described as coming into being after the estate of the widow and was not conferred on her simultaneously with the widow and this connoted according to the notions of hindus a full hindu widow 's estate.
the question in every case can not be determined merely on the theory that every hindu thinks only about a hindu widow 's estate and no more.
the main issue in the suit was whether the widow took under the will an absolute estate or an estate like the hindu widow 's estate and whether the daughter 's interest therein was in the nature of a contingent remainder or whether she got in the properties a vested interest.
the subordinate judge held that the widow took under the will a limited life interest and not an absolute estate or even a widow 's estate under hindu law and that the daughter got there under a vested interest in the properties to which the plaintiff succeeded on her death.
it is significant that the testator did not say in the will that the daughter will enjoy only the properties left indisposed of by the widow.
the widow in such a case takes as a demise and not as an heir.
it can not be said that a hindu widow can only alienate her husband 's estate for payment of debts to meet maintenance charges and for her own maintenance.
if the testator had before his mind 's eye his daughter and her heirs as the ultimate beneficiaries of his bounty that intention could only be achieved by giving to the widow a limited estate because by conferring a full hindu widow 's estate on her the daughter will only have a mere spes successions under the hindu law which may or may not mature and under the will her interest would only be a contingent one in what was left indisposed of by the widow.
the high court took a different view and held that chunderbutti took the estate in her character as a hindu widow.
we therefore hold that the estate conferred on ranganayaki ammal was more like the limited estate in the english sense of the term than like a full hindu widow 's estate in spite of the directions above mentioned.
rani dhun kaur should not take an absolute estate but that she should be succeeded in her estate by her two daughters.
this will was construed as conveying an absolute estate to the son and the daughter of the niece.
he also emphasized that the words of the gift over to the daughter as supporting his construction which was further reinforced by the words of the will limiting the widow 's estate till your lifetime and of the omission from therein of words such as nialik etc while describing the widow 's estate.
there was a clear prohibition forbidding the widow to make any transfers of the milkiuit estates and the slaves.
it seems to us that he meant to give a daughter 's estate rather than a life estate.
ramalakshmi died on 25th april 1938 during the lifetime of the widow.
generally speaking there will be no point in making a will if what is to be given to a widow is what she would get on intestacy and cases do arise where a hindu wishes to give to his widow a more restricted estate than she would get on intestacy or a much larger estate than that.
it was however urged by mr rajah iyer that as no express or implied power of alienation for purposes of all legal necessities was conferred on the widow that circumstance negatived the view that the testator intended to confer upon his widow a hindu widow 's estate as she would get in case of intestacy.
if it was the daughter 's estate that was intended to be conferred there can be no question that the estate taken by the grandsons is not a vested interest.
the widow can not be held to have been given a full hindu widow 's estate under the will unless it can be said that under its terms she was given the power of alienation for necessary purposes whether in express terms or by necessary implication.
the fact that the gift over was a contingent bequest was by itself taken as a sure indication that the preceding bequest was that of a widow 's estate.
2 m l j 562 were next cited as the will gave her the right to enjoy the income of the estate during her lifetime it was evidently contemplated that she should as provided by the hindu law in the case of a widow be in possession of the estate.
in our opinion even if that suggestion is accepted that for the limited purposes mentioned in the will the widow could alienate this power would fall far short of the powers that a hindu widow enjoys under hindu law.
both the learned counsel eventually conceded that the language used in the will was consistent with the testator 's intention of conferring a life estate in the english sense as well as with the intention of conferring a hindu widow 's estate.
the extent of the grant so far as the properties mentioned in the schedule are concerned to the daughter and the widow is the same.
the words used in favour of the grandsons seem to indicate that the estate conferred on the daughter was not a life estate because there is no direct gift in favour of the grandsons but on the other hand what he says is that through his daughter the estate shall pass to his grandsons.
a prayer was made that the widow be restrained from alienating the other properties in her possession.
if that was the intention the testator would clearly have said that the daughter would only take the properties remaining after the death of the widow.
but she had no power to deal with the corpus of the estate.