41 grey street to the idol was an absolute dedication.
No 41 a. grey street to be the absolute property of the idol and made the other declarations in favour of the idol as prayed for.
the idol was not made a party to this suit.
No 401.
grey street.
grey street by adverse possession.
the property may be given out and out to the idol or it may be subjected to a charge in favour of the idol.
41 grey street allotted to the branch of rajendra was subsequently numbered 41 a grey street.
the shebait for the time being is the only person competent to safeguard the interests of the idol his possession of the dedicated property is the possession of the idol whose sevait he is and no dealing of his with the property dedicated to the idol could afford the basis of a claim by him for adverse possession of the property against the idol.
41 grey street made by dwarka nath under the terms of his will was a partial dedication and that his sons rajendra and jogendra and his widow golap sundari who were appointed sevayats of the idol were competent to deal with premises.
if nagendra was thus a sevayat of the idol it could not be urged that his possession could in any manner whatever be adverse to the idol and his dealings with the said premises in the manner he purported to do after the 12th october 1920 could not be evidence of any adverse possession against the idol.
No 41 and No 401.
grey street in the city of calcutta.
the portions allotted to jogendra were subsequently numbered 402 a grey street and the portion of the premises.
i am quite unable to hold that it does because such a change of intention can only be brought home to the idol by means of the shebait 's knowledge and the idol can only react to it by the shebait.
no shebait can so long as he continues to be the sevait ever claim adverse possession against the idol.
written statements were filed by the appellants and by susilabala and the two sons of jogendra denying the claims of the idol and contending inter alia that there was no valid or absolute dedication of the suit properties i to the idol and that the said premises had been respectively acquired by them by adverse possession and that the title of the idol thereto had been extinguished.
the learned judge however dismissed the suit of the idol in regard to the premises.
grey street and that his possession of the said premises thereafter became adverse which adverse possession continued for upwards of 12 years extinguishing the right of the idol to the said premises.
41 and 401 grey street and appointed his brother jogendra the sole executor thereof.
grey street to the idol as its permanent habitation with only the right given to the sevayats to reside in the said premises for the purposes of carrying on the daily and periodical seva and the festivals etc.
No 41 grey street dedicated by me shall properly and agreeably to each other perform the sheba.
premises.
No 402 a grey street as in his opinion sushilabala as executrix to her husband 's estate and her two sons had acquired title to the said premises by adverse possession and the title of the idol thereto had been extinguished.
No 41 grey street together with land thereunder to the said sri sri issur sridhar jew.
No 41a grey street was referable to possession on behalf of the idol 30 this finding was not challenged in the appeal court and it is too late to challenge the same before us.
grey street No 401.
his also i dedicate to the sheba of the said sri sri sridhar jew salagram sila thakur.
3 of the will is an absolute dedication of the premises.
41 grey street was allotted to the branch of rajendra and the remaining portion was allotted to jogendra absolutely and in consideration of a sum of rs 6500 to be paid to the plaintiffs jogendra was declared entitled absolutely to the premises.
the said suit was compromised and on the 24th november 1910 a consent decree was passed whereby jogendra and golap sundari gave up their rights to the sevayatship and bhupendra jnanendra and nagendra became the sevaits of the idol a portion of the premises.
that he did act as such shebait and that his possession of the premises.
on the 10th june 1891 he made and published his last will and testament whereby he dedicated to this family idol.
No 41.
grey street after making the due provision for the idol as they purported to do by the terms of settlement dated the 24th november 1910.
it was further contended that nagendra by virtue of the award dated the 12th october 1920 claimed to be absolutely entitled to the premises.
the arbitrator made his award dated the 12th october 1920 whereby he allotted premises No 41 a grey street exclusively to nagendra as his share of the family properties.
dwarka nath died on the 16th march 1892 leaving him surviving his widow golap sundari and his two sons rajendra and jogendra.
he appointed his two sons rajendra and jogendra executors of ms will and provided that his second wife golap sundari and the two sons rajendra and jogendra should perform the seva of the deity and on their death their heirs and successors would be entitled to perform the seva.