v gross income from forests calculated on the basis of the appraisement made of annual yield of the forests on the date of vesting by a forest officer subject to the approval of the chief conservator of forests such forest officer being not below the rank of a divisional forest officer to be appointed in this behalf by the state government.
the use of the expression divisional forest officers is erroneous although forest officers are appointed from among divisional forest officers.
but he pointed out that the forest officer had omitted to include the income from kendu leaves and added that sum to the income from forests.
he forgets that in the case of forests it is the assumed income and not the actual income that forms the basis of calculation of compensation.
indeed there was a fundamental difference in the basis adopted by the forest officer and the chief conservator in the matter of assessing the income of the forests in question.
the section is clear that the gross income from forests must be calculated on the basis of appraisal of the annual yield on the date of vesting firstly by a forest officer and secondly by the chief conservator of forests screening it and approving it.
where the actual income is to be included in the gross assets in the case of forests the assumed income and not the actual income is to be included.
there was no direction that this report of the d f o should be further subject to the approval of the chief conservator of forests.
we may make it clear that now that a forest officer has made an appraisement the chief conservator of forests will apply his mind to it and approve it as a whole or with such modifications as he thinks necessary and forward it to the compensation officer.
the argument is that for certain reasons the appellant could not derive and actual income from the forests taken over by the state from him and therefore there was no income tax payable on any agricultural income from these forests.
certainly the chief conservator can not be ignored by the compensation officer nor can the chief conservator ignore the assessment made by the forest officer and go through an independent exercise.
the expression forest officer used here has been explained in section 26.
so the first step is for the government to appoint forest officers from out of d f os in the forest department for the purposes of the act.
strictly speaking the statutory requirement is for initial appraisal of the annual income by the forest officer.
those officers ascertain the income from the forest concerned and the figure so fixed is subject to the approval of the c c f chief conservator of forests presumably the top expert in the department.
the district forest officer who incidentally happens to be a forest officer under the act having been appointed as required thereunder made his appraisal of the annual income and submitted to the chief conservator who altered the annual yield and reduced it substantially.
the report of the chief conservator of forests is also invalid because of the fact that the appraisement is made only with reference to the area of the disputed forests without taking into consideration the density of growth therein.
the divisional forest officer who would make the appraisement will be examined as a witness for the compensation officer and would be subjected to cross examination.
but what has happened here is that the chief conservator himself made the appraisement without referring to the appraisement made by the d f o and as such the appraisement made by the chief conservator is invalid.
equally clearly a slight error has crept into the judge 's order because he does not make any reference specifically to the statutory requirement of approval of the chief conservator of forests of the appraisement made by the forest officer.
during the agricultural year immediately preceding the abolition the petitioners had not actually derived any income from the forests and as such they were under no obligation to pay any income tax on such income.
the calculation made by the chief conservator of forests therefore has no statutory force but could be just a piece of evidence.
indeed if the actual income were to be the foundation for computation of compensation on the premise that not actual income has accrued the compensation might be zero.
it follows that after the present second remand the re appraisal of the annual net income can not be done solely by the forest officer without securing the approval of the chief conservator.
as admittedly compensation had not been calculated by the date of vesting the compensation officer lost his statutory jurisdiction to do so.
and this holds good after the second remand order that the forest officer will do the appraisement of the annual income forward his report to the chief conservator of forests who will take the said report into consideration and if necessary make modifications therein or approve it with such changes as he deems fit.
even so the total figure was less than what the divisional forest officer had recommended.
a compensation assessment roll containing the gross asset and net income of each estate together with the compensation payable in respect of such estate has to be prepared by him.
the compensation officer accepted the report of the chief conservator and made the statutory calculation on that date.
if a notional income on the assumed basis can be used for fixing compensation a notional income tax can be calculated and deducted.
we need not go into this detail except for the purpose of noticing that what the chief conservator did was not to approve wholly or in a modified form what the forest officer did but to make his own appraisal independently and without reference to the report of the statutory functionary viz the forest officer.
before the date of vesting the state never can nor does fix the compensation through the compensation officer in any of the agrarian reform laws and these compensation operations are post statutory exercises.
later revision petition were filed before the high court and g k misra j set aside the order disallowing the inclusion of the income from forests for ascertainment of compensation and directed a remand to the compensation officer.