the partnership deeds were there entitling the petitioner to share in the partnership.
it is embodied in the deeds the functioning of the partnership.
these facts were accepted that there was a partnership.
the partnership deeds were there the appellant was not to share in the losses.
the appellate court had considered the partnership deeds.
it was in the second partnership deed that the appellant and his father joined the firm.
it recited that the partnership started from 4th of october1960 at ahmedabad.
the first question therefore is what is a partnership.
secondly it was emphasised by mr mehta that the partnership deed was a camouflage.
april1965 this last partnership deed was executed by the appellant and original defendants.
the first partnership deed which is exhibit 114 is dated 13th october1960 it recited that the partnership firm should be presently started at ahmedabad and the same should later be started in another city.
1 the entire work of our partnership has to be carried out in the name of bharat neon signs.
whether there was a partnership or not may in certain cases be a mixed question of law and fact in the sense that whether the ingredients of partnership as embodied in the law of partnership were there in a particular case or not must be judged in the light of the principles applicable to partnership.
in 1965 some partners retired and the remaining four partners executed a fresh partnership deed exhibit 117 on 1st.
the firm started as emphasised by mr mehta on 4th of october1960 and it was only on the 24th of october1960 the second partnership deed was executed.
it is true that since after 4th of october1960 the partnership firm was carrying on business in the premises in question.
it may be mentioned that the partnership deed exhibit 114 was executed by six persons and at that stage the appellant or his father were not partners in the firm.
in the instant case the basic question is whether keeping in background the partnership deeds referred to hereinbefore and the facts that came to light was there partnership or not.
it is true that in the partnership deeds the bank accounts were not to be operated by the appellant and further that irrespective of the profit.
it is clear from the evidence on record that the partnership firm had undergone metamorphosis from time to time and again ever since the year 1960 the firm bharat neon signs first originated on 4th of october1960 as many as six persons were named in the partnership firm on or about 4th of october1960 and they had executed a deed of partnership on 13th of october1960 which is exhibit 114 on the record.
it is well settled that if there was such a partnership firm of which the appellant was a partner as a tenant the same would not amount to subletting leading to the forfeiture of the tenancy.
there is a third partnership deed exhibit 70 which showed that the deceased tenant girdharlal had died on 1st of february1961 and so by the remaining seven partners with same terms and conditions a new partnership deed being exhibit 70 was executed on 22nd.
the appellant was to bring his asset being the tenancy of the premises in question for the user of the partnership.
the said partnership deed records six persons who were to run the business in manufacturing and selling bharat neon signs tubes.
there was evidence of suit of dissolution of the partnership where none of the partners took the plea that it was a false or a fictitious document.
therefore it was emphasised that there was a gap of time when there was user by the partnership firm of the premises in question when the appellant was not a member of the firm.
the court of small causes came to the conclusion on an analysis of the evidence before it and the terms of the three partnership deeds referred to hereinbefore that there was a genuine partnership in law which was acted upon.
in the instant case judged by the aforesaid principles it is possible to hold that there was a partnership of which the appellant was a partner.
the high court on a reappraisal of these very evidence came to the conclusion that the partnerships were camouflages and were not acted upon and in fact and in reality the partnership firm was a sub tenant of the appellant herein.
in this the appellant was not a partner.
the clause of the partnership deed provided that there should be a fixed percentage of profit to be given to the partner appellant no 1 the appellant was not to share the losses.
2 the work to be carried out by our partnership is of manufacturing and selling neon signs tubes and of obtaining orders therefore.
that has to be found in section 4 of the indian partnership act1932it says partnership is the relation between persons who have agreed to share the profits of a business carried on by all or any of them acting for all emphasis supplied.
another partnership deed being exhibit 69 came to be executed among the six persons and the father of the appellant girdharlal.
there was nothing intrinsically wrong in law in constituting a partnership in the manner it was done.
the deeds gave the appellant the right to share the profits and made him agent for certain limited purposes of the firm and there was evidence that the partnership deeds were acted upon.
one point was emphasised by mr mehta learned counsel appearing for the respondents that the original first partnership deed did not mention the appellant or his father as a partner.
a i r 1972 gujarat 6 1970 indlaw guj 68 thakkar j of the gujarat high court as the learned judge then was held that the mere fact that a tenant entered into a partnership and allowed the premises being used for the benefit of partnership does not constitute assignment or subletting in favour of the partnership firm entitling a landlord to recover possession.
he has stated further that the suit premises were to be used for business and he could use it for any business and he joined in partnership with defendants nos 2 to 5 somewhere in 1961 to prepare neon signs and the defendants nos 2 to 5 were his partners and doing business in the suit premises.
but thereafter when the partnership deed exhibit 69 was executed the appellant and his father joined the firm with an agreement to share profits only and their share was fixed at 0 03 paise in a rupee.
it was further alleged by the landlord that the appellant had unlawfully sublet the major part of the premises in question of both the suits to defendant nos 2 to 5 in the original suit and these defendants were running business in partnership for manufacturing of neon signs in the name of bharat neon signs.
it was contended by mr mehta that there was no agency reading the partnership deeds as we have read that conclusion does not emanate from position appearing debiting the fixed amount payable to the appellant in the expenses account which also is not inconsistent with partnership.
that in the partnership deed which is not necessary to recite the terms the petitioner was completely excluded in operating the bank accounts etc.
the relevant portion of the partnership deed reads as follows to wit the parties of the first to sixth parts out of us deceased khristi girdharbhai chimanlal and shah virchand keshavji had jointly started the business of manufacturing and selling neon signs tubes in partnership in ahmedabad from 4 10 1960in the name and style of bharat neon signs.
exhibit 69 at page 136 of volume ii of the paper book is a partnership deed wherein girdharlal the father of the appellant no 1 and the appellant no 1 joined as partners.
however on account of the death of khristi girdharbhai chimanlal on 1 2 61 and other reasons the said partnership was dissolved from 8 9 61 thereafter we the parties from the first to seventh part have after purchasing at its cost price all the debts and dues goods stock etc together with goodwill of the dissolved partnership started manufacturing and selling of neon signs tubes in partnership from 9 9 61 we the parties of all the seven parts execute the deed of the said partnership to day.
sharing of profits and contributing to losses were not the only elements in a partnership existence of agency was essential and whether there was a partnership or not is a mixed question of law and fact depending upon the varying circumstances in different cases.