all that was necessary was that under the regulations the aicte council had to consult them.
the aicte had consulted the state of kerala as well as the mahatama gandhi university.
regulations have been framed on 31st october1994 by the aicte in exercise of powers conferred on it by s 231 of the aicte act.
if the university statute required approvalit would have been repugnant to the aicte act.
the director of technical education of the state was a member of the state level committee as per regulation 94 of the aicte regulations.
in the event of contravention of the conditions guidelines norms and regula tions of the aicte the aicte could withdraw the approval at any time.
regulation 84 of aicte only required calling for the com ments recommendations of the state government and of the university.
the university was also one of the agencies consulted by the council of the aicte under regulation 8 once that was over and approval was granted by the aicte if there was any default on the part of the college in compliance with the conditions of approval the only remedy for the univer sity was to bring those facts to the notice of the aicte so that the latter could take appropriate action.
regulation 4 deals with the requirement of grant of approval and for the commencement of these regulations a b no course or programme shall be introduced in any technical institutions university or deemed university or university departments or college or c no technical institutions universities or deemed universities or university departments or colleges shall continue to admit students for degree or diploma courses or programmes.
the letter of approval of the aicte dated 30 4 95 showed that the central task force had given its approval.
granting approval for starting new technical institution.
thus the university ought to have considered the grant of final or further affiliation without waiting for any approval from the state govern ment and should have acted on the basis of the permission granted by aicte and other relevant factors in the university act or statutes which are not inconsistent with the aicte act or its regulations.
we shall now refer to the above judgment dealing with the question of approval for establishing technical institutions under s 10k of the aicte act.
it is not the university act and the university but it is the central act and the council created under it which will have the jurisdiction.
the direction to the mahatama gandhi university to consider the application of the appellant for final affiliation or continuance of affiliation is confirmed and this is to be done on the basis of the approval granted by the aicte dated 30 4 95or any other relevant factors in the university act or its statutes which are not inconsistent with the aicte act or its regulations.
therefore the state could not have any policy outside the aicte act and indeed if it had a policy it should have placed the same before the aicte and that too before the latter granted permission.
the university had granted conditional approval as stated earlier.
it was held that the aicte act was referable to entry 66list.
at that time in 1984the aicte act was not on the statute book.
the aicte sent a communication on 30 4 1995 stating that on the basis of the observations made by the expert committee and the recommendations made by the central regional committee state level committee and central task force as per the provisions of the aicte regulation dated 30 1 1994the aicte was granting conditional approval for establishing an engineering and technical college.
the all india council for technical education and the mahatma gandhi university have sought for the remarks of the state government.
the appellant is a trust which wanted to establish a self financing engineering college and submitted an application during 1994 95 to the university of kerala as well as to all india council for technical education hereinafter called the aicte.
if the state government had any other valid objections its only remedy was to place its objections before the aicte council under the aicte act or before the committees e g state level committee etc.
regulation 2 states that these regulations will be applicable to proposals relating to a grant of approval of the council for establishment of new technical institutions including universities or university depart ments and deemed universities and for technical institutions function ing on the date of commencement of these regulations at degree and diploma levels b grant of approval of the council for introduction of any course or programme in the technical institutions and technical departments or universities or deemed universities c grant of approval of the council for existing intake capacity of seats and for increase in the annual intake capacity of seats in courses and programmes.
no doubt the question of affiliation was a different matter and was not covered by the central act but in the tamil nadu case it was held that the university could not impose any conditions inconsistent with the aicte act or its regulation or the conditions imposed by the aicte therefore the procedure for obtaining the affiliation and any conditions which could be imposed by the university could not be inconsistent with the provisions of the central act.
as pointed out in the tamil nadu case there were enough provisions in the central act for consultation by the council of the aicte with various agencies including the state governments and the universities concerned.
on facts the position was that the aicte had granted approval on 30 4 95 expressly stating that this was on consideration of the observations made by the expert committee and the recommendations made by the central regional committee state level committee central task force as per the provisions of aicte regulations dated 31 10 94.
the aicte had granted condition approval and the conditions were specified in annexure.
we have already pointed out under point 1 that in the tamil nadu case s 10k of the aicte act was referred to and the power of approval for establishing a technical institution was considered in our opinion even if there was a state law in the state of kerala which required the approval of the state government for establishing technical institutions such a law would have been repugnant to the aicte act and void to that extent as held in the tamil nadu case.
if indeed the university statute could be so inter preted such a provision requiring approval of the state government would be repugnant to the provisions of s 10k of the aicte act1987 and would again be void.
the university could not therefore in any event have sought for approval of the state government.
the aicte 's approval dated 30 4 95 showed that the approval had been given by the state level com mittee of which they were obviously members.
if more approvals were granted it might lead to commercialisation of education.
read education included technical education medical institution and universities subject to the provisions of entries 636465 and 66 of list i vocational and technical training of labour.
once that procedure laid down in the aicte act and regulations had been followed under regulation 84and the central task force had also given its favourable recommendations there was no scope for any further objection or approval by the state.
procedure and conditions for affiliation could not be inconsistent with the provisions of the central act in particular s 10k of the regulation and the university could not seek approval of government.
the said approval was based also on the inspection by the expert committee of the aicte hence the state government in its counter could not have relied upon any contrary opinion of the director of technical education.
we may however add that if thereafter any fresh facts came to light after an approval was granted by the aicte or if the state felt that some conditions attached to the permission and required by the aicte to be complied with were not complied with then the state government could always write to the aicte to enable the latter to take appropriate action.
decision of university in not granting further or fined affiliation wrong on merits.
before we refer to the abovesaid judgment it will be necessary to refer to certain provisions of the aicte act and the relevant regulations.
the university statute 97 merely required that the views of the state government be obtained before granting affiliation and this did not amount to obtaining approval.
the tamil nadu case.
2 whether the orders of rejection passed by the state government were valid on merits and whether the university should have granted further orders to continue the affiliation solely on the basis of the aicte permission.
the tamil nadu act was of 1976 and the university act was of 1923 and were laws referable to the list.
it might be that under the relevant statutes of the university the university was required to obtain the views of the state government but that did not amount to requiring any approval of the state government and indeed if any such statute required the approval of the state government it would be void in view of what was stated by this court in state of tamil nadu.
the model engineering college emakulam was a selffinancing engineering college and others were the colleges at changannur and pathansamthitta and there was a self financing engineering college at kasargode.
the secretary technical education of the state of kerala was also a member of that committee.
thus the government policy was not to grant fresh approvals.
statutory powers of the state of kerala and the m g university.
therefore the aicte consti tuted a task force and obtained its opinion and thereafter granted its approval on 13 11 1995 subject to various conditions.
inspection of technical institution which are matters covered by the central act.
in case of difference of opinion as between the various consultees the aicte would have to go by the views of the central task force.
thus we hold in the present case that there was no statutory require ment for obtaining the approval of the state government and even if there was one it would have been repugnant to the aicte act.
the reference to the commission in the above cl 97 is to the commission of inspection appointed by the university.
the government of tamil nadu granted permission to the trust for the academic year 1987 88 to start an engineering college.
in so far as institutions imparting technical education were concerned the university or the state government had no independent role to play except to the extent provided in the above said enactment in the present case the aicte had made inspections and was satisfied that the necessary infrastructure was available and that the appellant would be able to conform to the required standards of the education.
in case there was difference between the state government university or the regional committee the central task force was to make a final recommen dation under regulation.
thus in the two passages set out above this court clearly held that because of s 10k of the central act which vested the powers of granting approval in the council the t n act of 1976 and the university act1923 could not deal with any questions of approval for establishment of technical institutions.
but in the context of s 10k regarding approval for starting a technical institution certain aspects of the judgment need to be highlighted.
i of the constitution of india relating to coordination and determination of standards in institutions for higher education or research and scientific and technical institutions.
i in the above case this court referred to the various provisions of the aicte act and on the question of repugnancy held as follows.
these were sufficient safeguards for ascertaining the views of the state governments and the universities.