petitioners agreed to link up their ads with 26 episodes of the said serial.
in 1984doordarshan in order to popularize sponsored serial undertook the production of a serial by the name humlog.
3 that the titles of each episode indicated that respondent no 2 is the producer of the said serial and the petitioners are only the sponsors.
the suit serial was produced by the respondents as agents of the petitioners was false.
nor did the parties intend that the respondents should produce the said serial for the petitioners or at the instance of the petitioners and the respondents intended to embark on the production of the said serial on their own.
however the petitioners were not interested in the same as they wanted the serial to project their products only exclusively and did not agree to any other products being tied up with the said serial.
thus the respondents name was shown in the title of the said serial as the producer thereof right from the beginning of the said serial but the petitioners did not protest against the same.
yeh jo hai zindagi had gained popularity and had become one of the most exclusive and popular serial.
some time in may 1985the 1st respondent proposed to the petitioners that some other products should be tied up with the serial yeh jo hai zindagi.
the defendants prove that the plaintiffs are not the owners of the copyright of the tv serial film viz. the petitioners claimed that they were the real producers and owners of the said serial yeh jo hai zindagi and the petitioners to the knowledge of the respondents have entered into an agreement assigning the video rights in the said serial to one m s esquire distributing and servicing pvt.
further the said respondents had been recovering the cost of production well in advance of the serial episodes being actually produced.
the petitioners apprehended that the respondent nos 1 to 3 intended to produce further episodes under the title yeh jo hai zindagi making use of the same format as the earlier serial for and on behalf of the third party.
pursuant to the said arrangement the respondent nos 1 to 4 as the agents of the petitioners prepared at the costs and expenses of the petitioners a serial entitled yeh jo hai zindagi.
the petitioners claimed that as a result of the employment of the respondent nos 1 to 4 and the finances paid by them the petitioners are the owners of the said serial yeh jo hai zindagi and the title thereof.
however the titles continued to show mr s s oberoi as the producer of the serial and the petitioners did not withhold payments.
the evidence was found to be inconsistent with the theory put forth by the petitioners that they are producers of the suit serial and if it were to hold otherwise the agreement or arrangement with the respondents was only for 26 episodes whereas the sponsorship was for 52 episodes.
it was also held that the respondents proved that the petitioners are not the owners of the copy right of the tv serial film viz. the facts emerging in the case indicate that the petitioners had joined the production of the suit serial after some concrete beginning had been made like recording of the title song the conceiving of the title and format of the suit serial etc.
the trial court found that the petitioners have not been able to prove that the tv serial yeh jo hai zindagi was produced by defendants nos 1 to 4 as agents in the course of their employment as the agent of the petitioners as contended in the suit.
the plaintiffs prove that the t v serial entitled yeh jo hai zindagi was produced by the defendant nos 1 to 4 as agents and the said serial made by defendant nos 1 to 4 in the course of their employment with the plaintiffs as alleged.
the 5th respondent registered the respondent nos 1 and 2 as the producers of the said serial.
5 that the doordarshan which have been impleaded as a party in their written statement stated that they recognize the respondents as producers of the said serial and recognize the petitioners as sponsors only.
the respondents strongly contended that the serial hum log was produced by the petitioners in collaboration with m s concept advertisers.
the 2nd respondent made extensive study and research and prepared a format of the proposed serial.
the petitioners claimed that the exclusive right to use the title thereof belonged to them and the 2nd episode of yeh jo hai zindagi was telecast without the name of the petitioners being mentioned as sponsors nor was their advertisement shown.
the petitioners by their letter dated 02 january 1987 turned down the respondents demand and informed the respondents that they had no objection if the respondents went ahead with the production of the said serial and merely requested the respondents that the title of the said serial yeh jo hai zindagi may not be used by the respondents.
thus it was found that the first 26 episodes the amount per episode paid by the petitioners was rs 120000 and each bill contained the expression service charges which was stated by the appellants that the respondents acted as agents of the petitioners for production of suit serial.
the 5th respondent thereafter decided to entertain welcome andor encourage the proposals from the private producers to produce such serials or films at their own cost and responsibility and under the said scheme the advertisers desirous of linking up their advertisements with such films or serials were required to negotiate and settle directly with the producers of such films andor serials the royalty or consideration payable to such producers for linking up their advertisements and commercials with their film serial and under the said scheme further such advertisements were offered handsome concessions in the rates of advertisements for display of their ads on tv.
though original agreement was to have 27 episodes but having regard to the popularity of the programme the petitioners decided to increase the said serial to 52 episodes and by a letter dated 22 april 1985 the petitioners informed respondent nos 1 and 2 that in the title of the 27th and 28th episodes it has been stated that it is presented by oberoi films.
the 2nd respondent then approached the 5th respondent through doordarshan with his proposal to produce the said serial then proposed to be entitled mussibat hai.
while traversing the case on merit they contended that it was all along agreed between the petitioners and respondents that the copyright in the said serial would rest exclusively in the respondents and not in the petitioners.
the petitioners agreed to pay fixed amount to these respondents per episode for linking up their commercials with the said serial and not on the basis of the actual cost of production of each episode so that if the cost of production exceeded the said fixed amount the respondents had to bear the same.
by their letter dated 02 january 1986 the petitioners informed the 1st and 2nd respondents that it was not possible to increase the costs of production for the episodes and that in the circumstances the production of the serial may stop.
the trial court examined in detail the letter dated 19 july 1984 exhibit f 1 written by shri g k pendharkar of the petitioners and concluded that averments made in the plaint stated that the original agreement was to have 27 episodes but having regard to the popularity of the serial programme the petitioners decided to increase the said serial to 52 episodes.
yeh jo hai zindagi within the meaning of s 17 of the copyright act.
ltd under the agreement dated 1 januray 198504 march 1985 and 16 september 1985 the advertisements issued by the petitioners themselves in various newspapers to give wide publicity to the said serial would indicate that the serial mentioned these respondents are the owners of the copyright in respect of the said serial and the petitioners claim in that behalf is devoid of any substance.
it was also pointed out that the name yeh jo hai zindagi is associated with the vicco laboratories and that if they wanted to obtain another sponsor they could produce a new serial under a different name.
the petitioners were also not able to prove that the entire serial rights including the exclusive right to use the title thereof belonged to the petitioners as alleged.
thus the pleadings and the evidence on record clearly indicated that the respondents were not the agents of the petitioners for the purpose of producing the said serial.
exhibit g 1 which is exhibit 27 a in the petitioners compilation is a letter written by shri s p agrawal controller of programmes of doordarshan to respondent no 1m s art commercia with reference to the format for the proposed serial of half and hour duration tentatively titled musibat hai serial sent to them on 13 july 1984 since the letter was addressed to m s art commercia in which the proposal was accepted for production of the serial and the first episode was to be sent for preview and approval which would be given only after seeing the recording of the first episode.
after finalizing the proposal by the tv authorities respondent no 2 asked the petitioners as to whether they were interested in the linking up their ads with the said serial.
the trial court proceeded thereafter to examine the payments made in regard to production of the serial.
the petitioners are also pioneers in making use of doordarshan for advertising their products through the agency of the 1st respondent approached the 1st respondent to act as their agents for the purpose of producing a serial which would be shown as petitioners sponsored programme.