project work.
equal pay for equal work.
there is no difference in their work and the work of the employees of indore development authority.
employees shall be classified as i permanent ii permanent seasonaliii.
the project was indisputably to be executed by the indore development authority and for the implementation thereof the appointments had to be made by it.
who made the appointments of the appellants to the project or other works carried on by the authority is not known.
temporary employee means an employee who has been employed for work which is essentially of a temporary character or who is temporarily employed as an additional employee in connection with the temporary increase in the work of a permanent nature provided that in case such employee is required to work continuously for more than six months he shall be deemed to be a permanent employee within the meaning of cl.
the oda project is said to have been completed and only the maintenance thereof was to be looked after by the indore municipal corporation.
one of such documents was offers of appointment.
an illegal appointment can not be legalized by taking recourse to regularization.
the 1961 act provides for classification of employees in five categories.
a distinction is sought to be made by dr dhawan that out of them 27 had been appointed to a project and not in a project.
the 1961 act itself shows that the employees are to be classified in six categories namely permanent permanent seasonal probationers badlies apprentices and temporary.
it was therefore impermissible for the state to direct regularization of the services of the employees of the cooperative societies.
permanent employee has been divided in two categories i who had been appointed against a clear vacancy in one or more posts as probationers and otherwise and ii whose name had been registered at muster roll and who has been given a ticket of permanent employee.
with a view to become eligible to be considered as a permanent employee or a temporary employee one must be appointed in terms thereof.
a ticket of permanent employee was thus required to be issued in terms of order 3 of the standard standing orders.
the respondent authority appointed the appellants and posted them to an overseas project known as indore habitat project which was implemented through the agency of overseas development authority hereinafter referred to as the oda on daily wages.
2 of the standard standing order reads as under 2.
classification of employees.
i a permanent employee is one who has completed six months satisfactory service in a clear vacancy in one or more posts whether as a probationer or otherwise or a person whose name has been entered in the muster roll and who is given a ticket of permanent employee vi.
for the purpose of regularization which would confer on the concerned employee a permanent status there must exist a post.
their work was satisfactory.
respondents had also mentioned in their claim that there was a proposal to hand over the colony of oda project to indore municipal corporation.
it was held that the services of the appellants can not be directed to be regularized in services.
as regard application of the doctrine of equal pay for equal work it was held to be not applicable as the appellants were not entitled to absorption or classification in terms of the 1961 act and the 1963 rules.
however it has been seen that even services of one of them had been requisitioned only for the project work.
this case involves 31 employees.
the scheme of the employees provident fund or the leave rules would not alter the nature and character of their appointments.
if by reason of the latter the appointment is invalid the same can not be validated by taking recourse to regularization.
the process of regularization involves regular appointment which can be done only in accordance with the prescribed procedure.
the appointments thus had been made for the purpose of the project which as indicated hereinbefore came to an end.
adverse inference.
2whether it is valid and proper for not giving equal salary to these sub engineers like other sub engineers in accordance with the equal work.
indisputably the conditions precedent for appointment of the officers and servants of the authority as contained in the service rules had not been complied with.
had the letters of appointment been issued the appellants themselves could have produced the same.
they have also not been able to show that they had been issued any permanent ticket.
the labour court did not draw any adverse inference.
furthermore the indore municipal corporation was not a party and thus no employee could be thrust upon it without its consent.
if the appellants were appointed for the purpose of the project they would be deemed to have been appointed therefor and only because such appointments had been made by the respondent would by itself not entitle them to claim permanency.
the 1973 act or the rules framed there under do not provide for appointments on ad hoc basis or on daily wages.
they were not therefore entitled to take the recourse of the doctrine of equal pay for equal work as adumbrated in articles 14 and 39d of the constitution of india.
even the appointments to the local cadre must be made by the authority.
it is accepted that no appointment letter was issued in favour of the appellants.
the said order is not an offer of appointment by any sense of term.
the appellants have not produced any such ticket.
no case was made out by the appellants herein in their statements of claim that they became permanent employees in terms thereof.
the constitutional scheme which the country has adopted does not contemplate any backdoor appointment.
an industrial dispute was raised by the appellants herein as their services were not being regularized by the respondent.
in a umarani 2004 indlaw sc 606 supra this court held that once the employees are employed for the purpose of the scheme they do not acquire any vested right to continue after the project is over.
had the appointments of the appellants been made in terms of the provisions of the adhiniyam and rules framed thereunder the respondent authority was statutorily enjoined to make an offer of appointment in writing which was to be accepted by the appellants herein.
it is furthermore not in dispute that adhiniyam came into force in 1973.
the statute rules and regulations formed by the state govern the terms and conditions of service of the employees of the respondent.
the labour court in absence of any pleadings or any proof as regard application of the 1961 act and the 1963 rules had proceeded on the basis that they would become permanent employees in terms of order 2ii and 2vi of the annexure appended thereto.
the high court accepted the contention of the respondent authority that the appellants were not appointed against the sanctioned posts and their services were taken on account of the said oda project which was implemented through the agency of the respondent authority.
the 1961 act was enacted to provide for rules defining with sufficient precision in certain matters the conditions of employment of employees in undertakings in the state of madhya pradesh.
furthermore when their services had not been regularized and they had continued on a consolidated pay on ad hoc basis having not undergone the process of regular appointments no direction to give regular pay scale could have been issued by the labour court.
dr dhawan would furthermore contend that the findings of fact had been arrived at by the labour court that the appellants of civil appeal no 337 of 2002 were appointed by the authority and not only their work was being taken in the project but also in other works and thus mere posting of the appellants to the said project would not disentitle them from the benefit of the said act.
dr dhawan is not correct in his submission that a separate ticket need not be issued and what was necessary was merely to show that the appellants had been recognized by the state as its employees having been provided with employment code.
we have noticed hereinbefore that in the case of om prakash mondloi the ceo made an endorsement to the effect that he may be tried in daily wages and should be entrusted with the work of progress collection of oda work.
the labour court on the basis of the materials produced before it arrived at the following findings 1.
the appellants were appointed by the indore development authority.