we have been taken through the order of detention.
it may be true that the period of detention is over.
it had specifically been referred to in extenso in the order of detention.
the delay caused in this case in issuing the order of detention has not been explained.
but we fail to understand as to why despite the fact that the proposal for detention was made on 2 12 2004the order of detention was passed after four months.
even in the earlier part of the impugned order of detention i e detaining authority appears to have drawn his own conclusions.
in the meantime admittedly the period of detention being over appellant had been set at large.
non placement of vital material documents before the detaining authority non supply of documents relied on or referred to in the order of detention as also non application of mind on the part of the detaining authority had been raised.
the said question has also not been examined by the authorities before issuing the order of detention.
the statements of appellant and prabhjot singh were noticed by the detaining authority.
demand of any or every document however irrelevant it may be for the concerned detenu merely on the ground that there is a reference thereto in the grounds of detention cannot vitiate an otherwise legal detention order.
similarly when there is unsatisfactory and unexplained delay between the date of order of detention and the date of securing the arrest of the detenu such a delay would throw considerable doubt on the genuineness of the subjective satisfaction of the detaining authority leading to a legitimate inference that the detaining authority was not really and genuinely satisfied as regards the necessity for detaining the detenu with a view to preventing him from acting in a prejudicial manner.
it is set aside accordingly and the order of detention passed against appellant is quashed.
the detaining authority moreover while relying on the said documents in one part of the order of detention could not have stated in another part that he was not relying thereupon.
although before the high court the principal ground urged on behalf of appellant in questioning the legality or validity of the order of detention was unexplained delay in passing the order of detention which did not find favour with the high court.
the original of such documents might not been available with the detaining authority but admittedly the xeroxed copies were.
if the same had not been done not only the delay in issuing the order of detention stood unexplained but also thereby the order itself would become vitiated.
in paragraph 36 of the order of detention the detaining authority stated in view of the facts mentioned above i have no hesitation in arriving at the conclusion that you have through your acts of omission and commission indulged in prejudicial activities as narrated above.
it is no doubt true that if the delay is sufficiently explained the same would not be a ground for quashing an order of detention under cofeposa but as in this case a major part of delay remains unexplained.
there is an obligation cast on the sponsoring authority to place it before the detaining authority which has not been done.
it was therefore difficult to appreciate why order of detention could not be passed on the basis of the materials gathered by them.
why the documents pertaining to the proceedings of the civil court had not been placed before the detaining authority has not been explained.
recording of such statement must have been made from the xeroxed copies of such documents which were available with the detaining authority.
but the said information report was registered only on 6 4 2005 and not prior to the date of order of detention.
but indisputably those documents involving the civil court proceedings were not placed before the detaining authority.
the question as regard delay in issuing the order of detention has been held to be a valid ground for quashing an order of detention by this court in t d abdul rahman v state of kerala and others air 1990 sc 225 1989 indlaw sc 205 stating the conspectus of the above decisions can be summarised thus the question whether the prejudicial activities of a person necessitating to pass an order of detention is proximate to the time when the order is made or the live link between the prejudicial activities and the purpose of detention is snapped depends on the facts and circumstances of each case.
in p saravanan v state of t n and others 2001 10 scc 212it was stated when we went through the grounds of detention enumerated by the detaining authority we noticed that there is no escape from the conclusion that the subjective satisfaction arrived at by the detaining authority was the cumulative result of all the grounds mentioned therein.
if the documents were material so as to enable the detenue to make an effective representation which is his constitutional as also statutory right non supply thereof would vitiate the order of detention.
however when there is undue and long delay between the prejudicial activities and the passing of detention order the court has to scrutinise whether the detaining authority has satisfactorily examined such a delay and afforded a tenable and reasonable explanation as to why such a delay has occasioned when called upon to answer and further the court has to investigate whether the causal connection has been broken in the circumstances of each case.
we may also place on record that sen j in rajendrakumar natvarlal shah 1988 indlaw sc 71 suprawhile laying down various stages of the procedures leading to an order of detention opined that rule as to unexplained delay in taking action is not inflexible and a detention under cofeposa may be considered from a different angle.
they initiated various civil proceedings from time to time obtained various interim orders and thus delay in passing the order of detention can not be said to have not been explained.
it follows that the test of proximity is not a rigid or mechanical test by merely counting number of months between the offending acts and the order of detention.
it may be that the detaining authority might have come to the same conclusion as the sponsoring authority but its contents are relevant which could not be withheld by the sponsoring authority.
the self inculpatory statements of appellant as also prabhjot singh purported to have been made in terms of s 108 of the customs act were required to be considered before the order of detention could be passed.
it may further be true that appellant had remained in detention for the entire period but it is one thing to say that the writ of habeas corpus in this circumstances can not issue but it is another thing to say that an order of detention is required to be quashed so as to enable the detainee to avoid his civil liabilities under safema as also protect his own reputation.
a division bench of this court in k s nagamuthu v state of tamil nadu ors 2005 9 scale 534 2005 indlaw sc 748 struck down an order of detention on the ground that the relevant material had been withheld from the detaining authority which in that case was a letter of the detenu retracting from confession made by him.