i therefore deny making of such appointments.
i also issued appointment order under my signature.
the purported appointment letters were fake ones.
dated 6th january1998 regarding the alleged appointment of ad hoc regular appointment to the post of lambus mandols.
the said appointments were made on temporary basis.
their appointments were also cancelled on similar grounds.
the honourable minister revenuei am to say that i am not all aware of such appointments made by me except for 3 lambus who were kept in panel for appointment and accordingly the s o revenue.
i still deny that i have made any appointment of field staffs of revenue department during the recent months.
their appointment is in the first instance for one year.
commissioner revenue.
the state of manipur had not framed any recruitment rules for appointment inter alia in the revenue department and in particular the field staff thereof.
govt of manipur minister revenue.
he therefore was wholly incompetent to issue the appointment letters.
we as noticed hereinbefore do not know as to under what circumstances the orders of appointments were issued.
as noticed hereinbefore an inquiry had been made wherein the said shri tayeng the then commissioner of revenue stated that no such appointment had been made to his knowledge.
the government order dated 12 01 1998 did not delegate the power of appointment to the commissioner.
an inquiry was therefore made to find out the authority which had issued the said offers of appointments.
it will thus be seen that the appointment of the two sets of officers viz. the commissioner allegedly made certain appointments in the posts of mandols process servers and zilladars which was not within the knowledge of the state.
if such appointment orders are a nullity the question of observance of principles of natural justice would not arise.
the offers of appointment issued in favour of the respondents herein were cancelled inter alia on the premise that the same had been done without the knowledge of the revenue department of the state.
the commissioner of revenue department was conferred with a power of being the cadre controlling authority for non ministerial post of the revenue department.
i submit that these appointment orders annexures a1 and a2 bear my signature initial and appear to have been issued under my signature.
the ratio of the said decision can hardly be applied to the appointments of the law officers in the high court whose appointment itself was arbitrary and was made in disregard of art 14 of the constitution as pointed out aboveemphasis added.
shri tayeng by a uo note dated 12 01 1998 denied to have made such an appointment stating confidential u o no 21593 com r pt.
it appears that the appointment orders were issued after complying the formalities prescribed there for which can be ascertained from the relevant official file.
the offers of appointment were cancelled not on the ground that some irregularities had been committed in the process of recruitment but on the ground that they had been non est in the eye of law.
we in the facts and circumstances of this case do not see any arbitrariness on the part of the state in its action directing cancellation of appointments.
a r khan secretary revenue has made many appointments of mandols process servers zilladars in the recent months against which i have been complaining that the secretary revenue has no power or authority to make any appointments of field staff as per rules provided under m l r act1960 in this regard i have apprised the matter to the honourable minister revenue already and also informed the chief secretary manipur explaining that the secretary revenue can not make such appointments of field staffs even if he wanted to do so all the relevant files should have been routed through the undersigned so that the same may be brought to the notice of the honourable minister revenue his action has created lots of misunderstanding and confusion.
it is for this reason i have been writing to all the deputy commissioners in the districts even by sending w t messages clarifying the actual position of making any appointment of revenue field staff.
he was merely put a chairman of the dpc for non ministerial post of the revenue department.
their appointments are made through open competition from among those who are eligible for appointment and strictly on the basis of merit as evidenced by the particulars of their practice opinions of the district magistrate and the district judge and also after taking into consideration their character and conduct.
the said shri tayeng retired on 28 02 1998 despite the fact that he in his uo note dated 12 02 1998 addressed to the minister of revenue denied to have made any appointment when approached by the writ petitioners respondents he affirmed in their support an affidavit in the high court stating 3 that while i was functioning as revenue commissioner manipur matters relating to appointment on the recommendation of the d p c transfer etc were put up to me in files and i used to pass order on the basis of facts presented to me in file.
in view of the aforementioned stand taken by the said shri tayeng the offers of appointment issued in favour of the respondents were cancelled by an order dated 17 02 1998 a corrigendum thereto was however issued on 21 02 1998 stating no 21593 comrev.
if the offers of appointments issued in favour of the respondents herein were forged documents the state could not have been compelled to pay salaries to them from the state exchequer.
he was also to be the chairman of the departmental promotion committee for non ministerial post of the revenue department.
the respondents herein filed writ petitions before the high court on 4 06 1998 questioning the said order of cancellation of their appointments.
the posts of field staffs of the revenue department of the state of manipur were thus required to be filled up having regard to the said constitutional scheme.
the xerox copy of the cyclostyled appointment order bearing no 11497.
com rev dated 11 9 97 annexure a1 to the writ petition appointing 3 persons to the post of mandol and no 11497 com rev.
the commissioner as noticed hereinbefore was the chairman of the dpc how the matter was referred to the dpc has not been disclosed.
the two protections are 1 against being dismissed or removed by an authority subordinate to that by which the appointment had been made and 2 against being dismissed removed or reduced in rank without being heard.
1991 supp 1 scc 331 1991 indlaw sc 904 and kumari shrilekha vidyarthi and others v state of u p and others 1991 1 scc 212 1990 indlaw sc 463.
the state while offering appointments having regard to the constitutional scheme adumbrated in arts 14 and 16 of the constitution of india must comply with its constitutional duty subject to just and proper exceptions to give an opportunity of being considered for appointment to all persons eligible there for.
it is true that where appointments had been made by a competent authority or at least some steps have been taken in that behalf the principles of natural justice are required to be complied with in view of the decision of this court in murugayya udayar 1991 indlaw sc 904 supra.