trade mark no 228867 in.
it confers an exclusive right of use of the trade mark in relation to the goods in which the trade mark is registered.
registrar of trade marks under section 4656 and 107 of the trade and merchandise marks act1958 for rectification of entry relating to the registered trade mark no 228867 in class 7 after.
the trade mark for which registration is obtained is used intermittently.
a registered proprietor of a trade mark should not be permitted to circumvent the law of user of the trade mark for a long time by assigning the same from time to time.
registration of a trade mark remains valid for seven years.
a person who had been using the said trade mark as a proprietor thereof by user is supposed to keep itself abreast with such applications filed by another either for registration of the trade mark or renewal thereof.
while we say so we are not oblivious of the fact that trafficking in trade mark is to be discouraged.
there can not be any doubt or dispute that the registration of a trade mark confers a very valuable right.
the registered proprietor of the trademark used it at all.
both the appellant and the respondent no 1 were the infringers of the right of m s jain industries as it was the registered proprietor of the trade mark in respect of the goods in question namely centrifugal pumps.
a title to a trade mark derived on assignment as provided for under the act can not be equated with a defective title acquired in any other property as admittedly on the date of assignment the right of the registered trade mark was not extinguished.
whether the registered proprietor of the trade mark had taken recourse to trafficking or not must be determined in an appropriate proceeding.
this clause corresponds to s 46 of the existing act and provides for removal of a trade mark from the register on the ground of non use.
prima facie therefore appellant has been held to be the registered owner of the trade mark.
the prayer in the application was to take off the registered trade mark from the register in respect of centrifugal pumps goods so far as the registration made in favour of the appellant is concerned.
a trade mark which is not used within five years of its registration becomes liable for removal either completely or in respect of those goods or services for which the mark has not been used.
it is also proposed to increase the period from 1 to 3 months in cl 471a and b in which use of the trade mark prior to the date of filing of the application for removal of the trade mark shall be disregarded.
the same is an assignable right in terms of s 36 of the act whereas an unregistered trade mark is not.
that is m s jain industries.
the power to rectify the register conferred by this section shall include the power to remove a trade mark registered in part a of the register to part b of the register.
the second contention of mr that the appellant was an infringer of the trade mark is again a question of fact.
the right of a registered trade mark is not lost automatically on the expiry of five years and one month.
if thukral did then it can not be said that there was no bona fide use thereof by its proprietor.
notice for april 81986 meanwhile a temporary ex parte injunction is issued against the defendants restraining them from manufacturing or selling either themselves or through any dealer or representative diesel oil engines or parts thereof with the trade mark field marshal andor any other trade mark identical therewith and all goods falling in cl 7 of the trade and merchandise mark rules.
we may at this stage notice that in law of trade marks by mr k c kailasam while commenting on s 47 of the trade marks act1999 to which our attention has been drawn by mr sudhir chandra it is stated.
the clause is proposed to be modified to clarify that special circumstances in the trade will include restrictions imposed by any law or regulation on the use of trade mark in india.
the permitted use of a trade mark shall be deemed to be used by the proprietor thereof and shall be deemed not to be used by a person other than the proprietor for the purposes of s 46 or for any other purpose for which such use is material under this act or any other law.
under s 461it is proposed to clarify that the five years period will start from the date on which the trade mark is actually entered on the register.
section 48 registered users 1 subject to the provisions of section 49a person other than the registered proprietor of a trade mark may be registered as the registered user thereof in respect of any or all of the goods in respect of which the trademark is registered otherwise than as a defensive trade mark but the central government may by rules made in this behalf provide that no application for registration as such shall be enertained unless the agreement between the parties complies with the conditions laid down in the rules for preventing trafficking in trade marks.
indisputably it would be the registered proprietor.
c the defendants shall maintain proper accounts of the sale of centrifugal pumps under the trade mark field marshal and shall file them in court as and when directed.
the person in whose name the trade mark has been registered may take action against any person for passing off the goods as that of the registered owner.
it seeks to enhance the period of moratorium of use of the registered trade mark from one month to three months so as to prevent speculative assignment.
indisputably during the proceedings in the above suit m section jain industries by a deed of assignment assigned the said trade mark along with its goodwill in favour of the appellant.
the right of the first respondent as a proprietor of the trade mark by reason of a long user is required to be determined vis vis m s jain industries as also the appellant in the suit filed by it which is pending.
the registration of the aforesaid trade mark has been renewed from time to time and will remain in force for a period of a seven years from 13th.
it claimed user of the said mark since 1963 and sought for rectification of the register by expunging the expression circulation and centrifugal pumps from the specification of goods.
but it is another thing to say that the appellant could be proceeded against alone for non user of the registered trade mark for a period of more than five years.
indisputably appellant filed an application in form tm 24 on 17 6 1986 the assistant registrar trade marks passed an order on 10 11 1986 certifying that the trade mark field marshal brand word per se is registered under no 228867 in part a of the register as of the date 13th.
the non user for a long time would disentitle a registered proprietor from renewal of the registration.
before adverting thereto we may take notice of the relevant statutory provisions ss 461b481482 and 56 read as under section 46 removal from register and imposition of limitations on ground of non use 1 subject to the provisions of section 47a registered trade mark may be taken off the register in respect of any of the goods in respect of which it is registered on application made in the prescribed manner to a high court or to the registrar by any person aggrieved on the ground either a b that up to a date one month before the date of the application a continuous period of five years or longer had elapsed during which the trade mark was registered and during which there was no bona fide use thereof in relation to those goods by any proprietor thereof for the time being provided that except where the applicant has been permitted under sub s 3 of s 12 to register an identical or nearly resembling trade mark in respect of the goods in question or where the tribunal is of opinion that he might properly be permitted so to register such a trade mark the tribunal may refuse an application u cl a or cl b in relation to any goods if it is shown that there has been before the relevent date or during the relevant period as the case may be bona fide use of the trade mark by any proprietor thereof for the time being in relation to goods of the same description being goods in respect of which the trade mark is registered.
the act was enacted to provide for the registration and better protection of trademarks and for the prevention of the use of fraudulent marks of merchandise.
our attention has again been drawn to a passage from law of trade marks geographical indications by shri k c kailasam wherein the judgment of the tribunal has been criticized in the following terms from the above legislative intent it would seem that the period of non use of the trade mark is to be reckoned continuously from the date of its registration.