the discovery must have been in consequence of some information received from the accused and not by the accused 's own act.
the prosecution relied upon only circumstantial evidence namely confessional statements of the accused leading to recovery of various incriminating materials.
p 12 dated 22 9 2003 made before p w 42 and subbiah and p w 24led to recovery of m dollar m 0 38 and key chain with key chain in m 0 39 from the toilet in the room of the accused.
it is quite possible that such articles might have been borrowed by the accused from the deceased and not necessarily stolen by the accused from the deceased after killing her.
further the proved circumstances must be consistent only with the hypothesis of the guilt of the accused and totally inconsistent with his innocence.
for the aforesaid purpose they have relied upon the evidence of p w 42 and the seizure witness p w 24 the accused had allegedly made earlier confessional statement before p w 40 on 26 4 2003 leading to discovery of several articles.
d statement of the accused leading to recovery of incriminating materials such as knife rope clothes wooden log and other valuable articles such as computer gold ornamentsm dollar and the key chain with key belonging to the deceased.
the prosecution has strongly relied upon the fact that m dollar belonging to the deceased and a chain with key of the room of the deceased were discovered from inside the toilet in the room which was previously occupied by the accused.
the alleged statement made by the accused led to discovery of knife bloodstained clothes rope etc.
initially p w 40 suspected the role of p w 1his wife p w 2p w 3from whose house certain incriminating material were recovered allegedly on the basis of statement of the accused as well as p w 4who was working as a cleaner in the vehicle of p w 1 subsequently however p w 42who took over investigation from p w 40 filed charge sheet only against the present appellant on the footing that p ws 1 to 4 had no role to play in the crime.
even accepting that the computer had been given to p w 15 by the accused such circumstance by itself does not unerringly points towards the guilt of the accused either in respect of offence of murder or even robbery.
so far as the first confession statement made before p w 40 is concerned admittedly the accused was under physical custody at that time whereas at the time of last confession stated to have been made before p w 42the accused was on bail and he had been summoned by p w 42 for further examination and therefore technically in custody.
as a matter of fact p w 9 who was examined on the very date when police started investigation did not inform the police that she had seen the accused coming down from upstairs or that the accused had threatened her.
therefore the aspect relating to recovery of articles from the house of p w 3 and his mother can not be considered as a link to complete the chain of circumstantial evidence.
if the accused had killed the deceased and stolen those golden jewellery there is no reason as to why he had also not taken ear rings from the deceased.
the person giving the information must be accused of any offence.
the discovery of a fact in consequence of information received from an accused in custody must be deposed to.
p 10 is the statement relating to jewelleries ultimately leading to recovery of gold ingots m o 18 series from the house of p w 19 on the basis of other connecting statements of p w 17 and p w 18 these three statements exs p 6p 8 and p 10 dated 26 4 2003were made before p w 40 in the presence of p w 22 and c w 1 the other confessional statement ex.
the following circumstances were highlighted to find the accused guilty.
the fact that there had been a statement allegedly made by p w 1 leading to recovery of a parallel key from the dash board of the car of p w 1cannot be lost sight of.
the trial court found that the prosecution version rested on circumstantial evidence.
in this context it is to be noted that c w 1 states that m dollar was taken from him by p w 42 for the purpose of facilitating investigation.
therefore the statement of p w 3 and his mother that those articles were brought by the accused and left in the upstairs room is to be considered with a pinch of salt.
in this context it is also note worthy to indicate that c w 1 in his evidence has stated that the accused was in police station on 24 4 2003 itself.
on the basis of the aforesaid f i r investigation was taken up initially by p w 40.
subsequently on the basis of the order of the high court such investigation was completed by p w 42 the accused is stated to have been arrested on suspicion on 26 4 2003 on the basis of the statement of the accused prosecution discovered many materials including a knife and a log allegedly used for killing.
in other words there must be a chain of evidence so far complete as not to leave any reasonable ground for a conclusion consistent with the innocence of the accused and it must be such as to show that within all human probability the act must have been done by the accused.
it is of course true that the prosecution has tried to exonerate p w 1 by adducing evidence through p ws 36 and 39 to the effect that immediately after recovery of the dead body p w 40 had taken two such keys thus contradicting the alleged confession of p w 1 however the very suspicious role of p w 40who apparently was in possession of at least two keys of the same lock creates suspicion regarding recovery of another key after 5 months.
the fact that p w 9 had not initially stated anything before p w 40 about the accused coming down with computer at 3 30 p m and stated so for the first time when she was re examined after 5 months can not be lost sight of.
for the aforesaid aspect the evidence of p ws 1718 and 19 is relevant.
similar statement is made by p w 4 that apart c w 1 has stated that no statement has been made in his presence.
if this is the statement of p w 22 recorded under section 164 of the code a witness in whose presence the confessional statement leading to discovery of articles from the house of hajeeali p w 3 had been made it raises serious doubt regarding the voluntariness of the statement.
i do not tell this even to p w 1.
the next recovery relates to the ingots.