pw 8 pw 18 and pw 1 then lifted rauji and brought him in the courtyard.
meanwhile accused No 3 started abusing pw 1 pw 8 pw 18 and the deceased rauji.
all murder is culpable homicide but not vice versa.
it was found that accused No 1 was having injury on his back.
speaking generally culpable homicide sans special characteristics of murder is culpable homicide not amounting to murder.
on being cross examined pw 7 categorically stated that death due to stab injury was in consequence of injury No 1 and all other injuries were superficial in nature.
it has been repeatedly held by this court that culpable homicide is the genus and murder is species and that all murders are culpable homicide but not vice versa.
the accused then started assaulting her and pw 8 with slaps.
pw 1 also sustained injuries in the said incident.
in his cross examination has categorically stated that death due to stab injury was in consequence of injury No 1 and all other injuries were superficial in nature.
pw 1 informed about the incident to pw 2 another son of the deceased.
this is the greatest form of culpable homicide which is defined in section 300 as murder.
obviously the distinction lies between a bodily injury likely to cause death and a bodily injury sufficient in the ordinary course of nature to cause death.
there was a heated exchange of words between rauji and the appellant switched on the light which was again switched off by rauji the deceased.
pw 1 and others asked the police to take rauji to the hospital.
it must be proved that there was an intention to inflict that particular bodily injury which in the ordinary course of nature was sufficient to cause death viz that the injury found to be present was the injury that was intended to be inflicted.
in the meantime pw 1 pw 2 and pw 8 came to the house from whom pw 21 made certain inquiries and brought them along with accused No 3 and her two juvenile girls to the police station.
whereupon the police took him to the hospital in the police jeep along with pw 1 pw 2 and pw 8.
on the basis of complaint made by pw 1 an fir was registered and the accused came to be arrested.
however pw 1 again intervened and removed the said stone from the hand of accused no 3.
pw 18 rushed to the rescue of deceased rauji.
section 299 defines culpable homicide as the act of causing death i with the intention of causing death or ii with the intention of causing such bodily injury as is likely to cause death or iii with the knowledge that such act is likely to cause death.
after reaching the police station a complaint which is marked as exhibit pw 1 a was lodged by pw 1 in which it was alleged that pw 1 pw 8 pw 18 the deceased rauji and his brother narayan were residing in one house in banastari and they used to share a common kitchen between them.
section 299 and section 300 ipc deals with the definition of culpable homicide and murder respectively.
accused No 1 section 302 ipc and accused nos.
the second may be termed as culpable homicide of the second degree.
then accused No 3 told the appellant and accused No 2 to finish off rauji first.
thirdly it must be proved that there was an intention to inflict that particular bodily injury that is to say that it was not accidental or unintentional or that some other kind of injury was intended.
so it was only injury No 1 which was fatal in nature.
there was indeed some scuffle between the parties during the course of which accused No 1 received simple injuries and the deceased died of the two stab injuries inflicted by the present appellant.
the first is what may be called culpable homicide of the first degree.
under clause thirdly of section 300 ipc culpable homicide is murder if both the following conditions are satisfied i e a that the act which causes death is done with the intention of causing death or is done with the intention of causing a bodily injury and b that the injury intended to be inflicted is sufficient in the ordinary course of nature to cause death.
it was further submitted that the alleged eye witnesses of the occurrence were examined by the police belatedly and that the medical evidence adduced in the case does not in any manner support the ocular evidence and if at all it would not be a case of culpable homicide amounting to murder but a case of culpable homicide not amounting to murder.
thirdly it must be proved that there was an intention to inflict that particular injury that is to say that it was not accidental or unintentional or that some other kind of injury was intended.
thereafter the appellant and the two other alleged accused namely accused nos 2 and 3 and the two juvenile offenders gathered in the hall to assault rauji the deceased pw 1 and pw 8.
according to pw 1 in order to avoid the assault by all of them they went to bulcao balcony.
3 of section 300 is one of degree of probability of death resulting from the intended bodily injury.
the words bodily injury sufficient in the ordinary course of nature to cause death mean that death will be the most probable result of the injury having regard to the ordinary course of nature.
at that time the appellant who was holding the knife in his hand handed over the same to accused No 3 by which she assaulted pw 8 but pw 8 caught the knife in her hand which caused injury to her right palm.
it was also alleged that after the deceased rauji fell down on the ground accused No 3 kicked him.
thereafter according to pw 1 accused No 3 handed back the knife to the appellant and accused No 2 brought the oil lamp which was hung in the room and hit the oil lamp on the head of rauji the deceased.
this is punishable under the first part of section 304.
then there is culpable homicide of the third degree.
if the assailant had no such knowledge about the disease or special frailty of the victim nor an intention to cause death or bodily injury sufficient in the ordinary course of nature to cause death the offence will not be murder even if the injury which caused the death was intentionally given.
at that time pw 2 came there and questioned the accused persons as to what they were doing whereupon the appellant and accused No 2 started assaulting pw 2 also.
first it must establish quite objectively that a bodily injury is present secondly the nature of the injury must be proved.
on medical examination his injury was found to be simple.
only the intention of causing the bodily injury coupled with the offender 's knowledge of the likelihood of such injury causing the death of the particular victim is sufficient to bring the killing within the ambit of this clause.
if that is caused in any of the aforesaid three circumstances the offence of culpable homicide is said to have been committed.
for cases to fall within clause 3 it is not necessary that the offender intended to cause death so long as the death ensues from the intentional bodily injury or injuries sufficient to cause death in the ordinary course of nature.
he further stated that injury No 1 was sufficient to cause death in the ordinary course of nature.
to put it more broadly it is the degree of probability of death which determines whether a culpable homicide is of the gravest medium or the lowest degree.
there is therefore one particular injury being injury No 1 caused because of stabbing and the rest being superficial in nature could be caused during scuffle.
there is no doubt that four injuries are indicated in the postmortem report shown to have been received by the deceased but the fact that the deceased was given stab injuries by the appellant with the help of a knife brought by him from inside the house is clearly established from the ocular evidence.
it is trite law that section 304 part ii comes into play when the death is caused by doing an act with knowledge that it is likely to cause death but there is no intention on the part of the accused either to cause death or to cause such bodily injury as is likely to cause death.
after reaching the police station and at the request of pw 1 the fir was recorded at 3 00 a m in the morning.
in the meanwhile residents of the locality had gathered in the courtyard and told the accused persons not to assault rauji.
as soon as the deceased switched off the light the appellant came from the room and started abusing rauji.
it was also alleged that the other juvenile offender sharmila brought a cement block shaped like an elephant trunk which she handed over to accused No 3 with which accused No 3 started assaulting rauji.
he was informed that the deceased had died as a result of stab injuries received and therefore he was to take necessary steps.
section 300 ipc further provides for the exceptions which will constitute culpable homicide not amounting to murder and punishable section when and if there is intent and knowledge then the same would be a case of section 304.
i and if it is only a case of knowledge and not the intention to cause murder and bodily injury then the same would be a case of section 304 part ii.
the question so far as the intention is concerned is not whether he intended to kill or to inflict an injury of a particular degree of seriousness but whether he intended to inflict the injury in question and once the existence of the injury is proved the intention to cause it will be presumed unless the evidence or the circumstances warrant an opposite conclusion.
in the instant case it is quite clear from the evidence on record that pw 1 received the information about the death of the deceased from psi of panaji police station without any detail as to how the incident had happened and who had caused the incident.
in the meantime police jeep arrived at the scene and on seeing the police jeep all the accused ran away from the courtyard and went inside.
in order to verify the information received pw 21 went to the place of occurrence and found the entire house in total darkness.
factually therefore there was only one main injury caused due to stabbing and that also was given on the back side of the deceased and therefore it can not be said that there was any intention to kill or to inflict an injury of a particular degree of seriousness.
on 19 04 1988 between 8 30 p m and 8 45 p m satish narayan sawant the appellant accused No 1 along with two other accused persons and also with two delinquent children allegedly formed an unlawful assembly and that in furtherance of the said common object stabbed one rauji dulba sawant the deceased and also assaulted baby dulba sawant pw 1 ashok dulba sawant pw 2 kunda rauji sawant pw 8 and laxmi dulba sawant pw 18 who are the sister brother wife and mother respectively of the deceased.
on completion of the investigation the police submitted the charge sheet against the accused persons namely the present appellant accused No 1 accused nos 2 and 3 and the two juvenile offenders namely sarita and sharmila.
accused No 3 had then lit a kerosene lamp and brought the same in the hall.
thus according to the rule laid down in virsa singh case4 even if the intention of the accused was limited to the infliction of a bodily injury sufficient to cause death in the ordinary course of nature and did not extend to the intention of causing death the offence would be murder.
it was also alleged that when pw 8 tried to intervene the other three accused started assaulting her with fists and slaps.
when they went there the appellant went to his mother 's room and brought a knife with which he stabbed rauji.
at that time all the accused persons were in the balcony.
such knowledge on the part of the offender must be of the highest degree of probability the act having been committed by the offender without any excuse for incurring the risk of causing death or such injury as aforesaid.
pw 21 who was at that time attached to konda police station as psi was informed at about 10 45 p m that the deceased while was being brought in the police jeep by a police constable jaisingrao rane and was being taken to the government medical college but before the deceased could be admitted he died.
the mental element in culpable homicide i e mental attitude towards the consequences of conduct is one of intention and knowledge.
however a perusal of record clearly shows that the doctor who conducted the postmortem pw 7 stated in his evidence that there were in total 16 injuries when external examination was done by him and the knife m o 11 could have caused the injuries No 1 2 3 and 4.
he further stated that the death was caused due to hemorrhage and shock as a result of stab injury.
initially the accused appellant also did not have any weapon with him but during the course of the incident he went inside and got a knife with the help of which he stabbed the deceased.
accused No 3 told the appellant not to do anything in the ceremony and insulted the family members of rauji.
the dead body of the deceased was brought down from the bus and taken to the house.
for the purpose of fixing punishment proportionate to the gravity of this generic offence the code practically recognises three degrees of culpable homicide.
besides all the aforesaid eye witnesses were inmates of the house and they would know as to who had given the blows for they specifically stated that initially the appellant did not have the knife in his hand but when the deceased and others went to the balcony then he went inside the house and brought a knife with which he gave stab injuries to the deceased which became fatal and as a result of which the deceased died while he was being taken to the hospital.
they reached the place of occurrence in another bus at about 1 a m the deceased and the injured were only then shifted to tuni hospital.