as noticed above in this case the charge was that appellant committed trespass into the house of prakashi devi for assaulting prakashi devi and assaulted the said prakashi devi and outraged her modesty.
the accused did not have any opportunity to meet or defend himself against the charge that he assaulted sheela devi and outraged her modesty.
the court having charged the accused with the offence of having trespassed into the house of prakashi devi with intent to assault her and having further charged him for having assaulted the said prakashi devi by outraging her modesty convicts him on the ground that though he did not assault or outrage the modesty of prakashi devi he had outraged the modesty of sheela devi that would lead to failure of justice.
it was held that mentioning the name of prakashi devi instead of the name of sheela devi in the charge was an error that did not prejudice the accused.
on the other hand if two persons were present in the house at the time of the incident namely prakashi devi and sheela devi and the accused is charged with trespassing into the house of prakashi devi and assaulting and outraging the modesty of the said prakashi devi and the witnesses refer only to the assault and outraging the modesty of sheela devi the court will have to infer that the accused was prejudiced if the accused had solely concentrated and focused his defence and entire cross examination to show that he did not commit the offences against prakashi devi.
when the accused is charged with having entered the house of prakashi devi and assaulted the said prakashi devi with intent to outrage her modesty and when the accused defended himself in regard to the said charge and concentrated on proving that the said charges were not true he can not be convicted for having assaulted and outraging the modesty of someone else namely sheela devi.
if sheela devi alone had been present at the house at the time of the incident and the accused had assaulted and outraged the modesty of the said sheela devi but in the charge the name of the victim had been erroneously mentioned say as sushila devi or prakashi devi though there was no person by such nameand the inquiry exclusively referred to the assault and outraging the modesty of sheela devi the court could infer that the accused was not misled and the error in the charge was immaterial.
therefore we are of the view that there should be a new trial after charging him with the offence of outraging the modesty of sheela devi.
the accused concentrated his cross examination with reference to the said charge and elicited answers showing that he did not assault or outrage the modesty of prakashi devi.
when the charge was that the accused attempted to commit trespass into the house of prakashi devi with intent to outrage the modesty of prakashi devi the conclusion of the appellate court and the high court that there was no failure of justice if he is punished for the offence of having assaulted sheela devi and outraging her modesty is opposed to principles of fair play and natural justice embodied in sections 211212215 and 464 of the code.
he did not try to challenge the evidence let in to show that he had tried to outrage the modesty of sheela devi as he was not charged with such an offence.
he contended that as the charge levelled against him was not proved and as he was not required to defend himself against a charge that he assaulted and outraged the modesty of sheela devi he ought to have been acquitted.
one of the contentions urged by the accused before the appellate court and high court was that the charge against him was that he attempted to outrage the modesty of prakashi devi pw 1 whereas the evidence was to show that he attempted to outrage the modesty of her daughter in law sheela devi.
there were two women present at the house at the time of the alleged incident namely prakashi devi and her daughter in law sheela devi.
nor did he proceed with his defence on the understanding that he was being charged with having committed the offence with reference to sheela devi.
he did not attempt to meet the case made out in the trial that the offence was against sheela devi.
the following question therefore arises for our consideration when the charge is that the accused assaulted x and outraged her modesty but the evidence is that he assaulted y to outrage her modesty can the accused be punished for having assaulting and outraging the modesty of yeven though he was not charged with any offence with reference to yon the ground that the error or omission in the charge did not prejudice the accused or result in failure of justice.
prakashi devi and thereby committed an offence punishable u s 452 ipc within my cognizance.
but there will be no prejudice or failure of justice where there was an error in the charge and the accused was aware of the error.
their evidence was that he touched caught the hand of sheela devi and when she raised an alarm he ran away.
an fir was registered on 23 3 1996 on the statement of one prakashi devi.
the evidence of pw 1 and pw 2 was that the appellant did not touch or tease or abuse prakashi devi.
in view of the specific charge the accused concentrated on showing that the charge was false.
the accused was thus clearly misled by the error in the charge which caused prejudiced to the accused thereby occasioning failure of justice.
secondly on the same date time and place you assaulted and used criminal force against abovenamed prakashi devi with intent to outrage her modesty and thereby committed an offence punishable u s 354 ipc and within my cognizance.
the appeal is therefore allowed the conviction of the accused is set aside and the matter is remitted to the trial court with a direction for a new trial after framing a charge by substituting the words her daughter in law sheela devi for the words abovenamed prakashi deviin the second part of the charge.
that order is challenged by the accused.
prakashi devi was examined as pw 1 she reiterated what was recorded in the fir that the appellant came into the house around 11 30 pm and broke the bulbs that he came again around 00 30 am and touched her daughter in law sheela devi and when her daughter in law woke up and raised an alarm the appellant ran away.
both pw1 and pw2 stated that the house of the accused was at a distance of 15 16 houses from the house of prakashi devi that the accused had never come into their house earlier that their family and the accused were not on visiting terms with each other even during functions marriages or death though they were on visiting terms with others in the village.
it inter alia provides that every charge under the code shall state the offence with which the accused is charged.
that around 00 30 am the appellant again came into her house and touched her daughter in law sheela devi who woke up and raised an alarm and that the appellant immediately ran away.
one of the fundamental principles of justice is that an accused should know what is the charge against him so that he can build his defence in regard to that charge.
where an accused is charged with having committed offence against one person but on the evidence led he is convicted for committing offence against another person without a charge being framed in respect of it the accused will be prejudiced resulting in a failure of justice.
such knowledge can be inferred from the defence that is if the defence of the accused showed that he was defending himself against the real and actual charge and not the erroneous charge.