it is for the accused to show that the death of the deceased did not result from any cruelty or demand of dowry by the accused persons.
the accused pathan hussain basha his father pathan khadar basha and mother pathan nazeer abi forced her to get the balance amount of dowry.
lw 7 stated on oath that he was present at the time of giving of dowry to the accused by the family of the deceased.
12 the definition of dowry under s 2 of the act reads as under 2 definition of dowry.
the cruelty and harassment by the husband or any relative could be directly relatable to or in connection with any demand for dowry.
it is the case of the prosecution that for non payment of dowry the accused persons harassed the deceased and subjected her to cruelty.
the statement of this witness i e lw 1 is corroborated by lw 3 and lw 7.
it is stated by lw 3 that she knew all the accused persons as she was residing in the house of the accused and the deceased.
secondly that soon before her death she had been subjected to cruelty or harassment by the husband or any of the relatives of the husband for or in connection with any demand for dowry then such a death shall be called dowry death and the husband or the relative as the case may be will be deemed to have caused such a death.
accused pathan hussain basha was married to pathan haseena begum now deceased on 23rd june2002 at guntur.
the father of the deceased pathan yasin khan lw 1 and her mother pathan shamshad begum lw 2 were present at that time.
it was an arranged marriage.
all three accused used to beat her for the remaining amount of dowry.
subsequently lw 3 pathan basheerunnisa sent her grandson pathan inayatullah khan lw 4 to the house of the parents of the deceased to inform them about the incident.
the period intervening between the marriage and the death of the deceased is very small.
from the above evidence it is clear that the dowry demands were being raised by the accused persons persistently from the family of the deceased and for that they even harassed the deceased by beating and abusing her.
she had informed her parents of the ill treatment and the cruelty inflicted on her for non giving of dowry.
lw 4pathan inayatullah khan the grandson of lw 3went to the house of the parents of the deceased and informed them about the unfortunate incident.
accused pathan hussain basha and pathan nazeer abi have rightly been found guilty of the offence by the courts.
according to this witness on 23rd january2002the marriage of his daughter was solemnised with accused pathan hussain basha and he had accepted to give rs 25000 in marriage.
dowry is something which existed in our country for a considerable time and the legislature in its wisdom considered it appropriate to enact the law relating to dowry prohibition so as to ensure that any party to the marriage is not harassed or treated with cruelty for satisfaction of demands in consideration and for subsistence of the marriage.
accused pathan hussain basha when he had gone to the parental house of the deceased demanded different items like fan ring and rs 1000 in cash and the balance of the agreed dowry amount.
however there must be existence of proximate link between the acts of cruelty along with the demand of dowry and the death of the victim.
at the time of marriage it was promised that a dowry of rs 25000 besides other formalities would be paid by the side of the wife to the husband.
this was done in the presence of lw 10 and lw 11shaik ibrahim and mohd ghouse respectively.
accused were charged with offences under sections 498a and 304b of the ipc the fir in the present case was lodged by lw 1who is the father of the deceased.
1 the death of a woman should be caused by burns or fatal injury or otherwise than under normal circumstances 2 such death should have occurred within seven years of her marriage 3 she must have been subjected to cruelty or harassment by her husband or any relative of her husband and 4 such cruelty or harassment should be for or in connection with demand for dowry.
11 alongside insertion of section 304 b in ipc the legislature also introduced section 113 b of the evidence act which lays down when the question as to whether a person has committed the dowry death of a woman and it is shown that soon before her death such woman had been subjected by such person to cruelty or harassment for or in connection with any demand for dowry the court shall presume that such person had caused the dowry death.
later on the accused came to fetch deceased.
the object being that everything which is offending at any time i e at before or after the marriage would be covered under this definition but the demand of dowry has to be in connection with the marriage and not so customary that it would not attract on the face of it the provisions of this section.
besides examining the ingredients of the provision it would also be necessary for us to examine the meaning and connotation of the expressions dowry deathsoon before her death and in connection with any demand for dowry as appearing in the said section.
the expression demand for dowry will have to be construed ejusdem generis to the word immediately preceding this expression.
subsequently the motherin law of the deceased again demanded the balance dowry amount of rs 10000 which he could not pay.
lw 14 is a witness to the seizure of the body and she noticed injuries on the body of the deceased.
on 15th february2003at about 11 a m the deceased committed suicide by hanging herself in the house of the accused.
the accused asked for rs 1000 with a ring for the deceased.
according to him the accused persons used to harass the deceased primarily for non payment of the amount of dowry as a result of which she was forced to commit suicide.
the explanation to this section requires that the expression dowry shall have the same meaning as in s 2 of the act.
she was unable to bear the cruelty to which she was subjected by the accused persons.
february2003 the witnesses including lw 1 have stated that for the first few months they were happy but thereafter there were quarrels between the accused and the deceased.
by a deeming fiction in law the onus shifts on to the accused to prove as to how the deceased died.
when the parents of the deceased came to the house of the accused and found the deceased hanging from the beam with a saree they untied her and took her to the government general hospital guntur hoping that the deceased may be alive.
section 304 b ipc is read together with section 113 b of the evidence act a comprehensive picture emerges that if a married woman dies in unnatural circumstances at her matrimonial home within 7 years from her marriage and there are allegations of cruelty or harassment upon such married woman for or in connection with demand of dowry by the husband or relatives of the husband the case would squarely come under dowry death and there shall be a presumption against the husband and the relatives.
lw 1lodged the report which was registered by sri k srinivasarao lw 16the sub inspector of police.
after bringing the soaps she went to the house of the accused persons and found that the accused was absent and the deceased was hanging on one side of the room.
the customary payments in connection with birth of a child or other ceremonies are not covered within the ambit of the word dowry.
thus the cruelty harassment and demand of dowry should not be so ancient whereafter the couple and the family members have lived happily and that it would result in abuse of the said protection.
thereupon the body was sent for postmortem examination through constable p venkateswara reddy lw 15 lw 17p devdass also took photographs of the scene 3 lw 13dr.
the expression in connection with the marriage can not be given a restricted or a narrower meaning.
at this stage it will be appropriate to refer to certain examples showing what has and has not been treated by the courts as dowry.
out of this amount a sum of rs 15000 was paid at that time and it was promised that the balance dowry of rs 10000 would be paid in the month of october2002upon which the marriage was performed.
the high court acquitted pathan khadar basha the fatherin law of the deceased as there was no direct evidence against him.