bonus is not a deferred wage.
no further claimed payment of bonus out of those reserves or undistributed profits can therefore survive.
to admit the claim for bonus out of the reserves transferred to the profit and loss account would tantamount to allowing a second bonus on the same profits in respect of which the workers had already received their full bonus in the previous year.
the textile labour inquiry committee defined bonus as follows the term bonus is applied to a cash payment made in addition to wages.
as at present advised a claim for bonus which had been rested on profits earned should ordinarily be determined on the basis of the profits earned in the year under claim and that the scale of bonus should be determined on the quantum of profits earned in the year.
linking of bonus to dividend would obviously create difficulties.
it is therefore clear that the claim for bonus can be made by the employees only if as a result of the joint contribution of capital and labour the industrial concern has earned profits.
the demand for bonus becomes an industrial claim when either or both these conditions are satisfied.
because if that theory was accepted a company would not declare any dividends but accumulate the profits build up reserves and distribute those profits in the shape of bonus shares or reduce the capital in which event the workers would not be entitled to claim anything as and by way of bonus.
if in any particular year the working of the industrial concern has resulted in loss there is no basis nor justification for a demand for bonus.
on the accounts of each year being made up and the profits of the industrial concern being ascertained the workers during the particular year have their demand for bonus fully satisfied out of the surplus profits and the balance of profits is allocated and carried over in the accounts.
but second the meaning of the word bonus is not given to it by the objection.
ordinance of 1948 the whole of the profits of 1948 could have been distributed after paying the workers bonus in that year of four annas in the rupee.
the labour appellate tribunal did not accept the contention of the respondent that bonus should be linked to dividends nor did it rest its decision on the respondent having a right title and interest in the reserves and the undistributed profits of the appellant.
so it would follow that if there is trading loss in the year under claim bonus should not ordinarily be awarded.
the shareholders only would be entitled to such benefit and the mere fact that dividends were declared and paid to the shareholders out of such reserves and undistributed profits would not entitle the workers to demand bonus when in fact the working of the industrial concern during the particular year had showed a loss.
if the industrial concern has resulted in a trading loss there would be no profits of the particular year available for distribution of dividends much less could the employees claim the distribution of bonus during that year.
it has also got to be remembered that the labour force employed in an industrial concern is a fluctuating body and it can not be predicated of the labour force in a particular year that it represents the past and the present workers so that it can claim to demand bonus out of the reserves or undistributed profits of the previous years.
the word bonus has however acquired a secondary meaning in the sphere of industrial relations.
because if it were so it would necessarily rank for precedence before dividends the dividends can only be paid out of profits and unless and until profits are made no occasion or question can also arise for distribution of any sum as bonus amongst the employees.
this appeal with special leave is directed against the judgment and order of the labour appellate tribunal of india in a dispute regarding the workers claim for bonus.
in our full bench decision see 1950 2 l l j 1247 we carefully considered the question of social justice in relation to bonus and there we equated the rights and liabilities of employers and workmen with a view to achieving a just formula for the computation of bonus.
the surplus that remained after meeting the aforesaid deductions would be available for distribution as bonus.
the question which therefore arises for our consideration is mainly whether the workers are entitled to the payment of a bonus in spite of the employer having worked at a loss during the year and incidentally whether the workers have any right title or interest in the reserves and the undistributed profits of the previous years.
a transfer of moneys from these reserves or the undistributed profits would therefore not enure for the benefit of the workers.
dividend on ordinary shares being the maximum that could be paid under the public companies limitation of dividend ordinance of 1948 and also paid to the workers their full share of bonus at annas 4 in a rupee of their basic earnings.
the ratio which applies in the case of the shareholders who acquire the right title and interest of their predecessorsin interest does not apply to the labour force and the fact that the shareholders get a dividend by transfer of funds from the reserves and undistributed profits of the previous years would not entitle the workers to demand bonus out of those funds if the working of the industrial concern during the particular year has resulted in a trading loss.
on the 4th may 1950 the secretary of the respondent union petitioned to the provincial conciliation officer textile that there was more production in 1949 than in 1948 that there was no reason to hold that the profit in 1949 was less than in the previous year and that the rate of bonus was wrongly reduced and asked that bonus for 1949 should also be paid at the rate of annas 4 per rupee.
the offer of a bonus is the means frequently adopted to secure continuous service from an employee to enhance his efficiency and to augment his loyalty to his employer and the employee 's acceptance of the offer by performing the things called for by the offer binds employer to pay the bonus so called.
the labour force which earns the profits of a particular year by collaborating with the employers is distinct from the one which contributed to the profits of the previous years and there is no continuity between the labour forces which are employed in the industrial concern during the several years.
it is also significant to note that even while importing considerations of social justice the labour appellate tribunal was oblivious of the fact that it was by their own acts of indiscipline and strike that the workers of the appellant company themselves contributed to the trading losses incurred by the appellant and it hardly lay in their mouth then to contend that they were none the less entitled to a payment of bonus commensurate with the dividend paid to the shareholders out of the undistributed profits of the previous years.
there may be special cases and we consider the case before us to be one where social justice would demand that labour should have bonus for the year where for that very year capital had not only a reasonable return but much in excess of that.
the principles for the grant of bonus were discussed and a formula was evolved by the full bench of the labour appellate tribunal in millowners association bombay v rashtreeya mill mazdoor sangh bombay 1950.
considerations of social justice can not be disregarded altogether in relations between capital and labour.
a premium given for a loan or a charter or other privilege granted to a company as the bank paid a bonus for its charter a sum paid in addition to a stated compensation.