the case of the prosecution initially was that after the land so acquired with the standing crop was taken possession of by the appellant.
sirsa and in that capacity entrusted with standing crops of sarson gram and lusan on 30 acres of land a part of 49 acres of land acquired by the govt.
that the sanction given by the govt.
considered for the purposes of according sanction were a that the appellant as a public servant was entrusted with crops situated on the land acquired for the extension of air field sirsa b that by abusing his position as a public servant he allowed the standing crops to be cut from the said land.
the appellant has denied that there was any standing crop on the land acquired on any date after 13 2 63.
on the other hand he emphatically asserted that at the time when the possession was delivered to him on 13 2 63 there was also no crops standing on the acquired land.
there is however nothing in this document to show what is the site of which possession was handed over to and taken by telu ram on 10th january 63.
it is not the case of the appellant that acquisition of the land on which the crop was standing had taken place nor could possession of it been handed over to him because he denies that there was any crop on the land when the possession of the land was handed over to him.
he was asked about the symbolic delivery of possession the handing over of the actual possession of the land on 13 2 63 and the existence of crops on the date when possession was delivered on 16 2 63.
he was asked about telu ram 's evidence and also that he had given possession of the land rd 1200 to rd 00 to the contractor after the crop had been cut.
acquisition of land for sirsa airfield.
in any case the facts which have been stated in the sanction clearly indicate that the appellant has dishonestly allowed the crops to be cut so that there is no question of any inference or implication that the persons cutting the crops were abetting him in the offence.
p 2 is a certified copy by the tehsildar dated 18 9 63 which shows that as per the girdawari on 20 3 63 crops were standing on the lands in the village ahmedpur acquired by the military authorities for sirsa 3 airfield construction the details of which were that the total land acquired for airfield 49 acres the land on which crops were standing in good condition 23 acres and the land on which crops were standing in damaged condition 7 acres and uncultivated land 19 acres.
sirsa and or he dishonestly or fraudulently realised and misappropriated rs 2500 during the aforesaid period as the value of the crops cut from the land acquired for the extension of air field.
there is therefore no basis for sanction for a charge under section 51c.
he sold the crop to moti ram and kewal chand for rs 2500 and facilitated the cutting and taking away of the crop by postponing the handing over of the possession to the contractor till the 5th april 1963 and misappropriated the money.
it is therefore clear that in estimating the crop the small portion of the land where crops were stated to have been cut by the 13 2 63 even if true could not have been taken into account.
sirsa which crops had been entrusted to him as a public servant and he instead of depositing the said sale price into the govt.
both these related to possession of the acquired land not being given to him.
it is further contended that the stand taken by the prosecution was that the persons who we re permitted to cut the crops bad not committed any offence.
thirdly the judgments show that there was utter confusion in respect of the date on which possession of the acquired land was given to the appellant and the date on which it was given to the contractor for carrying on the work as also in respect of the fact whether there was any crop standing when the appellant took possession of the land and at what period of time the crop was cut and the work commenced.
the trial court as well as the high court are in our view justified in holding that crops of sarson gram and lusan were standing on the land acquired by the military for extension of the aerodrome.
the fact that otwithstanding overwhelming evidence particularly of his own admission at the time he denies that there were ever any crops when delivery of possession of the land acquired was taken by him further reinforces the conclusion that he allowed the crops to be cut away with dishonest or fraudulent motive.
but even so the offence with which the appellant is charged under section 51c does not necessarily involve an abetment with the person whom he had dishonestly allowed to cut and take away the crop.
the letter exhibit p 13 was also put to him and he was asked about the existence of the crops.
the learned advocate for the appellant has meticulously taken us through the entire documentary and oral evidence and commented at length upon the various contradictions and incongruities in the case of the prosecution with a view to establishing that when the appellant took possession of the land there was no crop standing on it that tile possession of the land was in fact delivered to telu ram contractor on 10 1 1963 that the said contractor had admitted that possession of the entire land was received by him that he carried on the construction work in extending the aerodrome that 200250 donkeys were also used for doing the work by reason of which the crop was damaged before tehsildar had put the appellant in possession of the land and as a matter of fact there was no crop thereon when he got the possession of the land.
p w 14 ranadive tells us that if one were to go from the entrance of air field to the acquired land one would have to pass through rd 4500 to 1200.
the acquired land extended from rd 1200 to rd 00.
according to p w 8 telu ram he acquired possession of the land of the length from rd 4500 to rd 1200 on 10th january 1963 and that tile possession of the acquired land was not delivered to him as it had not been acquired by that time.
at the most it shows that a small portion of the crops were cut but it is apparent that that has not been taken into account by the collector in assessing the value of the crop because it is on that day that crops were inspected for that purpose and subsequently the agricultural officer also had in his letter dated 18 2 63 which has been cited in the award exhibit p 26 intimated that on inspection the crops were found to be very good.
it is not as if the existing airstrip ends at the boundary of rd 4500 to rd 1200 so that the work of extension can go on in the existing airstrip even before possession of the acquired land was given.
as already noticed is the letter of telu ram jain to the assistant garrison engineer and p 10 is the letter of telu ram jain to the garrison engineer.
this again does not specifically refer to the land which is being acquired.
on a careful consideration of the evidence both oral and documentary it is established that the appellant who was in charge of the expansion work on the air strip was given possession of the land acquired for that purpose on 13 2 63 that there was standing thereon a bumper crop of sarson gram and lusan on that day that he was therefore entrusted with this crop that he postponed giving delivery of the land to the contractor till at any rate after the 23rd march 1963 and before the 6th april 1963 and that he allowed the crop to be cut and taken away without in any way accounting for it which shows that it was done dishonestly and raudulently.
apart from this amount compensation was also awarded for standing crop amounting to rs 11073 13.
before the land was actually acquired the appellant who was a major in the military engineering service was working as a garrison engineer and was inching of the extension.