barlagan ketone a bulk drug was not treated as an essential bulk drug under the drugs prices control.
bulk drugs were divided into essential bulk drugs which were included in the schedule and bulk drugs which were not so included.
he submitted that the price of a formulation was dependant on the price of the bulk drug and it was therefore not right to fix the price of formulation when the price of bulk drug was in question in the review application and there was a prospect of the price of the bulk drug being increased.
after the 1979 drugs prices control.
the prices of formulations were dependent on the prices of drugs and it was not right that prices of formulations should have been fixed even before the applications for review against the notifications fixing the price of bulk drugs were disposed of.
the distinction between an essential bulk drug included in the schedule and a bulk drug not so included in the schedule which was made in 1970 drugs prices control.
bulk drugs constituting categories.
as already stated by us manufacturers of bulk drugs who claim to be affected by the drugs prices control.
before we turn to the terms of the drugs prices control.
armed with authority under the drugs prices control.
nothing in the scheme of the drugs prices control.
bulk drugs were however broadly divided into indigenously manufactured bulk drugs imported bulk drugs and hulk drugs which were both manufactured indigenously as also imported.
it is true that the price of a bulk drug is dependent on innumerable variables.
prices control.
paragraph 9 empowers the government to direct manufacturers of bulk drugs to sell bulk drugs to manufacturers of formulations.
it is then prescribed by clause 3 no person shall sell a bulk drug at a price exceeding the price notified under sub paragraph 1 plus local taxes if any payable provided that until the price of bulk drug is so notified the price of such bulk drug shall be the price which prevailed immediately before the commencement of this order and the manufacture of such bulk drug at a price exceeding the price which prevailed as aforesaid.
retention price in relation to a bulk drug means the price fixed under paras 4 and 7 for individual manufacturers or importers or distributors or such bulk drugs.
order induces us to hold that price fixation under the drugs prices control.
in most cases they are the sale manufacturers of the bulk drug and even if they are not the sole manufacturers they belong to the very select few who manufacture the bulk drug.
order 1970 and later the drugs prices control.
paragraph 2a of the drugs.
paragraph 34a requires a manufacturer commencing production of the bulk drug specified in the first or second schedule the price of which has already been notified by the government not to sell the bulk drug at a price exceeding the notified price.
but as we perceive the public interest it is necessary that the price of formulation should be fixed close on the heels of the fixation of bulk drug price.
since prices of formulations are primarily dependent on prices of buli drugs the notifications fixing the retail prices of formulations were also quashed.
the enquiry contemplated by paragraph 3 of the drug prices control.
in the case of essential bulk drugs paragraph 4 of the order enabled the central government to fix the maximum price at which such essential bulk drugs should be sold.
we think that it is the necessary duty of the government to proceed to fix the retail price of a formulation as soon as the price of the parent bulk drug is fixed.
common sale price we take it is the price at which manufacturers whose retentions are fixed may sell the bulk drug despite the maximum sale price fixed under paragraph 3.
paragraph 5 deals with the power of the government to fix maximum sale price of new bulk drugs.
new bulk drug means a bulk drug manufactured within the country for the first time after the commencement of this order.
paragraph 34b provides that where the price of a bulk drug has not been notified by the government the manufacturer shall within 14 days of the commencement of the the production of such bulk drug make an application to the government in form i and intimate the government the price at which he intends to sell the bulk drug and the government may after making such an enquiry as it thinks fit by order fix a provisional price at which such bulk drug shall be sold.
since the maximum price of a bulk drug is required by paragraph 3 to be notified any fresh decision taken in the proceeding for review by way of modification of the maximum price has to be made by a fresh notification fixing the new maximum price of the bulk drug.
the government of india accepted the report of the hathi committee and announced in parliament the statement on drug policy pursuant to which the drugs prices control order 1970 was repealed and the drugs prices control.
we notice that in all these matters the high court granted stay of implementation of the notifications fixing the maximum prices of bulk drugs and the retail prices of formulations.
the drugs prices control order 1970 defined bulk drugs as follows bulk drugs means any unprecessed phamaceutical chemical biological and plant product or medicinal gas conforming to pharmacopocial or other standards accepted which is used as such or after being processed into formulations and includes an essential bulk drug.
it is provided that the amount credited to the drugs prices equalization account shall be spent for paying to the manufacturer the shortfall between his retention price and the common selling price or as the case may be the pooled price.
order came into force the distinction between essential and non essential bulk drugs was abolished and a maximum price had to be fixed for barlagan ketone also like other bulk drugs.
if a review application is allowed and the price of the bulk drug is raised and if in the meanwhile the formulation had been ordered to be sold at a low price it may result in considerable loss to the manufacturer.
by way of an explanation efficient manufacturer is defined to mean a manufacturer i. whose production of such bulk drug in relation to the total production of such bulk drug in the country is large or ii who employs efficient technology in the production of such bulk drug.
it was submitted that the provision for an enquiry preceding the determination of the price of a bulk drug the prescription in paragraph 3 cl 2 that the average cost of production of the drug manufactured by an efficient manufacturer should be taken into account and that a reasonable return on networth should be allowed and the provision for a review of the order determining the price established that price fixation under the drugs prices control.
in the present case the enquiry contemplated by paragraph 3 of drugs prices control.
the true nature of the review provided by paragraph 27 in so far as it relates to the fixation of maximum price of bulk drugs under paragraph 3 leader price and prices of formulations under paragraphs 12 and 13 is hard to define.
price fixation of a formulation is no doubt dependant on the price of the bulk drug but it is not to await the result of a review application which in the end may turn out to be entirely without substance.
paragraph 17 requires the government to maintain the drugs prices equalization account to which shall be credited by the manufacturer among other items the excess of the common selling price or as the case may be pooled price over his retention price.
it is for their protection that price fixation is resorted to and any increase in price affects them as seriously as any decrease does a manufacturer if not more.
in fixing the price of a bulk drug the government is expressly required by the order to take into account the average cost of production of such bulk drug manufactured by an efficient manufacturer and allow a reasonable return on net worth.
this means that until the maximum sale price of an indigenously manufactured bulk drug is fixed under paragraph 3 of the 1979 order the price fixed under paragraph 4 of the 1970 order or the price permitted under paragraph 5 of the 1970 order was to be maximum sale price.
the need of the consumer public is to be ascertained and making the drug available to them at a fair price is what it is all about.
the drugs prices control order 1979 was made pursuant to this statement of policy.
one of the terms of reference was to examine the measures taken so far to reduce prices of drugs for the consumer and to recommend such further measures as may be necessary to rationalise the prices of basic drugs and formulations.
a general submission of the learned counsel was that the price of formulations should not have been prescribed until the review application filed by the manufacturer in regard to the patent bulk drugs was disposed of.
order is to be made for the purposes of fixing the maximum price at which a bulk drug may be sold with a view to regulating its equitable distribution and making it available at a fair price.
bulk drugs constituting category iii are enumerated in the second schedule.
cl 2 of paragraph 3 provides that while so fixing the price of a bulk drug the government may take into account the average cost of production of such bulk drug manufactured by an efficient manufacturer and allow a reasonable return on net worth.
otherwise price fixation is generally a legislative activity.
retention price by its very definition pertains to individual manufacturers.
paragraph 7 deals with the power of the government to fix retention price and pooled price for the sale of bulk drugs specified in the first and second schedules which are both indigenously manufactured and imported.
paragraph 6 enables the government to fix the maximum sale price of imported bulk drugs specified in first and second schedules.
in the context of the drug industry with which we are concerned and in regard to which the control order is made we must proceed on the basis that the manufacturers of bulk drugs are generally persons who know all that is to be known about the price fixed by the government.
paragraph 4 of the 1979 order provides that notwithstanding anything contained in paragraph 3 the government may if it considers necessary or expedient so to do for increasing the production of an indigenously manufactured bulk drug specified in the first or second schedule by order fix a a retention price of such bulk drug b a common sale price for such bulk drug taking into account the weighted average of the retention price fixed under clause.
according to the learned counsel the price of a bulk drug is dependant on many variable factors which keep changing very fast.
order 1979 the central government issued notifications fixing the maximum prices at which various indigenously manufactured bulk drugs may be sold by the manufacturers.
form No 1 which is referred to in paragraphs 34 5 and 81 is titled form of application for fixation or revision of prices of bulk drug.
it is in pursuance of the powers granted to the central government by the essential commodities act that first the drugs prices control.
a price fixation measure does not concern itself with the interests of an individual manufacturer or producer.
in the case of bulk drugs which were not included in the schedule a manufacturer was entitled to continue to market the product at the same price at which he was marketing the products at the time of the commencement of the order.
at which the manufacturer was previously selling the drug and at which he continues to market the drug to this day because of the quashing of the order fixing the price by the high court is so unconsciously high even compared with the price claimed by himself that it appears to justify the charge that some manufacturers do indulge in profiteering.
in this group of cases we are faced with a different problem of alleged exploitation by big manufacturers of bulk drugs.
it was only thereafter that notifications fixing the prices were issued.
the fourth schedule prescribes the various forms referred to in the different paragraphs of the drugs prices control order.
great emphasis was laid on the second clause of paragraph 3 of the 1979 order which provides that in fixing the price of a bulk drug the government may take into account the average cost of production of such bulk drug manufactured by an efficient manufacturer and allow a reasonable return on networth.
in such a case if an escalation in price is contemplated at intervals the object of controlled price may be stultified.
shri g ramaswamy learned additional solicitor general on behalf of the union of india submitted that the fixation of maximum price under paragraph 3 of the drugs prices control.
if price increases it becomes injurious to the consumer.
in the present case on ex parte interim order was made on april 20 1981 in the following terms in the meanwhile on the petitioners giving an undertakings to maintain prices both for bulk and formulation as were prevailing prior to the impugned notification we stay implementation of the impugned bulk drug prices as well as formulation prices.
paragraph 15 empowers the government to revise prices of formulations.