in march1974 he was transferred from surat to ukai.
by that letter warning as contemplated by regulation no 113 had been issued to the respondent.
while he was posted at surat as deputy engineer he was transferred to ukai subdivision under the order of the superintending engineer dated 29th march1974 pursuant to the order of transfer he was relieved from his duties at surat on 30th march1974 to enable him to join at ukai.
on march 291974 the superintending engineer of the board issued the order transferring the respondent from surat to ukai on 30 3 1974 the respondent was relieved from surat and directed to join his duty at ukai but the respondent did not join his duty at the new place of posting.
superintending engineer geb utran.
regulation 113 confers wide powers on the authorities to summarily discharge an employee from service if he continues to be absent from duty in an unauthorised manner and refuses to join his duty even after warning.
to shri a s pohani junior engineer ukai 37gurunagar society near jakat naka surat 3.
sub transfer from surat to ukai.
he was relieved from his duties at surat on 30th march1974.
in fact the superintending engineer had by his letter dated 18th april1974 clearly reminded the respondent that his unauthorised absence was in breach of service regulation no 113 and called upon to show cause why action should not be taken against him but in spite of these letters the respondent failed to join his duties.
the object and purpose of the warning as contemplated by the regulation is to remind the delinquent employee that his continued unauthorised absence from duties was liable to result in discharge of his service.
no 113 the letter is as under gujarat electricity board o m division nana varchha road surat.
but he did not join at ukai till the impugned order of discharge was issued on may 271974 the.
in this situation the superintending engineer by his letter dated 18th april1974 directed the respondent to show cause as to why action should not be taken against him for disobeying the order of transfer and also for unauthorised absence from duty in breach of service regulation.
the respondent acted in an irresponsible manner in not complying with the order of transfer which led to his discharge from service in accordance with the service regulation.
under the disciplinary rules detailed procedure is required to be followed for removing an employee from service but regulation 113 provides for summary discharge from service.
the division bench of the high court has held that since no warning was issued to the respondent action taken under service regulation no 113 was not in accordance with law.
the aforesaid documents leave no room for any doubt that the respondent was reminded of his failure to join his duties at ukai and he was further reminded that his unauthorised absence had exposed him to disciplinary action.
since the respondent continued to be absent from duty the superintending engineer by a registered post acknowledgment due letter dated april 241974 informed the respondent that his request to postpone his transfer was rejected and he was directed to join his duty at ukai and on his failure to do so disciplinary action would be taken against him.
the chief engineer discharged the respondent from service as he had continued to remain absent from duty w e f. march 301974 to may 271974.
the division bench of the high court held that no warning as contemplated by service regulation no 113 had been issued to the respondent nor he had been afforded any opportunity of showing cause before the impugned order of discharge was passed and consequently the order of discharge was null and void being contrary to service regulation no 113 itself.
if even thereafter he fails to join duty his services are liable to be terminated by an order of discharge.
chief engineer who discharged the respondent 's services exercised his power under service regulation no 113which runs as under 113 the continued absence from duty or overstay m spite of warning to return to duty shall render the employee liable to summarily discharge from service without the necessity of proceedings under the gujarat electricity board conduct discipline and appeal procedure.
by that letter respondent stated that he was waiting for the decision of his representation made for reconsideration of his transfer from surat to ukai and therefore the question of his remaining on unauthorised leave was misconceived.
but even thereafter the respondent did not join his duties.
the transfer order was not stayed and as the respondent did not join his duties he continued to be absent without sanction of any leave.
i ve engineer o m surat copy f w c s to.
it is noteworthy that the validity of regulation 113 was not challenged before the high court and the parties proceeded on the assumption that regulation 113 was valid and applicable to the respondent 's service.
firstly even if the letter dated 24 4 1974 was not served on the respondent there is no dispute that the superintending engineer 's letter dated 18th april1974 had been served on him.
the substance of the superintending engineer 's letter dated 18th april1974 which was admittedly served on the respondent contained warning to the respondent which fully met the requirement of regulation no 113.
before the high court a controversy was raised as to whether the registered letter dated 24 4 1974 addressed by the superintending engineer to the respondent was received by him or not.
there is presumption of service of a letter sent under registered cover if the same is returned back with a postal endorsement that the addressee refused to accept the same.
his representation was rejected and he was directed to join at ukai but he did not do so instead he filed a civil suit at baroda challenging validity of the order of transfer.
therefore even if the letter dated 24 4 1974 was not served on the respondent the order of discharge as contemplated by regulation no 113 is sustainable in law.
a warning need not be in any particular form.
the object and purpose of giving warning is to remind the delinquent employee that if he continues to be absent from duty he would be liable to action under regulation 113 and to afford him an opportunity to make amends by joining his duty.
the division bench further held that since the letter dated 24 4 1974 was not served on the respondent there was no material to show that any warning had been issued to the respondent before he was discharged from service.