when the landlord mortgages the lease hold property of the tenant to the tenant himself he does not part with the right of reversion which he has in respect of that property.
him by the landlord lessor on a mortgage by conditional sale as would debar the tenant from desisting the suit of the landlord mortgagor for recovery of possession of such property by obtaining decree for redemption of the mortgage.
this court held that the mortgage deed established beyond doubt that there was no subsistence or continuation of lease in that there was delivery of possession by the tenant to the landlord immediately before the mortgage and redelivery of possession to the tenant of the premises made by the landlord was pursuant to the mortgage as a mortgagee and not as a tenant.
in the case of a mortgage the estate that is outstanding is the equity of redemption of the mortgagor.
hence the lease hold of a tenant lessee in a property does not merge in mortgage security of that property even if it is given to.
questions which arise for our consideration and decision in the light of the aforesaid arguments of learned counsel for the contesting parties admit of their formulations thus 1 does the lease hold of a tenant lessee in a property merge in mortgage security if the same property is given by the landlord lessor to the tenant lessee as a mortgage security under a mortgage by conditional sale as would debar the tenant from desisting the suit of the landlord mortgagor for recovery of possession of such property by obtaining a decree for redemption of the mortgage.
if that be the position there can be no bar for the defendants to claim the right to continue in possession of the suit properties as tenants under the bt.
agricultural lands at the time of execution of the deeds of mortgage by conditional sale in his favour because of the coming into existence of such mortgages there occurred merger of lease hold rights of defendant l in suit properties when he obtained those properties as mortgage security under the said mortgages and as a consequence he became a mortgagee in possession of those properties.
defendants 1 and 2 for redemption of suit properties which were mortgaged as security for certain monies borrowed by the plaintiff from defendant l under two deeds of mortgage executed in the year 1961.
plaintiff filed the suit for redemption of the said mortgages in the year 1966 defendant 2brother of defendanti had been joined in that suit on the allegation that the latter was put in possession of mortgage properties by the former subsequent to the coming into existence of the mortgages.
such findings were firstly that the defendants had failed to prove that the suit properties were sold in favour of defendant l subsequent to the giving of security of those properties in his favour under the mortgage deeds secondly that the defendants had failed to prove the past tenancy of the suit properties on its view that what was pleaded by them in the written statements was tenancy prior to the date of filing of the suit and thirdly that the mortgages of the suit properties were mortgages by conditional sale.
specific case pleaded by the plaintiff in the plaint as regards possession of the suit properties held by tenants was that their possession which was with the plaintiff was given to defendant l on the execution of the deeds of mortgage by conditional sale in his favour.
in any event it was not the case of the plaintiff that defendant l was a tenant of the suit properties and hc surrendered his possession of the suit properties either expressly or impliedly and the possession so obtained by the plaintiff was re delivered to defendant l in pursuance of the mortgages by conditional sale executed in his favour.
no controversy is raised in this appeal as regards the findings of the civil court that the deeds of mortgage executed by the plaintiff in respect of the suit properties were mortgages by conditional sale.
lease hold held by a tenant or a lessee being a lesser estate and the right of reversion of the landlord lessor being a higher estate the lessee 's lease hold right in respect of the property merges in reversion when that right of reversion i e. the landlord 's lessor 's right of reversion comes to the tenant or lessee which happens when the landlord having a right to sell his reversion to the tenant holding the lease hold sells the whole of it to the tenant lessee but in view of the arguments advanced on behalf of the plaintiff appellant what has to be seen is if the landlord of a property the lease hold of which is already with the tenant gives that very property as mortgage security to the tenant lessee by executing a mortgage by a conditional sale for the amount borrowed by him from the latter does merger of lease hold right in that mortgage security occur.
it was agreed under the terms of the mortgage deed that no interest need be paid by the respondent since the premises the possession of which was given to the tenant pursuant to the mortgage was to be enjoyed in lieu of interest payable on the mortgage.
in the case of a lease the estate that is outstanding in the lessor is the reversion in the case of a mortgage the estate that is outstanding is the equity of redemption of the mortgagor.
even otherwise it was argued by him that the civil court before whom the plaintiff had filed the suit for redemption of the suit properties could not have driven the plaintiff to the forum of mamlatdar merely because the defendants had raised the plea that they were tenants of the suit properties agricultural lands.
even if the sale of said properties in favour of defendant l it was asserted therein was not proved they continued to be tenants of the said properties on the date of suit as they were tenants even before the date of coming into existence of the mortgages.
according to him when the plaintiff had not admitted that the defendants were tenants of the suit properties it was not open to the defendants to force the plaintiff who had a right to choose his forum to file a suit to go before another forum on the plea that jurisdiction lay before another forum that is mamlatdar.
secondly this court held that the appellant was not entitled to retain after redemption possession of the mortgage property by reason of his previous right to be in its possession as a tenant.
section 70 of the bt al act to which we have adverted already imposes a duty on the mamlatdar to decide whether a person is an agriculturist or a tenant or a protected tenant or a permanent tenant when such person claims to be so under that act.
the defence in those written statements was that defendant l and his family members had become tenants of the suit properties in the year 1959 1960 and had continued to be such tenants at the time of mortgage deeds executed in respect of those properties in the year 1961 and thereafter.
in the present case as we have pointed out earlier when no surrender of possession of the suit properties had taken place before the coming into existence of mortgages in favour of the lessor mortgagor when no redelivery of possession had been given pursuant to the mortgage to the tenant the decision under consideration can be of no assistance to the appellant.
al act even if the plaintiff could obtain a decree for redemption of the suit properties which relief was sought in the suit.
accordingly there can not be a merger of a lease and a mortgage in respect of the same property since neither of them is a higher or lesser estate than the other.
therefore there can not be a merger of lease and mortgage in respect of the same property since neither of them is a higher or lesser estate than the other.
a learned single judge of the high court who heard the second appeal while upheld the concurrent findings of the courts below that the deeds of mortgage executed by the plaintiff in respect of the suit properties in favour of defendant l were mortgages by conditional sale and the defendants had failed to prove that there was sale of the suit properties in their favour subsequent to the coming into existence of the said mortgages found that the defendants had raised in their written statements the plea that they were tenants not only prior to the date of suit but also at the time of the filing of the suit and having regard to that plea the suit ought to have been stayed by the civil court and the issue of tenancy should have been referred to the mamlatdar for obtaining a finding from him thereon both under section 85 a of the bt.
the defence of the appellants defendants in substance was that the agreement on which reliance was placed by the respondents in their suit was a sham agreement and that the appellants in reality were the tenants of the shop and the relationship between the respondents and appellants was that of the landlord and tenant.
according 10 him a mortgagee in possession being a person who can not be deemed to be a tenant under section 4 of the bt al act it was not open to the defendants to claim that they were the tenants of suit properties and if that be so question of raising issue of tenancy by the civil court in the suit before it did not arise at all nor was it necessary to refer such issue to the mamlatdar under section 85 a of the bt al act and stay the suit till receipt of the finding on such issue as was directed by the high court in its judgment under appeal.
in the case of a lease the estate that is in the lessor is a reversion.
2 when a plea of tenancy is raised with regard to suit property an agricultural land by a defendant who claims to be a tenant of such property under the bt al act and seeks a reference of that issue by the civil court to the mamlatdar under that act for obtaining a finding thereon can the civil court decide such issue by itself and proceed to decide the suit on the basis of the finding thereon.