pw both the prosecution witnesses as well as.
out of the remaining witnesses mentioned above pw 9 and pw 14 are the injured witnesses.
the accused party left the video parlour threatening each other.
under section 12 of tada the designated court has the jurisdiction not only to try the cases under tada but also to try offences under the indian penal code if the offence under tada is connected with such other offences.
near the jagdamba hotel it was bajrang pw 14 who received the injuries at the hands of the accused.
in view of the altercation the complainants left the video parlour and went towards jagdamba hotel.
the blood samples of bajrang pw 14 and baban karpe pw 9 were similarly collected.
the evidence of pw10pw 11 and pw 12 has received ample corroboration from the testimony of pw 9pw 13pw 14 and pw 15who deposed that while the witnesses were narrating the incident of the video parlour to waman band patte pw 15 and other witnesses present there the accused party arrived in a jeep and two auto rickshaws variously armed and opened an attack on the complainant party with a view to teach them a lesson for the altercation which had taken place earlier at the video parlour.
however according to the prosecution evidence itself during the assault none out of the four prosecution witnesses with whom the altercation had taken place at the video parlour was injured.
during the investigation an identification parade was got conducted through the executive magistrate pw 32 when baban karpe pw 9 and other prosecution witnesses identified the assailants.
pw 15 waman band patte who is the owner of the jagdamba hotel has lent sufficient corroboration to the testimony of the other prosecution witnesses in general and pw9 and pw14 in particular.
some of the other witnesses including popat deceased and baban pw 9 fled towards the math to save themselves.
at the trial the prosecution alleged that the accused party with an intent to commit terror in the wadar community had committed the murder of popat and injured pw 9 and pw 14by using lethal weapons and had thereby committed terror in the wadar community and thus committed an offence under section 3 of tada besides the other offences as already noticed.
the designated court after considering the evidence of the first incident and the manner of assault on the deceased and pw 9 and pw 14came to the conclusion that the appellants alongwith some others had intended to create terror in a section of the people wadar community and with that intention had assaulted pw 14the deceased and pw9 by lethal weapons and were therefore guilty of committing an offence under section 3 tada.
they also assaulted baban karpe pw 9 and popat deceased who had run away to the math after chasing them in the auto rickshaws and the jeep.
bajrang pw 14 was taken to the hospital by waman pw 15ramesh pw 11 and prakash pw 2whereas popat deceased who was seriously injured and had fallen down unconscious after receipt of the injuries was removed to the hospital by the police when it arrived at the spot a little later.
the accused a 6a 10 and a 11 alongwith one other person were also present at the video parlour.
appellants a 5a 10 and a 11 thereafter assaulted bajrang band patte pw 14 on his head in front of the hotel.
we are in agreement with the designated court that there is ample evidence led by the prosecution to establish the incident at the video parlour and also that the said incident was the origin for the subsequent assault.
from the testimony of pw9it stands established that while mukesh pw 12 was narrating the incident which had taken place at the video parlour the appellants alongwith 78 other persons arrived in a jeep and two auto rickshaws armed with swords satturs and sticks and opened the assault on the prosecution witnesses and that a 11 and his two associates assaulted pw 14 with swords.
prevention act1987 hereinafter referred to as tada by the learned designated judge pune.
some of the prosecution witnesses including the deceased pw9 and pw14 were already standing near the jagdamba hotel.
the complainant party went towards jagdamba hotel owned by waman band patte pw at that time baban karpe bajrang band patte sanjay mane ramesh pawar were also present near the hotel.
we find from a careful analysis of the evidence that the testimony of pw9 to pw 15 regarding the incident at the video parlour is cogent and trustworthy and nothing has been brought out during the cross examination of these witnesses which may cast any doubt about the correctness of the version given by them regarding the incident at the video parlour.
baban karpe pw 9himself an injured witness failed to identify a 10 at the time of the identification parade held by pw 32though he identified a 10 later on in the court during the trial.
thus keeping in view the background in which the occurrence took place namely the altercation at the video parlour which has a great relevance to determine the applicability of section 3 tada we are of the opinion that the finding of the designated court that the appellants have committed an offence punishable under section 3 tada is clearly erroneous.
that the incident arose out of a petty altercation between a 11 and his three companions with pw 10 and his three companions at the video parlour and later on led in the homicidal death of popat band patte on 11 august 1990 and injuries to pw9 and pw14 was neither disputed before the learned designated court nor before us.
can it be said that the accused had the intention to strike terror much less in a particular section of the society when they entered into an altercation at the video parlour or even when they went after the complainant party and opened an assault on then opposite jagdamba hotel or at the math.
they specifically described the roles played by a 5a 10 and a 11 pw 10pw 11pw 12pw 13pw 14 and pw 15 also spoke about the presence of a 1a 8 and a 9 with their respective weapons alongwith a 5a 10 and a 11 near the jagdamba hotel at the time of assault on pw 14.
an identification parade had been held by shri shrikant chimanaji jahagirdar pw 32executive magistrate.
none out of those who were present at the video parlour received any injury and there is no material on the record to show as to which community did they belong to either.
we do not find any force in the submission of the learned counsel for the appellant that since mohan lal pw 19who runs the video parlour has not fully supported the prosecution version regarding the cause of altercation at the video parlour the genesis of the occurrence gets shrouded in doubt.
the trial court for the purposes of consideration of the evidence divided the prosecution case into three parts namely i the incident at vrindavan video parlour ii incident near jagdamba hotel and iii the incident at the math.
pw 19 was declared hostile by the prosecution and was cross examined by the addl.
even from the evidence of the hostile witness pw 19 mohanlal it emerges that on the day of the incident there was an altercation at the video parlour though he has given the cause of the altercation to be somewhat different which explanation does not appeal to us.
pw10 narrated the incident of the video parlour to those persons and in the meantime the accused party arrived there in a jeep and two auto rickshaws and started assaulting the complainant party.
section 19 1 and 2 of tada read as follows.
these witnesses categorically deposed that a 5a 10 and a 11 were responsible for causing injuries to bajrang pw 14.
these witnesses knew the accused from before by their names and had also identified them later when called upon to do so.
in our opinion the designated court fell in error in holding that an offence under section 3 of tada had been committed by the accused appellants in the established facts and circumstances of this case.
out of the accused a 5a 6a 8a 10 and a 11 were carrying swords while a 7 and a 9 had satturs and the remaining accused were armed with sticks.
according to the prosecution case on 11th august1990 at about 3 00 p m anna shety band patte mukesh ramesh and prakash band patte had gone to the vrindavan video parlour for watching a movie.
according to a 2a 3a 5a 6 and a 7 they had been identified by pw 9during the identification parade at the instance of the police.
through this appeal under section 19 of tada the appellants have called in question their conviction and sentence.
there was an altercation between the accused and the complainant party when the leg of kaka dombe a 11 dashed against the leg of anna shety band patte.
so far as the first incident is concerned that merely provided the motive for the assault near the jagdamba hotel and the math.
the conviction and sentence of the appellants for the offence under section 3 tada can not therefore be sustained and is hereby set aside.