v absconding of the accused was the accused absconding at all.
no evidence is available to show as to what was the blood group of the accused and therefore the possibility of blood on the underwear being of the accused himself can not be and is not ruled out.
so also the discov ery of b group blood stain on the underwear can not be treated as an incrimi nating piece of evidence against the accused connecting him with the crime because there is no evidence that the underwear belonged to the accused and further the possiblity of the underwear being stained with the blood of the person to whom it belonged or the accused if he was wearing it has not been ruled out.
presence of semen stain on underwear assuming that the underwear belonged to the accused though there is no evidence adduced in this regard is not by itself an incriminating piece of evidence connecting the accused with the crime in question.
another circumstantial evidence relied on was that a stain of semen was found on the under pant of the accused.
grave injustice has been done to the accused by holding it as a fact that the accused was absconding after the date of the incident and then treating the so called absconding as a piece of incrimi nating circumstantial evidence against the accused.
b group is not uncommon group of blood and no effort was made to exclude the possibility that the blood of the accused belonged to the same group.
the memo of arrest does not state the arrest of accused having been made at behror.
hence it could not have been held that the accused was absconding.
blood sam ple of the accused was not collected and therefore not grouped.
the pieces of circumstantial evidence which have been found proved and held as forging an incriminating chain against the accused are as under i last seen together ii abnormal conduct of the accused iii recovery of underwear and baniyan which was found to be stained with semen and blood group b which is also the blood group of the deceased iv false plea of alibi and v accused absconding since the date of offence.
human semen was detected on underwear.
if the accused was arrested at behror there is no reason why the memo of arrest should not have been prepared at village behror.
one of the circumstan tial evidence relied on was that a human blood stain of b group was found on the accused 's pant which blood group was also of the deceased.
the clothes on his person did not have any blood or seminal stains.
the accused was arrested on 3 4 1991 on suspicion.
this piece of evidence was put to the accused during his statement under section 313 cr.
however the accused was not detained and was sent back.
though the accused is alleged to have been arrested at behror but the memo of arrest was not prepared at behror it was prepared at village kotputli.
suffice it to observe that there is no direct evidence connecting the accused with the offences charged.
though the offence is gruesome and revolts the human conscience but an accused can be convicted only on legal evidence and if only a chain of circumstantial evidence has been so forged as to rule out the possibility of any other reasonable hypothesis excepting the guilt of the accused.
the accused has not stated during his statement under section 313 cr.
thus none of the pieces of evidence relied on as incriminating by the trial court and the high court can be treated as incriminating pieces of circumstantial evidence against the accused.
p30 of forensic science laboratory human blood of group b was detected on the underwear.
pw9 had gone to see a movie in a cinema hall where the accused was employed as a gate keeper.
there is not investigation directed towards finding out and no evidence worth its name collected and adduced in the court to show that the underwear and baniyan were of the accused.
there the accused had enquired from them as to what was the punishment awardable to an offender who was found to have been committed rape on a girl and killed her.
the accused was challaned and charge sheeted for the offences as already stated hereinabove.
those circumstances should not be capable of being explained by any other hypothesis except the guilt of the accused and the chain of the evidence must be so complete as not to leave any reasonable ground for the belief consistent with the innocence of the accused.
during cross examination kalu ram stated that the accused was his neighbour previously known to him.
iii recovery of underwear stained with blood and semen strangely enough the underwear and baniyan though discovered and seized on an information given by the accused and on his pointing out apparently on a statement recorded under section 27 of the evidence act have not been produced and exhibited in the court.
according to harish chand sharma the accused was arrested on 3 4 1991 vide exbt.
the accused appellant has filed this appeal by special leave.
the plea of alibi postulates the physical impossibility of the presence of the accused at the scene of offence by reason of his presence at another place.
p c is to afford the accused personally an opportunity of explaining any incriminating circumstance so appearing in evidence against him.
we are left with circumstance No 3 only i e recovery of underwear and baniyan stained with semen and human blood group b which alone in the fact and circumstances of the case discussed hereinabove can not form basis of conviction of the accused appellant for the offence charged.
the accused may or may not avail the opportunity for offering his explanation.
in the present case the age of the accused was about 21 years at the time of the incident.
the high court has gone completely amiss in holding that a plea of alibi was taken by the accused and that was found to be false.
false plea of alibi.
the prosecution case depends on circumstantial evidence.
from the evi dence of shalu pw7 such an inference can not be drawn.
we would proceed to examine each of the pieces of incriminating circumstantial evidence so as to find out if each one of the circumstantial evidence is proved individually and whether collectively it forges such a chain of incriminating circumstances as would fasten the guilt on the accused beyond by shadow of reasonable doubt.
slides of vaginal swab were prepared for cyto chemical analysis for blood and seminal stains.
abnormal conduct of accused kalu ram pw5 stated that two or three days after the date of dead body of s having been found.
conviction of the accused appellant under sections 302 and 3762f of indian penal code is set aside.
there is something mysterious about the discovery of shalu as a witness to the incident.
the accused appears to have been engaged as a causal not regular gate keeper at hira moti a local talkies.
as regards the dried stain of semen on the appellant 's under pant the court observed that the accused was a grown up man of 30 years and no compelling inference could arise that the stain was caused during the course of the sexual assault committed by him on the victim girl.
kalu ram pw5 accompanied by a friend santosh pw9 had gone to see a movie in cinema talkies heera moti two days after the date of the incident and there the accused was present on his duty.
the forensic science laboratory confirmed presence of group b blood on the clothes of deceased.
the accused did not avail the opportunity and stood short by simply stating that the statement of cinema owner was not correct.
this court held that the presence of blood stain of b group measuring 0 5 cm.
the third girl who was with s and shalu has not been examined either in the court or during investigation.
the accused was told by the witness that the punishment could be 20 or even 40 years of imprisonment or imprisonment for life.
harish chand sharma pw21 stated that between 19th and 25th march 1991 the accused subhash was called at the police station several times for making enquiries.