registration itself does not create a trade mark.
it was stated that m s kay aar biscuits p ltd was using the aforestated trade mark meghraj for the manufacture of biscuits.
it was declared that m s kay aar biscuits p ltd was the owner of the registered trade mark meghraj.
u s 28 of the trade marks act1999registration gives to the registered proprietor of the trade mark the exclusive right to the use of the trade mark in relation to the goods in respect of which the trade mark is registered and to obtain relief in respect of infringement of the trade mark in the manner provided by the trade marks act.
our trade marks law is based on the english trade marks law and the english acts.
the trade marks act1999 has been enacted to amend and consolidate the law relating to trade marks to provide for registration and better protection of trade marks and for prevention of the use of fraudulent marks.
sub cl i of s 20 of the trade marks act itself assumes and implies that such a right existed in the owner of a trade mark because it says that the unregistered holder of a trade mark can maintain a suit for the infringement of a trade mark provided that the trade mark was in use before february.
it is confined to the provisions of the trade marks act.
for instance under s 23 of the trade marks act registration is to be prima facie evidence of the validity of the trade mark.
to my mind it is clear that even prior to the passing of this act the owner of a trade mark could maintain an action for the infringement of a trade mark and that action could only be maintained on the assumption that he was the owner of the trade mark and he had a proprietary right in the trade mark.
the biscuits were sold under the brand name meghraj.
ltd to use its trade mark for the manufacture of wafers alone.
on behalf of the appellants it has been vehemently argued that m s kay aar biscuits p ltd was never the registered owner of the trade mark meghraj.
meghraj.
it is correct to say that the registrar trade marks can issue registration certificate u s 28 of the trade marks act with retrospective effect.
priority in adoption and use of a trade mark is superior to priority in registration.
abandonment of the trade mark has to be proved by the appellants in the present case.
it was urged that merely because an agreement stood entered into on 22 11 89 between m s ltd.
the department had erred in alleging that the trade mark belonged to m s it was urged that m s ltd had never got the trade mark registered under the trade marks act.
in india the mark caltex was a totally new mark for watches and allied goods.
under the said agreement m s kay aar biscuits p ltd was.
these are considerations which are relevant in disputes arising under the trade marks act.
even if it is found to be necessary to decide this question as to property in a trade mark i have already pointed out that the courts of equity in england granted relief in cases of infringement of trade marks on the basis of infringement of the right of property in the trade mark.
a person may become a proprietor of a trade mark in diverse ways.
the effect of the relevant provision of the english acts was that registration of a trade mark would be deemed to be equivalent to public user of such mark.
the trade mark exists independently of the registration which merely affords further protection under the statute.
in the present case there is no evidence from the side of the appellants indicating abandonment of the trade mark by m s although madan verma the director of m s kay aar biscuits p ltd has filed his affidavit enclosing the registration certificate he has nowhere stated that m s ltd has abandoned the trade mark.
in the present case as stated above m s kay aar biscuits p ltd entered into an agreement on 22 11 89 with m s rich food products p ltd under that agreement the director of m s kay aar biscuits p ltd declared that his company was the owner of the registered trade mark meghraj.
the latter type of mark would evidently refer to a distinctive mark a mark which does not directly describe the nature or quality of the goods to which it is attached.
we therefore hold that the applicant is the proprietor of that mark.
according to this provision not only a person should claim to be the proprietor of a trade mark but he should prove that he had used it as such proprietor on his goods.
applying the principle of deemed equivalence we may clarify that if the ssi unit wrongly affixes a trade mark of another person be it registered or not or if it uses the trade mark of an ineligible person then such default would not be eliminated by the above principle of deemed equivalence embodied in s 28 of the trade marks act1999 as that principle is based on a deeming fiction which fiction is confined only to the provisions of the trade marks act.
even so far as this country is concerned the trade marks act of 1940 does not seem to have made any change in the legal rights of the owner of a trade mark as established by the courts of chancery in england.
instead of compelling the holder of a trade mark in every case to prove his proprietary right before he could ask the court to grant him an injunction the trade marks act provides a procedure whereby by registering his trade mark the owner gets certain facilities in the mode of proving his title.
he has not been examined even on the question of alleged transfer of the trade mark in favour of the appellants.
this court has held that the object of the exemption notification was neither to protect the owners of the trade mark nor the consumers from being misled.
these are considerations which are relevant in disputes arising out of infringement passing of actions under the trade marks act.
it was urged that a false declaration was made by m s kay aar biscuits p ltd under the above agreement on 22 11 89.
it was urged that a mere agreement between two parties can not constitute ownership of the trade mark in favour of m s it was urged that in any event m s kay aar biscuits p ltd had stopped its production in 1993 that the company had become defunct that the appellants herein had applied to the registrar of trade marks for registration of the mark meghraj and vide registration certificate dated 30 6 2000 the registrar has recognized the appellants as owner of the trade mark with effect from 30 9 91 in the circumstances the appellants submitted that the demand for differential duty was unwarranted.
there is no deed of assignment from m s kay aar biscuits p ltd in favour of the appellants herein.
further there is no evidence to show as to whether m s kay aar biscuits p ltd was an eligible manufacturer.
as a matter of fact the statute enabled a person to have registered a mark not only which he had been using but also a mark which he proposed to use.
then came the english trade marks act of 1875which was substituted later by later acts.
since the appellants herein had used the trade name meghraj on their products which trade name was owned by m s ltd the appellants were not entitled to the benefit of exemption under notification no 193 ce as amended.
it is true as contended by mr shah that even distributors and sellers may have marks of their own but then there are ways and ways of indicating on the label itself that the mark embodied therein is the mark belonging to such distributor or seller.
the case put up by the petitioner corporation that it was the first to use the mark monarch in this country on its food products and that in as much as the mark monarch was admittedly a distinctive mark it had acquired the right to get the mark registered in its name and also the right to oppose the application of any other trader in this country seeking to get that mark registered in his name in respect of the food products manufactured or sold by him.
before the commissioner ait was argued in the alternative that the logo belonged to m section kay aar biscuits p ltd.
that the same was registered ssi unit that m s kay aar biscuits p ltd was lying closed since 1 3 93 and therefore the appellants have been using that logo of m s kay aar biscuits p ltd who was eligible for exemption under notification no 193 ce as amended.
prior to the acts one could become a proprietor of a trade mark only by user but after the passing of the act of 1875one could become a proprietor either by user or by registering the mark even prior to its user.
the english acts enabled registration of a new mark not till then used with the like consequences which a distinctive mark had prior to the passing of the acts.
explanation ix defined the word brand name or trade name.
the said agreement m s kay aar biscuits p ltd gave permission to m s rich food products pvt.
apparently in such a case there is no question of infringement of any right of property in a trade mark for which any relief is sought nor is there any question of passing off so that it might be necessary to enter into questions of nicety as regards whether there could or could not be any property in a trade mark.
before us it has been urged that m s ltd is non functional since 1 3 93 and therefore in any event appellants were entitled to use the trade mark meghraj.
explanation ix brand name or trade name shall mean a brand name or trade name whether registered or not that is to say a name or a mark such as symbol monogram label signature or invented word or writing which is used in relation to such specified goods for the purpose of indicating or so as to indicate a connection in the course of trade between such specified goods and some person using such name or mark with or without any indication of the identity of that person.
i therefore agree with the learned advocate general that all that the trade marks act has done is to facilitate the mode of proof.
obviously therefore on the label as it stood it could not be said that the respondent company was the proprietor of the mark monarch nor could it be said that the mark was used by the respondent company as proprietor thereof.
according to the commissioner athe appellants used the trade name meghraj in the form of a logo which was printed on the wrapper.
in many of those cases the dispute was between a foreign trader using a foreign mark in a foreign country on goods which were subsequently imported by indian importers and sold by them in this country under that very mark.
applying the ratio of the above judgment to the present case it is clear that grant of registration certificate under the trade marks act will not automatically provide benefit of exemption to the ssi unit.
in cases of such marks whereas the courts of equity did require some slight user before the proprietor thereof could institute an action for infringement thereof the statute enabled the registration of such mark without any user at all because such mark being distinctive per se it was not necessary for the person applying for its registration to show that mark had acquired a reputation in the market so that it could be associated only with his goods and of nobody else.
that agreement was between madan verma director of a company known as m section kay aar biscuits p. ltd ghaziabad and m s rich food products p ltd noida.
it was further pointed out that in fact the appellants had applied for ownership of the brand name meghraj vide application dated 30 9 91 to the registrar trade marks under the trade marks act and that the said application for registration was pending before the competent authority and since the above arguments were not recorded in the impugned order of the cegat dated 11 4 2000 the same warranted rectification.