therefore the main classification as literary work and dramatic work can not be construed to mean that dramatic work has nothing to do with literary work.
22 term of copyright in published literary dramatic musical and artistic works.
copyright has nothing to do with originality or literary merit.
a where the identity of the authors is disclosed as references to that author.
broadly speaking a dramatic work may also come within the purview of literary work being a part of dramatic literature.
we must however notice that the provisions the act make a distinction between the literary work and dramatic work.
i therefore hold that the bequest of copyright in literary works and books in favour of the plaintiff by dr karanth will have to be treated as the bequest covering the dramatic works also since i have also drawn the conclusion that the dramatic works is also a form of literature.
therefore necessity of mentioning copyright separately in respect of dramatic works does not arise.
section 2y defines work to mean any of the following works namely i a literary dramatic musical or artistic work ii a cinematograph film iii a sound recording.
ii a work of architecture and iii any other work of artistic craftsmanship.
the plaintiff therefore is entitled to copyright even in respect of the dramatic works namely the seven prasangas by virtue of bequest made in her favour in respect of copyrights and books.
the form of copyright as regards dramatic work as has been held by the high court stating the same to be a part of the literary work is not correct as they connote two different things.
the word author is defined in section 2d to meani in relation to a literary or dramatic work the author of the work ii in relation to a musical work the composer iii in relation to an artistic work other than a photograph the artist iv in relation to a photograph the person taking the photograph v in relation to a cinematograph film or sound recording the producer and vi in relation to any literary dramatic musical or artistic work which is computer generated the person who causes the work to be created.
for all these services i hereby declare that after my death copyrights in respect of all my literary works shall vest with smt.
i the copyright in the literary work has been assigned by reason of the said will in favour of the respondent in terms of clause 12 of the will.
23 term of copyright in anonymous and pseudonymous works 1.
in the case of a literary dramatic musical or artistic work other than a photographwhich is published anonymously or pseudonymously copyright shall subsist until sixty years from the beginning of the calendar year next following the year in which the work is first published.
b where the identity of more authors than one is disclosed as references to the author who dies last from amongst such authors.
for the purposes of this section the identity of an author shall be deemed to have been disclosed if either the identity of the author is disclosed publicly by both the author and the publisher or is otherwise established to the satisfaction of the copyright board by that author.
no infringement of the copyright comes into existence.
except as otherwise hereinafter provided copyright shall subsist in any literary dramatic musical or artistic work other than a photograph published within the life time of the author until fifty years from the beginning of the calendar year following the year in which the author dies.
if the defendant 's work is nothing but a literal imitation of the copyrighted work with some variations here and there it would amount to violation of the copyright.
the copyright work which comes into being should be original in the sense that by virtue of selection coordination or arrangement of pre existing data contained in the work a work somewhat different in character is produced by the author.
keeping in view the statutory provisions there can not be any doubt whatsoever that copyright in respect of performance of dance would not come within the purview of the literary work but would come within the purview of the definition of dramatic work.
costumes choreography and direction by dr karanth the appellants can do so only in accordance with the provisions of the copyrights act1957 in view of copyright in seven prasangas vesting with the plaintiff.
referring to the new encyclopaedia britannica and halsbury 's laws of england that a literary work with dramatic elements in it would also be literary work the high court observed dramatic works also could contain in its passages of great literary taste as in the case of great plays of william shakespear.
the copyright act1957 for shortthe act was enacted to amend and consolidate the law relating to copyright.
yakshagana is a form of ballet dance.
a where the names of one or more but not all of the authors arc pseudonymous and his or their identity is not disclosed as references to the author whose name is not a pseudonym or if the names of two or more of the authors are not pseudonyms as references to such of those authors who dies last b where the names of one or more but not all of the authors arc pseudonyms and the identity of one or more of them is disclosed as references to the author who dies last from amongst the authors whose names are not pseudonyms and the authors whose names are pseudonyms and are disclosed and c where the names of all the authors arc pseudonyms and the identity of one of them is disclosed as references to the author whose identity is disclosed or if the identity of two or more of such authors is disclosed as references to such of those authors who dies last.
the only difference i see in them is that the dramatic work plays forms the text upon which the performance of the plays rests whereas a literary work enables one to read the printed words.
l the performance of a literary dramatic or musical work by an amateur club or society if the performance is given to a non paying audience or for the benefit of a religious institution.
p 1 i have already referred to para no 11 of the will while dealing with the topic dramatic works vis vis literary work and therefore if the will is read in its entirety and if we take into account the benefits that flow from the bequest made by dr karanth in favour of the plaintiff it is not as if the plaintiff received the bequest only in respect of the things which form the residuary as mentioned in para 12 of the will but the plaintiff also was given the copyrights in respect of literary works and all books as well as the right to print republished and mark the literary works as well as the books.
4 where the theme is the same but is presented and treated differently so that the subsequent work becomes a completely new work no question of violation of copyright arises.
explanation in this section the reference to the author shall in the case of a work of joint authorship be construed as a reference to the author who dies last.
the trivial variation or inputs put in the judgment would not satisfy the test of copyright of an author.
certain acts not to be infringement of copyright 1.
the following acts shall not constitute an infringement of copyright namely a a fair dealing with a literary dramatic musical or artistic work not being a computer programme for the purpose of i. private use including research ii criticism or review whether of that work or of any other work xxx xxx xxx i the performance in the course of the activities of an educational institution of a literary dramatic or musical work by the staff and student of the institution or of a cinematograph film or a sound recording if the audience is limited to such staff and students the parents and guardians of the students and persons directly connected with the activities of the institution or the communication to such an audience of a cinematograph film or sound recording.
when a fair dealing is made inter alia of a literary or dramatic work for the purpose of private use including research and criticism or review whether of that work or of any other work the right in terms of the provisions of the said act can not be claimed.
section 13 which occurs in chapter iii of the act provides that subject to the provisions thereof and the other provisions of the said act copyright shall subsists throughout india in the following classes of works that is to say a original literary dramatic musical and artistic works b cinematograph films and c sound recording.
provided that where the identity of the author is disclosed before the expiry of the said period copyright shall subsist until sixty years from the beginning of the calendar year following the year in which the author dies.
in sub section 1references to the author shall in the case of a pseudonymous work of joint authorship be construed.
in sub section 1references to the author shall in the case of an anonymous work of joint authorship be construed.
section 17 of the act deals with first owner of copyrightin terms whereof subject to the provisions of the act the author of a work shall be the owner of the copyright therein.
section 2o defines literary work to include computer programmes tables and compilations including computer databases.
on the face of the provisions of the copyright act1957we think that the principle laid down by the canadian court would be applicable in copyright of the judgments of the apex court.
section 2h defines dramatic work to include any piece of recitation choreographic work or entertainment in dumb show the scenic arrangement or acting form of which is fixed in writing or otherwise but does not include a cinematograph film.