as per the schedule this shifting was to be done in two phases 1 st phase 1 district jail shahjahanpur 2 district jail azamgarh 3 district jail jaunpur and 4 district jail moradabad 2 nd phase 1 district jail badaun 2 district jail varanasi 3 district jail barielly and 4 district jail muzaffarnagar.
in the facts of this case such acquisition can not be made by invoking emergency provisions of s 17 if so advised government can initiate acquisition proceeding by following the provision of section 5a of the act and in accordance with law.
the construction of jail is certainly in public interest and for such construction land may be acquired.
this court is considering these questions especially in the context of some recent trends in land acquisition.
this court is of the opinion that the concept of public purpose in land acquisition has to be viewed from an angle which is consistent with the concept of a welfare state.
the importance and scheme of section 5a was construed by this court in several cases.
this slow pace at which the government machinery had functioned in processing the acquisition clearly evinces that there was no urgency for acquiring the land so as to warrant invoking s 17 4 of the act.
thereafter the district magistrate shahjahanpur forwarded the proposal to the commissioner and director directorate of land acquisition revenue board uttar pradeshfor the issuance of notifications u ss 41 and 17 of the act which in turn approved of it and further forwarded the recommendation to the state government vide letter dated 2 07 2008.
thus the state government issued notifications u ss 41 and 17 on 21 08 2008.
however the provisions of section 5a inquiry were dispensed with.
the existing district jail of shahjahanpur constructed in 1870was one of the oldest and required shifting to new premises.
a meeting for selection of the suitable site for construction was held on 27th june2008and the proposal for such acquisition and construction was sent to the director land acquisition on 2nd of july2008 this was in turn forwarded to the state government by the director on 22nd of july2008 after due consideration of the forwarded proposal and documents the state government issued the s 4 notification along with s 17 notification on 21st of august2008 these notifications were published in local newspapers on 24th of september2008.
these recommendations were accepted by the state government vide the approval of the cabinet dated 7 12 2007 following this decision the director general of prisons administration and reformsuttar pradesh vide letter dated 04 06 2008requested the district magistrate shahjahanpur to send all the relevant records to the state government for publication of notification u ss 41 and 17 of the land acquisition act1894 hereinafter the act the land suggested for such acquisition by the divisional land utility committee was.
the right to file objections under section 5a is a substantial right when a person 's property is being threatened with acquisition and we can not accept that that right can be taken away as if by a side wind.
the meaning of public purpose in acquisition of land must be judged on the touchstone of this expanded view of part iii rights.
the aforesaid principles in our jurisprudence compel this court to construe any expropriartory legislation like the land acquisition act very strictly.
in connection with land acquisition proceeding whenever the provision of s 17 and its various sub sections including s 174 is used in the name of taking urgent or emergent action and the right of hearing of the land holder under section 5a is dispensed with the court is called upon to consider a few fundamentals in the exercise of such powers.
january2005the said committee recommended to the state government the shifting of the district jails from congested areas to outside the city limits within the district.
these appeals have been preferred from the judgment and order of the high court dated 25 11 2009 in writ petitions civil no 464572009.
the appellants challenge the acquisition of their agricultural lands by the state of uttar pradesh for the construction of the district jail of shahjahanpur.
committee was formed matter was discussed at a leisurely pace at various levels and there is no material fact to justify the abridgement of the appellants right of raising an objection to acquisition and of a hearing under section 5a of the act.
in order to remedy this shortcoming in the act of 1894an amendment by way of incorporation of section 5a was introduced on 11th july1923 the statement of objects and reasons for the said amendment is as follows the land acquisition act i of 1894 does not provide that persons having an interest in land which it is proposed to acquire shall have the right of objecting to such acquisition nor is government bound to enquire into and consider any objections that may reach them.
in its meeting dated 10 10 2007 the committee recommended that a detailed project report dpr be prepared by the rajkiya nirman nigam and that acquisition of lands for shifting of the prisons be done on a priority basis.
but such acquisition can be made only by strictly following the mandate of the said act.
the state government explained that this was done in view of the pressing urgency in the matter of construction of the jails.
in that case the court was considering the importance of rights under section 5a vis vis s 171 and s 171.
a of the act.
admittedly the land acquisition act a pre constitutional legislation of colonial vintage is a drastic law being expropriatory in nature as it confers on the state a power which affects person 's property right.
2005 7 scc 627 2005 indlaw sc 578this court held that the right which is conferred under section 5a has to be read considering the provisions of article 300 a of the constitution and so construed the right under section 5a should be interpreted as being akin to a fundamental right.
the valuable right of the appellants under section 5a of the act can not flatten and steamrolled on the ipsi dixit of the executive authority.
therefore the concept of public purpose on this broad horizon must also be read into the provisions of emergency power u s 17 with the consequential dispensation of right of hearing under section 5a of the said act.
if public purpose can be satisfied by not rendering common man homeless and by exploring other avenues of acquisition the courts before sanctioning an acquisition must in exercise of its power of judicial review focus its attention on the concept of social and economic justice.
thereafter over a period of 9 months the state government deposited 10 of compensation payable to the landowners along with 10 of acquisition expenses and 70 of cost of acquisition was deposited and the proposal for issuance of s 6 declaration was sent to the director land acquisition on 19th of june2009 the director in turn forwarded all these to the state government on 17th july2009and the state government finally issued the s 6 declaration on 10th of august2009 this declaration was published in the local dailies on 17th of august2009.
this court made it clear that declaration u s 6 has to be made only after the appropriate government is satisfied on a consideration of the report made by the collector under section 5a the court however made it clear that only in a case of real urgency the provision of section 5a can be dispensed with.