shashi tripathi mahesh and binu.
x 3 cm with punctured wound 6 incised wound over right costal region of size 3 cm x 2 cm x 1 cm.
she resided with shashi didi.
x 1 cm.
according to the prosecution the accused shashi tripathi is the step mother in law of deceased bhavna tripathi.
x 1 cm 3.
one incised wound on left auxiliary region on the posterior auxiliary region of size 3 cm x 2 cm x 3 cm.
incised wound was also present on the right lobe of size 3 cm x 13 cm x 3 cm.
x cm x 1 cm and 14 incised wound over left side of neck on anterior triangle of size 2 cm.
shashi tripathi had brought him home from bilaspur.
shashi was unconscious.
3 cm x 2 cm x 1 cm 5 incised wound on lower costal region right side on right epigestic region of size 3 cm.
x 3 cm lobe was cut and there was 3 cm punctured wound.
there were numerous injuries including incised wounds on bhavna none on shashi.
x 1 cm 13 incised wound on ulna region of left hand on lower 13rd region of size 1 cm.
she engaged the other accused for murdering bhavna.
the injuries found on person of the deceased were as follows external injuries 1 incised wound on left scapular region of size 3 cm x 1 cm 2 incised wound on left scapular region of size 4 cm x 1 cm.
he lived in the house of shashi didi.
bhavna was married to her step son jitendra kumar in july2003 shashi tripathi used to be annoyed with bhavna tripathi on account of some domestic dispute.
it was submitted that the test identification parade were delayed and the identification of these accused by the witness in court was not reliable.
7 incised wound on right supra mammary region near middle of size 4 cm x 1 cm x 1 cm 8 incised wound on right supra mammary region lateral aspect of size 3 cm x 1 cm x 1 cm 9 incised wound on radial aspect of left forearm near wrist joint of size 2.
cm x cm x cm 10 incised wound on forearm left hand radial side dorsal aspect on lower 23rd region 11 incised wound on left forearm middle l3rd region radial side and posterior aspect of size 2.
x 1 cm x 1 cm 12 incised wound on left hand dorsal aspect on 2 nd and 3rd metacarpal region of size 2 cm.
bhavna was murdered on 25 11 2003 at about 1830 hours in the house where she resided with shashi tripathi.
bhavna was dead.
shashi tripathi accused no 1 has filed criminal appeal arising out of special leave petition criminal no 3737 of 2014.
pw 1 dr. sharda prasad tripathi is the husband of accused shashi tripathi.
he stated that shashi didi and bhavna sometimes used to quarrel.
the incident occurred within the four walls of the house of the accused shashi tripathi and the only witness was the boy anil.
the accused raju.
4 incised wound on lower costal region left of size.
he deposed before the court that shashi didi accused brought him to village jevra from bilaspur.
internal injuries brain membrane pale lungs trachea pale punctured wound on right and left lungs of size 2 cm x 1 cm2 cm and 1 cm.
shashi didi thereafter started shouting.
the identification parades belong to the investigation stage.
he referred to bhavna as bhabhi.
this deposition clearly implicates accused nos 12 and 4 the picture that emerges is that shashi tripathi caused bhavna to be killed and for this purpose engaged chandra prakash accused no 2 and raju.
jitendra is her step son and the deceased bhavna is the wife of jitendra.
the incident occurred in the courtyard and shashi didi was present in the passage.
we have carefully examined the manner in which the identification parade was conducted and the manner in which the boy anil kumar pw 21 identified the accused in court and we have no reason to doubt the identification of the accused which assumes importance in this case since the boy did not know the accused before the incident.
when he went inside he found his daughter in law bhavna and wife shashi lying in the courtyard.
the accused devendra kumar was arrested on 22 12 2003 and his identification parade was conducted on 26 12 2003 within four days there is no evidence on record to show that the child witness had an opportunity to see and study the features of the accused between their arrest and test identification parade to enable a tutored identification.
he had no axe to grind against any of the accused.
on 25 11 2003when pw 1 dr. sharda prasad tripathi came home from his clinic found that his daughter in law bhavna tripathi has been murdered.
the prosecution has found it difficult to pinpoint the motive but shashi tripathi 's husband dr sharda prasad tripathi pw 1 deposed before the court that she tried to create a hindrance in the marriage of his son jitendra since she wanted her daughter abhilasha to marry him however he went ahead with the marriage of jitendra to bhavna whereupon shashi tripathi remained silent.
mahesh the fourth accused was standing outside the house.
a test identification was conducted by the executive magistrate in the sub jail bemetara on 13 12 2003 a similar identification parade of raju.
he participated in the identification parade which was held in sub jail bemetara and identified the accused persons in the court by touching them.
then she lay down on the courtyard near bhavna bhabhi.
devendra choubey accused no 4 by paying them money.
mahesh and chandra prakash were arrested on 29 11 2003their identification parade was conducted on 13 12 2003 within a fortnight or so.
it is for this reason that the identification parades in this case seem to have been held under the supervision of a magistrate.
he was brought to the house by shashi tripathi accusedwho apparently took care of him and sent to school and gave him food and residence.
pw 21 his statement that the accused chandra prakash attacked the deceased is corroborated by the recovery of knife from chandra prakash.
after the assault chandra prakash went to the tv room where shashi didi had kept some money in a rubber band on the table.
the accused chandra prakash had threatened him not to disclose anything about the incident to anyone.
the learned counsel for the appellants forcefully attacked the conviction of the other accused viz mahesh chandra prakash and devendra kumar who admittedly were not known to the child witness anil kumar.
there is no dispute that bhavna 's death is homicidal.
we therefore hold that the accused mahesh accused no 3 in criminal appeal no 867 of 2013 is innocent and the conviction against him is set aside.
thereafter all the three accused fled from there.
about the assault he deposed that devendra caught bhavna and chandra prakash attacked her with knife 3 to 4 times and she fell down.
devendra choubey accused no 4 has filed criminal appeal no 822 of 2012 the appellant mahesh accused no 3 has filed criminal appeal no 867 of 2013 the appellant beenu.