307 ipc.
raju to pay substantial compensation to injured sukhbir.
raju attacked on the head of sukhbir with pharsi.
raju gave pharsi blows on the head of sukhbir.
raju to pay rs 750000 as compensation to the injured sukhbir.
the second accused rajbir.
307 ipc is unassailable.
as it emerges from the evidence complainant jagdish pw 5 and his two sons sukhbir and mange ram were cutting pullas.
the conviction of second accused rajbir.
raju a 2 gave a pharsi blow on the head of sukhbir jage ram a 1 caused injury to jagdish pw 5 with two jaily blows.
in the wordy altercation second accused rajbir.
pw 9 stated that had not the operation been conducted on sukhbir and had not the extra dural haemotoma removed by operation urgently the head injury caused to sukhbir would have caused his death.
as noticed above injured sukhbir sustained grievous head injuries and was deeply comatose and was in a state of shock and trauma.
first accused jage ram pleaded that on the date of occurrence complainant party jagdish and his sons mange ram and sukhbir forcibly trespassed into the land belonging to the accused and attempted to forcibly cut the pullas.
307 ipc is confirmed and the sentence of imprisonment of five years is reduced to the period already undergone and additionally the second accused shall pay a compensation of rs 750000 to the injured witness sukhbir.
it was submitted that injured person sukhbir was neither examined nor medical evidence like ct scan x ray and operational notes and sukhbir were produced to corroborate the oral evidence and while so courts below erred in convicting second accused rajbir.
pws 5 6 have clearly spoken about the overt act of the accused that a 1 jage ram attacked and caused injury to pw 5 jagdish with jaily blows and that second accused rajbir.
in the fight the accused persons started inflicting injuries to the complainant and his sons rajbir.
learned counsel for the injured witness submitted that for quite some time injured sukhbir was unconscious and thereafter suffering from mental trauma.
injured sukhbir was vomiting in the hospital and later on he was referred to general hospital gurgaon as his condition deteriorated.
it was submitted that injured witness sukhbir was not examined in the court and neither ct scan nor x ray nor operational notes of sukhbir were produced before the court and in the absence of such material evidence courts below erred in convicting the second accused section.
second appellant rajbir.
compensation amount of rs 500000 deposited in this court by the 2nd appellant shall be paid to the injured witness sukhbir.
having regard to the nature of injuries sustained by sukhbir and the period of treatment and other circumstances we are of the view that it would be appropriate to direct second appellant accused rajbir.
appellants have raised the contention that the prosecution failed to adduce evidence that a 2 rajbir attempted to commit murder of sukhbir.
the circumstances that the injury inflicted by the accused was simple or minor will not by itself rule out application of section 307 ipc.
dr pardeep kumar pw 2 also examined the other injured persons pw 5 jagdish and pw.
at that time jage ram a 1 and his sons rajbir singh.
in the heat of passion the accused have caused injuries to the complainant party.
to justify a conviction section 307 ipc it is not essential that fatal injury capable of causing death should have been caused.
it was submitted that the medical evidence sufficiently corroborated the oral evidence and the prosecution has established the intention of the 2nd accused in causing attempt to commit murder of sukhbir and in appreciation of the evidence courts below recorded concurrent findings convicting the second accused section 307 ipc and the same warrants no interference.
therefore an accused charged section 307 ipc can not be acquitted merely because the injuries inflicted on the victim were in the nature of a simple hurt.
they have also stated that madan and rakesh caused injuries to pw5 jagdish with lathi on shoulder and left elbow respectively.
for inflicting blows on pw 5 jagidsh with jaily a 1 jage ram was convicted section 325 ipc and sentenced to undergo rigorous imprisonment for one year.
for the purpose of conviction section 307 ipc prosecution has to establish i the intention to commit murder and ii the act done by the accused.
additionally madan and rakesh attacked the complainant with lathi blows on shoulder and left elbow respectively and caused several other injuries to the complainant party.
sentence section 325 ipc two counts was modified as the sentence section 323 ipc and he was sentenced to undergo six months rigorous imprisonment.
dr pardeep kumar pw 2 who examined sukhbir found during his medico legal examination a lacerated wound in the middle of the top of the skull.
the accused party went there and asked them not to cut the pullas.
briefly stated case of the prosecution is that on the fateful day i e 18 11 1994 at about 8 00 a m in the morning the complainant jagdish pw 5 along with his two sons namely sukhbir and mange ram pw 6 were busy in cutting pullas reeds from the dola of their field.
per contra learned counsel appearing for the respondent state contended that the evidence of all the witnesses satisfactorily establishes the overt act of the accused persons and jagdish pw 5 and mange ram pw 6 being the injured witnesses the veracity of these witnesses can not be doubted.
6 mange ram.
he examined the witnesses and after completion of investigation challan was filed under sections 307 325 324 read with section 34 ipc.
the burden is on the prosecution that accused had attempted to commit the murder of the prosecution witness.
raju shall deposit the balance compensation amount of rs 250000 before the trial court within three months from the date of this judgment and on such deposit the same shall also be paid to the injured witness sukhbir.
on failure to deposit the balance compensation the second appellant rajbir.
a ct scan disclosed that large extra dural haematoma was found in the frontal region with mass effect and sukhbir needed urgent surgery and he was operated upon and the large extra dural haematoma was removed.
jagdish and his injured sons raised alarm hearing which rajesh and usha came to rescue them and on seeing them the accused persons fled away.
statement of jagdish was recorded based on which f i r was registered at police station taoru gurgaon under sections 323 324 325 and 307 read with section 34 ipc.
jagdish further claims that he along with rakesh caused injuries to the complainant party in exercise of right of private defence of property.
pws 5 and 6 being injured witnesses their evidence is entitled to great weight.
raju section.
the intention of the accused is to be gathered from the circumstances like the nature of the weapon used words used by the accused at the time of the incident motive of the accused parts of the body where the injury was caused and the nature of injury and severity of the blows given etc.
the injured witnesses were taken to the primary health centre taoru where dr pardeep kumar medical officer medically examined the injured persons.
the conviction of a 1 section 325 ipc a 3 and a 4 section 323 ipc is confirmed and the sentence is reduced to the period already undergone by each of them.
as noted by the high court it is thus brought on evidence that had not surgical assistance been given to sukhbir he would have definitely died.
raju is in custody.
rakesh a 4 adopted the stand of his father jage ram.
307 ipc and imposed sentence of imprisonment for five years as well the fine of rs 500 was confirmed by the high court.
in the light of the above considering the case in hand the occurrence was of the year 1994 when the complainant party was cutting pullas the accused asked them not to cut the pullas which resulted in the wordy altercation.