No plan was annexed to this lease deed.
One interesting feature is that a map has been referred to in each of the documents and the said map shows that the line drawn from point A to point B is the boundary between the two leaseholds.
He held that article 48 of the Limitation Act applied to the suit and that the appellant had failed to prove that the respondents had knowledge of the sinking of the quarries and pits in the encroached land.
Obviously where a person has a right to sue within three years from the date of his coming to know of a certain fact it is for him to prove that he had the knowledge of the said fact on a particular date for 501 the said fact would be within his peculiar knowledge.
It is the obligation of the plaintiff to satisfy the court that his action is not barred by lapse of time see Lalchand Marwari vs Mahanth Rampur Gir 1 and Rajah Sahib Perhlad Sein vs Maharajah Rajender Kishore Sing 2 .
He stated in his evidence that the appellant had encroached upon the South Kujamal Colliery in Seam Nos 10 11 and 12 and another special seam known as 4 feet seam and that in August 1941 be came to know about the encroachment for the first time when the Mines Department forwarded a plan of the joint workings of the two collieries of the parties.
In the cross examination two suggestions were made to him namely that in 1932 there was a survey of the plaintiffs  and defendants  coal land by the Mines Department and that Seam Nos 11 and 12 were 1 Pat 312.
After noticing the words in the last column of the article the learned Judges proceeded to observe thus  The starting date of limitation in the case of conversion is the date when the person who has the right to possession first learns of the act of conversion.
 Adverting to the burden of proof the learned Judges observed There is nothing in the pleadings which would show precisely at what period tile plaintiff or the plaintiff s agent which is the same thing became aware of the sale and its wrongfulness that is to say became aware of the fact of conversion.
503 onus of proof may shift to the defendant.
 In Talyarkhan vs Gangadas 3 Rangnekar J formulated the legal position thus The onus is on the plaintiff to prove that he first learnt within three years of the suit that the property which he is seeking to recover was in the possession of the defendant.
The appellant gave evidence to show that the encroachment was prior to 1932 but there is no acceptable evidence on their part to establish that the respondents came to know of the removal of coal by the appellant or their possession of the coal removed beyond three years prior to the suit.
504 took us through the correspondence that passed between the parties and the Mining Department in 1932.
But the courts found from Commissioner s maps that in the encroached portion there were only underground workings and that the quarries were mostly outside the encroached area.
In the written statement the defendants did not deny the fact that the coal still left in the encroached area was lost to the plaintiffs but only stated that it was purely a question of statutory obligation on the part of the plain.
