The quantum of this pension was calculated on the basis of 14th of the revenue of the Jagir.
 The learned counsel for the respondent Mr A Viswanatha Sastri urges that on its true interpretation the letter dated July 7 1837 showed an arrangement for sharing collections.
And rent is not land within the meaning of the definition This Court observed in Mrs Bacha F Guzdar Bombay Commissioner of Income tax Bombay4 as follow Agricultural income as defined in the Act is intended to refer to the revenue received by direct association with the land which is used for agricultural purposes and not by indirectly extending it to cases where that revenue or part thereof changes hands either by way of distribution of dividends or otherwise 1  2 3 16 ITR325 4 705 The same test was adopted by this Court in Maharajadhiraja Sir Kameshwar Singh vs Commissioner of Income tax Bihar and Orissa1 and the Court again looked to the source of the right in order to determine whether income was agricultural income or not.
The source of the right in which a fraction of the net income of the trust is to be appropriated by the appellant as his remuneration is not in the right to receive rent or revenue of agricultural lands but rests in the covenant in the deed to receive remuneration for management of the trust.
 It follows from the decisions of the Privy Council and the judgments of this Court cited above that if it is held in this case that the source of the allowance or pension is the arrangement arrived at in 1837.
He says that if the assessee s predecessor had received  706 compensation for relinquishing his title to the lands in dispute that would have been a capital receipt and not taxable.
He refers to the following passage from the speech of Viscount Simon in Commissioner of Inland Revenue vs Wesleyan and General Assurance Society1 It may be well to repeat two propositions which are well established in the application of the law relating to Income tax.
 He therefore asked us to disregard the word pension  in the letter dated July 7 1837 and determine the real character of the payment.
If the other method is adopted tax will not be payable .
That particular doctrine of substance as distinct from form was I hope finally exploded by the decision of the House of Lords in the case of Duke of Westminster vs Commissioner of Inland Revenue2.
