Appeal by special leave from the judgment and decree dated September 2 1959 of the Madras High Court in Second Appeal No 774 of 1957.
The learned trial Judge examined the whole evidence and came to the conclusion that the grant of the Inam was a personal Inam and that it was not a grant in favour of the religious endowment within the meaning of the Act.
In consequence the learned trial Judge also held that the appellants had proved their title to the suit properties.
The alternative plea made by the appellants that they had acquired title to the properties by prescription was also upheld by the trial Judge.
The lower appellate Court made a finding against respondents 1 to 3 on point No 2.
It held that the evidence adduced by the respondents did not prove the existence of any temple in favour of which the original grant had been alleged to have been made according to them.
In regard to the third point based on the appellants  claim that they had acquired title by adverse possession the lower appellate Court found that it was evident that from the very beginning Pachai Kandai Udayavar and his family had been claiming beneficial interest in the property and they were not holding the same as managers of the trust.
This decision was challenged by respondents 2  3 before the Madras High Court in Second Appeal No 774 of 1957.
Subrahmanyam J who heard this appeal held that the original grant had been made in favour of the Temple.
There was evidence to show that the properties originally granted had been resumed by the Collector but the learned Judge took the view that the said resumption was only of the melwaram or assessment and that since the lands had been granted in Inam to the deity and its matam their title to the lands remained unaffected by the resumption proceedings.
It was conceded before the lower appellate Court that the new article was not retrospective in operation and that if the title of the alienees in regard to dharmadlayam properties had been acquired by adverse possession prior to 1 1 1929 it would not be affected by the provisions of article 134 B Thus considered the alienations in regard to items 1 2 part of item 3 items 7  8 and a portion of the well in item 5 sold under Ext.
In the result the appellants  claim in regard to the properties covered by these three sale deeds was rejected whereas their claim in regard to the other prop erties.
In consequence the appeal preferred by respondents 2  3 was partly allowed and the decree passed by the lower appellate court in regard to Exts.
Where however the transfer is made by the manager not as manager but as an individual and he deals with the property not on the basis that it belongs to the religious endowment but on the basis that it belongs to himself considerations which would govern the application of limitation are substantially different and in such a case the transfer being void ab initio the possession of the transferee is adverse from the date of the transfer.
2 LR 27 IA 69.
3 LR 37 IA 147.
These words used in column 1 of article 134 necessarily raise the question as to whether the head of a math is a trustee within their meaning and Mr Justice Ameer Ali who spoke for the Privy Council answered that question in the negative.
2 LR 27 IA 69.
3 LR 37 IA 147.
In appreciating the effect of this decision it is necessary to bear in mind that the plea of limitation with which the Privy Council was concerned in that case was based on article 124 of the Limitation Act.
2 ILR 3 LR 37 IA 147.
Column 1 of article 134 B provides for suits brought inter alia by the manager of a Hindu religious or charitable endowment to recover possession of immovable property comprised in the endowment which has been transferred by a previous manager for a valuable consideration.
That is why we must reject the ingenious argument urged before us by Mr Tatachari that article 134 B does not apply to the present case.
Mr Tatachari then contends that even on the application of article 134 B the decision of the High Court is erroneous because on the facts proved in this case the High Court should have drawn the legal inference that the transferor had been removed more than 12 years before the suit was filed.
He contends that the question as to whether on facts proved in the present case an inference can be drawn that the previous manager or trustee had been removed is a mixed question of fact and law and the High Court was in error in reversing the decisions of the courts below by holding that the title of the temple had not been lost by adverse possession before the suit was filed.
