No application dated December 21 1963 which was not accepted by the Nyaya Panchayat has been produced.
On December 23 1963 Mahabir submitted an application in the Court of Shri R Singh SDM Deoria alleging that writ petition has been admitted and a stay order has been issued.
He produced the telegram received from the Advocate before the SDM.
The complainant and the accused are present.
The statements of the complainant and his witnesses Bhabhuti and Damri are recorded.
Hence judgment shall be given on 25 12 63.
 This order was signed by three Panchas Phagu Parsad Jagat Dubey and Badri Yadav.
Sir It is submitted that I have filed a writ petition in the above case in the High Court.
On May 21 1964 Mahabir filed an application under sections 4 and 5 of the  against the five appellants and section K Srivastava ASDM.
 Affidavits were filed in the High Court by Baldeo Prasad pairokar of Mahabir Burma Prasad the Sarpanch and Mahabir and statements of Phagu Prasad and Bunna Prasad were recorded on oath.
According to him the Panchas did not tell Mahabir that his affidavit was not proper they however told him to get it verified in Tehsil and that it should be duly sealed.
The High Court held  There was no reasonable ground for the Panchas to have doubted the averments made in the application and affidavit of Mahabir that the High Court had stayed further proceedings before the Panchayat nor is there any thing in the order sheet to show that the Panchas did not believe the contents of the application and affidavit of Mahabir.
The learned counsel for the appellants Mr Chari says that no contempt of court has been established because a Court is entitled not to act on an application which is not accompanied by an affidavit properly sworn to or a certified copy of the order He urges that the Nyaya Panchayats exercised judicial powers and even if the Panchas erred in not staying proceedings before finding them guilty of contempt of court it should be definitely proved that the order was passed deliberately to by pass the order of the High Court.
This Court quoted with approval the following passage from Oswald s Contempt of Court in Hoshiar Singh vs Gurbachan.
In order to justify committal for breach of a prohibitive order it is not necessary that the order should have been served upon the party against whom it has been granted if it be proved that he had notice of the order aliunde as by telegram or newspaper report or otherwise and knew that it was intended to be enforced or if he consented to the order or if he was present in Court when the order Was pronounced or hen the motion was made although he left before the order was pronounced.
The question then arises whether the Sarpanch and the Pan chas had knowledge of the existence of the order of the High Court dated December 20 1963.
The only material before them was the application dated December 25 1963 which was not supported by any affidavit sworn to before a person authorised to 1 1962 Supp 3 SCR 127138.
121 administer oaths.
Contempt of court is a serious matter and a High Court should be chary of finding a judicial officer guilty of contempt of court for disobeying its orders unless there is unimpeachable evidence that the judicial officer had knowledge of the order of the High Court.
The learned counsel for the State contends that we should not reappreciate the facts but with respects it seems to us that the High Court while dealing with the evidence has not kept in mind the principles which we have mentioned above.
In the result we allow the appeal and set aside the judgment and order of the High Court.
