The principle for fixation of minimum wages that should ordinarily be adopted was laid down by this Court in the case of French Motor Car Co Limited.
Learned counsel had to admit that no specific plea was taken by the Company in this behalf and at least no evidence at all was led to show that these concerns are not comparable with the Company.
Having come to this view it is clear that to give full effect to the principle laid down by this Court the case of French Motor Car Co1 the Tribunal should have proceeded to fix the minimum wage in the Company on the basis of the average minimum wage prevailing in these concerns.
not think that such a consideration should be taken.
into account.
Finally it was argued that other amenities being provided by the Company should also be taken into account when fixing the minimum wage.
On behalf of the workmen it was urged before the Tribunal that the proportion should be 3 1 1 so that the production bonus and the dearness allowance would both be equal and 13rd of the basic wage.
In connection with the fixation of minimum wage one point vehemently argued by learned counsel for the workmen was that at least the dearness allowance element of the wage should have been made variable with the Price Index so that the labour could automatically be compensated for further rise in the cost of living subsequent to the making of the award.
It appears that the Tribunal did not accept this demand primarily on the ground that the distinction between casual workers and  the permanent workers was recognised by both the parties in the agreement of 1959.
The pleading makes it clear that the claim for six months  wages was not based on the Full Bench Formula but on the ground that certain clerical staff was being paid bonus which in effect amounted to about six months  basic wages because the bonus was calculated in their case by taking into account the consolidated wages including dearness allowance while in the case of the workmen the dearness allowance element of the wages was being ignored and bonus was calculated only by taking into account basic wages.
refer it.
The reference was made by the Government on the 4th October 1962.
In fact the principle which is being applied is the simple one of calculating the bonus payable at the rate of three months  basic wage in each case and in no case is the dearness allowance taken into account.
The rest of the Award of the Tribunal is upheld.
