Appeal No 949 of 1966.
Appeal by special leave from the judgment and order dated September 11 1964 of the Madras High Court in Tax Case No 181 of 1962.
M C Chagla and B R Agarwala for the appellant.
CJ V Ramaswami and A N Grover JJ.
The case was twice re manded to the Tribunal.
Sobhachand one of the partners of Bhojaji Sobhachand with 16 share in the profit and loss is the father of Seshmal Ramniklal and Lakshmichand partners of the appellants.
In the books of account of the appellants which were main tained according to the mercantile system there was a current sarafi account in respect of their transactions with the Bombay firm in which were credited the funds transmitted from Bombay in respect of their business transactions.
Entries relating to interest were posted till the end of Samvat Year 2006 in the account on the amount due at the foot of the account.
The Income tax Officer disallowed their claim holding that  these transactions were mere accommodations which can have no bearing to the regular business carried on by the assessee.
The question referred was therefore answered in the affirmative and against the appellants.
A bad and doubtful debt in respect of a business other than banking or money lending is allowable even if it is not in respect of loan  but a debt due in the course of the business of a money lending is not allowable unless it is in respect of loans made in the ordinary course of his business.
In the interest of justice we direct that the question be reframed as follows  Whether on the facts and in the circumstances of the case the Tribunal erred in disallowing the debt of Rs 268385 written off by the assessee in their books of account as irrecoverable.
 The two branches of the question as reframed then are 1 Whether the debt or any part thereof is in respect of loans made 419 in the ordinary course of money lending business of the appellants and 2 whether the debt or any part thereof is in respect of the other business of the appellants.
The Tribunal s order is very brief  it gives no reasons in support of the conclusions.
Counsel said that 1 Sobhagchand Amarchand partner of the Bombay firm is the father of Seshmal one of the partners of the appellants and of the minors Ramniklal and Lakshmichand who are admitted to the benefits of partnership 2 that large amounts of money were advanced shortly before the Bombay firm closed its business and 3 that there was a consistant practice for paying or receiving interest on the 420 amounts due at the foot of the account but no interest was charged by the appellants in respect of the dues at the foot of the account at the end of Samvat Years 2007 and 2008.
After receipt of the supplementary statement of case from the Tribunal the appeal was heard by J C Shah K section Hegde and A N Grover JJ.
The Tribunal will submit the statement within three months from the date on which the papers reach the Tribunal.
In appeal the Appellate Assistant Commissioner agreed with the Income tax Officer.
At the hearing of the appeal this Court found that the tribunal s order was very brief and that it gave no reasons in support of its conclusions.
The tribunal has accordingly submitted a further statement.
Having considered all the circumstances of the case we are of the opinion that the sums in question were not sent to the Bombay firm as loans made in the ordinary course of the money lending business of the assessee nor in respect of any other business of the assessee.
