Applications by respondent No 1 for revocation of the certificate granted by the Madras High Court on 15th October 1968 under article 1331a  b of the Constitution of India.
AND Civil Appeals Nos 2183 and 2184 of 1968.
Appeals from the judgment and order elated October 9 1968 of the Madras High Court in OSA No 25 and 27 of 1968.
VP Raman DN Mishra and JB Dadachanji for the appellant.
MK Ramamurthi Shyamala Pappu and Vineet Kumar for respondent No 1.
Rameshwar Nath and Mahinder Narain for respondent No 2.
The Judgment of the Court was delivered by Shah J.
Ms Tarapore  Company hereinafter called the plaintiffs applied in Suit No 118 of 1967 for an interim injunction restraining the Bank of India Ltd the first defendant in the suit from taking any steps in pursuance of a letter of credit opened in favour of Ms VO Tractors Export Moscow the second defendant.
Ramamurthi J by order dated April 12 1968 granted an interim injunction restraining encashment of the letters of credit pending disposal of the suit.
In appeals under the Letters Patent preferred by the second defendant.
 The suit filed by the plaintiffs is a civil proceeding and the suit involves some claim or question respecting property of not less than twenty thousand rupees.
That is a matter not in dispute.
The expression judgment in article 133  1  in the context in which it occurs means a final adjudication by the Court of the rights of the parties and that an interlocutory judgment even if it decides an issue or issues without finally determining the rights and liabilities of the parties is not a judgment however cardinal the issue may be.
In the present case not even an issue has been decided and it is not contended that the order of the High Court amounts to a judgment or a decree.
Viscount Cave referred to Salaman vs Warner2 Bozson Altrincham Urban District Councila and Issacs vs Salbstein4 and observed The effect of those and other judgments is that an order is final if it finally disposes of the rights of the parties.
The orders now under appeal do not finally dispose of those rights but leave them to be determined by the Courts in the ordinary way.
During the pendency of the suit them Bombay Prevention of Ex communication Act 42 of 1949 was enacted and one of the issues raised in the suit was whether the order of ex communication was invalid.
The Court in that case was concerned merely with an order passed by the High Court which maintained the order of the Additional Sessions Judge that a complaint under section 205 read with section 114 IP Code could be filed against the appellant.
