OptrRecep tionistAssist.
Asstt 35 1020 EB 40 1300 1265 EB 45 1490.
70 1690 80 2010.
The Tribunal maintained the existing schemes of dearness allowance and house rent allowance and observed that in view of the revised basic wages there would be a resultant increase in the dearness allowance and house rent allowance.
However this is not clearly mentioned anywhere in the award due to accidental slip or omission.
Similarly the same words to each employee after the figure 100 were omitted.
It may be mentioned that only from that point of view viz to grant flat increase of Rs 150 and of Rs 100 to the employees in the category of Draftsmen and the other categories respectively that a burden statement was called for from the company and the same was submitted vide exhibit C 51.
The addition was integrated as a feature of the wage scales it was not regarded as an addition to the pay of each individual workman.
Our attention has been drawn to what purports to be an endorsement by counsel for the appellant on the application dated 22nd December 1978 filed by the Union before the Tribunal to the effect that the appellant would submit to whatever the Tribunal decided and it is urged that the appellant is bound by the order made on the application.
The only contention of the workmen is that the Tribunal should have fixed the dearness allowance in communion with the cost of living index.
It is wrong in principle it is said to provide a fixed dearness allowance.
It declared that the cumulative effect of an improved wage structure together with dearness allowance operating on a slab system would throw an impossible burden of about Rs 1 crore on the financial capacity of the appellant.
In the result Civil Appeal No 2299 of 1979 is allowed in part insofar that the order dated 22nd December 1978 of the Industrial Tribunal Maharashtra Bombay is quashed to the extent that it modifies the original award dated 20th December 1978 and the corrigendum made consequent thereto is also quashed.
It is needless to recapitulate all the basic facts which have been set out in the judgment of Pathak J The Award of the Industrial Tribunal was made on December 20 1978.
In the said award Your Honour has observed at the end of Para 22 In view of the increase that is being allowed in the basic pay I do not propose to revise the existing scheme of Dearness Allowance .
However this is not clearly mentioned anywhere in the award due to accidental slip or omission.
Similarly the same words to each employee after the figure 100 were omitted.
It may be mentioned that only from that point of view viz to grant flat increase of Rs 150 and of Rs 100 to the employees in the category of Draftsmen and the other categories respectively that a burden statement was called for from the company and the same was submitted vide exhibit C 51.
The endorsement made on the application by the Advocate for the company does not indicate that the company had any objection to the award being corrected as sought by the employees union.
Even so we propose to examine whether the correction sought by the employees union was within the bounds of the authority of the Tribunal or whether it was in effect a fresh award.
Implicit and intrinsically connected with the question of revision of the wage scales were the questions of fitment of employees into the wage scales and flat or ad hoc increase of salaries of workmen wherever considered necessary.
In the present case the Industrial Tribunal on a consideration of the material placed before it came to the conclusion that the company was in an undoubted position to bear the additional financial burden.
For some years to come this is likely to be one of the few Consulting Engineers who will be securing major contracts.
Now if without any flat or ad hoc increase of salary the workmen were to be fitted into the revised scales of pay it would obviously result in serious anomalous situations.
It was clearly so intended by the Tribunal as is evident from the reference to flat increase of Rs 150 in the category of Draftsmen and Rs 100 in the case of the other categories.
Therefore they filed an application before the Tribunal for correcting the award so as to bring out what was intended.
The application before the Tribunal was filed under Rule 31 of the Bombay Industrial Disputes Rules 1957 which is as follows A Board Court Labour Court Tribunal or Arbitrator may at any time suo moto or on an application made by any of the parties concerned may correct any clerical mistake or error arising from an accidental slip or omission in any proceedings report award or as the case may be decision.
We are not impressed with the submission of the learned counsel for the Company that the corrigendum was in effect a fresh award.
SR Appeals dismissed.
