Leave to appeal was refused.
Pandurang Tukia and Bhilia who were sentenced to death applied here for special leave to appeal.
We gather that this field is near a river called 1086 Papana.
There are four eye witnesses and the main question we have to consider is whether they can be believed.
Both give substantially the same version of what they saw of the assault.
On hearing this he wrote out 1088 a report exhibit No 4 and sent it to the Police Station at Udgir which is about six miles from the scene of the murder.
He says he did not know any names at that time and that is evident from the report.
In the circumstances we think Mahadappa told the truth.
The remaiding four are described as blue and black marks.
So the part they played was negligible.
We refer to the other eye witnesses here to show that there is no discrepancy on this point but we only rely on Rasikabai and Subhana for determining the fact Bhilia was directly charged with the murder and the injury on the throat is ascribed to him in the charge.
Turning now to section 34 that was not charged in Pandurang s case but we need not consider whether such an omission is fatal because even if it had been charged there is no evidence from which a common intention embracing him can legitimately be deduced.
It is true they all ran away when the eye witnesses arrived and later absconded but there is nothing to indicate that they ran away together as a body or that they met afterwards.
People do not ordinarily act in unison like a Greek chorus and quite apart from dishonesty this is a favourite device with witnesses who are either not mentally alert or are mentally lazy and are given to loose thinking.
It requires a pre arranged plan because before a man can be vicariously convicted for the 1095 criminal act of another the act must have been done in furtherance of the common intention of them all Mahbub Shah vs King Emperor1.
In the present case there is no evidence of any prior meeting.
1097 similarity of the facts in one case cannot be used to determine a conclusion of fact in another.
Pandurang is accordingly only liable for what he actually did.
We do not intend to examine that here because we are of opinion that the sentence should be reduced to transportation in these two cases mainly because of the difference of opinion in the High Court not only on the question of guilt but also on that of sentence.
