At the very threshold it is necessary to set out a few facts.
He was first allotted a service quarter.
The Estate officer by order dated December 2 1985 directed the eviction of the petitioner.
b does not stand by itself but is inter connected with cl.
wrongfully withholds possession of it after the termination of his employment.
a and although it primarily refers to the existing officers and employees it may also take in past officers and employees.
It would be noticed that cl.
b also makes it an offence if any officer or employee of a company having any property of the company in his possession knowingly applies it to purposes other than those expressed or directed in the articles and authorised by the Act.
a into cl.
b as applicable to such property of a company possession of which is wrongfully obtained by an officer or employee of the company ie refers to the whole of cl.
b was wide enough to include former or past officer or employee of the company inasmuch as on a plain reading of the section the two clauses do not permit different interpretations as suggested.
In particular the learned judge referred to section 538 which provides for prosecution for offences by officers of companies in liquidation and uses the expression a past or present officer of a company etc  as also section 545 which provides for prosecution of delinquent officers and members of a company during the course of winding up and uses the words any past or present officer etc  Upon that basis he observed that there was no reason to give a twisted and laboured interpretation to the provisions of section 630 of the Act which its plain reading does not permit.
b as taking in the property mentioned in cl.
He had been allotted the premises of a flat approximately 3500 square feet in area located at Mayfair Gardens Little Gibbs Road Bombay.
He had been inducted into the flat only by virtue of his capacity as the General Manager of the company s branch office at Bombay but the company allowed him to retain the same on humanitarian grounds for a short period after his retirement to enable him to find alternative accommodation.
b even though cls.
a and b are separated by the word or  which must in the context in which it appears be read as and  and so construed must mean withholding of property wrongfully obtained by an existing officer or employee.
On a careful analysis of section 630 held that the provisions of the section apply not only to the present officers and employees of the company but also to past officers and employees and observed It is held that the features and deductions which flow logically and inescapably on an analysis of section 630 are that i Clause a of the section is self contained and independent of cl.
a as regards penal consequences squarely covering the case of a past employee or officer.
iii The entitlement of an officer to the property of the company is contingent on the right and capacity of the officer by virtue of his employment which is transformed into the actual possession of the property and the duration of such right would be co terminus with the terms of employment.
We accordingly uphold the view of the High Court of Bombay that the terms officer or employee  of a company applies not only to existing officers or employees but also to past officers or employees if such officer or employee either a wrongfully obtains possession of any property or b having obtained such property during the course of his employment withholds the same after the termination of his employment.
In the result the special leave petition must fail and is dismissed with costs.
