It is further stipulated that the licensee would be entitled to keep the keys of the said premises with him and shall be at liberty to work in the said premises for twenty hours subject to restriction of rules and regulations imposed by the Municipal or any other local authority or authorities.
It is further stipulated that the licensee shall pay the electric charges in respect of consumption of electricity and the rent of the said premises should be paid by the licensor only.
It was recorded by the court with the expression BC a term of some ambiguity as explained later that the appellant was not claiming protection as a sub tenant under the Rent Act but only the subtenancy as such and therefore it was recorded that as agreed BC .
It is interesting to note that in the judgment of the Small Cause Court and also of the High Court at several places the expression BC was used this is intriguing as we find that it intrigued Vaidya J because he stated in his judgment dated 9th of December 1975 what the expression BC was meant by Court.
He recorded further that he thought that BC meant by consent .
In July 1967 the appellants 1064 filed an application for eviction under section 41 of the .
If he was such a licensee the non obstante clause of section 15A1 give him the status and protection of a tenant in spite of there being anything to the contrary in any other law or in contract.
It was futher held that a person continuing in occupation of such premises after revocation of the licence was still liable to pay compensation or damages for its use and occupation.
It was observed that the finding of the High Court that the respondent was in occupation of the premises under a subsisting licence was wholly wrong and suffered from serious infirmities of law and fact and deserved to be set aside.
The High Court disallowed the special civil application under Article 227 of the Constitution on 17th of November 1980 and that is the judgment impugned in this appeal.
This decision was approved in appeal by this Court in Sohan Lal Naraindas vs Laxmidas Raghunath Gadit where this Court reiterated that the test of exclusive possession was important point.
To put precisely if an interest in immovable property entitling the transferee to enjoyment was created it was a lease if permission to use land without exclusive possession was alone granted a licence was the legal result.
For this purpose reference may be made to the language used and the restrictions put upon the use of the premises in question by the appellant.
This is a salutary test.
In the aforesaid view of the matter we are clearly of the opinion that in view of the intention of the parties in the document and the facts and circumstances of this case it was a licence and not a lease.
The appeal fails and is dismissed.
