The same were allowed by the Collector Appeals.
The appellant was not a manufacturer of drums.
Learned Attorney General emphasised that it is a well settled principle of construction that in taxing statutes one has only to look merely at what is clearly stated.
Explanation.
The explanation to the said sub section defines the expression packing as the wrapper container bobbin pirn spool reel or warp beam or any other thing in which or on which the excisable goods are wrapped contained or wound.
This Court rejected the contention of the assessee in that case that because the levy of excise is a levy on goods manufactured or produced the value of an excisable article must be limited to the manufacturing cost plus manufacturing profit.
The respondent supplied these gases in cylinders at their factory gate.
There fore the rental of the same though income of ancillary activity was not the value incidental to the manufacture and could not be included in the assessable value.
Furthermore no cost was in fact incurred by the assessee.
Here also obviously the reference is not generally to the taxes payable on such goods by either the assessee or the buyer but is obviously to the taxes payable by the assessee.
The scheme of the old section 4 is indisputedly to determine the assessable value of the goods on the basis of the price charged by the assessee less certain abatements.
It is only that degree of secondary packing which is necessary for assessable articles to be in the condition in which it is generally sold in the wholesale market which can be included at the factory gate which should be included in the value of the article.
These were only employed it was emphasised by the majority of the Judges for the purpose of avoiding damage or injury during transit.
It may be necessary in this connection to refer to the observations of this Court in Union of India  Ors.
In the aforesaid view of the matter I am of the opinion that these appeals have to be allowed and the orders of the Tribunal set aside.
RANGANATHAN J I have perused the judgment proposed to be delivered by my learned brother Sabyasachi Mukharji J I agree with the conclusion arrived at by him but I would like to rest it entirely on the language of section 44di of the Central Excises  Salt Act 1944 without going into the larger questions raised by counsel and dealt with by my learned brother.
In construing section 44di all that has to be seen is whether the goods are delivered in packed condition.
Where the manufacturer supplies his own container or drum but does not charge the customer therefore then the price of the goods will also include the cost of the con tainer.
In my opinion also the above conclusion reached on the language of section 44di of the Act is sufficient to allow these appeals.
