the respondent No.
i was tried before the court of sessions visakhapatnam for offences under section 120 b indian penal code section 409 section 477 a and section 471 read with section 467 i p c while respondent No 2 was tried for an offence under section 120 b and for offences under sections 409 read with section 109 477 a and 471 read with section 467 i p c each of the respondents was convicted of the first two offences but.
the respondent No i alone was convicted of the other two offences.
the respondents preferred appeals before the high court challenging their convictions and sentences.
the state on the other hand preferred an application for revision under section 439 cr.
p c for the enhancement of the sentences passed on the respondents.
the high court allowed the two appeals acquitted the respondents and dismissed the application for revision preferred by the state.
the state of andhra pradesh has come up before this court in appeal by obtaining special leave under article 136 of the constitution.
in the year 1929 the andhra engineering co which was originally a partnership firm formed by one d l n raju was converted into a private limited company with its headquarters at visakhapatnam.
it obtained licences from the government under the electricity act for supply of electrical energy to visakhapatnam anakapalli and some other places.
as the aeco did not have the necessary capital to undertake the work raju floated in the year 1933 a public limited company called visakhapatnam electric supply corporation ltd and another in the year 1936 called the anakapalli electric supply corporation ltd the aeco transferred its licences for the supply of electrical energy to the consumers of visakhapatnam to vesco and similarly transferred to aeco the licence to supply electrical energy to consumers at anakapalli.
the original managing agency agreement in favour of aeco with respect to vesco was for a period of 15 years i e from 1933 to 1948 and was later renewed for the remaining term of the currency of the licence granted by the government under the electricity act.
the vesco had its own board of directors while the aeco had also its own separate board of directors.
the vesco had no managing director but at each meeting of its board of directors one of the directors used to be elected chairman.
the same practice was followed at the meeting of the general body of the shareholders.
the aeco as managing agents of vesco had appointed in the year 1939 one d v appala raju a trusted employee as its representative and as the secretary of vesco.
all this is not disputed.
the explanations of the managing agents and the directors of vesco with respect to the items mentioned in the orders of the board used also to be placed by him before the shareholders.
od september 13 1954 ramana offered to make a full confession to the additional district magistrate independent who was empowered to grant pardon under section 337 of i he code of criminal procedure.
the high court set aside the conviction of the respondents on a number of grounds.
in the first place according to the high court joint trial of two or more persons in respect of different offences cornmitted by each of them is illegal and that here as they were charged with having committed offences under section 120 b section 409 section 477 a and section 476467 i p c they could not be tried jointly.
according to it the provisions of section 239 were of no avail.
then according to the high court offences under.
the approver s evidence was held by the high court to be inadmissible because the pardon granted to him was illegal.
the high court has also held that his evidence is unreliable and further that the additional sessions judge was in error in allowing him to refresh his memory by referring to various documents in a manner not permitted by section 159 of the evidence act.
finally the high court held that the examination of the respondent under section 342 of the code was unfair for a number of reasons and that the additional sessions judge had failed to perform an important duty in that he did not call the attention of the respondents to the provisions of section 342 which enable an accused person to give evidence in his own behalf.
the first charge is in respect of the conspiracy alleged to have been entered into by the two respondents k v ramana the approver and others known and unknown to commit criminal breach of trust of the funds of vesco and in order to screen its detection to falsify the accounts of vesco and to use forged documents as genuine.
unless therefore the provisions of section 239 are applicable it would follow that there was a misjoinder of charges.
ramana made false entries on seven different dates in the account books between september 19 1947 and march 18 1952 and thus committed an offence under section 477 a i p c the fourth charge is that the two respondents along with the approver.
now if the respondent No 1 were alone tried upon the second third and the fourth charges the provisions of section 2351 could have been pressed in aid if the allegations were that the offences were so connected together as to form one and the same transaction and the validity of the trial would not have been open to any attack.
c of section 239 is subject to the provisions of section 234.
bearing in mind the fact that the provisions in the former part of chapter xix are applicable to charges made with the aid of section 239 only so far as may be it would not be right to construe section 239 as being subject to the provisions of sections 233 to 236.
indeed the very expression so far as may be empha sises the fact that while the earlier provisions have to be borne in mind by the court while applying section 239 it is not those provisions but the latter which is to have an overriding effect.
apart from this the question whether the provisions of sections 233 to 236 have or have no overriding effect on section 239.
no corresponding advantage can be gained by the accused persons by following the procedure of separate trials.
a and d of section 239.
on the other band there is the decision of this court in the state of andhra pradesh v kandinmlla subbaiah which is to the effect that where several persons had committed offences in the course of the same transactions they could jointly be tried in respect of all those offences under section 239 of the code of criminal procedure and the limitation placed by section 234 of the code could not come into operation.
there remains the decision of this court in k v krishna murthy iyer v the state of madras in on which mr bhimasankaram strongly relied.
mody v the state of bombay.
similarly in ram prashad singh v lakhpati koer 1902 i l r 30.
similarly there is section 5 of the evidence act which reads thus it is the case of the prosecution that the alleged payments were never made by vesco to the various firms.
what we have said about pardon in respect of an offence under section 409 would apply equally to that for one under section 120 b because the punishment for it is the same as that for the offence under section 409.
no doubt under entry 9 a in part iii of sch.
but entry 7 a in part v of sch.
in re the appellant i l r 1957 mad 715 and the cases referred to therein in particular the decision in winson v queen 1866 l r i q b what has been held in all these cases is that where the trial of a person who was charged with having committed an offence or offences jointly with several persons is separated from the trial of those persons he would be a competent witness against them though of course there will always be the question as to what weight should be attached to his evidence.
the decision in sarwan singh v the state of punjab 1957 b c r 953 on which reliance has been placed by the high court has been explained by this court in the case of maj e g barsay v the state of bombay.
