three civil appeals stemming from three revision petitions to the high court of orissa under the orissa estates abolition act 1951 orissa act i of 1952 for short the act have reached this court thanks to special leave granted to the appellant who is common in all the cases.
the high court after deciding various issues remanded the cases to the compensation officer under the act after over ruling most of the contentions pressed before it by the appellant.
shri achutananda purohit appellant was the intermediary in respect of vast forests and other lands comprised in the estate of jujumura in the district of sambalpur.
this estate vested in the state on april 1 1960 by force of the act and the crucial question agitated before us consequentially turns on the quantum of compensation awardable under chapter v of the act.
shri purohit appellant is an advocate by profession and is 83 years old.
he has argued in person and with passion.
we have listened with patience to all his submissions good bad and indifferent.
if we may anticipate ourselves none of the nine submissions has appealed to us save to the extent the high court has upheld.
even so a minimal narration of the facts and a brief consideration of each argument is necessary and we proceed to do so.
although he waxed sentimentally on this note he did not convince us on his contentions.
with these prefatory observations we proceed to formulate the many points urged and give our findings and reasons one after the other.
we are directly concerned with the issue of compensation which is dealt with as earlier stated in chapter v of the act.
the compensation officer is charged with fixing the quantum in the prescribed manner.
a compensation assessment roll containing the gross asset and net income of each estate together with the compensation payable in respect of such estate has to be prepared by him.
of course when there is joint ownership section 24 stipulates that the compensation shall be determined for the estate as a whole and not separately for each of the shares therein.
section 26 has great relevance as it lays down the method of arriving at the gross asset and section 27 has like significance as it focuses on the manner in which the net income from an estate shall be computed by deducting certain items from the gross asset of the estate.
the act also provides for appeal second appeal and revision the last being to the high court and the earlier ones being to the collector and a board constituted under section 22.
these furnish in bare outline the provisions with which we are directly concerned.
the provisions of section 373 read with section 262.
b v of the act make it clear that the date of vesting is the last date by which the calculation of compensation should have been made.
as admittedly compensation had not been calculated by the date of vesting the compensation officer lost his statutory jurisdiction to do so.
it is this court which by its order dated 10 4 1969 in civil revisions 201 202 and 203 of 1968 conferred new jurisdiction on the compensation officer to deal freshly with the case and therefore notwithstanding anything contained in the act the compensation has to be calculated according to the directions given by the court 2 the court was fully aware of the statutory provision in section 262.
b v of the act but in spite of it the direction was that the divisional forest officer should make the appraisement.
a1 is inadmissible in evidence.
3 assuming that in spite of the directions of the court the compensation offi cer is entitled to follow the procedure laid down in section 262bv the expression subject to the approval of the chief conservator of forests does not refer to the appraisement made by the d f o but refers to his appointment.
4 assuming that section 262 b v would have full force what it contemplates is that the appraisement must be made by the d f o and it is subject to the approval by the chief conservator of forests.
6 unlike in case of fisheries etc.
where the actual income is to be included in the gross assets in the case of forests the assumed income and not the actual income is to be included.
during the agricultural year immediately preceding the abolition the petitioners had not actually derived any income from the forests and as such they were under no obligation to pay any income tax on such income.
therefore deduction of income tax from the gross assets is illegal and unwarranted.
this gives rationality to the seeming disparity.
the appellant challenges the slab system of compensation provided in the act which awards smaller multiples for estates yielding larger incomes on the score of violation of the fundamental rights under the constitution.
no income therefore no income tax and therefore no deduction is the syllogism of shri purohit.
the statutory scheme of compensation for forest lands consists of machinery for assessment of the net income which is multiplied on a sliding scale and the method of challenge to the determination by the aggrieved owner of state.
the section is clear that the gross income from forests must be calculated on the basis of appraisal of the annual yield on the date of vesting firstly by a forest officer and secondly by the chief conservator of forests screening it and approving it.
but in such a case the materials must be brought to the notice of the petitioners who would be entitled to cross examine the witnesses connected therewith and may give rebutting evidence.
the compensation case is to be disposed of by the compensation officer within six months from today 104 1969 with intimation to this court.
strictly speaking the statutory requirement is for initial appraisal of the annual income by the forest officer.
but he pointed out that the forest officer had omitted to include the income from kendu leaves and added that sum to the income from forests.
both the state and the appellant filed appeals to the collector which were dismissed.
a second appeal was filed by the appellant before the board of revenue without success.
this was wrong and contrary to section 26 as was contended by the appellant and in a way accepted by the high court.
it is astonishing that anyone should urge as the appellant did that the date of vesting is the last date by which the calculation of compensation should have been made and since that had not been done the compensation officer had become functus officio in awarding compensation.
before the date of vesting the state never can nor does fix the compensation through the compensation officer in any of the agrarian reform laws and these compensation operations are post statutory exercises.
therefore there is no substance in the functus officio argument.
if the officer had no jurisdiction the land would be gone because of the vesting provision and no compensation would be forthcoming for want of jurisdiction a consequence the appellant never wants.
technicality can be frightened away by technicality.
nor is it right to contend as the appellant did that the compensation officer s jurisdiction was created by the order of remand by the high court.
no it was created by the statute and canalised by the order of remand.
it follows that after the present second remand the re appraisal of the annual net income can not be done solely by the forest officer without securing the approval of the chief conservator.
nor can the compensation officer by pass the chief conservator on the misunderstood strength of the high court s first order of remand.
the true legal drill is.
and this holds good after the second remand order that the forest officer will do the appraisement of the annual income forward his report to the chief conservator of forests who will take the said report into consideration and if necessary make modifications therein or approve it with such changes as he deems fit.
certainly the chief conservator can not be ignored by the compensation officer nor can the chief conservator ignore the assessment made by the forest officer and go through an independent exercise.
the integrated process has already been explained by us and will be followed in the proceedings to ensue on remand.
this will among other things save time.
thereafter the appropriate statutory course will follow.
the take over of the forests of the appellant was effected as early as 1960 and 16 years have passed without the intermediary being out of the litigative woods.
with these directions and observations we affirm the orders under appeal but while dismissing the appeals direct the parties to bear their costs in this court.
