whether the appellant herein and his father had sublet the premises in question in or about 1960 in terms of section 131e of the bombay rents hotel and lodging house rates control act1947.
hereinafter called the rent act is the question involved in this appeal by special leave from the judgment and order of the high court of gujarat dated 21st of august1979.
in order to decide this question it is necessary to decide the scope and ambit of section 292 of the rent act.
to decide this facts must be referred to.
the appellant claimed to be the tenant in respect of the two premises which are quite adjacent to each other one of which is involved in this appeal.
the respondent is the landlord of the two premises and these were situated at raikhad ward ahmedabad.
the respondent had alleged in the two suits that the appellant was his tenant in the suit premises which were leased out to him and before him his father for conducting the business in the name of ahmedabad fine.
weaving works and according to the terms of tenancy suit premises were leased for manufacturing cloth in the name of ahmedabad fine.
weaving works.
the respondent had further alleged that the appellant no 1 had closed the business and he was not using the said premises for the purpose for which it was let to him.
it was the case of the appellant that in respect of the suit premises he was carrying on his business with respondents.
nos 24 and 5 in the name of respondent no 2m s.
bharat neon signs hereinafter referred to as respondent no 2.
at the time of the institution of the suit the defendants nos 2 to 5 were admittedly the partners.
the present appellant who was the original defendant no 1 claimed to be a partner.
the said partnership deed records six persons who were to run the business in manufacturing and selling bharat neon signs tubes.
however the document is silent as to where the business was started.
on or about 24th of october1960.
another partnership deed being exhibit 69 came to be executed among the six persons and the father of the appellant girdharlal.
the document is exhibit 69 and is signed by the father of the appellant and the appellant himself also.
in 1965 some partners retired and the remaining four partners executed a fresh partnership deed exhibit 117 on 1st.
april1965 this last partnership deed was executed by the appellant and original defendants.
it is true that since after 4th of october1960 the partnership firm was carrying on business in the premises in question.
it is well settled that if there was such a partnership firm of which the appellant was a partner as a tenant the same would not amount to subletting leading to the forfeiture of the tenancy.
for this proposition see the decision of the gujarat high court in the case of mehta jagjivan vanechand v doshi vanechand harakhchand and others.
this view is now concluded by the decision of this court in madras bangalore transport co west v inder singh and others1986 3 s c c 62 1986.
indlaw sc 748.
the trial court in the instant appeal held that there was subletting.
it accordingly decreed the suit for possession instituted by the landlord.
the suit inter alia was filed by the landlord on the ground of subletting.
in the premises the appeal was allowed.
the partnership deeds were there the appellant was not to share in the losses.
the high court in revision reversed that finding.
the agreement must be to share profits of business and 3 the business must be carried on by all or any of the persons concerned acting for all.
the partnership deeds were there entitling the petitioner to share in the partnership.
it is true that in the partnership deeds the bank accounts were not to be operated by the appellant and further that irrespective of the profit.
the clause of the partnership deed provided that there should be a fixed percentage of profit to be given to the partner appellant no 1 the appellant was not to share the losses.
but there is nothing illegal about it.
the appellant was to bring his asset being the tenancy of the premises in question for the user of the partnership.
there was evidence of suit of dissolution of the partnership where none of the partners took the plea that it was a false or a fictitious document.
that in the partnership deed which is not necessary to recite the terms the petitioner was completely excluded in operating the bank accounts etc.
in the eye of law such a clause is really non sequitur or neutral proving neither the existence nor non existence of a genuine firm.
in this the appellant was not a partner.
there was nothing intrinsically wrong in law in constituting a partnership in the manner it was done.
this is also not inconsistent with treating the rent of the firm in the context of the total expenditure of the firm.
this court in hari shankar v rao girdhari lal chowdhury1962 1 suppl.
the expression according to law in section 35 of the said act referred to the decision as a whole and was not to be equated to errors of law or of fact simpliciter.
this view had also been expressed in the decision of this court in puranchand v motilal1963.
supp 2 s c r 906 1962 indlaw sc 455.
this principle was reiterated in krishnawati v hans raj1974 2 s c r 524 1973 indlaw sc 208 which was dealing with section 392 of the delhi rent control act1958 in second appeal.
in phiroze bamanji desai v chandrakant m patel ors 1974 3 scr 267 1974 indlaw sc 282 the question involved was whether there was reasonable and bona fide requirement of premises for personal use and occupation as also the question of greater hardship under the bombay rent act and the ambit and scope of the power of section 293 of the said act with which we are concerned came up for consideration.
we must take note of a decision in the case of m s kasturbhai ramchand panchal brothers and others v firm of mohanlal nathubhai and others air 1969 gujarat 110 1967 indlaw guj 57upon which the high court had placed great reliance in the judgment under appeal.
as we read the power the high court must ensure that the principles of law have been correctly borne in mind.
in the case of punamchandra revashankar joshi v ramjibhai maganlal gujarat law reporter.
the authority vested in the high court under the amendment still remained only in the domain of the jurisdiction and power of revision and no further.
the amending provision therefore only related to procedure and not to any rights of the parties.
this court in the case of bhai chand ratanshi v laxmishanker tribhavan1982 1 rent control journal 2421981.
this view was reiterated by chief justice beaumont in chimanram motilal and another v jayantilal chhaganlal and another a i r 1939 bombay 410 1939 indlaw mum 155 ramaswami j in mohammed musa sahib dead and others v n k mohammed ghouse sahib and another a i r 1959.
in the instant case judged by the aforesaid principles it is possible to hold that there was a partnership of which the appellant was a partner.
we may mention that in gundalapalli rangamannar chetty v desu rangiah and others a i r 1954.
we are further of the opinion that the court of small causes was right in the view it took.
and it was a possible view to take.
the appellant herein is entitled to the costs throughout.
appeal allowed.
appeal allowed.
