the appellant is a company incorporated under the companies act1956 with the object of manufacture and sale of cigarettes.
members of general public are the shareholders and the shares of the company are traded in through various stock exchanges in the country.
a petition was filed under article 226 of the constitution by respondent no 1 seeking for a writ of mandamus to treat the members of the respondent union who are employees working in the canteen of the appellants factory as employees of the appellant and for grant of monetary and other consequential benefits.
the canteen is provided in the factory premises of the appellant pursuant to section 46 of the factories act1948 hereinafter referred to as the actwhich obliges a factory employing more than 250 workmen to provide such a canteen.
on behalf of the respondents it is contended that the appellant had been managing the canteen up to the year 1982 and thereafter introduced the contract system for maintaining the canteen so established that though the management of the canteen had been entrusted to the contractors from time to time the personnel employed in the canteen were retained by all the contractors and they have been paid salaries through contractors that the workmen employed in the canteen have been provided with esi benefits under the code No.
vst the appellant and benefits arising under the employees provident funds act are also provided similarly that the appellant has also provided a building along with furniture utensils cutlery gas electricity water supply and other facilities that the contractor is engaged only to prepare the food and serve it to the employees and that the quality of the food and the rates are controlled by the management of the appellant.
on behalf of the appellant contention was raised that no writ would lie against the appellant inasmuch as the appellant is a company which is not an authority or a person against whom a writ would lie.
it was submitted that they do not discharge any public duty and hence the writ can not be issued.
on the merits of the matter the appellant disputed various questions of fact and urged that the decision of this court in parimal chandra raha vs life insurance corporation of india1995 supp 2 scc 611 1995 indlaw sc 183would not be applicable to the appellant in the facts and circumstances of the case.
the learned single judge who decided the matter in the first instance held that a writ would lie against a company under a private management following the decision in t gattaiah vs commissioner of labour1981 ii llj 54 1981 indlaw ap 26in which it was held that establishment of a canteen and its maintenance is a statutory requirement under section 46 of the act a public duty is imposed on the company to establish and maintain the canteen inasmuch as members of the respondent union are working in the canteen they are entitled to seek a mandamus.
he therefore held that when a public duty is called upon to be discharged by a private management a writ of mandamus would lie and could be issued under article 226 of the constitution.
he thus rejected the contention.
on the merits of the matter the learned single judge followed the decision in parimal chandra rahas case holding that when the duty had been enjoined on the appellant to provide and maintain a canteen facility under the factories act it becomes the obligation of the appellant to establish a canteen and that is what the appellant had done.
therefore when that work is got done through somebody else by providing the necessary infrastructure and other facilities when the personnel did not change though the contractors changed from time to time he held that they become employees of the appellant.
on that basis the learned single judge granted reliefs sought for by the respondents however imposing certain restrictions with regard to the age being medically fit on the date of the writ petition had put in a minimum of three years of continuous service and such service prior to the attainment of the minimum qualifying age under the company should be ignored.
on appeal the division bench of the high court affirmed the view taken by the learned single judge.
the division bench referred to their decision in rakesh gupta vs hyderabad stock exchange ltd hyderabad ors.
air 1996 ap 430 1996 indlaw ap.
302that a writ in the nature of mandamus certiorari and prohibition are recognised as public law remedies and are not available to enforce private law rights.
however noticing that the expression any person or authority used in article 226 of the constitution should not be confined only to statutory authorities and instrumentalities of state but would cover any other person or body performing public duty.
the form of the body concerned is not very much relevant.
what is relevant is the nature of the duty imposed on that body.
the duty must be judged in the light of positive obligation owed by the person or authority to the affected party no matter by what means the duty is imposed.
on that basis the division bench of the high court dismissed the writ appeal.
hence this appeal.
on behalf of the appellant contention put forth at the forefront is that a writ would not lie against the appellant inasmuch as the appellant is engaged in the manufacture and sale of cigarettes and as an incident thereto has provided a canteen to its workmen pursuant to an obligation under section 46 of the act.
shri s ganesh learned counsel for the appellant pressed into service the decision of this court in anadi mukta sadguru shree muktajee vandas swami survarna jayanti mahotsav smarak trust ors vs v r rudani ors.
1989 2 scc 691 1989.
indlaw sc 589to contend that mere running of a factory to manufacture and sell of cigarettes can never be considered to be a public duty much less an incident thereto such as providing a canteen to its workmen.
on behalf of the respondent heavy reliance was placed on this decision and also the decision of the high court in t gattaiahs case to contend that in running a canteen under section 46 of the act the appellant was discharging a public duty and therefore a writ of mandamus would lie against it.
n anadi muktas case the contention similar to the present case had been raised.
in that background it was observed that if the rights are purely of a private character no mandamus could be issued and also if the management of the college were purely a private body with no public duty mandamus would not lie.
in that case the respondent was managing the affiliated college to which public money is paid as government aid which played a major role in the control maintenance and working of educational institutions.
when there is existence of such relationship mandamus could not be refused to such an aggrieved party.
it was further explained in that decision that the term authority used in article 226 of the constitution should receive a liberal meaning unlike the term in article 12which is only for the purpose of enforcement of fundamental rights under article 32 the words any person or authority used in article 226 are therefore not be confined only to statutory authorities or instrumentalities of the state but would cover any other person or body performing public duty.
the duty must be judged in the light of positive obligation owed by the person or authority to the affected party no matter by what means the duty is imposed if a positive obligation exists mandamus can not be denied.
in de smith woolf and jowells judicial review of administrative action5th edn.
it is noticed that not all the activities of the private bodies are subject to private law e g the activities by private bodies may be governed by the standards of public law when its decisions are subject to duties conferred by statute or when by virtue of the function it is performing or possibly its dominant position in the market it is under an implied duty to act in the public interest.
this is because the prisoners for whose custody and care it is responsible are in the prison in consequence of an order of the court and the purpose and nature of their detention is a matter of public concern and interest.
2 the principles of judicial review prima facie govern the activities of bodies performing public functions.
in such a case the express or implied terms of the agreement should normally govern the matter.
this reflects the normal approach of english law namely that the terms of a contract will normally govern the transaction or other relationship between the parties rather than the general law.
prima facie therefore a private person or an incorporated company can not be taken out of the sweep and the contemplation of article 226 of the constitution.
that decision does not take note of the fact as to the nature of the functions that a person or an incorporated company should be performing to attract judicial review under article 226 of the constitution.
in anadi muktas case this court examined the various aspects and the distinction between an authority and a person and after analysis of the decisions referred in that regard came to the conclusion that it is only in the circumstances when the authority or the person performs a public function or discharges a public duty article 226 of the constitution can be invoked.
in the present case the appellant is engaged in the manufacture and sale of cigarettes.
manufacture and sale of cigarettes will not involve any public function.
incidental to that activity there is an obligation under section 46 of the act to set up a canteen when the establishment has more than 250 workmen.
in other words it is only a labour welfare device for the benefit of its work force unlike a provision where pollution control act makes it obligatory even on a private company not to discharge certain effluents.
in such cases public duty is owed to the public in general and not specific to any person or group of persons.
thus we are of the view that the high court fell into error that appellant is amenable to writ jurisdiction.
this court in indian petrochemicals corporation ltd anr vs.
439 1999 indlaw sc 513referred to the decisions in parimal chandra rahas case reserve bank of india vs workmen1996.
3 scc 267and m m r khan vs union of india1990 supp.
thereafter this court further examined whether the material on record would show that the workmen are employees of the management for all purposes and adopted some of the tests as follows.
the canteen has been there since the inception of the appellants factory.
the workmen have been employed for long years and despite a change of contractors the workers have continued to be employed in the canteen.
the wages of the canteen workers have to be reimbursed by the appellant.
the workmen have the protection of continuous employment in the establishment.
thus these circumstances clearly indicate that the appellant has a complete control over the activities in respect of the canteen and the contractor has absolutely no discretion either in regard to the menu quality and quantity of the food items much less the rate at which the same are supplied to the workmen.
the appellant in any manner can not controvert these facts.
since we have held that the high court had no jurisdiction to entertain a petition under article 226 of the constitution we would have set aside the order made by the high court.
the appeal therefore stands dismissed subject to what is stated in regard to writs to be issued by the high court in respect of persons or authorities exercising public duty or otherwise.
thus the tribunal held that these facts clearly indicated that the appellant exercised administrative financial and disciplinary control over the workmen in question.
in those circumstances the tribunal passed an award that these workmen should be treated as employees of the appellant and they are entitled to payment of appropriate scales and designations in terms of ex.
w12 and w14 from 1 april 1979 with all consequential and attendant benefits of arrears of pay etc together with counting of entire service for the purpose of terminal benefits.
against this award a writ petition was filed before the high court.
however there is no material on record to show that the canteen is located in such an area where it would be hazardous to have a fire furnace source of heat or light to cook food.
