Appeal No 801 of 1963.
Appeal by special leave from the judgment and decree dated September 2 1959 of the Madras High Court in Second Appeal No 774 of 1957.
T V R Tatachari for the appellants.
P Raghaviah and R Ganapathy Iyer for the respondents.
The Judgment of the Court was delivered by Gajendragadkar CJ.
The present appeal has been brought to this Court by special leave and it arises from a suit filed by the appellants against four respondents.
The properties involved in the suit consist of agricultural lands situated in Eragudi village Musiri taluk Tiruchirappalli district.
According to the appellants the said lands had been granted in Inam to the ancestor of one Ambalathadum Pachai Kandai Udayavar by the Carnatic Rulers before the advent of the British power in India.
The original grantdeeds are not available but at the time of the settlement of the Inams in the sixties of the last century Inam title deeds were issued in favour of the family of Pachai Kandai Udayavar.
The appellants averred that the properties covered by the grant bad been granted in Inam to the original grantee burdened with the obligation of performing certain services in a Matam.
The said properties were alienated from time to time and as a result of the last alienation the appellants became entitled to them.
The appellants in the present litigation claimed a declaration about their title to the properties in suit and a permanent injunction restraining respondents 1 to 3 who claimed to be the trustees of an alleged Pachai Kandai Udayavar Temple at Eragudi from interfering with their possession of the same.
Respondent No 4 is the Deputy Commissioner Hindu Religious and Charitable Endowments L9Sup.
CI66 9 122 Tiruchirappalli and he has been impleaded because he has purported to appoint respondents 1 to 3 as trustees of the said alleged Temple on the 7th March 1951.
Notice of this application was served on the appellants and they pleaded their own title to the properties.
As trustees appointed by respondent No 4 they claimed that they were entitled to the possession of the properties.
In consequence the learned trial Judge also held that the appellants had proved their title to the suit properties.
The lower appellate Court made a finding against respondents 1 to 3 on point No 2.
In regard to the third point based on the appellants  claim that they had acquired title by adverse possession the lower appellate Court found that it was evident that from the very beginning Pachai Kandai Udayavar and his family had been claiming beneficial interest in the property and they were not holding the same as managers of the trust.
2 LR 27 IA 69.
Reverting then to the question as to whether a transfer effected by the manager of a temple in regard to properties belonging to the temple falls outside the purview of article 134 B if it is shown to have been made on the basis that the transferor treated the properties as his own it does appear that the two earlier Privy Council decisions in Gnanasambanda s2 and Damodar Das s3 cases lend some support to the contention.
2 LR 27 IA 69.
In appreciating the effect of this decision it is necessary to bear in mind that the plea of limitation with which the Privy Council was concerned in that case was based on article 124 of the Limitation Act.
It is open to doubt whether the said decision could lead to the inference that if a part of the property is transferred by the manager of a religious endowment on the basis that it belongs to him and not to the religious endowment the transfer is void ab initio with the result that the possession of the transferee is adverse to the religious endowment from the very beginning and the succeeding manager s right to challenge the said transfer would be lost if his predecessor who made the transfer lives for more than 12 years after effecting the transfer.
2 ILR 3 LR 37 IA 147.
Column 1 of article 134 B provides for suits brought inter alia by the manager of a Hindu religious or charitable endowment to recover possession of immovable property comprised in the endowment which has been transferred by a previous manager for a valuable consideration.
That is why we must reject the ingenious argument urged before us by Mr Tatachari that article 134 B does not apply to the present case.
He contends that the question as to whether on facts proved in the present case an inference can be drawn that the previous manager or trustee had been removed is a mixed question of fact and law and the High Court was in error in reversing the decisions of the courts below by holding that the title of the temple had not been lost by adverse possession before the suit was filed.
This notice was served on witness Raju lyer and Amrithalinga lyer Chinnasamy Iyer and Rangaraja Reddiar who were performing the worship and acting as de facto managers of the temple.
In our opinion all the facts which have been brought on the record in relation to this aspect of the matter clearly show not only that the alienor disposed of all the property and left the village  but also that for the last 25 years or so the management has been taken over by other persons who are acting as de facto managers of the temple.
