Appeal No 787 of 1964.
Appeal from the judgment and decree dated January 5 1961 of the Calcutta High Court in Appeal from Appellate Decree No 1012 of 1955.
AK Sen and D N Mukherjee for the appellant.
Sukumar Ghose for respondent No 1.
The Judgment of WANCHOO C J and MITTER J was delivered by MITTER J BHAGAVA J delivered a separate Opinion.
Mitter J This is an appeal by a certificate granted by the High Court at Calcutta from a judgment and decree in Second Appeal passed by that court in January 1961.
The question before us is whether the respondent No 1 was entitled.
to the benefit of the Calcutta Thika Tenancy Act 1949 as amended finally by an Act of 1953.
The facts necessary for the disposal.
of this appeal are as follows.
On the 18th June 1948 the plaintiff the appellant before us instituted Suit No 292 of 1948 for ejectment of three Persons namely Abdul Rahim Abdul Hamid and Abdul Gaffur from the property in suit a parcel of land about 1 cottah 8 chittaks being part of premises No 6  1 Shibtola Lane Entally Calcutta.
In the notice to quit served on the 7th May 1948 the first two persons were described as tenants under the plaintiff and the third as a person who had purported to purchase the structures on the land and the tenancy right therein.
In the plaint itself the first two defendants were described as thika tenants.
No claim was made for rents or taxes although it was alleged that the same were in arrears.
The suit was contested only by the third defendant who filed a written statement in September 1948 contending that the suit was bad for non joinder of parties.
The suit was decreed by a Munsif of Sealdah court 24 Parganas on March 18 1949 after the Calcutta Thika Tenancy Act of 1949 had come into force on February 28 1949.
The appeal filed therefrom by the third defendant was dismissed by the Subordinate Judge.
Fifth Additional 172 Court Alipore on November 23 1949.
The decree holder put the decree in execution and recovered possession of the land on December 18 1949.
The Calcutta Thika Tenancy Amendment Ordinance 1952 was passed on October 21 1952 introducing various changes in the Act and substituting a new definition of a thika tenant.
On March 14 1953 the Calcutta Thika Tenancy Amendment Act 1953 was passed amending the definition of thika tenant still further and introducing important changes in the Act of 1949.
The effect of these provisions will be considered later on.
Before the Subordinate Judge a point was taken that after the coming into force of the Act of 1949 the Rent Controller alone had jurisdiction in respect of ejectment suits as the defendant appellant was a thika tenant.
The Subordinate Judge dismissed the plea on the ground that the defendant appellant had not erected the structures on the land and was not a successor in interest of the tenant but only a transferee.
Abdul Gaffur preferred a Second Appeal to the High Court and this was heard and disposed of by a single Judge of that court on July 21 1954 long after the Thika Tenancy Ordinance of 1952 and the Amending Act of 1953 had come into force.
The learned Judge held that at the time when the appeal of the defendant was disposed of by the Subordinate Judge the rights of the parties were governed by the Thika Tenancy Act of 1949 and the definition of a thika tenant in that Act was not such as to afford any protection to the appellant.
In view of the amendment of the Act in 1953 however.
He also observed that section 4 of the Act would be applicable.
The landlord went up in appeal once more to the High Court.
Section 29 ran as follows The provisions of this Act shall apply to all suits and proceedings including proceedings  in execution for ejectment of a thika tenant which are pending at the date of commencement of this Act and if any such suit or proceeding relates to any matter in respect of which the Controller is competent after the date of such commendment to pass orders under this Act such suit or proceeding shall be transferred to the Controller who shall on suit transfer deal with it in accordance with the provisions of this Act as if this Act had been in operation on the date of institution of the suit or proceeding Provided that in applying the provisions of the Act to any suit or proceeding instituted for the ejectment of a thika tenant so transferred the provisions regarding notice in section 4 of this Act shall not apply.
It is however clear that the benefit of section 28 was available only if the decree or order for the recovery of possession had been made before the date of the commencement of the Act but 176 possession of such holding had not been recovered from him.
If the Court or Controller holds that the person is such a thika tenant.
Sub section 2 of section 1 provided that the Act was to come into force immediately on the Calcutta Thika Tenancy Amendment Ordinance 1952 ceasing to operate provided that the provisions of the Calcutta Thika Tenancy Act 1949 as amended by this Act were subject to the provisions of section 9 to apply and be deemed to have always applied to all suits appeals and proceedings a before any court or b before the Controller or c before a person deciding an appeal under section 27 of the said Act on the date of the commencement of the Calcutta Thika Tenancy Amendment Ordinance 1952 ie 21st October 1952.
As Abdul Gaffur came under the definition of a thika tenant by the Amending Act of 1953 we have to proceed on the basis that he was such a tenant in 1949 with the result that he could claim the benefit of section 4 of the Act.
There being no provision for transfer of the proceedings of the suit to the controller the court had to apply the Act as it found applicable to the facts of the case.
He was not right in his view that the grounds specified in section 3 could not be called in aid.
