iminal Appeal No112 of 1965.
Appeal by special leave from the jurisdiction and order dated April 29 1965 of the Allahabad High Court in Criminal Misc Contempt Case No 43 of 1965.
A section R Chari M K Ramamurthi Vineet Kumar and Shyamala Pappu for the appellants.
O P Rana for respondent No 1.
J P Goyal V C Prasar and section P Singh for respondent No 2.
The Judgment of the Court was delivered by Sikri J.
This appeal by special leave is directed against the judgment of the Allahabad High Court adjudging the five appellants guilty of contempt of court and sentencing each of them to pay a fine of Rs 1000 and further ordering that in case of default they shall undergo simple imprisonment for two weeks.
The High Court held that the five appellants had disobeyed an order of stay passed by it staying proceedings pending before the Nyaya Panchayat Jokha Khas District Deoria.
The relevant facts are these.
On September 2 1963 Yashoda son of Raj Kumar filed a complaint before the Nyaya Panchayat Jokha Khas against Jagdeo Mahabir and Laxmi alleging that he had been abused and be laboured and his property worth Rs 40 damaged.
On September 10 1963 the Nyaya Panchayat assembled and evidence was led before it.
The case was adjourned to December 25 1963.
On October 11 1963 Mahabir accused made an application under section 85 of the UP Panchayat Raj Act 1947 to SDM Deoria to transfer the proceedings on the ground that the complainant Yashoda was father of Bunna Prasad Sarpanch of Nyaya Panchayat Jokha Khas.
On November 28 1963 the SDM rejected this application.
On December 13 1963 a notice was issued to the five members of the Panchayat to assemble on December 25 1963 and hear the case.
On December 20 1963 Mahabir moved an application under article 227 of the Constitution challenging the order of the SDM dated November 28 1963 and on the same day the High Court admitted the application and stayed further proceedings before the Nyaya Panchayat.
An urgent copy of the order was applied for and obtained on that very day and the counsel sent a telegram in the following words Allahabad He 20 Baldeopd cashier Trust Sdr GR Mahabir application admitted stay granted Banwarilal.
 117 It is alleged on the side of the applicant Mahabir that immediately after the receipt of the telegram an application accompanied by an affidavit and the telegram of his counsel in the High Court was presented before the Nyaya Panchayat with the prayer to stay further proceedings but the Sarpanch refused to take it.
This fact was denied and the High Court seems not to have relied on this fact in its judgment.
It seems to us that it is not proved on the evidence here that any such application was made before the Nyaya Panchayat.
No application dated December 21 1963 which was not accepted by the Nyaya Panchayat has been produced.
He produced the telegram received from the Advocate before the SDM.
The order sheet reads thus  Put up today the 25th December 1963.
The complainant and the accused are present.
that it has not been sworn to before any person authorised to administer oaths.
 Affidavits were filed in the High Court by Baldeo Prasad pairokar of Mahabir Burma Prasad the Sarpanch and Mahabir and statements of Phagu Prasad and Bunna Prasad were recorded on oath.
Phagu Prasad.
We had also told him to get the affidavit verified before some Tehsil authority.
passed by the High Court.
The High Court held  There was no reasonable ground for the Panchas to have doubted the averments made in the application and affidavit of Mahabir that the High Court had stayed further proceedings before the Panchayat nor is there any thing in the order sheet to show that the Panchas did not believe the contents of the application and affidavit of Mahabir.
The learned counsel for the appellants Mr Chari says that no contempt of court has been established because a Court is entitled not to act on an application which is not accompanied by an affidavit properly sworn to or a certified copy of the order He urges that the Nyaya Panchayats exercised judicial powers and even if the Panchas erred in not staying proceedings before finding them guilty of contempt of court it should be definitely proved that the order was passed deliberately to by pass the order of the High Court.
