Appeal No 390 of 1966.
An industrial dispute between these workmen and the management of Orient Paper Mills Ltd hereinafter referred to as the Company was referred by the State Government under section 101 d of the Industrial Disputes Act hereinafter referred to as the Act for adjudication by the Tribunal enumerating 30 different items of dispute.
the view that there were other industries in the region in which minimum wages were higher than the minimum wages paid by the Company but failed to fix the minimum wages in the award in accordance with the minimum wages being paid in those industries.
The principle for fixation of minimum wages that should ordinarily be adopted was laid down by this Court in the case of French Motor Car Co Limited.
They are Titaghur Paper Mill No 3 situated at Chaudwar and the JK Paper Mills at Rayagada.
On these facts the Tribunal held that it would not be proper to compare the wage structure for these Paper Mills with that of the Company.
Though therefore in a case where a particular concern is already paying the highest wages in its own line of business the industrial courts would be justified in looking at wages paid in that region in other lines of business it should take care to see that the concerns from other lines of business taken into account are such as are as nearly similar as possible to the line of business carried on by the concern before it.
 On the basis of this finding of fact the Tribunal held that if the minimum wage in the Company is to be fixed more on the basis of the minimum wage prevailing in other industries in that region which in its opinion would be appropriate under the circumstances of the case then a revision was really necessary.
It is to be noted that there is no mention in the award of the Tribunal that the Company at any stage put forward the case that the Collieries the Steel Plant the Cement Factory and the Aluminjure Company were concerns which were not comparable with the Company.
Learned counsel had to admit that no specific plea was taken by the Company in this behalf and at least no evidence at all was led to show that these concerns are not comparable with the Company.
Having come to this view it is clear that to give full effect to the principle laid down by this Court the case of French Motor Car Co1 the Tribunal should have proceeded to fix the minimum wage in the Company on the basis of the average minimum wage prevailing in these concerns.
payable as production bonus.
not think that such a consideration should be taken.
in the same region.
