Appeal No 1671 of 1966.
Appeal from the judgment and decree dated March 31 1965 of the Madras High Court in Appeal No 276 of 1962.
MK Ramamurthi Vineet Kumar L Ramamurthy and Shyamala Pappu for the appellant.
AV Rangam for the respondents.
425 The Judgment of the Court was delivered by Ramaswami J.
This appeal is brought by certificate from the judgment of the Madras High Court dated March 31 1965 in AS No 276 of 1962.
The appellant brought the suit in OS No 3 of 1961 in the Court of Subordinate Judge Nagapattinam for setting aside the order dated May 10 1960 of respondent No 1 the Commissioner of Hindu Religious and Charitable Endowments Madras who had affirmed earlier the order of the second respondent the Deputy Commissioner holding that the trusteeship of the Kumaran Koil in Manjakollai village was not hereditary.
The appellant was elected as a trustee by the Sengunatha Mudaliars of Manjakollai village at a meeting held on June 27 1957.
According to the appellant the temple was rounded two hundred years ago by the members of his community and since then the management of the temple and is affairs was always vested in the community of the Sengunatha Mudaliars and no person other than the elected trustee had at any time the right of management and control of the temple.
The appellant said that the temple was declared as an exempted temple under the provisions of Madras Act 1 of 1925.
The case of the appellant was that the trusteeship of the temple was hereditary.
The respondents however took a different view and proceeded on the basis that trusteeship of the Kumaran Koil was not hereditary.
The Subordinate Judge held that the appellant was a hereditary trustee and the suit was not barred by limitation.
The respondents took the matter in appeal to the Madras High Court which by its judgment dated March 31 1965 allowed the appeal and set aside the judgment of the Subordinate Judge Nagapattinam.
Section 6 sub section.
The contention on behalf of the appellant is that the succession is regulated by usage.
In Sri Mahant Paramanda Das Goswami vs Radhakrishna Das1 the Madras High Court took the view that where succession to the mahantship is by nomination by the holder in office it was not a hereditary succession.
Hereditary succession is succession by the heir to the deceased under the law the office must be transmitted to the successor according to some definite rules of descent which by their own force designate the person to succeed.
It is not possible to say that there is a succession of As office to another when on the efflux of the period for which A was appointed there is a vacancy and B is elected to that vacancy.
