N Criminal Appeal No 87 of 1967.
721 Appeal by special leave from the judgment and order dated January 24 1967 of the High Court of Mysore in Criminal Appeal No.
29 of 1965.
A section R Chari and R V Pillai for the appellants.
Shyamala Pappu and section P Nayar for the respondent.
The Judgment of the Court was delivered by Hidayatullah CJ.
 These are 14 appellants who appeal against their conviction under section 395 of the Indian Penal Code and sentences of 5 years  rigorous imprisonment and fine of Rs 1000 passed on them.
Originally 20 persons were tried and convicted for the same offence and received a like sentence.
14 alone have appealed to this Court.
The incident which took place on July 28 1962 was theft by dacoity of certain cotton pieces from two carts within the limits of Lingsugar Police Station at about 11 30 pm.
The facts are that two traders in cloth sent their wares in carts for sale.
The cartmen halted after the market was over on the way for food.
Thereafter six carts left for Mudgal at about 10 pm.
When the carts reached a Nala called Heri Halla about three miles from Lingsugur at about 11 30 pm 20 persons are said to have approached the carts and pelted stones.
It was a dark night and the assailants were not identified.
It appears that four out of the six carts escaped but two carts were looted.
The police investigated the case and arrested the 20 persons who were accused in the case as being the culprits involved in this incident.
It is not necessary to go into rest of the case or the evidence on which the case of dacoity was established because dacoity as such is not challenged before us.
The accused were convicted on the sole evidence of having in their possession pieces of cloth which were later identified to belong to the traders.
Searches took place between July 30 1962 and August 17 1962.
In these searches cloth which was undoubtedly stolen at the time of the dacoity was found in their houses.
The High Court and the Court below drew from this the conclusion that the appellants were themselves the dacoits and convicted them accordingly under section 395 of the Indian Penal Code and sentenced them to  5 years  rigorous imprisonment and fine of Rs 100 .
He contends that the circumstances under which the one presumption or the other may be drawn under section 114 of the have not been stated by law and therefore it is necessary always to start with the lesser presumption and draw the higher presumption only when there is some other evidence to show the complicity of the persons in the crime itself.
According to him there is no other evidence in the case which points to the complicity of the 14 appellants in the crime of dacoity and therefore as they cannot be suspected to be dacoits themselves the only presumption to be drawn is one of receivers of stolen property or as receivers of property which was stolen in a dacoity.
In our opinion the law advocated by Mr Chari is not correct.
If there is other evidence to connect an accused with the crime itself however small the finding of the stolen property with him is a piece of evidence which connects him further with the crime.
There is then no question of presumption.
The evidence strengthens the other evidence already against him.
The presumption is stronger when the discovery of the fruits of crime is made immediately after the crime is.
committed.
Even then we think that the time gap is too short for original offenders to have disposed of the property to these appellants Or to have left the goods in their custody till such time as the original offenders could have taken them away.
It must not be forgotton that the offence was committed at night by as many as 20 persons or more.
The houses of 20 persons were searched and large quantities of the stolen goods were found in their houses.
This presumption has been drawn and in our opinion rightly in this case The conviction was therefore correct in all the circumstances of the case.
Therefore we think that a sentence of three years  rigorous imprisonment will meet the ends of justice in this case.
The appeal is allowed to this extent.
