Appeal No 1653 of 1967.
Appeal from the judgment and order dated February 23 1967 Of the Delhi High Court in CW No 403 D of 1959.
B Sen P L Juneja R N Sachthey and section P Nayer for the appellant.
Sardar Bahadur and Yougindra Khushalani for the respondent.
The Judgment of the Court was delivered by Sikri CJ.
The judgment reproduced below was drafted by the late Mr Justice Roy and we all had subscribed to it.
We beard the matter formally again on November 19 1971.
We adopt the judgment as our own.
448 This is an appeal by the Union of India by way of special leave.
On April 9 1959 the Central Government directed removal from service of Capt section K Rao under r 14 of the Army Rules 1954.
The facts leading to his removal are as follows  Rao was a commissioned officer in the Indian Army and was attached to the Army Ordnance Corps Training Centre Secundrabad.
It was alleged that on April 4 1958 he committed acts of gross misconduct.
The allegations were as follows  Knowing Kumari Prakash as the daughter of a brother Officer Rao assisted her in going away from her parents protection and planning to run away with a sepoy  Rao by threatening to cause harm to Kumari Prakash s parents intimidated her t o visit his house where he took her in his scooter to the unit lines of 51 1 1 Gurkha Rifles where he arranged her meeting with a sepoy of the unit He ie Rao acquiesced in the girl being met by the sepoy later at a tea shop nearby where she received a present of a sari and blouse from the sepoy in his presence Rao thus actively abetted in the attempt of brother officer s daughter elope with a sepoy Rao then took Kumari Prakash to a hotel Saidya Lodge  in Hyderabad and got a room to themselves by impersonating and giving a false identity as Mr  Mrs Prakash.
An inquiry into the matter was made by Court of Inquiry.
Rao was most unbecoming of an officer.
The explanation of Rao was placed before the Central Government.
Rule 14 of the Army Rules 1954 is as follows 1 When after considering the reports on an officer s misconduct the Central Gove rnment is satisfied or the C in C is of the opinion that the trial of the officer by a court martial is inexpedient or impracticable but considers the further retention of the said officer in the service as undesirable the C in C shall communicate the view of the Central Government or his views as the case may be to the officer together with all reports adverse to him and he shall be called upon to submit his explanation and defence.
without the officer being tried by a court martial.
 section 19 Subject to the provisions of this Act and the rules and regulations made thereunder the Central Government may dismiss or remove from the service any person subject to this Act.
Rule 14 is such a rule  it is therefore not ultra vires.
It was argued that the words subject to the provisions of this Act occurring in section 19 makes section 19 subject to section 45 and the Central Government has thus no power to remove a person from the service in derogation of the provisions of section 45.
