N Criminal Appeals Nos.
39 40 of 1976.
From the Judgment and Order dated 1 12 1975 of the Punjab and Haryana High Court in Criminal Original Nos.
13 Crl of 1975 and 14 Crl of 1975.
D Mookherjee and Harbans Singh and VM Jain for the appellants.
Deven Chetan Das Advocate General Haryana and RN Sachthey for the respondent.
The Judgment of the Court as delivered by RAY CJ These are appeals under section 191b of the against the judgment and order dated 1 December 1975 of the Full Bench of the High Court of Punjab and Haryana.
243 The appellants wrote a letter on 20 February 1975 to the President with copies to the Prime Minister Chief Justice of India the Chief Minister of Haryana and the Chief Jus tice of Punjab and Haryana High Court.
The letter was signed by 15 members of the Bar belonging to the District Bar Association Bhiwani.
In that letter they further stated as follows The learned Judge met the members of the Bar on 15 February 1975 in the Bar Room Bhiwani.
During the course of the meeting the learned Judge criticised the Government s policy in regard to its attitude towards the judiciary.
Chandrawati.
The letter in question was addressed by the deponent to the President of India with copies to others with the sole object of conveying the opinion that the public expression by the Hon ble Judge of his personal views on controversial political matters con cerning the merits and demerits of the present system of the Government was not in keeping with the well accepted role of proverbial aloofness of a Judge.
The Full Bench thereafter referred to paragraph 9 of the affidavit where the deponents said that if in view of this Hon ble Court the action of the deponent in addressing the letter in question constituted for any reason contempt of court no one would be more sorry than the deponent himself.
Therefore the deponent tender his apology to this Hon ble Court for the same and prays for its acceptance.
The elementary basis of acceptance of apology is that there is to be a finding of committal of contempt.
In view of the fact that the High Court proceeded on the basis that the allegations in the letter were unchallenged we are of opinion that the matters did not constitute any contempt.
