R B Datar for the Appellant.
V N Ganpule and Mrs V D Khanna for the respondent.
The Judgment of the Court was delivered by CHANDRACHUD CJ.
Adding 14th and 124th the plaintiff claims a 724th share in the joint family properties.
Defendants 2 to 5 admitted the plaintiff s claim the suit having H been contested by defendant 1 Gurupad only.
There was therefore no question of a fresh partition.
That in short is the case of defendant 1.
The trial court by its judgment dated July 13 1965 rejected defendant 1 s case that the properties were Khandappa s self acquisitions and that he had partitioned them during his lifetime.
Upon that finding the plaintiff.
By a judgment dated March 19 1975 a Division Bench of the High Court dismissed defendant 1 s appeal and allowed the plaintiff s cross objections by holding that the suit properties belonged to the joint family that there was no prior partition and that the plaintiff is entitled to a 724th share.
Defendant I has filed this appeal against the High Court s judgment by special leave.
Since the view of the High.
That section reads thus 6.
LR351.
Explanation 2.
Nothing contained in the proviso to this section shall be construed as enabling a person who has separated himself from the coparcenary before the death of the deceased or any of his heirs to claim on intestacy a share in the interest referred to therein.
 The Hindu Succession Act came into force on June 17 1956 Khandappa having died after the commencement of that Act to wit in 1960 and since he had at the time of his death an interest in Mitakshara coparcenary property the pre conditions of section 6 are satisfied and that section is squarely attracted.
By the application of the normal rule prescribed by that section Khandappa s interest in the coparcenary property would devolve by survivorship upon the surviving members of the coparcenary and not in accordance with the provisions of the Act.
The interpretation of that Explanation is the subject matter of acute controversy between the parties.
In the instant case the plaintiff s suit based as it is on the provisions of section 6 is essentially a claim to obtain a share in the interest which her husband had at the time of his death in the coparcenary property.
One her share in her husband s share and two her husband s own share in the coparcenary property.
The deceased Khandappa died leaving behind him two sons three daughters and a widow.
The son daughter and a widow are mentioned as heirs in class I of the Schedule and therefore by reason of the provisions of section 8a read with the 1st clause of section 9 they take simultaneously and to the exclusion of other heirs.
Thus whatever be the share of the deceased in the coparcenary property since there are six sharers in that property each having an equal share the plaintiff s share therein will be 16th.
Explanation 1 which contains the formula for determining the share of the deceased creates a fiction by providing that the interest of a Hindu Mistakshara coparcener shall be deemed to be the share in the property that would have been allotted to him if a partition of the property had taken place immediately before his death.
Though the plaintiff not being a coparcener was not entitled to demand partition yet if a partition were to take place between her husband and his two sons she would be entitled to receive a share equal to that of a son.
see Mulla s Hindu Law Fourteenth Edition page 403 para 315.
So far there is no difficulty.
The learned trial Judge relying upon the decision in Shiramabai which was later overruled by the Bombay High Court accepted the former contention while the High Court accepted the latter.
The question is which of these two views is to be preferred.
SR Appeal dismissed.
