The question involved in these appeals by special leave which are filed against the judgment dated August 17 1985 of the High Court of Allahabad in Civil Miscellaneous Writ No 6849 of 1984 relates to the constitu tional validity of regulation 192 of the Life Insurance Corporation of India Staff Regulations 1960 hereinafter referred to as the Staff Regulations 1960  as amended on 211.
1977 by the Life Insurance Corporation of India hereinafter referred to as the Corporation  which pro vides that an employee belonging to Class I or Class II appointed to the service of the Corporation on or after 1st September 1956 shall retire on completion of 58 years of age but the competent authority may if it is of the opinion that it is in the interest of the Corporation to do so direct such employee to retire on completion of 50 years of age and at any time thereafter on giving him three months  notice or salary in lieu thereof.
Pursuant to the said decision the President of India promulgated the Life Insurance Emergency Provisions Ordi nance 1956 on January 19 1956 providing for the vesting of the management of the life insurance business which was called the controlled business under the Ordinance which was being carried on by any insurer in India on that day in the Central Government and providing for its management.
The appointed day for the purposes of the Act is therefore September 1 1956.
The proviso to that sub section provided that nothing contained in sub section 1 of section 11 of the Act would apply to any such employee who had by notice in writing given to the Central Government prior to September 1 1956 intimated his intention of not becoming an employee of the Corporation.
As mentioned earlier there were more than 200 insurers whose controlled business had been taken over by the Corporation and we are informed that there were about 27000 whole time employees working in them.
The conditions of service of these transferred employ ees of the Corporation whose services were transferred to the Corporation under section 111 of the Act were not uniform.
The above decision of the Bombay High Court was delivered on 1641957.
To remove the above doubt by Act 17 of 1957 section 49 of the Act was amended by introducing clause bb in sub section 2 of section 49 of the Act which expressly conferred power on the Corporation to make regulations with the previous approval of the Central Government as regards the terms and condi tions of service of persons who have become employees of the Corporation under sub section 1 of section 11 .
The above clause was introduced into the Act with retrospective effect along with the new sub 194 section 2 of section 11 of the Act.
Regulation 21 reads as follows 21.
 The above regulation fixed the age of retirement of an employee at 55 years while empowering the authority to extend the service of an employee at its discretion every year upto 60 years of age.
This order is called the standardisation order .
Clause 6 of that order originally read as follows 6.
Most of the insurers permitted their officers to continue in service upto 60 years of age and even beyond depending upon their efficiency.
Regula tion 19 of the Staff Regulations 1960 dealt with the subject of superannuation and retirement of the employees of the Corporation.
All employees appointed to the service of the Corporation on or after 1st September 1956 were required to retire on completion of 58 years of age but the appointing authority was empowered to retire any such employee on completion of 55 years of age or at any time thereafter if his efficiency was found to have been impaired.
The relevant part of the amended regulation 19 which was noti fied on 1961965 read thus 191.
An employee belonging to Class III or Class IV and a transferred employee belonging to Class I or Class II shall retire on completion of age 60 but the appointing authority may direct such employee to retire on completion of 55 years of age or at any time thereafter if his efficiency is found to have been impaired.
All the employees belonging to Class III and Class IV irrespective of the fact whether they were transferred employees or employees appointed after 1st September 1956 were entitled to continue in service till 60 years of age but the employees belonging to Class I and Class II who were appointed to the service of the Corpora tion on or after 1st September 1956 had to retire on the completion of 58 years of age subject to the usual clause relating to premature retirement.
Sub regulation 2 of regulation 19 which affected the employees belonging to Class I and Class II appointed to the service of the Corpo ration on or after 1st September 1956 was substituted by a new sub regulation which was notified on September 3 1966.
From the said Class III post he was promoted to the Class I post since there was no necessity to pass through a Class II post before entering a Class I post on 8101963 and was appointed as Assistant Branch Manager Admn.
Hence he was not retired on the 30th June 1984 as originally notified and allowed to continue in service.
The Writ Petition was allowed striking down regulation 192 as being violative of Articles 14 and 16 of the Constitution of India and the Corporation was directed not to retire the 1st Respondent before he attained the age of 60 years.
In other words the contention of the 1st Respondent before the High Court was that since he had the fight to continue in service if he had remained in Class III only till he attained the age of 60 years as a Class III employee by virtue of the settlement and the amendment of the regula tion 19 in the year 1965 the age of retirement in his case could not be reduced to 58 years only because he had been promoted to a Class I post.
It was urged on behalf of the Corporation and the Union of India that the transferred employees and the employees who joined the service after 1st September 1956 belonged to two distinct and separate classes which had been treated differently throughout for valid reasons.
It was pleaded by them that on the establishment of the Corporation under the Act it became necessary to continue the services of the employees of the erstwhile insurers whose life insurance business was taken over by the Corporation to run the business of the Corpora tion because the Corporation had no employees of its own in the month of September 1956 when it was established.
Since as regards the age of retirement there was no uniformity in the establishments in which the transferred employees were working prior to the nationalisation of the life insurance business 203 and as in some cases the age of retirement had been fixed at 55 years in some other cases it was 58 years in few other cases at 60 years and in many cases there was no age of retirement and the employees could continue as long as they were found to be physically and mentally fit it became necessary to fix the age of retirement of the transferred employees on a fair equitable and just basis.
The Central Government and the Corporation felt that 60 years of age could be a proper age of retirement in the circumstances in respect of the transferred employees and that was the reason why by regulation 19 and the standardisation order issued earlier in the case of certain classes of transferred em ployees under section 112 of the Act the retirement age was fixed at 60 years and this was done with a view to retaining the services of the experienced employees of the erstwhile insurers.
Thus the statutory transfer of service from former employers and standardization of scales of remuneration and other conditions of employment had to be and were taken care of by section 11 of the Life Insur ance Corporation Act 1956 for short the LIC Act.
That power is to be exercised when the Central Government is satisfied that the interests of the Corporation and its Policy holders require such reduction of revision.
The question is whether the provision is confined to transferred employees only or extends to all employees generally.
There is provision for the transfer of the assets and liabilities pertaining to the business of provident funds 206 superannuation and other like funds of the services of existing employees of insurers to the Corporation and also of the services of existing employees of chief agents of the insurers to the Corporation and finally for the payment of compensation to the insurers for the transfer of the busi ness to the Corporation.
They are all provisions relating to the process of transfer.
vs The State of Haryana  Ors  The facts of that case were these.
The teachers then employed in those schools thus became State employees.
The teachers in Government employment were governed by the Punjab Educational Service Class III School Cadre Rules 1955.
The petitioners in the above case ie Ram Lal Wadhwa  Anr.
This position remained as late as February 13 1961.
It may be so.
