Ram Jethmalani and Miss Rani Jethmalani for the Petitioner.
On 371961 he was further promoted as officiating Executive Engineer in Class I service but on 491965 he was reverted to the post of Assistant Engineer in officiating position and was con tinuing in that post when he was compulsorily retired.
 The impugned notice ran thus No 3245266 EC.
 It is clear from it that the petitioner attained the age of 50 years on 1021972 and therefore on the date of the order he had completed the age of 54 years.
The two Judge Bench which decided the case held  An officiating hand has no right to the post and is perhaps a fleeting.
bird who may have to go back to the substantive post from which he has been promoted on an officiating basis what is more to the point a person who has been appointed de novo may begin his service on an officiating basis or on a tempo rary basis and it is obvious that he has no right to the post and cannot be strictly said to be in that service or post as a member of that service.
 Strong reliance was placed by counsel for the petitioner on the reasons extracted above.
We have already indicated that sub clause ii did not apply to the facts of this case as the petitioner had not attained the age of 55 years by the date of the order.
The observations made in Tahiliani s case indisputably support the petitioner.
But the correct ness thereof is disputed by learned Additional Solicitor General appearing for the Union of India and that is why this writ petition was directed to be heard by a larger Bench.
A person can be in Class I or Class II service or post even when he hold a post of either class substantively or temporarily or on officiating basis.
The possibility of such incumbent being sent back to the 638 substantive post is not at all relevant in the matter of exercising powers of compulsory retirement.
There is no warrant for the conclusion that officiating Government servants in Class I or Class II service or post are outside the purview of sub clause i.
The purpose of Fundamental Rules 56j is to confer power on the appropriate authority to compulsorily retire Government servant in the public interest and the classification of Government servants into two categories covered by sub clauses i and ii has a purpose behind it.
If the condi tion indicated in sub clause i is satisfied namely the Government servant is in Class I or Class II service or post and he had entered into service before attaining the age of 35 years and has attained the age of fifty the further condition that he must substantively belong to the two classes of service or post cannot be introduced into the scheme.
Such judgments have become final and Union of India has given effect to the decisions of the Delhi High Court.
The petitioner would have superannuated from service on 2921980 if he had not been compulsorily retired with effect from 639 511 1976.
Even if the writ petition is allowed and the order of compulsory retirement is set aside the petitioner cannot go back to service.
