AS Nambiar and KR Nambiar for the Appellant.
PW 3 the Principal of the training school issued exhibit P 2 show cause notice to the PW 1 Venkataswamy the canteen contractor as to why his licence for running the canteen should not be cancelled.
The latter made a complaint to PW 6 who thereupon arranged a trap.
When PW 1 emerged PW 6 along with PW 2 confronted the appellant.
The appellant produced the currency notes.
Finally the appellant was chargesheeted.
At the trial the prosecution witnesses supported the case.
PW 1 affirmed the fact that the appellant made the demand and had also received the amount on 2210.
was guilty.
These contentions did not find favour with the High Court.
The recovery of the currency notes from the appellant proves the guilty conduct of the appel lant in view of the presumption arising under section 41 of the Prevention of Corruption Act which has not been rebutted.
The decisions of the Court in State of Rajasthan vs Mohamed Habeeb  CI Ernden vs State of Uttar Pradesh  and Lohana Kantilal vs State AIR 1954 Saurashtra 12 1 were referred to.
The case of Dipawali gift or return of a loan given to PW 1 has not been even suggested.
It cannot therefore be said that there had been consistent explanation for the appellant.
PW 3 the Principal has averred in unequivocal terms that Ex.
P 2 memo had been issued on the basis of the complaint received from the appellant that on getting the explanation from PW 1 he on 18101975 itself passed orders and closed the file.
Of course it is open to that person to show that though that money was not due to him as legal remuneration it was legally due to him in some other manner or that he had received it under a transaction or an arrangement which was lawful.
The burden resting on the accused person in such a case would not be as light as it is where a presumption is raised under section 114 of Evidence Act and cannot be held to be discharged merely by reason of the fact that the explanation offered by the accused is reasonable and probable.
The words unless the contrary is proved  which occur in this provision make it clear that the presumption has to be rebutted by proof  and not by a bare explanation which is merely plausible.
We find no merit in the appeal.
NVK Appeal dismissed.
