41 grey street was allotted to the branch of rajendra and the remaining portion was allotted to jogendra absolutely and in consideration of a sum of rs 6500 to be paid to the plaintiffs jogendra was declared entitled absolutely to the premises.
the said suit was compromised and on the 24th november 1910 a consent decree was passed whereby jogendra and golap sundari gave up their rights to the sevayatship and bhupendra jnanendra and nagendra became the sevaits of the idol a portion of the premises.
the portions allotted to jogendra were subsequently numbered 402 a grey street and the portion of the premises.
41 grey street allotted to the branch of rajendra was subsequently numbered 41 a grey street.
the idol was not made a party to this suit.
jogendra died on the 5th august 1911 leaving a will whereby he appointed his widow sushilabala the executrix thereof.
the original side of the high court at calcutta against jogendra golap sundari and padma dassi the widow of sidheswar another son of rajendra for the construction of the wills of dwarka nath and rajendra for partition and other reliefs.
she obtained probate of the will on the 6th august 1912.
disputes arose between bhupendra jnanendra and nagendra the sons of rajendra and one kedar nath ghosh was appointed arbitrator to settle those disputes.
the arbitrator made his award dated the 12th october 1920 whereby he allotted premises no 41 a grey street exclusively to nagendra as his share of the family properties.
this is an appeal on a certificate article 1331 of theconstitution from a judgment and decree passed by the appellate bench of the high court of calcutta.
dwarka nath died on the 16th march 1892 leaving him surviving his widow golap sundari and his two sons rajendra and jogendra.
and nagendra then a minor the three sons of rajendra filed a suit being suit no 969 of 1909on.
he appointed his two sons rajendra and jogendra executors of ms will and provided that his second wife golap sundari and the two sons rajendra and jogendra should perform the seva of the deity and on their death their heirs and successors would be entitled to perform the seva.
41 a and 402 a grey street were its absolute properties and for possession thereof for a declaration that the consent decree dated the 24th november 1910 in suit no 969 of 1909 and the award dated the 12th october 1920 and the dealings made by the heirs of jogendra.
on the 19th july 1899 rajendra made and published his last will and testament whereby he confirmed the dedication made by dwarka nath with regard to premises nos.
modifying on appeal the judgment and decree passed by mr justice bose on the original side of that court.
nagendra thereafter executed several mortgages of the said premises.
andor rajendra relating to the said premises or any of them purporting to affect its rights in the said premises were invalid and inoperative in law and not binding on it for an account of the dealings with the said premises for a scheme of management of the debutter properties and for its worship for discovery receiver injunction and costs.
on the 4th september 1909 bhupendra jnanendra.
on the 19th july 1948 the family idol of dwarka nath sree sree iswar sridhar jew by its next friend debabrata ghosh the son of nagendra filed the suit out of which the present appeal arises against the appellants as also against susilabala and the two sons of jogendra by her amongst others for a declaration that the premises nos.
grey street in the city of calcutta.
41 and 401 grey street and appointed his brother jogendra the sole executor thereof.
probate of the will of dwarka nath was also obtained by jogendra on the 31st august 1909.
one dwarka nath ghose was the owner of considerable moveable and immoveable properties.
he died on the 31st january1900 and jogendra obtained on the 24th april 1900.
grey street to the idol as its permanent habitation with only the right given to the sevayats to reside in the said premises for the purposes of carrying on the daily and periodical seva and the festivals etc.
probate of his said will.
they thus became entitled to the whole of the premises which had been purchased at the auction sale held on the 9th december 1936.
the said premises are expressly declared as dedicated to the deity.
no 41 and no 401.
written statements were filed by the appellants and by susilabala and the two sons of jogendra denying the claims of the idol and contending inter alia that there was no valid or absolute dedication of the suit properties i to the idol and that the said premises had been respectively acquired by them by adverse possession and that the title of the idol thereto had been extinguished.
in that case it is provided that the shebait for the time being shall be entitled to reside with his family in the said dwelling house but the dwelling house itself is the place specially set apart for the family idols to which specific reference is made in the will and in their lordships opinion the gift is only a perfectly reasonable arrangement to secure that the man in whose hands the supervision of the whole estate is vested should have associated with his duties the right to reside in this named dwelling place.
the first mortgage was created by him in favour of snehalata dutt on the 19th may 1926.
