the essential commodities act is a legislation towards that end.
t must be remembered that article 39b enjoins a duty on the state towards securing that the ownership and control of the material resources of the community are so distributed as best to subserve the common good.
section 31 of the essential commodities act enables the central government if it is of opinion that it is necessary or expedient so to do for maintaining or increasing supplies of any essential commodity or for securing their equitable distribution and availability at fair price to provide for regulating or prohibiting by order the production supply and distribution thereof and trade and commerce therein.
in particular section 32c enables the central government to make an order providing for controlling the price at which any essential commodity may be bought or sold.
one of the principal objectives of the essential commodities act 1955 is precisely that.
it is in pursuance of the powers granted to the central government by the essential commodities act that first the drugs prices control.
it is a menance which had to be lettered and curbed.
order 1970 and later the drugs prices control.
armed with authority under the drugs prices control.
order 1979 the central government issued notifications fixing the maximum prices at which various indigenously manufactured bulk drugs may be sold by the manufacturers.
it was just the other day that our brothers ranganath misra and m m dutt jj had to give directions in a case vincent panikurbangara v union of india where a public spirited litigant had complained about the unscrupulous exploitation of the indian drug and pharmaceutical market by multinational corporations by putting in circulation low quality and even deleterious drugs.
after the 1979 drugs prices control.
the price which the manufacturer of barlagan kotone reported to the central government in 1971 was rs 24735 68 per kg.
profiteering in the scarce resources of the community much needed life sustaining food stuffs and lifesaving drugs is diabolic.
but our examination will stop there.
order came into force the distinction between essential and non essential bulk drugs was abolished and a maximum price had to be fixed for barlagan ketone also like other bulk drugs.
in this group of cases we are faced with a different problem of alleged exploitation by big manufacturers of bulk drugs.
these notifications were questioned on several grounds by the manufacturers and they have been quashed by the delhi high court on the ground of failure to observe the principles of natural justice.
a manufacturer was under the provisions of that order free to continue to sell the drug at the price reported by him to the central government at the time of the commencement of the order but was under an obligation not to increase the price without the prior approval of the central government.
we will go no further.
for example if the legislature has decreed the pricing policy and prescribed the factors which should guide the determination of the price we will if necessary enquire into the question whether the policy and the factors are present to the mind of the authorities specifying the price.
profiteering by itself is evil.
the manufacturer applied for fixation of price at rs 8500 per kg.
at which the manufacturer was previously selling the drug and at which he continues to market the drug to this day because of the quashing of the order fixing the price by the high court is so unconsciously high even compared with the price claimed by himself that it appears to justify the charge that some manufacturers do indulge in profiteering.
the problem is that of high prices bearing it is said little relation to the cost of production to the manufacturers.
the government however fixed the price at rs 1810 per kg.
in shree meenakshi mills ltd v union of india 1974.
for the moment ignoring the price fixed by the government we see that the price of rs 24735 per kg.
order 1970 and was not included in the schedule to that order.
1 scc 468 1973 indlaw sc 291 a notification fixing the ex factory price of certain counts of cotton yarn was questioned on the ground that the price had been arbitrarily fixed.
but we do not totally deny ourselves the jurisdiction to enquire into the question in appropriate proceedings whether relevant considerations have gone in and irrelevant considerations kept out of the determination of the price.
in sarkari sasta anaj vikreta sangh v state of madhya pradesh 1981 4 scc 471 1981 indlaw sc 607 it was pointed out that the amendment of the madhya pradesh food stuffs distribution control order was a legislative function and there was therefore no question of affording an opportunity to those who were to be affected by it.
in welcom hotel v state of andhra pradesh 1983 4 scc 575 1983 indlaw sc 128 the observations of chandrachud cj.
it is meant to lay down a general rule applicable to all persons or objects or transactions of a particular kind or class.
a legislative measure does not concern itself with the facts of an individual case.
we will not deluge ourselves with more facts and figures.
it was observed the control of prices may have effect either on maintaining or increasing supply of commodity or securing equitable distribution and availability at fair prices.
the latter had said there is no right to be heard before the making of legislation whether primary or delegated unless it is provided by statutes.
since prices of formulations are primarily dependent on prices of buli drugs the notifications fixing the retail prices of formulations were also quashed.
he observed we think that unless by the terms of a particular statute or order price fixation is made a quasi judicial function for specified purposes or cases it is really legislative in character in the type of control order which is now before us because it satisfies the tests of legislation.
by way of illustration we may straightaway mention a glaring instance of such high pricing which was brought to our notice at the very commencement of the hearing.
in prag ice and oil mills were quoted with approval in connection with the fixation of prices of food stuffs served in restaurants.
the cases to which we shall now refer will perhaps elucidate what we have tried unfelicitously to express.
the controlled price has to retain this equilibrium in the supply and demand of the commodity.
barlagan ketone a bulk drug was not treated as an essential bulk drug under the drugs prices control.
in the case before us the control order applies to sales of mustard oil anywhere in india by any dealer.
he indicated the indicia which led him to the conclusion that price fixation was a legislative measure.
we concern ourselves neither with the policy nor with the rates.
after referring to hari shanker bagla v state of madhya pradesh 1955 1 scr 380 1954 indlaw sc 135 union of india v bhanamal gulzarimal 1960 2 scr 627 1959 indlaw sc 127 sri krishna rice mills v joint director food 1965 indlaw sc 93 unreported state of rajasthan v nathmal and mithamal 1954 scr 982 1954 indlaw sc 66 narendra kumar v union of india 1960 2 scr 375 1959 indlaw sc 61 panipat co operative sugar mills v union of india 1973 1 scc 129 1972 indlaw sc 155 anakapalle co operative agricultural industrial society ltd v union of india.
it was to be remembered that the mere fact that some of those were engaged in the industry trade or commerce allegedthat they were incurring loss would not render the law stipulating the price unreasonable.
in tharoe mal v puranchand 1978 1 scc 102 1977 indlaw sc 122 one of the questions was regarding the nature of the hearing to be given before imposing municipal taxes under the uttar pradesh municipalities act 1916.
he also reaffirmed the proposition that price fixation was in the nature of a legislative measure and could not give rise to a complaint that natural justice was not observed.
a price fixation measure does not concern itself with the interests of an individual manufacturer or producer.
the former had said there is no doubt that a minister or any other body in making legislation for example by statutory instrument or by law is not subject to the rules of natural justice bates v lord hailsham of st marylebone supra any more than is parliament itself edinburgh and dalkeith rv v wauchope per lord brougham 1842 8 cl f 700 720 british railways board v pickin 1974 1.
order 1979 we would like to make certain general observations and explain the legal position in regard to them.
we start with the observation price fixation is neither the function nor the forte of the court.
the object of the rule the reach of its application the rights and obligations arising out of it its intended effect on past present and future events its form the manner of its promulgation are some factors which may help in drawing the line between legislative and non legislative acts.
before we turn to the terms of the drugs prices control.
therefore any restriction in excess of what would be necessary in the interest of general public or to remedy the evil has to be very carefully considered so that the producer does not perish and the consumer is not crippled.
the cases of panipat sugar mills and anakapalle co operative agricultural society were distinguished on the ground that they were governed by sub section 3c of sec.
who delivered a separate opinion for himself and for desai j agreed that the judgment in premier automobiles was not to provide a precedent in price fixation case.
the controlled price will enable both the consumer and the producer to tide over difficulties.
3 of the essential commodities act and therefore had no relevance to the case before the constitution bench.
the procedure for the imposition of the tax is legislative and not quasijudicial.
in such a case if an escalation in price is contemplated at intervals the object of controlled price may be stultified.
its validity does not depend on the observance of any procedure to be complied with or particular types of evidence to be taken on any specified matters as conditions precedent to its validity.
it is generally in relation to a particular commodity or class of commodities or transactions.
if the prices of yarn or cloth were fixed in such a way to enable the manufacturer or producer recover his cost of production and secure a reasonable margin of profit no aspect of infringement of any fundamental right could be said to arise.
premier automobiles was considered and it was affirmed that the judgment in that case could not be treated as precedent and could not afford any appreciable assistance in the decision of price fixation cases as it proceeded partly on agreement between the parties and partly on concessions made at the bar.
the case for the union of india was presented to us ably by shri g ramaswami the learned additional solicitor general and the manufacturers were represented equally ably by shri anil diwan.
1973 3 scc 435 1972 indlaw sc 334 and premier automobiles ltd v union of india 1972.
the cost of production a reasonable return to the producer of the commodity are to be taken into account.
the right here given to rate payers or others is in the nature of a concession which is not to detract from the character of the activity as legislative and not quasijudicial.
but where the legislature has not chosen to provide for any notice or hearing no one can insist upon it and it will not be permissible to read natural justice into such legislative activity.
the case of premier automobiles was distinguished on the ground that the decision was rendered by invitation and on the agreement of the parties irrespective of technical and legal questions.
there is no justification that the producer should be given the benefit of price increase attributable to hoarding or cornering or artificial short supply.
adjudication is determinative of the past and the present while legislation is indicative of the future.
panipat sugar and anakappalle society were again referred to and it was pointed out that those cases turned on the language of section 33c of the essential commodities act.
the assembling of the raw materials and the mechanics of price fixation are the concern of the executive and we leave it to them.
the manufacturers had also filed review petitions before the government under paragraph 27 of the 1979 order.
2 scr 526 1971 indlaw sc 291 a constitution bench of the court observed that the dominant object and the purpose of the legislation was the equitable distribution and availability of commodities at fair price and if profit and the producer s return were to be kept in the forefront it would result in losing sight of the object and the purpose of the legislation.
the three observations made by us are well settled and wellfounded on authority.
occasionally the legislature directs the subordinate legislating body to make such enquiry as it thinks fit before making the subordinate legislation.
in the case of subordinate legislation it may happen that parliament may itself provide for a notice and for a hearing there are several instances of the legislature requiring the subordinate legislating authority to give public notice and a public hearing before say for example levying a municipal rate in which case the substantial non observance of the statutorily prescribed mode of observing natural justice may have the effect of invalidating the subordinate legislation.
