it is optional for the petitioners to adopt any one of these three modes and apply it uniformally.
such merit shall be determined oh the basis of the academic performance at the qualifying examination or on the basis of any objective test that the institution might itself apply to determine such relative and competing merits or on the basis of performance of the results of the selection tests that the state government may itself hold for selecting candidates for admission to technical colleges in the state.
candidates so selected on the basis of merit amongst the minorities shall however abide by such condition in the matter of payment of tuition and other fee as may be permitted by the state government.
it is made clear that this order is made on the assumption that the petitioners are minority institutions.
however the selection shall be made strictly on the basis of merit among the candidates seeking admission to the institutions.
it is open to the respondents to question this status claimed by the petitioners.
the remaining fifty per cent of the intake may be regulated by the petitioners to admit candidates belonging to the particular religious or linguistic minority.
this order shall however not estop the petitioners from urging all other contentions raised in the writ petitions as indeed this interim interlocutory order is made on the consent of the petitioners and without prejudice to all the contentions.
thereafter the matter was considered by the constitution bench in its order dated august 1819932 in that order the writ petitions placed before the bench were categorised into five categories namely1 unaided minority educational institutions2.
minority educational institutions which are in receipt of state funds by way of aid3 minority educational institutions in respect of which it is not clear from the averments in the writ petitions whether they are aided or unaided institutions4.
the order of the court was as follows.
the claim of being a minority whether based on religion or language and the claim of being a minority educational institution put forward by the petitioners can not be pronounced upon without first ascertaining what the said expressions connote and signify.
the hearing of the matters was therefore adjourned to march 181994on which date the questions requiring consideration by this bench have been reframed to highlight the several aspects of the claims put forward by the petitioners.
the candidates so selected and admitted shall pay scales of fee as applicable to this class of students as determined by the state government from time to time.
separate directions were however given in respect of institutions referred to in writ petitions nos 284 and 482 of 1993 with regard to writ petition no 284 of 1993 it was observed that in the said writ petition the petitioner has claimed that no capitation fee is charged from any student and the fee charged is not more than in some cases less than.
having regard to the importance of the questions involved we consider it appropriate to issue notice to the attorney general of india as well as the advocates general for the states.
in these matters relating to admission to professional courses in medicine engineering pharmacy nursing etc in educational institutions which are claimed to be minority educational institutions the petitioners have questioned the applicability of the scheme framed by this court in j p unni krishnan v state of a p 1993.
writ petitions challenging the correctness and applicability of unni krishnan filed by educational institutions which do not claim to be minority educational institutions5 writ petitions which do not fall in any of the above categories.
when the matters were taken up on march 161994the court felt that it was necessary to reframe the first two questions.
the fees charged in the government colleges and that the admission to these institutions is made on the basis of an all india common entrance test separately conducted by the petitioner and admissions are made on the basis of merit as determined in the said test and further that in view of the reputation of these institutions thousands of students apply for and appear in the entrance test every year.
any such irregularity if proved may entail serious consequences.
there will be an interim order in the following terms i fifty per cent of the total intake in the petitioners educational institutions shall be permitted to be filled up by candidates selected by the agencies of the state government on the basis of a competitive examination test.
it would therefore not be feasible to take up the hearing of these matters before the court closes for the long vacation.
we have heard shri soli j sorabjee learned senior counsel for the petitioners in these two writ petitions.
1 scc 645 1993 indlaw sc 1056.
since the process of selection of candidates for admission for the next academic session is to commence soon it is necessary to pass an interim order governing admission to the professional courses in minority educational institutions for the next academic session.
the seniority of the promotee asstt.
for admission in the last academic session 1993 94an interim order in the following terms was made by a bench comprising honourable the chief justice and one of us justice b p jeevan reddy on may 141993 in writ petition nos 350 and 355 of 1993.
they shall also bring any such violation to the notice of this court by way of any interlocutory application.
in pursuance of the said order this bench has been constituted.
conservators forest shall be counted from the respective dates of appointment to the substantive posts in their quota under rule 6 of the rules.
therefore the state is enjoined to implement the judgment of this court in the light of the statutory rules.
there is no rota prescribed in the rules.
it was also observed that this fact was not disputed by the learned advocate general for the state of karnataka.
the petitioners therein had not filed any objection despite giving time but it was directed that the state would consider their cases even if they make any representation.
it was directed that the order dated may 141993would not apply to educational institutions falling in categories 4 and 5 and the institutions referred to in paragraph 18 of the order dated august 181993 the order dated may 141993was made applicable to the institutions falling in categories 12 and 3 with the modification that following were added in continuation of the said order in continuation it is made further clear that whether any of the petitioner institutions is a mei or not is a matter for the government to verify and determine.
therefore the procedure to be adopted by the state in fixing the inter se seniority of the direct recruits and the promotees in their respective quota is the sole question.
i as well as the applicability of the rules and orders made by several state governments on the basis of the said decision.
we are informed that till date no appointments in terms thereof have been made.
in the light of that stand while dismissing the contempt petition this court directed the sate government to dispose of the matter on the basis of the representation that may be received from the petitioners therein against the draft seniority list within six months from that date.
by order dated october 71993 passed by the constitution bench three questions were referred for consideration by a larger bench.
it is clear from the counter affidavit filed by the state that the posts are both permanent and temporary.
therefore the operative rule as on that date appears to be 33 13 per cent in respect of promotees.
the authorities to which the statements are submitted shall verify the correctness of the statements and if they find any irregularity they shall call upon the college concerned to rectify the same.
the inter se seniority of the direct recruits and promotees shall be determined in accordance with rules 56 and 24 as per the judgment in k c joshi case.
231991this court observed thus we are told by the counsel for the state of u p that for the purpose of working out the seniority draft list has been prepared and was in circulation inviting objections.
insofar as non resident indians and foreign students are concerned the permissible limit would be only 5 of the total intake for a given year as per the direction contained in paragraph 6 of the order dated may 141993 as modified by order dated august 1819932 the admission against these seats shall be made on the basis of merit.
indisputably a decision was taken on march 11975 to increase the quota to 50 per cent but no amendment to the statutory rules to give effect to it was made.
in rest of the minority educational institutions falling in categories 12 and 3 indicated in paragraph 5 of the order dated august 1819932admission shall be made in accordance with the directions contained in the order dated may 141993 in writ petitions nos 350 and 355 of 1993 as modified by order dated august 1819932but the directions would not apply to the institutions referred to in paragraph 18 of the order dated august 1819932 in this context we would like to impress upon the managements of the institutions concerned that while assessing the merit of a candidate for admission the objective should be to promote the excellence of the institution as a vehicle of general secular education.
