after termination of the collaboration and user agreement between the appellant and the respondents it was likely to cause confusion and deception amongst the trade and public.
special circumstances as a defense were available to the respondent for non user even after 1979the supply technical know how by the respondent was not totally absent.
the conduct of the respondents was not violative of s 32b and c the court in those circumstances declined to rectify the trade mark and strike it off from the register of trade marks.
on appeal the division bench in appeal no 1391 confirmed the same holding that on and from october 251980the respondent had allowed and permitted the appellant to manufacture bicycles etc according its specifications and to pass off the goods under their trade marks.
the learned single judge dismissed the application by his judgment dated september 131990 holding inter alia that any proprietor mentioned in s 461b of the act extends to bona fide user other than registered users.
though the collaboration and registered user agreements stood expired from october 311981no agreement came to be executes nor continued to use the specifications on technical know how.
by proceedings dated june 131984the registrar of trade marks informed the appellant that the registered user s applications were abandoned since the appellant failed to comply with the statutory requirements.
there is no specific bar for an unregistered lincesee to use registered trade mark so long as there is a connection in the course of trade between the licenser and the lincesee.
the appellant was unable to prove that there had been no such user of the trade mark for a continuous period of 61 months or longer and the lack of bona fide intention the expression by any registered proprietors in s 461b should not be restricted to user by proprietor or registered user who should also include bona fide or authorized users the legislature did not intend to register proprietor to be deprived of their property at the instance of user whose use is unregistered.
the expression therefore should not be restricted to user by the proprietor himself or any registered user but should also take into account bona fide authorized user.
we have heard learned counsel on both sides.
on march 281978joint application by sen raleigh and the appellant duly signed by the respondent as proprietor and sen raleigh limited as registered user came to be made before the registrar of trade marks.
simultaneously an application for registration of three trade marks an their favour was filed by the appellant on march 251982.
an agreement dated december 201976 was entered into between the appellant as registered user and the respondent in respect of 12 trade marks for a period of 5 years.
the division bench therefore was wrong in its conclusion that the appellant has failed to establish it.
on october 241980sen raleigh was nationalized and got vested in the appellant corporation by publication of the notification under idr act.
the admitted facts are that the respondents through their agents had registered trade mark raleigh and other trade marks 12 marks under the indian merchandise marks act1889 4 of 1989 and the trade marks act1940 5 of 1940 the trade and merchandise marks act1958 43 of 1958 for short the act which came into force with effect from october 31958 has repealed the predecessor act and now the act is in operation.
non registration of the user agreement by sen raleigh and the appellant was due to the default of the latter.
on the other hand it is for the respondent to prove the same.
having regard to the extended nature of non user of the concerned trade mark after november 11976any further use of the said trade marks by the respondents was likely to deceive and cause confusion to the trade and public alike in india etc.
it is contended that the registered user must be understood to be the user by the proprietor or authorized user registered under section 48 the period of 5 years should be computed from that date of expiry of registered user.
the agreement dated december 291962 was modified and the respondents were given option to terminate the agreement.
on march 51982the respondent wrote a letter to the appellant that in the absence of a new agreement they were instructing their advocate to prevent the appellant by restraint proceedings to use the trade mark effective from april 11982.
a continuous period of 5 years or longer had passed and the trade mark had not been bona fide used by the respondent.
the respondents entered into an agreement with sudhir kumar sen on november 31948 to render technical know how to the indian company to be formed which would manufacture bicycles and market them under raleigh s indian trade marks.
the benefit of s 46 would be available during the period for which the agreement registered and user continued in furtherance thereof.
on march 241982the appellant made an application under sections 3246 and 56 of the act against the respondents in the high court of calcutta in suit no 26692 pleading inter alia that the respondents had failed to provide technical assistance by passing the technical know how to sen raleigh after november 11976 neither the appellant nor sen raleigh were registered users of the trade mark after november 11976.
u s 482 of the act up to the date of one month before filing that rectification application.
it appears that even an unregistered licensee so long as there is unbroken connection in the course of the trade between the licensor and the passing off lincesee s goods under the trade mark there would be sufficient connection in the course of the trade between the proprietor and bona fide user of the trade mark by unregistered user.
the construction put up by the high court renders sub s 2 of s 48 otiose or surplus age which interpretation is impermissible.
by agreement dated december 291962sen raleigh and the respondents agreed that sen raleigh was registered user for further period up to 1976 sen raleigh was taken over by the government of india on september 81975 under the idr act and the government took over the management of sen raleigh limited.
he further contended that the special circumstances enumerated in sub s 3 of s 46 must be such that the respondents had intended to use the registered trade mark.
air 1980 delhi 299 1980 indlaw del 180the division bench construed s 482 and held that an unregistered user of the trade mark even with the consent of the proprietor can not be construed to be a registered user u s 481 and such construction renders sub s 2 of s 48 surplus age or otios which is impermissible by statutory construction.
the appellant had not taken any steps to withdraw registered user applications and as such should not be permitted to take such a contradictory stand of applying for rectification at the same time.
it is true that u s 431 either the registered proprietor or a permitted person is required to register as permitted user.
pursuant thereto a company called sen raleigh limited came into existence which manufactured cycles with technical assistance by the respondents raleigh industries of u k and marketed the bicycles with a brand name and trade marks belonging to the respondents.
we have given anxious consideration to the reasoning therein.
raleigh was recorded as permitted users of the trade marks.
it must therefore be held that though the deemed presumption under sub s 2 of s 48 is referable to the permitted user or the registered user and it does not extend to unregistered permitted user the connecting link of passing off the goods between the licensor s trade mark and the lincesee should bona fide be with the permission or consent which may be express or implied by long course of dealings.
co pvt limited and anr.
the harmonious construction should be put up in such a way that s 482 and s 466 by of the act could be permitted to have their full play in their operational structure.
the central government is empowered to prevent trafficking in trade mark.
the permitted use of trade mark shall be deemed to be used by the proprietor thereof and shall be deemed no to be used by a person other than the proprietor for the purpose of s 46 or for any other purpose for which such use is material under the act or any other law.
the respondents admittedly did not use the same.
the appellant can not be said to be either the proprietor of the trade mark since 1976since the agreement lapsed or permitted user the high court therefore was wrong in holding that 5 years period had not lapsed.
it is his pivotal contention that undisputedly when the respondent was not in urge of trade mark as a registered proprietor or its agent sen raleigh as permitted user for a period of 5 years immediately preceding the date of the application u s 46 for removal of the trade mark from the register there was no bona fide user thereof in relation to those goods by the proprietor himself.
it is true that while exercising discretion the court u s 46 of the act should take into consideration not only commercial interest of the parties but also public interest in para 21 82 at page 386 of the law of trade marks and passing off by p narayanan 4th ed it is stated that the court or the registrar has discretion in granting or refusing an application for rectification.
