it was found that the victim was brutally ravished and thereafter killed.
the dead body was sent for post mortem examination which was performed at 9 30 a m on the same day by a medical board of three doctors.
according to the medical opinion the probable cause of death of s was shock produced due to vaginal trauma and rupture of post fornix along with asphyxia due to ligature around the neck.
all injuries found on the person of the victim could be around 6 of 24 hours old prior to the time of post mortem examina tion.
offence was registered under sections 302 and 376 ipc.
the vaginal injuries clotted blood and injuries to post fornix were indica tive of rape having been committed on the victim.
at 7 25 a m on 19 3 1991 first information report was lodged by bd at police station kotputli.
the clothes were removed from the dead body and seized.
slides of vaginal swab were prepared for cyto chemical analysis for blood and seminal stains.
the forensic science laboratory confirmed presence of group b blood on the clothes of deceased.
the accused appellant has been held guily of of fences punishable under section 302 and section 3762f of indian penal code.
in view of the difference of opinion the learned acting chief justice assigned the case for hearing by a third judge under section 392 of cr.
in the opinion of the other learned judge the prosecution evidence was sufficient to sustain the conviction as recorded by the trial court though the case was not one of those rarest of rare cases as would warrant death sentence being awarded to the appellant.
a noose was also found around her neck.
suffice it to observe that there is no direct evidence connecting the accused with the offences charged.
p c the third learned judge has on an independent appreciation of evidence recorded his own findings upholding the conviction of the accused on both the charges framed against him and thus agreeing with one of the two learned judges constituting the division bench in conclusion.
the trial court sentenced the appellant to death under section 302 ipc and to undergo rigorous imprisonment for life and pay a fine of rs 10000 in default of payment to undergo further r i for 3 years under section 3762f ipc.
the accused was arrested on 3 4 1991 on suspicion.
in the opinion of one learned judge the circumstantial evidence on which rests the prosecution case was not sufficient to record a finding of guilty against the appellant on any of the charges framed against him.
the prosecution case depends on circumstantial evidence.
it is not necessary here to extensively deal with the evidence adduced by the prosecution.
bd rushed to the place only to find that the dead body was of none else than his own daughter section blood was oozing out from her mouth and private parts.
in the result the high court has declined the confirmation of death sentence but upheld the conviction on both the charges found proved and dismissed the appeal laying challenge to the conviction subject to modification in the sentence by substituting sentence of life imprisonment for death sentence under section 302 ipc.
at about 7 a m on 19th march 1991 kishori lal pw4 informed bd pw2 the unfortunate father of s that dead body of a girl was lying near mohalla basera on the outskirts of village kotputli.
while the learned additional sessions judge made a reference to the high court for confirmation of death sentence under section 366 cr.
the accused appellant has filed this appeal by special leave.
there is not investigation directed towards finding out and no evidence worth its name collected and adduced in the court to show that the underwear and baniyan were of the accused.
kumari s a young child aged about 5 years was last seen at about 4 p m on 18th march 1991 and thereafter she did not return home.
the two learned judges constituting the division bench differed in their opinion.
insofar as baniyan is concerned it has no stains of any type on it and therefore its discovery and seizure is meaningless and irrelevant.
the prosecution examined 21 witnesses in all.
the trial court and the high court have proceeded on an assumption of availability of five pieces forging links in the chain of circumstantial evi dence out of which we have found as stated hereinabove four of the alleged circumstances not to be pieces of incriminating circumstantial evidence at all.
we are left with circumstance no 3 only i e recovery of underwear and baniyan stained with semen and human blood group b which alone in the fact and circumstances of the case discussed hereinabove can not form basis of conviction of the accused appellant for the offence charged.
if the accused was arrested at behror there is no reason why the memo of arrest should not have been prepared at village behror.
the memo of arrest does not state the arrest of accused having been made at behror.
the pieces of circumstantial evidence which have been found proved and held as forging an incriminating chain against the accused are as under i last seen together ii abnormal conduct of the accused iii recovery of underwear and baniyan which was found to be stained with semen and blood group b which is also the blood group of the deceased iv false plea of alibi and v accused absconding since the date of offence.
sc 765 1980 indlaw sc 47.
this court has held time and again that between may be true and must be true there is a long distance to travel which must be covered by clear cogent and unimpeachable evidence by the prosecu tion before an accused is condemned a convict.
on 4 4 1991 he was medically examined.
though the accused is alleged to have been arrested at behror but the memo of arrest was not prepared at behror it was prepared at village kotputli.
p c the appellant preferred an appeal putting in issue his conviction and sentence.
before parting with the case we would like to place on record an observation of ours touching an aspect of the case.
what happened to these clothes is not known.
therein a charge under sections 376 and 302 ipc was sought to be substantiated on circumstanctial evidence.
the criminal reference and the criminal appeal were heard by a division bench of rajasthan high court.
at least this fact should have been mentioned in the memo of arrest even if the same was prepared at village kotputli.
from village kotputli where the incident had taken place.
the accused was challaned and charge sheeted for the offences as already stated hereinabove.
so far as the underwear is concerned the investigation suffers from another infirmity also.
shri sushil kumar jain the learned counsel for the accused appellant has placed reliance on shankarlal gyarasilal dixit v state of maharashtra air 1981.
there are clueless crimes committed.
p21 at behror which is a place situated at a distance of about 30 35 kms.
there the accused had enquired from them as to what was the punishment awardable to an offender who was found to have been committed rape on a girl and killed her.
the accusation has to be proved to hilt in a court of law.
in shankarlal gyarasilal dixit s case 1980 indlaw sc 47 supra this court cautioned human nature is too willing when faced with brutal crimes to spin stories out of strong suspicions.
human semen was detected on underwear.
p30 of forensic science laboratory human blood of group b was detected on the underwear.
pw9 had gone to see a movie in a cinema hall where the accused was employed as a gate keeper.
the clothes so recovered were sent to forensic science laboratory.
p c and nowhere suggested during cross examination of prosecution witnesses that at the time of the incident he was at a place wherefrom he could not have reached the place of the offence on the date and at the time of its commission.
