application being 4 of 2001 was filed by the custodian praying for the sale of commercial premises.
application no 41 of 1999 seeking permission of the special court for sale of residential premises commonly known as madhuli of eight notified entities.
the appellants herein filed several misc.
applications praying for lifting of attachment on their residential premises on the ground that the same had been purchased much prior to 1 april 1991 and the same had no nexus with any illegal transactions in securities.
we may at this juncture notice the nature of the applications filed by the parties herein before the learned special court i on 26 april 1999 the custodian filed an application being misc.
alternatively it was prayed that since their asset base was greater than genuine liabilities the said residential premises should be released from attachment.
a chartered accountants firm was appointed by the learned special judge by an order dated 17 september 2003 to represent all notified entities in the family of late harshad mehta for the purpose of ascertaining their tax liabilities.
by reason of the impugned order dated 17 october 2003 the learned special judge allowed misc.
4 of 2001 and 41 of 1999.
applications filed by the appellants herein for release of the residential flats as well as the commercial premises from attachment were dismissed.
these appeals are directed against a judgment and order dated 17 october 2003 passed by the special court constituted under the special courts trial of offences relating to transactions in securities.
late harshad mehta were persons notified in terms of the act which was enacted to provide for the establishment of a special court for the trial of offences relating to transactions in securities and for matters connected therewith.
three firms of chartered accountants were appointed to prepare statement of accounts and liabilities of each of the appellants herein.
the appellants herein and the said.
a copy of the auditor s report having only been supplied during pendency of these appeals the learned special judge committed a serious error in passing the impugned judgment relying on or on the basis thereof.
in terms of the provisions of the act along with late harshad mehta the custodian had notified 29 entities in terms of section 3 of the act comprising three of his younger brothers wife of late harshad mehta wives of two of his younger brothers and other corporate entities a partnership firm and three hufs.
act 1992 for short the act in misc.
it was directed in case all adult members of the family of late shri harshad metha who are presently occupying the abovereferred flats file an undertaking in this court within a period of four weeks from today undertaking to vacate the flat occupied by them and hand over peaceful possession thereof to the custodian within a period of four weeks from the date on which the custodian sends them communication asking them to vacate the flats on sale of the flats being sanctioned by the court.
mr ashok h desai learned senior counsel appearing on behalf of the custodian on the other hand would inter alia submit.
the said nine flats it is said were merged and redesigned for joint living of the entire family.
vi drawing our attention to a representative chart showing the discrepancies in the accounts of mrs deepika a mehta as shown in a affidavit by the custodian b books of accounts maintained by the appellants and c auditor s report it was submitted that the auditor s report could not have been relied upon.
it is not in dispute that the learned special court on or about 3 august 1993 issued directions in various proceedings before it appointing auditors to prepare and audit the books of accounts of all notified persons for the period 1 april 1990 and 8 june 1992 i e the date of the notification.
however out of the said 29 entitles only late harshad mehta and two of his younger brothers were cited as accused in various criminal cases filed against them.
before the learned special court the parties herein filed several applications which can be sub divided in three categories as would be noticed shortly hereinafter.
41 of 1999 4 of 2001 265 266 and 275 of 2003.
the properties of late harshad mehta and the appellants herein being notified persons stood attached in terms of the provisions of the act.
indlaw sc 732 v custodian and others 1998 5 scc 1 wherein the following questions were framed what is meant by revenues taxes cesses and rates due.
proceedings before the special court.
v the appellants having preferred appeals against the income tax orders of assessment passed by the authority and the same having been set aside no liability to pay income tax by the appellants as of now being existing the residential properties could not have been sold.
does the word due refer merely to the liability to pay such taxes etc or does it refer to a liability which has crystallised into a legally ascertained sum immediately payable.
the eldest among them harshad section mehta has since expired.
iin view of the decision of this court in l s synthetics ltd v fairgrowth financial services ltd and another 2004 11 scc 456 2004 indlaw sc 715 all properties belonging to the notified persons being subject to automatic attachment could be applied for discharge of the joint liabilities of the harshad mehta group in terms of section 11 of the act.
whether the special court has the power to absolve a notified person from payment of penalty or interest for a period subsequent to the date of his notification section in the alternative is a notified person liable to payment of penalty or interest arising from his inability to pay taxes after his notification.
the custodian shall permit the members of family of late shri harshad mehta to occupy the flats during the time that the process of the sale of the flats goes on.
the appellants herein who are related to one harshad section mehta since deceased purchased nine residential flats in a building called madhuli apartments in worli area of mumbai.
constitutionality and or interpretation of the act came up for consideration before this court in harshad shantilal.
as regard question no 1 it was held in the present case the words taxes due occur in a section dealing with distribution of property.
the family of the appellants consists of four brothers their wives children and their widowed mother.
the books of accounts and other documents on the basis whereof the auditor s report had been made having not been allowed to be inspected by the appellants herein on the plea that they had the knowledge thereabout the same could not have been taken into consideration for the purpose of passing of the impugned order or otherwise.
do the taxes in cl.
whether taxes include penalty or interest.
2 of section 4 however provides for a hearing as regard correctness or otherwise of the notification notifying a person in this behalf in the event an appropriate application therefor is filed within 30 days of the issuance of such notification.
provided that no contract or agreement shall be cancelled except after giving to the parties to the contract or agreement a reasonable opportunity of being heard.
ii having regard to the fact that only three entitles out of eight were involved in the offences the liability of harshad mehta could not have been clubbed for the purpose of directing attachment and consequent sale of the properties which exclusively belong to them.
the liabilities of harshad mehta who was a sui generis could have been recovered from the properties held and possessed by him or from the companies floated by him but not from the individual entities at least two of whom being medical practitioners have their income from other sources.
although in relation to a body corporate incorporated and registered under the indian companies act the doctrine of lifting the corporate veil would be applicable but the same can not be applied in case of individuals.
secondly payment in full may or may not be made by the special court depending upon various circumstances.
the special court can for this purpose examine whether there is any fraud collusion or miscarriage of justice in assessment proceedings.
this is because the tax liability of a notified person having priority under section 112a is only tax liability pertaining to the statutory period.
the assessee who is before the special court is a person liable to be charged with an offence relating to transactions in securities.
section 5 provides for establishment of the special court.
so far as question no 4 is concerned this court despite upholding the contention of the custodian that no question of any reopening of tax assessments before the special court would arise and the liability of the notified person to pay the tax will have to be determined under the machinery provided by the relevant tax law observed but the special court can decide how much of that liability will be discharged out of the funds in the hands of the custodian.
does the special court have any discretion relating to the extent of payments to be made under section 112a from out of the attached funds property.
the affidavit filed by the appellants herein before the special court clearly shows that the liabilities exceed the assets in all cases.
there was no occasion for the custodian to club all the notified entities in one block so as to be termed as harshad mehta group andor to club their assets and liabilities jointly.
even in the case of dr pratima mehta wherein some excesses has been shown if the interest is calculated for the last over 13 years of the amount received the liabilities would exceed the assets.
a of section 112 refer only to taxes relating to a specific period or to all taxes due from the notified person.
at this stage the taxes due have to be actually paid out.
in the ordinance which preceded the act there was no provision for giving post facto hearing to a notified person for cancellation of notification but such a provision has been made in the act as would appear from section 42 thereof 1 of section 4 of the act reads as under contracts entered into fraudulently may be cancelled if the custodian is satisfied after such inquiry as he may think fit that any contract or agreement entered into at any time after the 1st day of april 1991 and on and before the 6th june 1992 in relation to any property of the person notified under sub s 2 of section 3 has been entered into fraudulently or to defeat the provisions of this act he may cancel such contract or agreement and on such cancellation such property shall stand attached under this act.
he may not in these circumstances explain transactions before the income tax authorities in case his position is prejudicially affected in defending criminal charges.
in respect of the question no 3 it was opined that the date of distribution arrives when the special court completes the examination of claims under section 9 a and if on that date any tax liability for the statutory period is legally assessed and the assessment is final and binding on a notified person that liability would be considered for payment section 111a.
iithe applications for de notification filed by the appellants herein having been withdrawn the contention raised by the appellants that they are not liable in terms of the provisions of the act are not open to question particularly in view of the fact that no application for de notification could be filed subsequently as they had become barred by limitation.
in case no such undertakings are filed by the adult members as directed above within the aforesaid period the custodian shall stand appointed as receiver of the flats which are described in exh.
v the assets and liabilities of each of the entities having been audited by the chartered accountants it is evident from the reports that in all cases liabilities exceed the assets.
at what point of time should the taxes have become due.
ivthe appellants herein apart from the corporate entity which is a front company of late harshad mehta have received large loans advances and credits from the harshad mehta group and there had been intermingling of the assets to the tune of crores of rupees they can not escape their liabilities under the act.
recedents as regard scope of the act.
the priority however which is given under section 112a to such tax liability only covers such liability for the period 1 4 1991 to 6 6 1992.
vithe decretal amount against the harshad mehta group also would exceed rs 4339 crores and thus the assets held by the appellants are wholly insufficient to meet the liabilities.
then on account of his property being attached he may not be in a position to deposit the tax assessed or file appeals or further proceedings under the relevant tax law which he could have otherwise done.
mr mahesh jethmalani learned senior counsel appearing on behalf of the appellants in assailing the said judgment of the learned special court inter alia raised the following contentions i some of the entities having their asset base much more than actual liability the impugned judgments are unsustainable.
3 of section 3 contains a non obstante clause providing that on and from the date of notification under sub section 2 any property movable or immovable or both belonging to any person notified under that sub section shall stand attached simultaneously with the issue of the notification and such attached properties may be dealt with by the custodian in such manner as the special court may direct.
3 of section 3 should be literally construed and so construed all properties belonging to the notified person shall be subject to attachment which may consequently be applied for discharge of his liabilities in terms of section 11 of the said act.
section 7 confers exclusive jurisdiction upon the special court.
viifurthermore the appellants are also unable to maintain their residential properties as the custodian had to pay a sum of rs 1 06 crores towards the maintenance of the said residential properties.
the following liabilities shall be paid or discharged in full as far as may be in the order as under a all revenues taxes cesses and rates due from the persons notified by the custodian under sub s 2 of section 3 to the central government or any state government or any local authority b all amounts due from the person so notified by the custodian to any bank or financial institution or mutual fund and c any other liability as may be specified by the special court from time to time.
central calcutta 1972 3 scc 252 1971 indlaw sc 841.
a notified party has the requisite locus to bring the fact to the notice of the special court that certain sum is owing and due to him from a third party whereupon a proceeding can be initiated for recovery thereof by the custodian and consequent application thereof in discharge of the liability of the notified person.
such tax liability may be discharged either under the directions of the special court under section 112c or the taxing authority may recover the same from any subsequently acquired property of a notified person vide tejkumar balakrishna ruia v a k menon 1996 indlaw sc 2403 or in any other manner from the notified person in accordance with law.
the act provides for stringent measures.
the assets of the harshad mehta group are valued at rs 972 crores apart from the income tax dues whereas the aggregate amount of income tax dues exceed rs 13800 crores.
petition no 41 of 1999.
but the said observation was held to be not laying down a law by a 3 judge bench of this court in l s synthetics ltd v fairgrowth financial services ltd and another 2004 11 scc 456 2004 indlaw sc 715 holding i.
hitesh mehta and dr pratima mehta who are medical practitioners by profession having affirmed affidavits admitting that the share broking and investment businesses which were part of family businesses were undertaken and conducted by late harshad mehta and they had no knowledge thereabout nor were they involved therewith.
they at this stage can not be permitted to turn round and contend that they have nothing to do with the liabilities of late harshad mehta.
contentions of the parties appellants 9.
where the assessment is based on proper material and pertains to the statutory period the special court may not reduce the tax claimed and pay it out in full.
ixthe sale of commercial property had never been seriously contested by the appellants and in fact the contention of the appellants herein before the special court was that if the commercial properties were sold there would be no need to sell the residential properties.
notwithstanding anything contained in the code and any other law for the time being in force the special court may make such order as it may deem fit directing the custodian for the disposal of the property under attachment.
even before this court the sale of commercial properties had not been questioned.
