the said writ petition was dismissed by an order dated 23 11 2005 by a learned single judge.
on the aforementioned allegations an order of detention was issued on 5 4 2005 appellant moved for issuance of a writ of habeas corpus before the high court of judicature of punjab and haryana.
a letters patent appeal concededly which was not maintainable was filed thereagainst which was dismissed by reason of the impugned judgment.
although before the high court the principal ground urged on behalf of appellant in questioning the legality or validity of the order of detention was unexplained delay in passing the order of detention which did not find favour with the high court.
invoices with a higher value were presented before the indian customs authorities with a view to avail depb incentives but in fact invoices with a lower value were presented for clearance.
before us several other grounds viz.
the consul economicconsulate general of india at dubai allegedly confirmed the existence of a parallel set of export invoices.
non placement of vital material documents before the detaining authority non supply of documents relied on or referred to in the order of detention as also non application of mind on the part of the detaining authority had been raised.
in the meantime admittedly the period of detention being over appellant had been set at large.
he was released from custody on 17 5 2006.
appellant before us was detained u s 3 of the conservation of foreign exchange and prevention of smuggling activities.
m s s p industrial corporation m s.
the said prabhjot singh was said to have been operating three firms viz.
it was also found that appellant had declared goods exported as alloy steel whereas after the tests conducted by central revenue control laboratory they were found to be other than alloy steeli e.
indisputably delay to some extent stands explained.
aaysons india and m s p j sales corporation ludhiana.
he is the managing director of a company registered and incorporated under the provisions of the companies act known as m s sundesh springs private limited.
this appeal however has been pressed as a proceeding under the smugglers and foreign exchange manipulators forfeiture of property act1976 for short safemahas been initiated against appellant.
he allegedly misdeclared both the value and description of goods upon procuring fake and false bills through one prabhjot singh.
but we fail to understand as to why despite the fact that the proposal for detention was made on 2 12 2004the order of detention was passed after four months.
learned counsel would contend that keeping in view the nature and magnitude of an offence under cofeposa a distinction must be made between an order of detention passed under cofeposa vis a vis other acts as per the law laid down by this court in rajendrakumar natvarlal shah v state of gujarat and others 1988 3 scc 153 1988 indlaw sc 71 and in that view of the matter the high court must be held to have arrived at a correct decision.
prabhjot singh allegedly admitted to have supplied fake bills to units owned and controlled by appellant on commission basis without actual supply of the goods.
it was allegedly found that non alloy steel bars rods etc of value ranging from rs 15 to rs 17 per kg were exported in the guise of alloy steel forgings bars rods etc by declaring their value thereof from rs 110 to rs 150 per kg and the export proceeds over and above the actual price were being routed through hawala channel.
appellant and the said prabhjot singh made statements u s 108 of the customs act.
it was an exporter and held a valid licence therefor.
the officers of the directorate of revenue intelligence dri searched the factory as well as the residential premises of appellant and that of prabhjot singh.
it is possible to presume that the confession made by the co accused sowkath ali would also have contributed to the final opinion that the confession made by the petitioner on 7 11 1999 can safely be relied on.
various incriminating documents were recovered.
they initiated various civil proceedings from time to time obtained various interim orders and thus delay in passing the order of detention can not be said to have not been explained.
scheme introduced by the government of india with an object of encouraging exports.
what would have been the position if the detaining authority was apprised of the fact that sowkath ali had retracted his confession is not for us to make a retrospective judgment at this distance of time.
even in the earlier part of the impugned order of detention i e detaining authority appears to have drawn his own conclusions.
the very fact that he had referred to the said statements in ex tenso is itself a pointer to the fact that he had relied upon the said documents.
we must also notice that in the meantime on 20 12 2004the authorities of the dri had clearly stated that transactions after 11 10 2003 were not under the scrutiny stating in our letter mentioned above your office was requested not to issue the depb scripts to m s girnar impex limited and m s siri amar exports only in respect of the pending application if any filed by these parties up to the date of action i e 11 10 2003 as the past exports were under scrutiny being doubtful as per the intelligence received in this office.
the letter dated 19 4 1999 reached the sponsoring authority and reached well within time for it being placed before the detaining authority.
we may first deal with the question of unexplained delay.
the detaining authority moreover while relying on the said documents in one part of the order of detention could not have stated in another part that he was not relying thereupon.
the company was to export products of alloy steel.
it is difficult for us to say that the detaining authority would have come to the subjective satisfaction solely on the strength of the confession attributed to the petitioner dated 7 11 1999particularly because it was retracted by him.
there is an obligation cast on the sponsoring authority to place it before the detaining authority which has not been done.
upon exporting of alloy steel it was entitled to credits under the duty entitlement pass book depb.
in view of our findings aforementioned it is not necessary to consider the contention raised by mr mukul rohtagi that order of detention suffers from non application of mind.
if original of the said documents were not available xeroxed copies thereof could have been made available to him.
the final order of detention was preceded not only on the basis of raids conducted in various premises recording of statements of a large number of witnesses carrying on intensive inquiries both within india and outside india obtaining test reports from three different laboratories but also the fact that despite notices appellant and his associates did not cooperate with the investigating authorities.
in ahamed nassar v state of tamil nadu and others 1999 8 scc 473 1999 indlaw sc 778this court opined the question is not whether the second part of the contents of those letters was relevant or not but whether they were placed before the detaining authority for his consideration.
it may be that the detaining authority might have come to the same conclusion as the sponsoring authority but its contents are relevant which could not be withheld by the sponsoring authority.
