Appeal No 101 of 1959.
Appeal by special leave from the judgment and order dated November 8 1957 of the Deputy Custodian General Evacuee Property Now Delhi Revision Petition No 17 R55 of 1955.
Achhru Ram and K L Mehta for the appellants.
BK Khanna and T M Sen for the respondent No 1.
NS Bindra and A G Ratnaparkhi for the respondents Nos.
March 15.
The Judgment of the Court was delivered by MUDHOLKAR J.
The appellants who are admittedly displaced persons from West Pakistan were granted quasi permanent allotment of 24 standard acres and 15 34 units in the village of Raikot in Ludhiana District in 1949.
Their father Sardar Nand Singh who was 42 330 found entitled to quasi permanent allotment of 40 standard acres and 5 14 units of land was given quasipermanent allotment in another village named Humbran in the same district.
The two villages are however 25 miles or so distant from each other.
Nand Singh therefore made an application for consolidation of his lands with those of the appellants in the village Raikot.
During the pendency of this application he died and after his death the application was continued by the appellants.
This application was rejected by the Assistant Custodian on July 23 1951 on the ground that no land was available in the village Raikot.
A revision petition preferred by the appellants against the order of the Assistant Custodian was dismissed by the Additional Custodian on August 20 1952.
On October 7 1952 the appellants preferred a revision application before the Custodian General.
During the pendency of the revision application the Additional Custodian for the State of Punjab cancelled the allotment of fourteen quasi permanent allottees of the village Karodian in the same district on the ground that these persons were entitled to allotment of suburban land a had been wrongly fitted in the village Karodian.
The land allotted was out of the land released upon the cancellation of allotment of lands in favour of the aforementioned 14 allottees.
These fourteen allottees preferred an application for review of the order cancelling their allotment on the ground that this cancellation was a result of misapprehension of the actual facts and that they were not entitled to allotment of suburban lands at all.
The appellants also preferred an application for review of the order cancelling their quasi permanent allotment in the village Raikot.
The Additional Custodian for the State of Punjab recommended to the Custodian General the restoration 331 of the land to the 14 allottees which had been taken away from them by reason of cancellation of the allotment in their favour by the order dated October 31 1952.
The Additional Custodian admitted that these persons were not entitled to allotment of suburban land and that consequently their allotment had been wrongly made but referred the matter back to the Additional Custodian for decision.
The application made by the appellants was kept pending till the decision of the application of the 14 allottees of Karodian.
The Additional Custodian however dismissed the application on the ground that r 146 of the Evacuee Property Rules which came into force on July 22 1952 stood in the way of cancellation of the allotment in favour of the appellant.
On December 17 1954 the Deputy Custodian General before whom these allottees had preferred an application for revision revised the order of the Additional Custodian and restored to the 14 allottees of Karodian the land which had been originally allotted to them.
and allotment of which had been cancelled earlier.
As a result of this order the allotment of Karodian land made in favour of the appellants automatically stood cancelled.
Consequent upon the cancellation of the appellants  allotment of the Raikot land they were allotted to respondents 2 to 4.
These persons were therefore impleaded as parties to the proceedings before the Deputy Custodian General.
In that case the Court has held that the powers of the Custodian General to deal with matters of this kind have been taken away by the  and that these powers now vest in another authority and that there is no provision for continuing the pro ceedings which had been commenced under the  but had not been concluded.
Mr Achhruram for the appellants challenged the correctness of this decision.
It is common ground that by notification section R 0 697 dated March 24 1955 the Central Government decided to acquire all evacuee property allotted to displaced persons by the Custodian under the Conditions contained in the notification of the Government of Punjab in the Department of Rehabilitation No 4892 6 dated July 8 1949 except certain categories of property specified in the schedule.
The Raikot lands were allotted to the appellants under the aforesaid notification of the Government of Punjab.
It is not disputed on their behalf that they do not fall within any of the excepted categories of property set out in the schedule.
333 provides that on the publication of the notification under sub section 1 the right title or interest of any evacuee in the property specified in the notification shall immediately stand extinguished and that property shall vest absolutely in the Central Government free from all encumbrances.
But the consequence of the publication of the notification by the Central Government under section 121 of the with respect to any property or a class of property would be to divest the Custodian completely of his right in the property flowing from section 8 of the  and vest that property in the Central Government.
No provision was however pointed out to us in either of these Acts whereunder despite the Vesting of the property in the Central Government the Custodian was empowered to deal with it.
Sub section.
Sub section.
As already stated the powers conferred by sub section.
Sub section.
Sub section.
Appeal dismissed.
