Appeal No 787 of 1964.
Appeal from the judgment and decree dated January 5 1961 of the Calcutta High Court in Appeal from Appellate Decree No 1012 of 1955.
AK Sen and D N Mukherjee for the appellant.
Sukumar Ghose for respondent No 1.
The Judgment of WANCHOO C J and MITTER J was delivered by MITTER J BHAGAVA J delivered a separate Opinion.
The question before us is whether the respondent No 1 was entitled.
The facts necessary for the disposal.
of this appeal are as follows.
On the 18th June 1948 the plaintiff the appellant before us instituted Suit No 292 of 1948 for ejectment of three Persons namely Abdul Rahim Abdul Hamid and Abdul Gaffur from the property in suit a parcel of land about 1 cottah 8 chittaks being part of premises No 6  1 Shibtola Lane Entally Calcutta.
In the notice to quit served on the 7th May 1948 the first two persons were described as tenants under the plaintiff and the third as a person who had purported to purchase the structures on the land and the tenancy right therein.
In the plaint itself the first two defendants were described as thika tenants.
No claim was made for rents or taxes although it was alleged that the same were in arrears.
The suit was contested only by the third defendant who filed a written statement in September 1948 contending that the suit was bad for non joinder of parties.
The effect of these provisions will be considered later on.
Before the Subordinate Judge a point was taken that after the coming into force of the Act of 1949 the Rent Controller alone had jurisdiction in respect of ejectment suits as the defendant appellant was a thika tenant.
The Subordinate Judge dismissed the plea on the ground that the defendant appellant had not erected the structures on the land and was not a successor in interest of the tenant but only a transferee.
the learned Judge felt that the question whether the appellant was entitled to the benefit of that Act had to be re examined and consequently he remanded the matter to the lower appellate court with a direction that there should be a fresh decision of the case after considering the law applicable and taking further evidence if necessary.
On remand the Subordinate Judge Seventh Court Alipore rejected the plea of the landlord that the appellant Gaffur could not be regarded as a thika tenant inter alia on the ground that he had sold his interest by a registered sale deed dated April 12 1949 to one Subasini.
On a consideration of the provisions of the Act and the Ordinance the Subordinate Judge held that the appellant Gaffur was not liable to ejectment in the absence of any grounds therefor in the notice to quit in accordance with section 3 of the Act as he was a thika tenant within the meaning of the Act as it was finally amended.
He also observed that section 4 of the Act would be applicable.
The learned Judges of the Division Bench of the High Court found themselves unable to accept this argument and held that the only power vested in civil courts in respect of ejectment suits against 173 thika tenants like the present one was to be found in sections 28 and 29 of the original Act and by their omission from the statute suits for eviction became infructuous before civil courts.
The Ordinance had only six sections.
Section 2 defined a thika tenant  as meaning any person who under the system commonly known as thika thika masik utbandi thika masik thika bastu or under and other like system held land under another person whether under a written lease or otherwise and was or but for a special contract would be liable to pay rent at a monthly or any other periodical rate for that land to such other person and had erected any structure on such land and was entitled to use it for residential purposes or for manufacturing or business purposes and included the suc cessors in interest of such person.
Section 3 Provided that notwithstanding anything contained in any other law for the time being in force no decree or order for the ejectment of a thika tenant shall be executed during the continuance in operation of the Ordinance.
We need not consider the proviso to the section as we are not concerned with the condition mentioned therein.
It is to be noted that by the definition of thika tenant a person could only get the protection of the Ordinance if he could establish that he was holding land under any of the systems expressly mention ed or any other like system.
The definition of a thika tenant was modified slightly but the change affected thereby need not be taken account of because the respondent Gaffur s position was not improved thereby.
The six grounds mentioned are i failure to pay an arrear of rent due to the landlord in respect of the holding ii user of the land comprised in the holding in a manner when rendered it unfit for any of the purposes mentioned in cl.
5 enacted that 1 Notwithstanding anything contained in any other law for the time being in force a landlord wishing to eject a thika tenant on one or more of the grounds specified in section 3 shall apply in the prescribedmanner to the Controller for an order in that behalf andon receipt of such application the Controller shall after giving the thika tenant a notice to show cause within thirty days from the date of service of the notice why the application shall not be allowed and after making an inquiry in the prescribed manner either allow the application or reject it after recording the reasons for making such order  The section further provided that no  order allowing an application was to be made unlesscompensation payable to the tenant was either deposited with the Controller or paid to the tenant Chapter IV of the Act by several sections provided for appeals reviews etc.
Sub section.
5 of the section provided for reviews.
5 or an other like system.
1AIR 1950 Calcutta 230.
Sub section.
If the Court or Controller holds that the person is such a thika tenant.
Sub section.
Sub section.
Sub section.
