A section R Chari M K Ramamurthi Vineet Kumar and Shyamala Pappu for the appellants.
O P Rana for respondent No 1.
J P Goyal V C Prasar and section P Singh for respondent No 2.
The Judgment of the Court was delivered by Sikri J.
The High Court held that the five appellants had disobeyed an order of stay passed by it staying proceedings pending before the Nyaya Panchayat Jokha Khas District Deoria.
The relevant facts are these.
On September 2 1963 Yashoda son of Raj Kumar filed a complaint before the Nyaya Panchayat Jokha Khas against Jagdeo Mahabir and Laxmi alleging that he had been abused and be laboured and his property worth Rs 40 damaged.
On September 10 1963 the Nyaya Panchayat assembled and evidence was led before it.
On October 11 1963 Mahabir accused made an application under section 85 of the UP Panchayat Raj Act 1947 to SDM Deoria to transfer the proceedings on the ground that the complainant Yashoda was father of Bunna Prasad Sarpanch of Nyaya Panchayat Jokha Khas.
On December 13 1963 a notice was issued to the five members of the Panchayat to assemble on December 25 1963 and hear the case.
On December 20 1963 Mahabir moved an application under article 227 of the Constitution challenging the order of the SDM dated November 28 1963 and on the same day the High Court admitted the application and stayed further proceedings before the Nyaya Panchayat.
An urgent copy of the order was applied for and obtained on that very day and the counsel sent a telegram in the following words Allahabad He 20 Baldeopd cashier Trust Sdr GR Mahabir application admitted stay granted Banwarilal.
 117 It is alleged on the side of the applicant Mahabir that immediately after the receipt of the telegram an application accompanied by an affidavit and the telegram of his counsel in the High Court was presented before the Nyaya Panchayat with the prayer to stay further proceedings but the Sarpanch refused to take it.
It seems to us that it is not proved on the evidence here that any such application was made before the Nyaya Panchayat.
No application dated December 21 1963 which was not accepted by the Nyaya Panchayat has been produced.
On December 23 1963 Mahabir submitted an application in the Court of Shri R Singh SDM Deoria alleging that writ petition has been admitted and a stay order has been issued.
But notwithstanding my informing the Panchayat Adalat of that I am not getting any hearing there and when an application is made there it is not entertained He prayed that the Panchayat Adalat be directed to postpone proceedings pending the receipt of the stay order.
He produced the telegram received from the Advocate before the SDM.
The complainant and the accused are present.
The statements of the complainant and his witnesses Bhabhuti and Damri are recorded.
The accused refused to make statements and put down their signatures.
Hence judgment shall be given on 25 12 63.
 This order was signed by three Panchas Phagu Parsad Jagat Dubey and Badri Yadav.
The application of Mahabir referred to in the order reads thus 118 lm15.
Sir It is submitted that I have filed a writ petition in the above case in the High Court.
It is therefore prayed that the proceedings in this case may be stayed A document purporting to be an affidavit was also attached in which it was stated I make oath and say that in the above case I have filed a writ petition in the High Court that it has been admitted and that proceedings in the case have been stayed by the High Court.
 We looked at this so called affidavit and found.
On May 21 1964 Mahabir filed an application under sections 4 and 5 of the  against the five appellants and section K Srivastava ASDM.
 Affidavits were filed in the High Court by Baldeo Prasad pairokar of Mahabir Burma Prasad the Sarpanch and Mahabir and statements of Phagu Prasad and Bunna Prasad were recorded on oath.
Bunna Prasad in his affidavit stated that as the Nyaya Panchayat was not satisfied for want of evidence by way of proper affidavit etc.
Phagu Prasad.
in his statement stated As the paper of Mahabir s application and affidavit was not good we had asked him to get them written on a proper paper obtained from the Tehsil.
passed by the High Court.
121 administer oaths.
