The first and the main point argued with regard to wages was that the Tribunal after holding that there was no identical industry in this region comparable with the Company came to.
Instead what the Tribunal did was to work out the minimum wages which should be paid on an entirely different basis.
In applying that principle industrial courts have to compare wage scales prevailing in sinular concerns in the region with which it is dealing and generally speaking similar concerns would be those in the same line of business as the concern with respect to which the dispute is under consideration.
The Tribunal found that there are only two other paper mills in the region.
They are Titaghur Paper Mill No 3 situated at Chaudwar and the JK Paper Mills at Rayagada.
These two Paper Mills were therefore both of very recent origin compared with the Company.
That situation was envisaged as occurring whenever the particular concern in question happens to be already paying the highest wages in its particular line of business.
It was held that such a case there should be greater emphasis on the region part of the industry cum region principle though it would be the duty of the industrial court to see that for purposes of comparison such other industries in the region are taken into account as are as nearly similar to the concern before it as possible.
 In the light of these views which were brought to the notice of the Tribunal the Tribunal proceeded to consider the minimum wages paid by three Collieries Orient Colliery Ibe Colliery and Himgiri Rampur Colliery the Rourkela Steel Plant the Cement Factory at Rajgangpur and the Indian Aluminum Company Hirakud which the Tribunal found were situated not very far away from the place where the Company had its factory.
 On the basis of this finding of fact the Tribunal held that if the minimum wage in the Company is to be fixed more on the basis of the minimum wage prevailing in other industries in that region which in its opinion would be appropriate under the circumstances of the case then a revision was really necessary.
Learned counsel had to admit that no specific plea was taken by the Company in this behalf and at least no evidence at all was led to show that these concerns are not comparable with the Company.
In fact the Tribunal also accepted them as being comparable and that is why in its conclusion the Tribunal held that in its opinion it would be appropriate under the circumstances of the case to fix the minimum wage in the Company on the basis of the minimum wage prevailing in other industries in that region.
into account.
between.
in the same region.
