MK Ramamurthi Vineet Kumar L Ramamurthy and Shyamala Pappu for the appellant.
AV Rangam for the respondents.
425 The Judgment of the Court was delivered by Ramaswami J.
The appellant was elected as a trustee by the Sengunatha Mudaliars of Manjakollai village at a meeting held on June 27 1957.
According to the appellant the temple was rounded two hundred years ago by the members of his community and since then the management of the temple and is affairs was always vested in the community of the Sengunatha Mudaliars and no person other than the elected trustee had at any time the right of management and control of the temple.
The respondents however took a different view and proceeded on the basis that trusteeship of the Kumaran Koil was not hereditary.
The Subordinate Judge held that the appellant was a hereditary trustee and the suit was not barred by limitation.
Section 6 sub section.
The definition includes three types of cases 1 succession to the office of trusteeship devolving by hereditary right 2 succession 426 to such office being regulated by usage and 3 succession being specifically provided for by the founder on condition that the scheme of such succession is still in force.
The contention on behalf of the appellant is that the succession is regulated by usage.
In our opinion there is no warrant for this argument.
The word succession in relation to property and rights and interests in property generally implies passing of an interest from one person to another vide in Re Hindu Women s Right to Property Act 1941 1.
It is now well established that the office of a hereditary trustee is in the nature of property.
In that case the custom in 1 2 63 I A 448.
3 70 IA 57.
4  5 5 ALR.
1954 SC 606.
Such a succession was described as not hereditary in the sense that on the death of an existing mahant his chela does not succeed to the office as a matter of course because the successor acquires a right only by appointment and the authority to appoint is vested in the assembly of the bairagis and the worshippets.
Hereditary succession is succession by the heir to the deceased under the law the office must be transmitted to the successor according to some definite rules of descent which by their own force designate the person to succeed.
It is not possible to say that there is a succession of As office to another when on the efflux of the period for which A was appointed there is a vacancy and B is elected to that vacancy.
No man can succeed to his own office.
For these reasons we hold that this appeal fails and must be dismissed with costs.
VPS Appeal dismissed.
