M C Chagla N D Karkhanis section P Chowdhury Bhuvanesh Kumari for the appellant.
The Judgment of the Court was delivered by Hegde J.
This is an assessee s appeal by special leave against the judgment of the High Court of Patna dismissing in limini its writ petition under Arts 226 and 227 of the Constitution of India.
The assessee is having construction contracts under the Railways as well as the Government.
It is a partnership firm.
The assessee also produced before him a statement showing various creditors from whom it had borrowed on Hundis during the accounting year in question.
In that statement it gave the lull names and address of the alleged creditors.
TO Ms Chugamal Rajpal Muzaffarpur.
 The assessee challenged the validity of that notice as well as proceedings taken on the strength of that notice on various grounds.
As we are accepting the contention of the assessee that the impugned notice is invalid inasmuch as it did not comply with the requirements of section 1512 of the Act we have not thought it necessary to examine the other contentions advanced on behalf of the assessee.
2 The Income tax Officer shall before issuing any notice under this section record his reasons for doing so.
 Section 147 deals with income escaping assessment.
When the appeal was taken up for hearing on the 18th January 1971 only the report submitted by the Income tax Officer to the Commissioner and the order of the Commissioner was produced.
The order sheet recording the reasons of the Income tax Officer as required by section 1482 was not produced.
Hereinbelow we have sent out the report of the Income tax Officer as well as the order of the Commissioner Report in Connection with the starting of proceeding under Section 147 of the Income tax Act 1951.
Name of District Ward of Circle A Ward Muzaffarpur G IR No 303 C 11.
Name and address of the assessee MS Chugamal Rajpal Muzaffarpur.
RF 2Status 3.
446 4.
Rs 73604 6.
a or b of section 147 147a 7.
Brief reasons for starting proceedings under Kindly see section 147 indicate the items which are Sd section P Chaliha.
ITO 30 4 66 believed to have escaped assessment A Ward Muzaffarpur.
8Whether the Commissioner is satisfied that Yes it is a fit case for the issue of notice under Sd K Narain section 148.
13 5 66 Commissioner of Income tax Bihar and Orissa Patna 9.
Whether the Board is satisfied that it is aSecretary Board of Revenuefit case for the issue of notice under section 148.
During the year the assessee hasshown to have taken loans from various parties of Calcutta.
From DIs Inv.
No AP Misc5DI63 645623 dated 13 8 65 forwarded to this office under CIT Bihar and Orissa Patna s letter No Inv.
Seth Bhagwan Singh Sricharan.
Lakha Singh Lal Singh.
Radhakissen Shyam Sunder.
 In his report the Income tax Officer does not set out any reason for coming to the conclusion that this is a fit case to issue notice under section 148.
The material that he had before him for issuing notice under section 148 is not mentioned in the report.
He appears to have had only a vague feeling that they may be bogus transactions.
a or cl.
He did not himself record that he was satisfied that this was a fit case for the issue of a notice under section 148.
