The judgment reproduced below was drafted by the late Mr Justice Roy and we all had subscribed to it.
We adopt the judgment as our own.
448 This is an appeal by the Union of India by way of special leave.
On April 9 1959 the Central Government directed removal from service of Capt section K Rao under r 14 of the Army Rules 1954.
The facts leading to his removal are as follows  Rao was a commissioned officer in the Indian Army and was attached to the Army Ordnance Corps Training Centre Secundrabad.
An inquiry into the matter was made by Court of Inquiry.
Rao was most unbecoming of an officer.
By memorandum dated September 4 1958 Rao was called upon to submit his explanation by way of defence regarding the allegations against him.
The explanation of Rao was placed before the Central Government.
The Central Government found it to be unsatisfactory and on April 9 1959 an order was passed removing the respondent from service.
Rao thereupon filed a petition under article 226 of the Constitution for quashing the order of removal from service on the 449 ground inter alia that r 14 of the Army Rules 1954 was ultra vires the  and that the action taken thereunder was without any authority.
In the petition Rao gave a somewhat different version of what had happened.
According to him he did not assist Kumari Prakash to go away from her parents  house.
Rule 14 of the Army Rules 1954 is as follows 1 When after considering the reports on an officer s misconduct the Central Gove rnment is satisfied or the C in C is of the opinion that the trial of the officer by a court martial is inexpedient or impracticable but considers the further retention of the said officer in the service as undesirable the C in C shall communicate the view of the Central Government or his views as the case may be to the officer together with all reports adverse to him and he shall be called upon to submit his explanation and defence.
3 The Central Government after due consideration of the reports the officer s defence if any and the recommendation of the C in C may dismiss or remove the officer with or without pension or call upon him to retire or resign and on his refusing to do so the officer may be retired from or gazetted out of the service on pension or gratuity if any admissible to him Under the aforesaid r 14 action can be taken for misconduct against an officer whose further retention in service is not considered desirable.
without the officer being tried by a court martial.
If the explanation is found to be unsatisfactory the Central Government has been given the power to dismiss or remove the officer.
Rules are framed under section 191 of the .
 section 19 Subject to the provisions of this Act and the rules and regulations made thereunder the Central Government may dismiss or remove from the service any person subject to this Act.
 Offenses under the have been dealt with in sections 34 to 70 in Ch.
To give power to the Central Government to remove an officer without being tried and convicted by court martial was in derogation of section 45 of the .
Rule 14 therefore was ultra vires the .
Section 191 2 a specifically gives.
VPS Appeal allowed.
