Jai Gopal Sethi Naunit Lal with him for the appellant.
February 28.
The appellant was a Sub Divisional Officer in the Public Works Department Pepsu and was at the material dates in charge of certain works at a place called Karhali.
In the roll for April 1951 one Parma was mentioned as a khalasi menial servant and a sum of Rs 51 shown as paid to him for his wages the payment being vouched by thumbimpression.
He held on the evidence that there was a khalasi Parma by name in the service of the accused at Kehrauli and that though the thumbimpression in the acquittance roll was that of the appellant the prosecution had not established that the amount drawn by him did not reach the hands of Parma.
Against this judgment there was an appeal by the State to the High Court of Pepsu which held that proof that the thumb impression in the acquittance roll was that of the appellant was sufficient when taken along with other circumstances to establish his guilt and accordingly convicted him both under section 465 and section 409 of the Indian Penal Code.
But after the disposal of the appeal by the High Court it was discovered that in fact there was no order of the Government sanctioning the prosecution and that the Chief Secretary had committed a mistake in sendidg the communication Exhibit PX.
1305 The position therefore is that the prosecution which has resulted in the conviction of the appellant was initiated without any sanction under section 1971 of the Code of Criminal Procedure and if sanction under that section is necessary as contended for by Mr Sethi then the entire proceedings including the conviction must be quashed.
According to the respondent however the main charge against the appellant is under section 409 and no sanction is required for a prosecution under that section.
The point for decision is whether sanction under section 197 1 of the Code of Criminal Procedure is necessary for prosecuting the appellant under section 409.
The question has latterly been the subject of consideration by the highest Courts in this country and by the Privy Council and the position may now be taken to be fairly well settled.
The facts in that case were that a Sub Assistant Surgeon was charged under section 409 with having dishonestly removed certain medicines from a hospital which was under his charge to his own residence and under section 477 A with having failed to enter them in the stock book.
It is conceded for the respondent that on the principle above enunciated sanction would be required for prosecuting the appellant under section 465 as the charge was in respect of his duty of obtaining signatures or thumb impressions of the employees before wages were paid to them.
4 1948 LR 75 IA 180 1308 ing to the office as to be inseparable from them then sanction under section 1971 would be necessary but if there was no necessary connection between them and the performance of those duties the official status furnishing only the occasion or opportunity for the acts then no sanction would be required.
The appellant received the sum of Rs 51 alleged to have been misappropriated as Subdivisions Officer and he admits receipt of the same.
Appeal allowed.
