On appeal from the judgment and order dated the 978 13th April 1954 of the Bombay High Court in Appeal No 49 of 1954 arising out of the order dated the 31st day of March 1954 of the said High Court exercising its Ordinary Original Jurisdiction in Misc.
Petition No 55 of 1954.
K T Desai P N Bhagwati Rameshwar Nath and Rajinder Narain for the appellants.
November 10.
There was firstly a demise under which the mills and the factory in question were leased to the appellants for a period of five years on the terms and conditions set out therein.
On 12 2 1954 the respondent issued a notice to the appellants Exhibit C wherein be set out that the appellants had systematically committed breaches of the various terms on which the properties bad been leased to them and called upon them to show cause why the lease should not be cancelled and why they should not be evicted.
The notice then went on to state that the respondent considered it necessary to issue certain directions for the preservation of the demised premises and the goods and stock in trade etc lying in the demised premises and the appellants were accordingly required not to remove the stock or raise any money on the security thereof and to send daily reports to the Custodian of the transactions with reference thereto.
On 13 2 1954 the appellants appeared before the respondent and contended that he had no auth ority to issue the notice in question under section 12 and that it was therefore illegal.
In support of the petition the appellants urged that section 12 under which the respondent purported to act authorised the cancellation of only leases granted by the evacuee and not by the Custodian himself and that no directions could be given under section 10 as it applied only to properties of the evacuee and that by reason of the sale the movables in question had become the property of the appel 124 980 lants.
On the second question he held that section 10 applied only to properties of the evacuee and that the movables in respect of which directions were given ceased to be the property of the evacuee by reason of the sale in favour of the appellants and that in consequence the directions with reference to them were unauthorised.
By their judgment dated 13 4 1954 they held that on the plain language of section 12 it would apply whenever there was a lease and that lease was in respect of property belonging to the evacuee that there was no warrant for imposing a further limitation on that section that that lease should also have been granted by the evacuee and that accordingly the Custodian had power to issue the notice Exhibit C for cancelling the lease.
Against this judgment the appellants have preferred this appeal on a certificate granted by the High Court under article 1331 b and the only point that arises for determination therein is as to whether the Custodian has the power under section 12 to 981 cancel a lease granted by himself and not by the evacuee.
It was next contended by Mr Desai that even if the Custodian had the power under section 12 to cancel the lease in favour of the appellants be bad no power under that section to cancel the agreement to sell the mills and the factory to them which was one of the matters contained in Exhibit A that the notice Exhibit C was to that extent without jurisdiction and that the respondent should accordingly be prohibited from cancelling that portion of Exhibit A in pursuance of Exhibit C.
But the notice in terms refers firstly to the lease which it is proposed to cancel and secondly to the movables in respect of which certain directions were given.
2   213.
983 ment before us that those rights are sought to be agitated.
