Appeal from the Judgment and order dated 3 2 1978 of the Andhra Pradesh High Court in Crl.
A No 62873.
R Nagarathnam for the Appellant.
P Parmeswara Rao and G N Rao for the Respondent.
The Judgment of the Court was delivered by CHINNAPPA REDDY J.
The acquittal was reversed by the High Court of Andhra Pradesh and the appellant was convicted under Section 302 Indian Penal Code and sentenced to suffer imprisonment for life.
365 The deceased Subhadramma was the wife of the appellant.
They were married about one and a half years before the occurrence.
About three months before the occurrence the deceased gave birth to a female child in the house of the accused at Cherlopalle.
After the ninth day the mother and child according to customary practice were taken by the mother of the deceased to her house at Krishna Kalva.
Cherlopalle is about 25 miles from Krishna Kalva.
nearly horizontal.
The stab injury had gone through the third intercostal space and through the upper lobe of the left lung in an upward and medial direction.
The upper lobe of the left lung had been cut through and through and had collapsed.
There was no fracture.
On 18th December 1972.
They insulted him.
There was an altercation.
We may also refer here to the comment of the learned Counsel for the appellant that realizing that the motive would assume considerable importance if the case was one based on circumstantial evidence the prosecution tried to make P W 3 depose as if she had witnessed occurrence.
PW 3 an old woman of 69 years stated in her evidence that she saw the accused who was sitting by the side of the deceased on the cot make a gesture as if he was stabbing the deceased and that the deceased cried out Amma  In cross examination she stated that she did not remember if she had told the Police that the accused made a gesture as if he was stabbing the deceased.
The Inspector of Police P W 15 however stated that P W 3 did not state before him that she saw the accused making a gesture as if he was stabbing the deceased.
We do not think that we will be justified in rejecting the evidence of all the prosecution witnesses on the basis of this statement of P W 3.
At the worst the so called improvement made by her may be rejected but no more.
We are afraid the learned Sessions Judge allowed himself to be assailed by airy and fanciful doubts.
We are satisfied that the High Court was justified in interfering with the order of acquittal.
The learned Counsel for the appellant advanced the usual argument submitted in all cases where an order of acquittal is reversed namely that where two views of the evidence are possible the accused is entitled to the benefit of the doubt arising from the two views and that where the Trial Court has taken a possible view and acquitted the accused the High Court should not interfere with the order of acquittal merely because another view is also possible.
The principles are now well settled.
Occasionally phrases like manifestly illegal  grossly unjust  have been used to describe the orders of acquittal which warrant interference.
It stems out of the fundamental principle of our criminal jurisprudence that the accused is entitled to the benefit of any reasonable doubt.
If two reasonably probable and evenly balanced views of the evidence are possible one must necessarily concede the existence of a reasonable doubt.
But fanciful and remote possibilities must be left out of account.
To entitle an accused person to the benefit of a doubt arising from the possibility of a duality of views the possible view in favour of the accused must be as nearly reasonably probable as that against him.
If the preponderance of probability is all one way a bare possibility of another view will not entitle the accused to claim the benefit of any doubt.
1 61 IA 389.
3 Al.
Where the Trial Court allows itself to be beset with fanciful doubts rejects creditworthy evidence for slender reasons and takes a view of the evidence which is but barely possible it is the obvious duty of the High Court to interfere in the interest of justice lest the administration of justice be brought to ridicule.
