The Judgment of the Court was delivered by VENKATARAMIAH J.
As it came to the notice of the Government that the Indian life insur ers with a few exceptions were virtually controlled by few individuals who were utilising the funds of those companies to the detriment of the industry and the policyholders the Government decided to nationalise the life insurance busi ness.
Pursuant to the said decision the President of India promulgated the Life Insurance Emergency Provisions Ordi nance 1956 on January 19 1956 providing for the vesting of the management of the life insurance business which was called the controlled business under the Ordinance which was being carried on by any insurer in India on that day in the Central Government and providing for its management.
On the passing of the said Ordinance the management of the controlled business of all the insurers in India thus vested in the Central Government and pending the appointment of the custodians for the controlled business of any insurer the person in charge of the management of such business immedi ately before the passing of the Ordinance was required to be in charge of the management of the business for and on behalf of the Central Government.
The Act provided for the establishment and incorporation of the Corporation.
Under the Act the expression appointed day  is de fined as the date on which the Corporation is established.
By virtue of section 7 of the Act on the appointed day all the assets and liabilities appertaining to the controlled business of all insurers the management of which it had been taken over earlier by the Central Govern ment stood transferred to and vested in the Corporation.
When the Corporation thus came into existence it had no employees of its own to carry on the vast business of the large number of insurers which had been taken over by it.
It therefore became necessary to transfer the services of the existing employees of the insurers to the Corporation because without the services of those employees it was almost impossible for the Corporation to run the life insur ance business in India which involved management of the various offices situated in different parts of India serv icing of lakhs of insurance policies the administration of the assets taken over from the insurers and several other activities connected with the life insurance business.
The nature of the work of the Corporation was such that it required the services of the employees with sufficient experience and expertise in running the life insurance business.
2 Notwithstanding anything con tained in sub section 1 or in any contract of service the Central Government may for the purposes of rationalising the pay scales of employees of insurers whose controlled business has been transferred to and vested in it or for the purpose of reducing the remuner ation payable to employees in cases where in the interest of the Corporation and its policyhold ers a reduction is called for alter the terms of service of the employees as to their remuneration in such manner as it thinks fit and if the alteration is not acceptable to any employee the Corporation may terminate his employment on giving him compensation equivalent to three months  remuner ation unless the contract of service with such employee provides for a shorter notice of termination.
3 If any question arises as to whether any person was a whole time employee of an insurer or as to whether any employee was employed wholly or mainly in connection with the controlled business of an insurer immediately before the appointed day the question shall be referred to the Central Government whose decision shall be final.
4 Notwithstanding anything contained in the 14 of 1947 or in any other 191 law for the time being in force the transfer of the serv ices of any employee of an insurer to the Corporation shall not entitle any such employee to any compensation under that Act or other law and no such claim shall be entertained by any Court tribunal or other authority.
 Sub section 1 of section 11 of the Act provided that every whole time employee of an insurer whose controlled business had been transferred to and vested in the Corpora tion and who was employed by the insurer wholly or mainly in connection with the controlled business immediately before the appointed day ie September 1 1956 would on and from the appointed day become an employee of the Corpora tion and would hold his office therein by the same tenure at the same remuneration and upon the same terms and condi tions and with the same rights and privileges as to pension and gratuity and other matters as he would have held the same on the appointed day if the Act had not been passed and would continue to do so unless and until his employment in the Corporation was terminated and until his remunera tion terms and conditions were duly altered by the Corpora tion.
The proviso to that sub section provided that nothing contained in sub section 1 of section 11 of the Act would apply to any such employee who had by notice in writing given to the Central Government prior to September 1 1956 intimated his intention of not becoming an employee of the Corporation.
The whole time employees of the erstwhile insurers whose services were thus transferred to the Corpo ration are hereinafter referred to as the transferred employees  of the Corporation.
As mentioned earlier there were more than 200 insurers whose controlled business had been taken over by the Corporation and we are informed that there were about 27000 whole time employees working in them.
It was naturally difficult to continue after the establishment of the Corporation in the cases of all the transferred employees the conditions of service enjoyed by them when they were in the employment of the former insur ers.
 Section 491 of the Act conferred powers on the Corpo ration to make with the previous approval of the Central Government regulations not inconsistent with the Act and the rules made thereunder.
Regulation 21 reads as follows 21.
But the Corporation may require any employee who has attained the age of 55 to retire if his efficiency is found to have been impaired.
The employees of the Corporation were divided lati tudinally into two groups.
Sub section.
1 guarantees to the trans ferred employee the same tenure at the same remuneration and upon the same terms and conditions on the transfer to the Corporation as he enjoyed on the appointed day under the insurer and he is entitled to them until they are duly altered by the Corporation or his employment in the Corpora tion is terminated.
Sub section.
The second limb of sub section.
There is provision for the transfer of the assets and liabilities pertaining to the business of provident funds 206 superannuation and other like funds of the services of existing employees of insurers to the Corporation and also of the services of existing employees of chief agents of the insurers to the Corporation and finally for the payment of compensation to the insurers for the transfer of the busi ness to the Corporation.
Sub section.
The standpoint of the second limb of the sub section as its language plainly indicates is provided by the inter ests of the Corporation and its policy holders.
For that reason it is open to the Central Government under sub section to ignore the guarantee contained in sub section 1 of section 11 in favour of the employees or anything contained in the  or any other law for the time being in force or any award settlement or agree ment for the time being in force.
Benefits conferred there under on the employees must yield 207 to the need for ensuring that the Corporation and its policy holders do not suffer unreasonably from the burden of such benefits.
The need for such a provision arises because it is a burden by which the Corporation finds itself saddled upon the transfer a burden not of its own making.
Unless the statute provided for such relief the weight of that burden could conceivably cripple the successful working of the Corporation from its inception as a business organisation.
It is a situation to be distinguished from what happens when the Corporation launched on its normal course voluntarily assumes in the course of its working obligation in respect of its employees or becomes subject to such obligations by reason of subsequent industrial adjudication.
Like any other employer the Corporation is then open to the normal play of industrial relations in contemporary or future time.
That the two provisions of sub section.
The scheme of the sections in Chapter IV indicates generally that Parliament has appointed the Cen tral Government as the effective and direct instrumentality for bringing about the transfer and integration in the different sectors of that process.
2 of section 11 can be exercised more than once.
To effectuate the transfer appropriately and completely it may be necessary to pass through different stages and at each 208 stage to make a definite order.
I am not impressed by the circumstances that the original Bill moved in Parliament for amending sub section.
The intent of the legislative provision must be discovered primarily from the legislation itself.
2        cc.
