109F  ORIGINAL JURISDICTION Writ Petition Civil No 530 of 1983 etc.
Under Article 32 of the Constitution of India.
VA Bobde Shyam Mudaliar VM Tarkunde GL Sangh i AK Sanghi Mrs R Karanjawala Mrs Meenakshi Karanjawa la NM Popli and VJ Francis for the Petitioners.
Ms A Subhashini DN Dwivedi Girish Chandra CV section Rao MC Dhingra and NK Sharma for the Respondents.
The Judgment of the Court was delivered by OJHA J.
The petitioners in the aforementioned wr it petitions claim to have been appointed as Supervisors Gra de A  in various ordnance factories between 1962 to 1966 a nd have filed these writ petitions with the prayer that t he same relief may be granted to them also as was granted by this Court to 75 appellants in Civil Appeal No 441 of 19 81 vide its order dated 2nd February 1981.
The three civ il miscellaneous petitions referred to above on the other ha nd have been made by the appellants of Civil Appeal No 441 of 1981 asserting that the direction given by this Court on 2 nd February 1981 has not been complied with in the manner as it ought to have been by the respondents and they should be consequently required to comply with the said direction.
T he exact nature of the prayer made in these miscellaneo us applications shall be indicated after referring to t he relief granted on 2nd February 1981 in Civil Appeal No 4 41 of 1981.
Kindly acknowledge receipt.
Sd KG Bijlani ADGOFEst.
for DGOF Their grievance in the writ petition was that ev en though quite a large number of Supervisors Grade A  h ad been promoted to the post of Chargeman grade II on compl e tion of two years  satisfactory work they had been discrim i nated against and had not been so promoted immediately on the expiry of two years  in pursuance of the aforesa id circular even though their work was satisfactory.
The reli ef prayed for in the said writ petition was for the issue of a writ of mandamus directing the Union of India through t he Director General of Ordnance Factories to promote the appe l lants to the post of Chargeman II.
The writ petition w as contested by the respondents thereto inter alia on t he ground that under the rules of promotion from Supervisor  A  to Chargeman II first Departmental Promotion Committee at the factory level and then a Departmental Committee at t he Central level screens the service record of each of t he Supervisors A  who comes within the range of eligibili ty and then finally the Director General of Ordnance Factori es draws up a list and sanctions promotions.
It appears th at the criterion of promotion is seniority cum merit.
The learned Judges who decided the special appeal d id not consider it appropriate to uphold the dismissal of t he writ petition on the technical ground which found favo ur with the learned Single Judge and they went into the meri ts of the respective contentions of the parties.
They howeve r did not find any substance in the submission made on beha lf of the appellants and accordingly dismissed the speci al appeal on 8th February 1977.
The learned Judges pointed o ut that it was admitted that the conditions of service applic a ble to the case of the appellants were governed by t he Indian Ordnance Factories Recruitment and Conditions of Service of Class III Personnel Rules 1956 hereinaft er referred to as the Rules framed by the President of Ind ia under Article 309 of the Constitution.
It was further poin t ed out that Rule 8 contemplated that appointments by prom o tion were to be made on the basis of a selection list pr e pared for the different grades by duly constituted Depar t mental Promotion Committees laid down in the said ru le whereas Rule 12 provided that no appointment to the posts to which these rules apply shall be made otherwise than as specified therein.
Accordi ng to the learned Judges such a view would militate again st Rule 12 of the Rules mentioned above.
It was further he ld that even if it was to be assumed that the Director Gener al of Ordnance Factories automatically promoted some Superv i sors A  immediately on the completion of 2 years of servi ce to the post of Chargeman II without the recommendation aft er screening by the Promotion Committee no right would accr ue in favour of the appellants inasmuch as such promotio ns would be in the teeth of Rule 12 and could not confer a legal right on the appellants to be likewise promoted in breach of Rule 12.
it was held A half hearted argume nt was raised at the end of the hearing on behalf of the appe l lant petitioners that they have been discriminated again st by depriving them the benefit of automatic promotion in violation of constitutional guarantee under Article 16 of the Constitution.
No formal foundation has been raised in t he pleadings in the writ petition in support of the grou nd based on Article 16 of the Constitution.
It reads Heard counsel.
Special leave granted.
The Gover n ment now appears to insist that in so far as the appellan ts are concerned they cannot be considered for promotion unle ss they complete three years of service.
If a large number of other persons similar ly situated have been promoted as Chargeman Grade II aft er completing two years of service there is no reason why t he appellants should also not be similarly promoted aft er completing the same period of service.
If the appellants are promote d they will naturally have to be promoted with effect from t he date on which they ought to have been promoted.
This order will dispose of the appeal.
There will be no order as to costs.
Now we shall rev rt to the exact prayers made in the three miscellaneous pet i tions aforesaid.
Almost analogous prayer had been made in Miscellaneo us Petition No 9357 of 1983 also namely that the responden ts may be restrained from promoting officers to the next high er posts on the basis of recommendations of certain Departme n tal Promotion Committees without complying with the dire c tions of this Court in its order dated 2nd February 198 1.
 The aforesaid writ petitions came up for hearing befo re a bench of two learned Judges of this Court on 9th Septe m ber 1987.
It w as further urged that the petitioners of these writ petitio ns were on the basis of the Rules considered for promotion a nd it is not disputed that all of them have in due course be en promoted as Chargeman II and some of them have even be en promoted to higher posts.
Our attention was further invit ed by learned counsel for the respondents to an order commun i cated among others to the Director 102 General of Ordnance Factories vide letter dated 28th Dece m ber 1965 of the Government of India Ministry of Defenc e saying inter alia that a minimum period of service of thr ee years in the lower grade should be fixed for promotion to the next higher grade.
It was pointed out that this had be en found necessary not only because it would be in conformi ty with the practice obtaining in other Ministries but al so because on merits this period is necessary to judge t he performance in the lower post and the potentialities f or promotion to a higher post.
He also brought to our notice a subsequent circular dated 20th January 1966 by the Direct or General of Ordnance Factories who had issued.
or in equivalent grades in the matter of promotion.
62 and 4416ANG dt.
29665.
The question of promotion of Diploma holders in MechElec.
Engineering and Ex apprentices serving as Sup r A  Gr.
or equivalent grades.
vs Sh.
If there is a conflict between the executive instructions and the rul es made under the proviso to Article 309 of the Constitution of India the rules made under the proviso to Article 309 of the Constitution of India prevail and if there is a co n flict between the rules made under the proviso to Artic le 309 of the Constitution of India and the law made by t he appropriate Legislature the law made by the appropria te Legislature prevails.
In oth er words it resulted in delayed chance of promotion.
It wa s inter alia urged on behalf of the petitioners that t he situation brought about by the rules of July 30 1959 co n stituted variation to their prejudice in the conditions of service applicable to them immediately prior to the reorga n isation of the State and the Rules were consequently i n valid.
 It i s therefore clear that neither the Rules of July 30 195 9 nor the procedure for making promotions to the posts of Deputy Collector divisionwise varies the conditions of service of the petitioners to their disadvantage.
vs Union of India  Ors.
In this connection it is also of significance to noti ce that it does not seem to have been the case of the appe l lants in Civil Appeal No 44 1 of 198 1 that those w ho according to them had been promoted in pursuance of t he circular dated 6thNovember 1962 on completing two year s  service were junior to them.
At this place it will be usef ul to refer to an affidavit dated 19th November 1983 of D P Gupta who is one of the appellants in Civil Appeal No 4 41 of 1981 filed in CMP Nos.
9356 57 of 1983.
In view of.
The fact that some Superviso rs A  had been promoted before the coming into force of t he order dated 28th December 1965 and the circular dated 20 th January 1966 could not therefore constitute the basis f or an argument that those Supervisors A  whose cases came up for consideration for promotion thereafter and who we re promoted in due course in accordance with the rules we re discriminated against.
They apparently did not fall in t he same category.
It may also be noticed that even though the petitione rs on their completion of 2 years  service as Supervisor  A  were not promoted as Chargeman 11 in or about the year 19 66 they chose to wait for about 17 years to file these wr it petitions which were filed in 1983 and nearly 2 years ev en after the decision dated 2nd February 1981 in Civil Appe al No 441 of 1981 which indicates that but for the decisi on in Civil Appeal No 441 of 1981 they would perhaps not ha ve even thought of filing these writ petitions inasmuch as in the meantime they had not only been promoted in the norm al course as Chargeman 1I but some of them had been promot ed even to higher posts in the hierarchy.
For aught we know if the effect of the order dated 28 th December 1965 and the circular dated 20th January 1966 h ad been properly emphasised at the time of hearing of Civ il Appeal No 441 of 198 1 its result may have been differen t.
In this connection reference may also be made to the cou n ter affidavit of Sobha Ramanand Deputy Director Ordnan ce Factory Cells G Block Ministry of Defence filed in Wr it Petition Civil Nos.
Nothing substantial has been brought to our notice on beha lf of the petitioners on the basis of which the aforesa id statements made in the counter affidavit may be doubted.
Since however the judgment of this Court dated 2 nd February 1981 in Civil Appeal No 441 of 1981 has not be en challenged and has become final the next question whi ch falls for consideration is as to what further relief if any are the appellants in Civil Appeal No 44 1 of 19 81 entitled in pursuance of the Civil Miscellaneous Petitio ns referred to above filed by them.
The reliefs which they ha ve claimed have already been indicated above.
As already noticed earlier certain writ petitions filed in Madhya Pradesh High Court were allowed by that Court on 4 th April 1983 relying on the judgment of this Court dated 2 nd February 1981 in Civil Appeal No 441 of 1981.
Against t he aforesaid judgment of the Madhya Pradesh High Court dat ed 4th April 1983 Special Leave Petitions Civil Nos.
5987 92 of 1986 were filed in this Court by the Union of India a nd were dismissed on 28th July 1986.
 In so far as Supervisors A  who claimed promotion as Chargeman 11 the following direction was accordingly giv en by the Madhya Pradesh High Court in its judgment dated 4 th April 1983 aforesaid All these petitioners are also entitled to be treated as Chargeman Grade II on completion of two years satisfacto ry service as Supervisor Grade A Consequently notion al seniority of these persons have to be refixed in Supervis or Grade A Chargeman Grade II Grade I and Assistant Forem an in cases of those who are holding that post  .
In the result the writ petitions fail and are di s missed.
RSS Petitions dismissed.
