Under Article 32 of the Constitution of India.
MC Dhingra for the Petitioners.
The petitioners are carpenters 1st and 2nd grade employed at the Wood Working Centre of the Himachal Pradesh State Handicrafts Corporation the Corpo ration.
In this petition under Article 32 of the Constitution they are seeking enforcement of their fundamental right to have equal pay for equal work.
They demand payment in terms paid to their counterparts in regular services.
They want the same pay of the regular employees as carpenters or in the alternative the minimum wages prescribed by the Deputy Commissioner for like categories of workmen.
The Corporation has resisted the petitioners  claim.
The Government has not fixed the mini mum wages payable to the petitioners engaged in the Corpora tion or other like industries but the Corporation has adopted the minimum wages payable for similar work in the construction industry.
It is also stated that the petitioners are supplied with the necessary tools for carry ing out their work and also working uniforms like aprons and overalls.
The Corporation has clearly stated that there are no regular employees of the petitioners  categories in its establishment and as such the question of payment to the petitioners the pay admissible to regular employees does not arise.
The Corporation is a company which has been incorporated under the .
In order to achieve this primary objec tive the Corporation gives training to artisans weavers and craftsmen in various traditional arts and crafts.
Apart from giving training the Corporation also ensures marketing support to the artisans and craftsmen by purchasing their products at remunerative prices and sell them through the marketing network of the Corporation.
It is said that the village artisans and craftsmen make different items on a piece rate basis and in some cases they execute the work in their own homes.
They cannot claim wages payable to their counterparts in government service.
PSS Petition dismissed.
