From the Judgment and Order dated 2671988 of the Allahabad High Court in Review Application No 27W of 1988.
Anil Dev Singh and Mrs section Dikshit for the Appellants.
Yogeshwar Prasad Vijay Hansaria Sunil K Jain SK Jain for the Respondents.
In the year 1972 he was declared unfit by a Medical Board and was therefore inval idated from IAF The Government of India issued a scheme for the benefit of ex military officials.
The State of Uttar Pradesh also adopted the same scheme.
Under that scheme the ex military officials were appointed on Contract basis for a fixed term which could be extended from time to time subject to the suitability of the official concerned but not beyond 58 years of age.
Pursuant to the said scheme the State of Uttar Pradesh appointed the respondent as the Secretary Zila Sainik Board Unnao on 20th of August 1979.
Paragraph 2 of the said order of appointment issued on 20th August 1979 reads thus The appointment shah be on contract for a period of one 241 year wef.
the date of assumption if it is not terminated earlier by giving a one month s notice by the Hon ble Gover nor or on paying one month s salary in lieu thereof or by giving one month s notice by the Officer.
 The respondent was required to furnish his acceptance of the terms and conditions contained in the said order includ ing the above term relating to the period of appointment and on his accepting the terms and conditions he was appointed as the Secretary in the District Soldiers Board in the district of Unnao in the State of Uttar Pradesh .
Again the term was extended upto 30th of August 1985 by an order dated 1st June 1983.
All these orders of exten sion were couched almost in the same language.
The relevant part of the last of such orders namely the order dated 1st June 1983 reads as follows Sir With reference to your letter No 1020Sa.
ADM141 Dated 3131982 on the above subject I am directed to say that the terms of the officers mentioned under para 2 who were appointed wef.
The Governor is therefore pleased to accord his sanction to extend the period of the contract upto the period mentioned under para 5 subject to the condi tion that their service tenure shall expire on completion of 58 years of age in case the same is completing earlier during the extended period.
No Name and Date of Date of Recommen place of appoint expiry dation appoint ment of con extend ment tract the contract 1to 12 13 Ex Pilot 21879 31383 1483 Arun Govil 30885 Unnao 14 to 21 242 2.
During the extended period of the contract conditions of service of officers shall remain same as are mentioned under their Appointment Order.
Letters of accept ance of relevant conditions of service to be obtained from these officers must be submitted to the Government at an early date.
But on 2931985 the service of the 1st Respondent was terminated by the issue of a notice and payment of one month s salary.
A Division Bench of the High Court found that the order of termination that had been served on the respondent was an invalid one since it had been issued on the basis of Vigilance Report and no opportunity had been given to the respondent to show cause why such action should not be taken against him.
The High Court further issued a direction to the effect that the respondent was entitled to salary upto the period he was entitled to remain in service.
In the instant case the respondent was entitled to be in service till 30th of Au guSt 1985 unless there was a further extention.
 The judgment was delivered on 2431988.
243 The respondent who was not satisfied by the order allow ing the Writ Petition as stated above preferred a Review Petition before the High Court contending that he was enti tled to be reinstated in service on the pronouncement of the Judgment on 243.
 The contention of the respondent was that the said interim order entitled him to be reinstated in service irrespective of the fact whether the Governor had extended the period of his appointment beyond 30th of August 1985.
The High Court allowed the Review PetitiOn on 2671988 and made an order reinstating the Respondent in service which reads as follows This is an application for review of our Judgment dated 2431988 by which we allowed the Writ Petition filed by the Petitioner with certain directions.
It seems that when the writ petition was decided our attention was not drawn towards the interim order dated 1071986 passed by learned single Judge in which it was provided that one post will be kept vacant and in case the petitioner suc ceeds in his petition it would be made avail able forthwith to the petitioner by way of his appointment.
The petitioner has pointed out inaccuracy in the second paragraph of the operative part of the judgment which says that It is open for the opposite parties to consider the claim of the petitioner for continuation in service or of fresh appoint ment and no observations in this regard are being made by this Court Aggrieved by the above order made on review which di rected the State of Uttar Pradesh the appellant herein to reinstate the respondent in service the State Government has filed this apeal by special leave.
It is on this basis that the High court had while setting aside the order of termination by its order dated 2431988 directed that the respondent was entitled to salary upto the period he was entitled to remain in service and further observed that it was open for the opposite parties to consider the claim of the respondent for continu ation in service or of fresh appointment and no observations in this regard were made by the Court.
We however make it clear that what we have stated above does not affect in any way what the High Court has stated in the penultimate paragraph of the Judgment dated 2431988 which reads thus It is open for the opposite parties to con sider the claim of the petitioner for continu ation in service or the fresh appointment and no observations in this regard are being made by this Court.
No costs.
TNA Appeal allowed.
