etition Civil Nos.
12676 77 of 1985 etc.
Under Article 32 of the Constitution of India RF Nariman PH Parekh NN Keshwani Mrs H Wahi and RN Keshwani for the Petitioners.
408 GA Shah MN Shroff KMM Khan and TU Mehta for the Respondents.
The petitioners in these petitions have questioned the validity of a notification issued by the Government of Gujarat on June 26 1985 in exercise of its powers conferred by Section 15 of the 67 of 1957 herein after referred to as the Act amending the Gujarat Minor Mineral Rules 1966 hereinafter referred to as the Rules with effect from 1 7 1985 substituting the original rule 21 of the Rules by a new rule which reads as follows 21.
Rate of Royality The holder of a quarry lease or any other mineral concession granted under these rules shall pay royalty in respect of minor minerals specified in column 2 of the schedule removed or consumed by him or by his agent manager employee contractor or sub lessee from the leased area at the rates respectively specified against them in column 3 of the said schedule.
iii no royalty shall be charged from Nimbha das of village potters if their annual produc tion is not exceeding two lakhs bricks and they supply at least one lakh bricks to the Rural Housing Board or Panchayats.
Under section 3A of the Act the word minerals  is defined as including all minerals except mineral oils.
Clause e of the said section defines minor minerals  as building stones gravel ordinary clay ordinary sand other than sand used for prescribed purposes and any other mineral which the Central Government may.
It empowers the Central Government to enhance or reduce the rate of royalty prescribed by the Second Schedule in respect of any mineral subject to the condition that the Central Government shall not enhance the rate of royalty in respect of any mineral more than once during any period of three years.
Section 15 as it stood during the relevant time read thus 15.
1 The State Government may by notifi cation in the Official Gazette make rules for regulating the grant of quarry leases mining leases or other mineral concessions in re spect of minor minerals and for purposes connected therewith.
3 The holder of a mining lease or any other mineral concession granted under any rule made under sub section 1 410 shall pay royalty or dead rent whichever is more in respect of minor minerals removed or consumed by him or by his agent manager employee contractor or sub lessee at the rate prescribed for the time being in the rules framed by the State Government in respect of minor minerals Provided that the State Government shall not enhance the rate of royalty in respect of any minor mineral for more than once during any period of three years.
 It is seen from section 15 that the State Government is empowered to make rules for regulating the grant of quarry leases mining leases or other mineral concessions in re spect of minor minerals and for purposes connected there with.
In exercise of the said power under section 15 the Government of Gujarat promulgated the Gujarat Minor Minerals Rules 1966 which are referred to as the Rules as stated above.
It is under this notification the rate of royalty in respect of black trap and Hard Murrum was increased from Rs 4 to Rs7 per metric tonne.
The rule also provides that the holder of a Parwana granted under the Rules shall pay royalty at the rate of 50 per cent of the rate of royalty specified in the said Sched ule and that no royalty shall be charged from Nimbhadas of village Potters who manufacture upto one lakh bricks per year.
vs State of Gujarat and Ors.
that the impugned notification in question was in contravention of clause b of Article 304 of the Constitution.
The contention of the learned counsel was that under Entry 50 of List II of the 7th Schedule to the Constitution the royalty recovered by the State Government had to be used only for mineral development and could not be used for any other purpose.
Provided that no Bill or amendment for the purpose of sub clause b shall be intro duced or moved in the legislature of a State without the previous sanction of the president.
Having regard to the depreci ation in the value of 413 the rupee and the increase in the cost of  administration of the State which is ever increasing as a welfare State we cannot say that Rs7 is an unreasonably high rate.
He con tended that the concession shown in favour of Parwana hold ers was discriminatory and violative of Article 14.
The mineral may be consumed inside the State and in some cases may latter on be taken outside the State.
Y Lal Petitions dis missed.
