ivil Misc.
K Mahadeva Reddy Ms Manjul Gupta TVSN Chari and A Subba Rao for the Petitioner.
K Ram Kumar SA Ahmed Tanweer Abdul and Mohan Pandey for the Respondents.
The following Order of the Court was delivered 540 The special leave petition under Article 136 of the Constitution is directed against the affirming judgment of the Andhra Pradesh High Court in a suit for title and injunction.
We shall therefore confine the discussion to matters pertinent to the compromise.
Subbamma adopted one KV Seshiah.
Seshiah married two wives.
Through the first wife he had a son born to him by name Sudarshan Gupta and through the second another son by name Anand Babu.
The terms of the compromise stipulated payment of Rs 1 lakh by the father to each of his two sons in lieu of relinquishment of their interest.
When the matter was listed before the Court for recording of the compromise Sudarshan Gupta second respondent herein maintained that he had not been paid Rs1 lakh as stipulated and he had no intention to accept the compromise.
We have heard counsel for the original parties as also the alienees.
The sale deeds indicate that a sum of Rs 1 lakh had been received earlier and a net amount of Rs77124 out of the consideration money under these documents has been paid before the registering authority.
The alienees have admittedly been in possession of the property from the date of the sales which is more than three years  old by now.
Admittedly the transfers are pendente lite.
In fact if the compromise is valid and binding the alienor respondent No 2 had no interest in the property to part with in view of the stipulation in the compromise that on receipt of Rs 1 lakh he relinquished his entire interest in the property.
The alienees have made an attempt to hold out that there were agreements for sale prior to the compromise for which there is no acceptable evidence.
We think we have to find that the alienees had no interest in the property prior to the compromise and we must hold that the sale deeds are subsequent to 2181987.
Mr Ram Kumar who appeared for the second respondent apart from maintaining that his client has not received the sum of Rs1 lakh has not been able to point out any justification as to why the compromise should not be acted upon and on the basis of it the litigation may not be disposed of.
The factum of compromise is not in dispute.
Respondent No 2 and his counsel Mr Ram Kumar have accepted the fact that the parties have signed the compromise petition which contain terms which they had accepted and all parties have accepted the document of compromise to be genuine.
Counsel for the alienees has taken the stand that the said alienations are valid and the transferees have become owners of the property and has even maintained that there have been improvements of the property by the alienees.
We are in accord with the principle indicated in the said decision and are of the view that as the compromise petition is genuine and lawful the same has to be acted upon.
This amount shall be deposited in the Registry of this Court within the time indicated and Sudarshan Gupta shall be free to withdraw the amount.
Rs 77124 being the amount paid by the alienees before the Sub Registrar in respect of the sale deeds shall be deposited within the same period in the Trial Court and the alienees of the different sale deeds would be entitled to withdraw the amounts on the basis of the record made by the Sub Registrar on each of the sale deeds.
The alienees have no right created under the alleged sale deeds.
Ordinarily they would have been liable to account for mesne profits.
We declare and clarify that none of the sale deeds is valid and none of the alienees has any interest in the aforesaid property.
543 4.
