February 23.
But this question was not answered by the High Court which confined itself to answering the first question which was common to both the appeals.
The appellant before us in both the appeals is the Commissioner of Income tax and the respondents are the two assessees in one case a Bank and the other a private limited company.
The main argument has been confined to the question of applicability of section 321 and the first proviso to that section of the Travancore Income tax Act hereinafter called the Travancore Act.
In C A No 25958 the assessee is a public limited company incorporated in the State of Cochin with branches in that State as well as in what was British India and in Travancore State.
The Income tax Officer determined its assessable income to be Rs 90947 representing only the profit it made in Travancore State and under section 321 proviso 1 of the Travancore Act he refused a deduction of Rs 79275 shown as loss from branches situate outside the State of Travancore in British India and other Indian States.
The assessee s appeal to the Income tax Commissioner was unsuccessful but the Appellate Tribunal held that the banking business of the assessee being one and indivisible for the purpose of determining the amount assessable to income tax it was entitled to deduct the losses incurred outside Travancore State from the profits accruing and arising in that State.
In C A 26058 the assessee is a private limited company with its registered office in the former Cochin State.
It was carrying on business at its head office in Cochin State and it also carried on business in Travancore State.
The assesse made a profit in Travancore State and incurred a loss in the State of Cochin and sought to deduct this loss from the profit of Travancore State thus showing a net profit of Rs 2643.
The Appellate Tribunal also did not accept the submissions of the assessee and upheld the order of assessment.
It may be stated that the relevant sections of the Travancore Act which govern the two appeals are identically worded with those of the Indian Incometax Act of 1922 to be called the Indian Act.
Indian Act.
Sections in brackets are the corresponding sections of the Indian Act.
Ordinarily the effect of an excepting or a qualifying proviso is to carve something out of the preceding enactment or to qualify something enacted therein which but for the proviso would be in it and such a proviso cannot be construed as enlarging the scope of an enactment when it can be fairly and properly construed without attributing to it that effect.
But it has been held that a section framed as a proviso to a preceding section may sometimes contain matter which is in substance a fresh enactment adding and not merely qualifying that which goes before.
2  258.
Now we come to section 241.
Section 241 became the subject matter of controversy in the courts.
Thus the Privy Council emphasised that the object of section 241 was to allow a set off of profits against losses arising under different heads and Only in such cases could recourse be had to section 241.
In cases where profits and losses arose under the same head they had to be adjusted against each other.
34 266 determining profits and gains of the business of any resident.
3 1944 LR 71 IA 113 122.
31901 AC 26.
Appeals dismissed.
