Appeal by special leave from the judgment and order dated December 8 1960 of the Allahabad High Court in Criminal Appeal No 1782 of 60 and Referred No 125 of 1960 section K Kapur for the appellant G C Mathur and C P Lal for the respondent.
He delivered the sword which has been found by the Serologist to be stained with human blood.
The evidence led by the prosecution consisted of the evidence relating to motive to his extrajudicial confession to one Ujagar Singh when he was having a bath in the Canal to his purchasing the sword and to his delivering it at the police Station after he had dictated the report.
Both the Courts below rightly believed the evidence about the motive and purchase of the sword by the appellant.
On the other hand learned Counsel for the respondent urged that the High Court was wrong in rejecting the statement of Ujagar Singh about the appellant s extra judicial confession and that the extra judicial confession together with the circumstances relied on by the High Court fully make out the prosecution case against the appellant.
206 Ajit Singh PW 5 deposed about the purchase of the cycle and about a dispute taking place between Sheo Sahai and the appellant on account of the latter s demanding the return of Rs 10 which had been paid towards the sale price as the balance of the sale price had not been paid and the deal was cancelled by Sheo Sahai in accordance with the oral contract.
It is therefore not necessary to rely on the admissions of the appellant in the report with respect to these facts deposed to by the various witnesses whose testimony has been rightly accepted.
We need also consider whether the facts that the accused had a motive to harm Sheo Sahai and that he had purchased a sword a day before the incident and deposited it stained with human blood at the Police Station on the night of the murder are sufficient to establish that it must be the appellant who committed the murder of Sheo Sahai or not as we are of opinion that the High Court erred in rejecting the statement of Ujagar Singh about the appellant s confessing to him that he had murdered Sheo Sahai.
If Ujagar Singh s statement made it very likely that what he stated did happen there could not have appeared any improbability in Ujagar Singh s sleeping in his field and meeting the appellant in the manner alleged especially when the learned Judges believed and there was evidence about it that the fields had chari and sugarcane crop at the time.
The learned Judges have not stated those considerations if any in addition to the improbability of Ujagar Singh s presence in his field on account of the crops being not very high which made them doubt the appellant s confessing to Ujagar Singh.
The learned Sessions Judge has discussed the criticism urged before him against the acceptance of the statement of Ujagar Singh and considered 208 it for reasons given not to justify the rejection of Ujagar Singh s statement.
There is no enmity between Ujagar Singh and the appellant and therefore no good reasons existed for Ujagar Singh to state falsely.
Extra judicial confessions are not usually considered with favour but that does not mean that such a confession coming from a person who has no reason to state falsely and to whom it is made in circumstances which tend to support his statement should not be believed.
Both on account of the temperature and on account of the culprit s desire to wash of blood marks on his person the appellant s bathing in the Canal at that hour of the night cannot be said to be improbable.
It is not stated by sub Inspector Kishan Singh nor it is alleged that the appellant had on his person or on his clothes blood stains when he presented himself at the Police Station.
This tends to support Ujagar Singh s statement that the appellant had a bath in the Canal at that hour.
The fact that he had the sword which was stained with human blood leads to such a supposition even if the mere possession of a sword so stained be not sufficient to establish conclusively that the person who possessed it so shortly after the murder of a person with whom he had enmity had committed the murder.
Ujagar Singh was on the field for the purpose of watching it against the neel gais trespassing and grazing the crop.
There is no reason to think that the appellant would not make such a statement when the appellant himself proceeds to the Police Station and hands over the blood stained sword.
It is no doubt unusual as urged for the appellant that a person who commits a murder in pursuance of an enmity arising out of minor disputes would be feeling so justified in his conduct as to openly admit it to the first person he met and to go to the Police Station and report about it.
It is always difficult to find reasons for a person s acting in a certain manner.
It may be that having blurted out the truth to Ujagar Singh when taken by surprise the appellant thought the best thing to be to proceed to the Police Station and report the matter there.
We agree with the view of the learned Sessions Judge and do not consider Ujagar Singh s conduct of continuing to remain on his field during the night to be so improbable as to affect his veracity.
This statement of his is supported impliedly by Paley Singh PW 2 who states that the Sub Inspector was not present when Ujagar Singh related to them the fact which had taken place at night and by Bishram Singh PW 13 who 210 deposed that Ujagar Singh stated that Ram Singh was taking his bath at night in the Canal Distributory and had said that he had come after committing the murder of Sheo Sahai and that the appellant had then proceeded towards the police station.
We are therefore of opinion that Ujagar Singh s statement about the appellant s confessing to him that he had murdered Sheo Sahai has been erroneously rejected by the High Court.
