Appeal No 1940 of 1967.
Whether in respect of the terms of the said consent decree as also of the said document dated November 27 1954 as confirmed by their letter dated January 31 1955 and further confirmed by document dated December 1 1960 defendants Nos 5 and 6 are debarred from leading any evidence of the plaintiffs witnesses in view of section 92 of the Evidence Act  In drawing up the additional issues not much care was apparently exercised  whether a party is entitled to lead evidence or to put questions in cross examination of the plaintiff s witnesses cannot form the subject matter of an issue.
The objection to the question raised by Filmistan was not that it related to a matter to be decided by the Court and on which the opinion of witnesses was irrelevant.
The objection was raised as 439 an attempt to reopen the previous decision given by the Trial Judge refusing to try issues Nos 11 12  13 as preliminary issues.
The Trial Judge observed that he had carefully gone through the consent decree and the registered agreement dated December 1 1960 and he found that the consent decree had not decided that the transaction between the parties of the year 1954 was in the nature of a lease that in the plaint in the earlier suit it was not even averred that the rights granted were in the nature of leasehold rights that suit No 149 of 1960 was for declaration of the rights of Filmistan to exhibit motion pictures in the theatre under the agreement dated November 27 1954 and for an injunction restraining the defendants from violating the said rights of Filmistan under the agreement and that the agreement dated December 1 1960 was not plain enough to exclude the oral evidence of the surrounding circumstances and conduct of the parties to explain its terms and language.
Accordingly he held that the question asked in cross examination of the witnesses for Filmistan intended to secure disclosure of the surrounding circumstances and conduct of the parties in order to show in what manner the language of the document was related to the existing facts could not be excluded.
The revision petition was entertained and elaborate arguments were advanced at the Bar.
The High Court referred to a number of authorities and observed that the correctness of the findings of the Trial Court on issues Nos 12 and 13 may not be examined in exercise of the powers under section 115 of the Code of Civil Procedure.
The Court proceeded to observe  The question then arises for consideration whether in fact the subordinate Court has decided the question of res judicata and that it is true that the jurisdiction of the Court of mall Causes to decide disputes between a tenant and his landlord and falling within the purview of section 28 of the Bombay Rent Control Act is derived from section 28 of the said Act but at the same time if an issue is in fact barred by res judicata then the Court has no 440 jurisdiction on principles of res judicata to go into that question or to decide that question over again to the extent to which the Court viz the trial court in the instant case proposed to go into that question and allow the whole question that was closed once for all by consent decree of December 1 1960 to be reopened it is proposing to exercise the jurisdiction which is not vested in it by law.
Once the jurisdiction of the Court has been taken away any proposal to reopen the question closed by the earlier decision would be exercise of jurisdiction which is not vested in the Court by law and to that extent the decision would become revisable even if it is the decision as to the res judicata of an issue and concluded It is not open to me in revision at this stage to express any opinion about the rights and contentions of the parties with reference to the agreement of December 1 1960.
But the only thing that can be said is that so far as the agreement of November 27 1954 is con cerned it must be held in view of the consent decree of December 1 1960 that that document of November 27 1954 created a lease .
The learned Judge will not proceed with the trial.
By section 115 of the Code of Civil Procedure the High Court is invested with power to call for the record of any case decided by any Court subordinate to such High Court and in which no appeal lies thereo if such subordinate court appears a to have exercised a jurisdiction not vested in it by law or b to have failed to exercise a jurisdiction so vested or c to have acted in the exercise of its jurisdiction illegally or with material irregularity and to make such order in the case as it thinks fit.
Exercise of the power is broadly subject to three important conditions 1 that the decision is of a Court subordinate to the High Court 2 that there is a case which has been decided by the subordinate Court and 3 that the subordinate Court has exercised jurisdiction not vested in it by law or to have failed to exercise a jurisdiction so vested or to have acted in the exercise of its jurisdiction illegally or with material irregularity.
Again it was for the Trial Court in the first instance to decide that question and there after the High Court could if the matter were brought before it by way of appeal or in exercise of its revisional jurisdiction have decided that question.
442 This Court observed in Major section section Khanna vs Brig.
To interpret the expression case as an entire proceeding only and not a part of the proceeding imposes an unwarranted restriction on the exercise of powers of superintendence and may result in certain cases in denying relief to the aggrieved litigant where it is most needed and may result in the perpetration of gross injustice.
A case may be said to be decided if the Court adjudicates for the purposes of the suit some right or obligation of the parties in controversy every order in the suit cannot be regarded as a case decided within the meaning of section 115 of the Code of Civil Procedure.
GC Appeal allowed.
