Appeal by special leave from the judgment and order dated January 17 1967 of the Patna High Court in CWJC No 952 of 1966.
Section 151 2 of the Act reads No notice shall be issued under Section 148 after the expiry of four years from the end of the relevant assessment year unless the Commissioner is satisfied on the reasons recorded by the Income tax Officer that it is a fit case for the issue of such notice Section 148 prescribes  1 Before making the assessment re assessment or re computation under Section 147 the Income tax Officer shall serve on the assesee a notice containing all or any of the requirements which may be included in a notice under sub section 2 of Section 139 and 445 the provisions of this Act shall so far as may be apply accordingly as if the notice were a notice issued under that sub section.
 Section 147 deals with income escaping assessment.
Name and address of the assessee MS Chugamal Rajpal Muzaffarpur.
Hence proper investigation regarding these loans is necessary.
Sd section P Chaliha 30 4 66.
Income tax Officer A Ward Muzaffarpur.
 In his report the Income tax Officer does not set out any reason for coming to the conclusion that this is a fit case to issue notice under section 148.
The material that he had before him for issuing notice under section 148 is not mentioned in the report.
All that he says is that from those communications it appears that these persons alleged creditors are name lenders and the transactions are bogus.
Further his report mentions  Hence proper investigation regarding these loans is necessary In other words his conclusion is that there is a case for investigating as to the truth of the alleged transactions.
Before issuing a notice under section 148 the Income tax Officer must have either reasons to believe that by reason of the omission or failure on the part of these assessee to make a return under section 139 for any assessment year to the Income tax Officer or to disclose fully and truly all material facts necessary for his assessment for that year income chargeable to tax has escaped assessment for that year or alternatively not withstanding that there has been no omission or failure as mentioned above on the part of the assessee the Income tax Officer has in consequence of information in his possession reason to believe that income chargeable to tax has escaped assessment for any assessment year.
From the report submitted by the Income tax Officer to the Commissioner it is clear that he could not have had reasons to believe that by reason of the assessee s omission to disclose fully and truly all material  facts necessary for his assessment for the accounting year in question income chargeable to tax has escaped assessment for that year nor could it be said that he as a consequence of information in his possession had reasons to believe that the income chargeable to tax has escaped assessment for that year.
b of section 147.
Further the report submitted by him under section 1512 does not mention any reason for coming to the conclusion that it is a fit case for the issue of a notice under section 148.
The important safeguards provided in sections 147 and 151 were lightly treated by the Income tax Officer as well as by the Commissioner.
