On April 9 1959 the Central Government directed removal from service of Capt section K Rao under r 14 of the Army Rules 1954.
Rule 14 of the Army Rules 1954 is as follows 1 When after considering the reports on an officer s misconduct the Central Gove rnment is satisfied or the C in C is of the opinion that the trial of the officer by a court martial is inexpedient or impracticable but considers the further retention of the said officer in the service as undesirable the C in C shall communicate the view of the Central Government or his views as the case may be to the officer together with all reports adverse to him and he shall be called upon to submit his explanation and defence.
3 The Central Government after due consideration of the reports the officer s defence if any and the recommendation of the C in C may dismiss or remove the officer with or without pension or call upon him to retire or resign and on his refusing to do so the officer may be retired from or gazetted out of the service on pension or gratuity if any admissible to him Under the aforesaid r 14 action can be taken for misconduct against an officer whose further retention in service is not considered desirable.
without the officer being tried by a court martial.
Sub section 2a provides  Without prejudice to the generality of the power conferred by sub section 1 the rules made thereunder may provide for a the removal retirement release or discharge from the service of persons subject to this Act Sections 18  19 which appear in Ch.
IV of the dealing with Conditions of Service provide as follows  S18 Every person subject to this Act shall hold office during the pleasure of the President.
 section 19 Subject to the provisions of this Act and the rules and regulations made thereunder the Central Government may dismiss or remove from the service any person subject to this Act.
VI of which section 45 is as follows  section 45 Any officer junior commissioned officer or warrant officer who behaves in a manner unbecoming his position and the character expected of him shall on conviction by court martial if he is an officer be liable to be cashiered or to suffer such less punishment as is in this Act mentioned and if he is a junior commissioned officer or a warrant officer be liable to be dismissed or to suffer such less punishment as is in this Act mentioned It was argued by counsel for the respondent Rao that the contained specific provisions for punishment for unbecoming conduct viz section 45.
It follows that there may be a valid rule where under subject to the other provisions of the Act the Central Government may remove a person from the service.
Rule 14 is such a rule  it is therefore not ultra vires.
It was argued that the words subject to the provisions of this Act occurring in section 19 makes section 19 subject to section 45 and the Central Government has thus no power to remove a person from the service in derogation of the provisions of section 45.
Section 45 provides that on conviction by court martial an officer is liable to be cashiered or to suffer such less punishment as is in this Act mentioned.
VPS Appeal allowed.
