There are significant recitals in the Sanad to the following effect It is hereby declared that the said land shall be continued for ever by the British Government as the endowment property of Shri Vithal Rukhamai of Kasabe Amalnair Talooka Amalnir on the following conditions that is to say that the managers thereof shall continue faithful subjects of the British Government and  the said land shall be continued for ever as endowment Inam without increase of land tax over the said fixed amount.
Then came Prahladbuwa.
That ownership is of your own.
Your Bhauband and others have no right whatsoever over the same.
You are free to give and take as per the Shishya sampradaya as has been done previously.
It is clear that the beneficiaries of the deeds are the deity and the Sansthan and the gifts were made with the object of maintenance of the worship of the deity for the benefit of the Hindu public as a whole.
The reference to Sakharam Maharaj Sansthan wherever it appears is only for the purpose of identification and commemoration of the hallowed saint who had admittedly founded the same.
Charusila Dasi.
Are the members of the public entitled to an entry in the temple  Are they entitled to take part in offering service and taking Darshan in the temple  Are the members of the public entitled to take part in the festivals and ceremonies arranged in the temple  Are their offerings accepted as a matter of right The participation of the members of the public in the Darshan in the temple and in the daily acts of worship or in the celebrations of festivals occasions may be a very important factor to consider in deter mining the character of the temple.
You are free to give and take as per the Shishya sampradaya as has been done previously.
This property goes from Guru to his Shishya.
When the origin of an endowment is obscure and no direct oral evidence is available the Court will have to resolve the controversy about the character of the trust on documentary evidence if any the object and purpose for which the trust was created the consistent manner in which the property has been dealt with or managed by those in charge the manner in which the property has long been used by the public the contribution of the public to all intents and purposes as a matter of right without the least interference or restriction from the temple authorities to foster maintenance of the worship the accretion to the trust property by way of grants from the state of gifts from outsiders inconsistent with the private nature of the trust the nature of devolution of the property are all important elements in determination of the question whether a property is a private or a public religious endowment.
PBR Appeal dismissed.
