We have however gone through his petition and the affidavit filed in its support where in paragraph 16 he states as fol lows The Mysore State Civil Service Integra tion Rules 1960 provide for filing objections only against the preliminary provisional Inter State Seniority List and do not provide any provision for filing objections or appeal ing against the final Inter State Seniority List as per Annexure B .
Thus we have no other legal remedies open to us for the re dressal of our grievances and the abridgement of our fundamental rights guaranteed under the Constitution of India and therefore we are forced to approach this Honble Court to invoke the writ jurisdiction for the redressal.
In the case before us the petitioner admits that the Mysore State Civil Services Integration Rules provided for filing of objections against the preliminary provisional Inter State Seniori ty list.
Presumably he had that opportunity.
The judgment of the Mysore High Court was in our opinion based on an apparent misun derstanding of Shankariah s case supra and on a failure to appreciate the facts of the case of the petitioner respondent which is now before us.
The application of the doctrine depends upon the nature of the jurisdiction conferred on the administrative authority upon the character of the rights of the per sons affected the scheme and policy of the statute and other relevant circumstances disclosed in the particular case See the decision of this Court in Shri Bhagwan and Anr.
These principles are generally found in the rules or executive directions which are known to or are capable of being found out by the persons affect ed.
When a provisional seniority fist is prepared there is a possibility of some mistakes occurring about the facts of a case or in the application of those rules.
It would therefore be quite fair to give a person affected an oppo rtunity to be heard against the proposed fist before it is finalised so that any possible mistakes either on facts relating to his particular case or of law in applying the rules governing seniority to those facts may be rectified.
It was an opportunity to be given before the final list was to be declared and published as a final list.
A right to representation was recognised as existing at time when the list was still to be considered as not finalised presumably because some mistakes had crept in due to want of heating on two points.
We find no such grounds in the ease before us.
The Central Government under Sec 115 of the Act has to determine the princi ples governing equation of posts and prepare a common gradation list by integration of services.
So long as the Central Government has acted properly according to the provisions of the Act we are of the view that a Court cannot go into the merits or otherwise of equation of posts which is a matter within the province of the Central Government.
In this case no mala fides are alleged.
