41 Deft 5 Deft 2 Khandappa died on June 27 1960 leaving him surviving his wife Hirabai who is the plaintiff two sons Gurupad and Shivapad who are defendants 1 and 2 respectively and three daughters defendants 3 to 5.
By a judgment dated March 19 1975 a Division Bench of the High Court dismissed defendant 1 s appeal and allowed the plaintiff s cross objections by holding that the suit properties belonged to the joint family that there was no prior partition and that the plaintiff is entitled to a 724th share.
LR351.
2 765 shall devolve by survivorship upon the surviving members of the coparcenary and not in accordance with this Act  Provided that if the deceased had left him surviving a female relative specified in class I of the Schedule or a male relative specified in that class who claims through such a female relative the interest of the deceased in the Mitakshara coparcenary property shall devolve by testamentary or intestate succession as the case may be under this Act and not by survivorship.
Explanation 2.
In the instant case the plaintiff s suit based as it is on the provisions of section 6 is essentially a claim to obtain a share in the interest which her husband had at the time of his death in the coparcenary property.
Explanation 1 which contains the formula for determining the share of the deceased creates a fiction by providing that the interest of a Hindu Mistakshara coparcener shall be deemed to be the share in the property that would have been allotted to him if a partition of the property had taken place immediately before his death.
Khandappa would have therefore got a 14th share in the coparcenary property on the hypothesis of a partition between himself and his sons Two things are thus clears  One that in a partition of the coparcenary property Khandappa would have obtained a 14th share and 767 two that the share of the plaintiff in the 14th share is 16th that is to say 124th.
The fiction created by Explanation 1 has to be given its due and full effect as the fiction created by section 18A9 b of the Indian Income tax Act 1922 was given by this Court in Commissioner of Income tax Delhi vs section Teja Singh1.
It was held in that case that the fiction that the failure to send an estimate of tax on income under section 18A3 is to be deemed to be a failure to send a return necessarily involves the fiction that a notice had been issued to the assessee under section 22 and that he had failed to comply with it.
The section did not provide further that in the circumstances therein stated a notice under section 22 shall be deemed to have been issued and the notice shall be deemed not to have been complied with.
In order to ascertain the share of heirs in the property of a deceased coparcener it is necessary in the very nature of things and as the very first step to ascertain the share of the deceased in the coparcenary property.
In other words the assumption having been made once for the purpose of ascertaining the share of the deceased in the coparcenary property one cannot go back on that assumption and ascertain the share of the heirs without reference to it.
The Hindu Succession provides by section 141 that any property possessed by a female Hindu whether acquired before or after the commencement of the Act shall be held by her as a full owner thereof and not as a limited owner.
By restricting the operation of the fiction created by Explanation I in the manner suggested by the appellant we shall be taking a retrograde step putting back as it were the clock of social reform which has enabled the Hindu Woman to acquire an equal status with males in matters of property.
1 AIR 1975 Bombay 257.
