The acquittal was reversed by the High Court of Andhra Pradesh and the appellant was convicted under Section 302 Indian Penal Code and sentenced to suffer imprisonment for life.
On 18th December 1972 according to the case of the prosecution the accused once again requested his mother in law to send his wife to his house.
There was no fracture.
P W 1 came upon him with a knife to stab him.
The High Court observed that the learned Sessions Judge had magnified the importance to be attached to minor discrepancies.
The High Court also concluded from the medical evidence that it was more probable that the deceased was stabbed when she was lying down.
He submitted that the version of the accused that the occurrence took place at about 10 pm was substantiated by what was mentioned in exhibit P 15 the wound certificate given by PW 13 the Medical officer in respect of the injuries which he found on the person of the accused.
The High Court was well justified in commenting that the discrepancies on the basis of which the Trial Court rejected the evidence of P Ws 1 2 and 3 were of a minor character and that they have been unduly magnified by the learned Sessions Judge.
The discrepancies were in regard to which of them woke up first where was the lantern and which of the neighbours came first to the scene on hearing their cries.
Merely because the Medical Officer stated that the victim could have received the injury if she was standing it did not follow that the injury could have been received in the circumstances mentioned by the accused.
We do not think that an injury of the nature received by the deceased could have been caused in the manner suggested by the accused.
PW 3 an old woman of 69 years stated in her evidence that she saw the accused who was sitting by the side of the deceased on the cot make a gesture as if he was stabbing the deceased and that the deceased cried out Amma  In cross examination she stated that she did not remember if she had told the Police that the accused made a gesture as if he was stabbing the deceased.
We are unable to discover any good reason to reject the evidence of P Ws 1 to 3 or the evidence of P Ws 4 and 5.
The learned Counsel for the appellant advanced the usual argument submitted in all cases where an order of acquittal is reversed namely that where two views of the evidence are possible the accused is entitled to the benefit of the doubt arising from the two views and that where the Trial Court has taken a possible view and acquitted the accused the High Court should not interfere with the order of acquittal merely because another view is also possible.
However the formulae  of substantial and compelling reasons good and sufficiently cogent reasons and strong reasons and the search for them were abandoned as a result of the pronouncement of this Court in Sanwat Singh  Ors.
R 369 back to the principles enunciated by the Privy Council in Sheo Swarup vs Emperor1 and re affirmed those principles.
After Sanwat Singh vs State of Rajasthan this Court has consistently recognised the right of the Appellate Court to review the entire evidence and to come to its own conclusion bearing in mind the considerations mentioned by the Privy Council in Sheo Swarup s case.
It is therefore essential that any view of the evidence in favour of the accused must be reasonable even as any doubt the benefit of which an accused person may claim must be reasonable A reasonable doubt it has been remarked does not mean some light airy insubstantial doubt that may flit through the minds of any of us about almost anything at some time or other it does not mean a doubt begotten by sympathy out of reluctance to convict it means a real doubt a doubt founded upon reason4.
If the evidence is so strong against a man as to leave only a remote possibility in his favour which can be dismissed with the sentence of course it is possible but not in the least probable  the case is proved beyond reasonable doubt but nothing short of that will suffice.
The appeal is dismissed.
