 The High Court has struck down the aforesaid provision only on the ground that it suffers from the vice of excessive delegation of legislative power inasmuch as no criteria or guide lines have been 954 provided by reference to which the power conferred on the Administrator to refuse permission or grant permission should be exercised and that the section confers an arbitrary uncanalised power upon the Administrator with the result that the licensed dealer is at his mercy while seeking permission to carry on money lending or banking business on the security of any article ornament or both in the same premises in which he carried on business as such dealer.
Therefore in our view the objective the policy and the Scheme of the Act together with the necessity to ensure prevention of circumvention of the other provisions of the Act afford more than sufficient guidance to the Administrator in the matter of exercising the power of discretion conferred on him under sec.
Moreover against his order under that section a revision lies to Central Government which implies that he will have to make judicious use of his power or discretion and any improper exercise is liable to be corrected by a higher authority.
It does not impose any blanket or 956 absolute prohibition upon a dealer from carrying on money lending banking or any other business in the same premises in which he carries on business as a dealer but he is prevented only from carrying on business as money lender or banker on the security of any article ornament or both unless authorised by the administrator.
Even the restriction in the case of a third person in carrying on business as a money lender banker or any other business in the same premises is not absolute in as much as the Administrator can authorise the third person to carry on the business in the licensed premises of the dealer and while implementing such limited restrictions or granting relief against the same he will be guided by the policy and purposes of the Act and by the prime consideration that circumvention of the other provisions of the Act shall not be premitted.
We may indicate that the same provision section 28 was challenged before the Patna High Court in Bihar State Bullion Merchants  Association vs Union of lndia1 and the Gujarat High Court in Ramanlal Purshottamamdas Chokshi vs Union of India  Others 2 and these High Courts have upheld its validity.
We approve the view taken in those cases As regards the analogy drawn by the High Court from the reasoning adopted by this Court in Harakchand Banthia s case supra while declaring unamended sec.
214 Guj.
276 this Court struck down sec.
No such vague or indefinite expressions or concepts are to be found in sec.
