The petition was heard by Ali Khan and Reddy JJ.
Rasika Bai s version is that on seeing the assault she called out to the accused not to hit but they  raised their axes and sticks and threatened her and then ran away.
But what the learned counsel for the appellants says is that he saw Narsabai on the evening of the murder and as she did not give him any names it is evident that no one knew who the assailants were and that therefore the accusation made against the accused was a subsequent concoction and that it was for that reason that they waited till the next morning before reporting the matter to the police.
We refer to the other eye witnesses here to show that there is no discrepancy on this point but we only rely on Rasikabai and Subhana for determining the fact Bhilia was directly charged with the murder and the injury on the throat is ascribed to him in the charge.
We uphold his conviction under section 302 of the Indian Penal Code.
As this is the only evidence indicating a common purpose and as we know nothing about what preceded the assault for the witnesses arrived after it bad started we cannot gatber any common object from the fact that Pandu rang though armed with an axe only inflicted a light blow on the scalp which did not break any of the 1 1924 LR 52 IA 40 52 1094 fragile bones in that region and from the fact that two others who were lightly armed with what have been called sticks inflicted no injuries at all.
Rasikabai says that the accused raised their axes and sticks and threatened her when she called out to them but that again is an all embracing statement which we are not prepared to take literally in the absence of further particulars.
In the present case there is no evidence of any prior meeting.
It is true prior concert and arrangement can and indeed often must be determined from subsequent conduct as for example by a systematic plan of campaign unfolding itself during the course of the action Which could only be referable to prior concert and pre arrangement or a running away together in a body or a meeting together subsequently.
But to quote the Privy Council again the inference of common intention should never be reached unless it is a necessary inference deducible from the circumstances of the case.
We do not intend to examine that here because we are of opinion that the sentence should be reduced to transportation in these two cases mainly because of the difference of opinion in the High Court not only on the question of guilt but also on that of sentence.
