The petitioner of this application under Article 32 of the Constitution is an engineer who was employed in the Central Public Works Department under the Ministry of Works and Housing in Government of India and was compulsorily retired by order dated 381976 with effect from 5111976 made under Rule 56j of the Fundamental Rules.
Fundamental Rule 56j under which notice was given provides j Notwithstanding anything contained in this rule the appropriate authority shall if it is of the opinion that it is in the public interest so to do have the absolute right to retire any Government servant by giving him notice of not less than three months in writ ing or three months  pay and allowances in lieu of such notice i if he is in Class I or Class II service or post and had entered Government service before attaining the age 636 of thirty five years after he has attained the age of fifty years ii in any other case after he has attained the age of fifty five years            The appropriate authority is entitled to exercise power under clause j in the case of a Government servant in Class I or Class II service or post where he entered into service before attaining the age of 35 years after the said servant attained the age of 50 years and in other cases after he has attained the age of 55 years.
The sole question that fell therein for decision before this Court was whether a Government servant officiating in Class I or Class II service or post could be retired compulsorily by exercising the power under Rule 56ji after he has attained the age of 50 years.
bird who may have to go back to the substantive post from which he has been promoted on an officiating basis what is more to the point a person who has been appointed de novo may begin his service on an officiating basis or on a tempo rary basis and it is obvious that he has no right to the post and cannot be strictly said to be in that service or post as a member of that service.
A person can be in Class I or Class II service or post even when he hold a post of either class substantively or temporarily or on officiating basis.
The purpose of Fundamental Rules 56j is to confer power on the appropriate authority to compulsorily retire Government servant in the public interest and the classification of Government servants into two categories covered by sub clauses i and ii has a purpose behind it.
If the condi tion indicated in sub clause i is satisfied namely the Government servant is in Class I or Class II service or post and he had entered into service before attaining the age of 35 years and has attained the age of fifty the further condition that he must substantively belong to the two classes of service or post cannot be introduced into the scheme.
When this was put to learned Additional Solicitor General he agreed that the Union of India will have no objection to treat the petitioner alike and would be prepared to give the same relief to the petitioner.
There will be no order for costs.
WRIT PETITION NOS.
