this appeal is preferred against the judgment dated 19 8 2011 passed by the high court of punjab and haryana in criminal appeal no 181 sb of 2000 whereby the high court partly allowed the appeal filed by the appellants thereby confirming the conviction of the appellants with certain modifications.
briefly stated case of the prosecution is that on the fateful day i e 18 11 1994 at about 8 00 a m in the morning the complainant jagdish pw 5 along with his two sons namely sukhbir and mange ram pw 6 were busy in cutting pullas reeds from the dola of their field.
at that time jage ram a 1 and his sons rajbir singh.
in the fight the accused persons started inflicting injuries to the complainant and his sons rajbir.
raju a 2 gave a pharsi blow on the head of sukhbir jage ram a 1 caused injury to jagdish pw 5 with two jaily blows.
dr pardeep kumar pw 2 also examined the other injured persons pw 5 jagdish and pw.
statement of jagdish was recorded based on which f i r was registered at police station taoru gurgaon under sections 323 324 325 and 307 read with section 34 ipc.
he examined the witnesses and after completion of investigation challan was filed under sections 307 325 324 read with section 34 ipc.
first accused jage ram pleaded that on the date of occurrence complainant party jagdish and his sons mange ram and sukhbir forcibly trespassed into the land belonging to the accused and attempted to forcibly cut the pullas.
jagdish further claims that he along with rakesh caused injuries to the complainant party in exercise of right of private defence of property.
rakesh a 4 adopted the stand of his father jage ram.
upon consideration of oral and documentary evidence the learned additional sessions judge vide judgment dated 17 2 2000 convicted all the accused persons sections 307 and 325 ipc and sentenced them to undergo rigorous imprisonment for five years and one year respectively and a fine of rs 500 each with default clause.
raju section.
sentence section 325 ipc two counts was modified as the sentence section 323 ipc and he was sentenced to undergo six months rigorous imprisonment.
it was submitted that injured witness sukhbir was not examined in the court and neither ct scan nor x ray nor operational notes of sukhbir were produced before the court and in the absence of such material evidence courts below erred in convicting the second accused section.
per contra learned counsel appearing for the respondent state contended that the evidence of all the witnesses satisfactorily establishes the overt act of the accused persons and jagdish pw 5 and mange ram pw 6 being the injured witnesses the veracity of these witnesses can not be doubted.
it was submitted that the medical evidence sufficiently corroborated the oral evidence and the prosecution has established the intention of the 2nd accused in causing attempt to commit murder of sukhbir and in appreciation of the evidence courts below recorded concurrent findings convicting the second accused section 307 ipc and the same warrants no interference.
as it emerges from the evidence complainant jagdish pw 5 and his two sons sukhbir and mange ram were cutting pullas.
pws 5 6 have clearly spoken about the overt act of the accused that a 1 jage ram attacked and caused injury to pw 5 jagdish with jaily blows and that second accused rajbir.
they have also stated that madan and rakesh caused injuries to pw5 jagdish with lathi on shoulder and left elbow respectively.
2 dr pardeep kumar in his evidence stated that he has examined pws 5 and 6 and noted the injuries on the body of pws 5 and 6 and issued wound certificates.
pws 5 and 6 being injured witnesses their evidence is entitled to great weight.
appellants have raised the contention that the prosecution failed to adduce evidence that a 2 rajbir attempted to commit murder of sukhbir.
it was submitted that injured person sukhbir was neither examined nor medical evidence like ct scan x ray and operational notes and sukhbir were produced to corroborate the oral evidence and while so courts below erred in convicting second accused rajbir.
injured sukhkbir was found vomiting in the hospital and he was examined by a neuro surgeon dr hilol kanti pal pw 9 of safdarjung hospital delhi on 19 11 1994 i e the day after the incident.
for the purpose of conviction section 307 ipc prosecution has to establish i the intention to commit murder and ii the act done by the accused.
whether the accused person intended to commit murder of another person would depend upon the facts and circumstances of each case.
therefore an accused charged section 307 ipc can not be acquitted merely because the injuries inflicted on the victim were in the nature of a simple hurt.
having regard to the weapon used for causing the head injuries to sukhbir nature of injures situs of the injury and the severity of the blows courts below recorded concurrent findings convicting the 2nd appellant section in our considered view the conviction of the second appellant rajbir.
placing reliance upon the judgment of this court in hari singh vs sukhbir singh ors 1988 4 scc 551 1988 indlaw sc 27 learned counsel for the appellants additionally submitted that in terms of section 357 3 cr.
vide state of m p vs bablu natt 2009 2 scc 272 2008 indlaw sc 2027 alister anthony pareira vs state of maharashtra 2012 2 scc 648 2012 indlaw sc 12 and soman vs state of kerala 2013 11 scc 382 2012 indlaw sc.
for inflicting blows on pw 5 jagidsh with jaily a 1 jage ram was convicted section 325 ipc and sentenced to undergo rigorous imprisonment for one year.
