1977 by the Life Insurance Corporation of India hereinafter referred to as the Corporation  which pro vides that an employee belonging to Class I or Class II appointed to the service of the Corporation on or after 1st September 1956 shall retire on completion of 58 years of age but the competent authority may if it is of the opinion that it is in the interest of the Corporation to do so direct such employee to retire on completion of 50 years of age and at any time thereafter on giving him three months  notice or salary in lieu thereof.
As mentioned earlier there were more than 200 insurers whose controlled business had been taken over by the Corporation and we are informed that there were about 27000 whole time employees working in them.
 The above regulation fixed the age of retirement of an employee at 55 years while empowering the authority to extend the service of an employee at its discretion every year upto 60 years of age.
Clause 6 of that order originally read as follows 6.
All employees appointed to the service of the Corporation on or after 1st September 1956 were required to retire on completion of 58 years of age but the appointing authority was empowered to retire any such employee on completion of 55 years of age or at any time thereafter if his efficiency was found to have been impaired.
An employee belonging to Class III or Class IV and a transferred employee belonging to Class I or Class II shall retire on completion of age 60 but the appointing authority may direct such employee to retire on completion of 55 years of age or at any time thereafter if his efficiency is found to have been impaired.
All the employees belonging to Class III and Class IV irrespective of the fact whether they were transferred employees or employees appointed after 1st September 1956 were entitled to continue in service till 60 years of age but the employees belonging to Class I and Class II who were appointed to the service of the Corpora tion on or after 1st September 1956 had to retire on the completion of 58 years of age subject to the usual clause relating to premature retirement.
A discrimination made by a State between the employees who are directly recruited to the service of the State and the employees whose services are taken over by the State on the taking over of the institutions where they were working has been held to be not unconstitutional by this Court in Ram Lal Wadhwa  Anr.
As already seen ever since 1937 and even before the two categories of teachers have always remained distinct governed by different sets of rules recruited by different authorities and having otherwise than in the matter of pay scales and qualifications differ ent conditions of service.
 It has to be observed in the case before us also that the transferred employees belong to a diminishing cadre.
Accordingly the President of India agreed to release 16 persons from the service of the Government of India to enable the Corporation to appoint them in its service by the Order of the Central Government dated 25th February 1964.
Does he still carry the stamp of experience and expertise of having worked with insurer Once a transferred em ployee of Class III and a direct appointee in that class are promoted to Class I obviously on merit efficiency and seniority then how can the distinction of transferred  and direct  be maintained.
 While we agree with the first part of the observations made in the above extract from the judgment of the High Court namely that it was not discriminatory to extend the benefit of the age of 60 years to the transferred employees we do not agree with the latter part of the observations made therein which suggests that on promotion from Class III to Class I the transferred employees and the directly re cruited employees would lose their birth marks.
Classification of employees into two categories for purposes of fixing the age of superannuation depending upon their dates of entry into service when the necessity for doing so arises on account of certain historical reasons is not unknown.
A ministerial railway servant who entered Government service on or before the 31st March 1938 and held on that date i a lien or a suspended lien on a permanent post or 219 ii a permanent post in a provision al substantive capacity under Clause d of Rule 2008 and continued to hold the same without interruption until he was confirmed in that post shall be retained in service till the day he attains the age of sixty years.
Clause b however provided that every ministerial railway serv ant who had entered the Government service on or before 31st March 1938 and who satisfied the conditions mentioned either in sub clause i or sub clause ii thereof was entitled to continue in service till he attained the age of 60 years.
As may be seen from that rule the classification of the employees was made on the basis of the date of entry into the service of the Government.
220 The Respondent in that case that is A Pitchumani while he was entitled before December 23 1967 to continue in service till he attained the age of 60 years as he had joined the service of the Madras and Southern Mahratta Railway Company on August 16 1927 ie prior to March 31 1938 and satis fied the other conditions mentioned in clause b of rule 2046 could not have the benefit of that clause on and after December 23 1967 since in the Madras and Southern Mahratta Railway Company where he was formerly working there was no rule similar to clause b as regards the age of retirement.
385 Sabyasachi Mukharji J has upheld the said classi fication of railway employees into two categories viz those who joined on or before 313 1938 and those who joined after 313 1938 for purposes of fixing the age of superan nuation on the basis of same historical facts which are set out in detail in that judgment.
221 On behalf of the 1st Respondent reliance is placed on the decision of this Court in Ms British Paints India Ltd vs The Workmen  in support of his case that there should be no discrimination amongst the employees of an establishment with regard to the age of superannuation.
By making the above observation this Court has virtually accepted the position that when there are special circumstances justifying the difference it is open to fix different ages of retirement for the employees of an establishment in appropriate cases.
It may be so.
