Appeal No 949 of 1966.
M C Chagla and B R Agarwala for the appellant.
section T Desai R N Sachthey and B D Sharma for the respondent.
The appeal was originally heard by J C Shah Ag.
CJ V Ramaswami and A N Grover JJ.
There were two partners of the firm Mohanlal Sagmal and Seshmal Sobhachand and Ramniklal and Lakshmichand minors were admitted to the benefits of the partnership each with 732 share in the profits.
The appellants had for a long time business relations with a firm styled Bhojaji Sobhachand carrying on business at Bombay as importers of yam and also as agents and adathias.
Sobhachand one of the partners of Bhojaji Sobhachand with 16 share in the profit and loss is the father of Seshmal Ramniklal and Lakshmichand partners of the appellants.
In the books of account of the appellants which were main tained according to the mercantile system there was a current sarafi account in respect of their transactions with the Bombay firm in which were credited the funds transmitted from Bombay in respect of their business transactions.
Entries relating to interest were posted till the end of Samvat Year 2006 in the account on the amount due at the foot of the account.
The Income tax Officer disallowed their claim holding that  these transactions were mere accommodations which can have no bearing to the regular business carried on by the assessee.
He held that the debt .
did not arise in the course of the appellants  business as chemists and druggists nor in the course of their money lending business.
The Income tax Appellate Tribunal accordingly confirmed the order of the Appellate Assistant Commissioner.
An accommodation advance is a neutral expression  it may be of the nature of a loan advanced in the ordinary course of business by a money lender it may be an advance the money lending or other business of the assessee but not in the nature of a loan or it may be wholly unrelated to the business of the tax payer.
Hence by its order dated April 7 1970 this Court directed the tribunal to submit a further statement.
