one lakshminarayana iyer a hindu brahmin who owned considerable properties in the tirunelveli district died on 13th december 1924 leaving him surviving a widow ranganayaki and a married daughter ramalakshmi.
ramalakshmi had married the plaintiff and had a number of children from him.
they were all alive in december 1924 when lakshminarayana died.
as regards the payment of maintenance to be made to chinnanmal alias lakshmi ammal wife of my late son hariharamayyan my wife ranganayaki ammal shall pay the same as she pleases and obtain a release deed.
ranganayaki entered into possession of the properties on the death of her husband.
ramalakshmi died on 25th april 1938 during the lifetime of the widow.
none of her children survived her.
the main issue in the suit was whether the widow took under the will an absolute estate or an estate like the hindu widow 's estate and whether the daughter 's interest therein was in the nature of a contingent remainder or whether she got in the properties a vested interest.
the subordinate judge held that the widow took under the will a limited life interest and not an absolute estate or even a widow 's estate under hindu law and that the daughter got there under a vested interest in the properties to which the plaintiff succeeded on her death.
in view of this finding he granted the plaintiff a declaratory decree to the effect that the first defendant had only an estate for life in the suit properties and that the alienations made by her would not endure beyond her lifetime.
the question as to the validity of the alienations was left undetermined.
during the pendency of the appeal the widow died on 14th february 1948.
leave to appeal to the supreme court was granted and the appeal was admitted on the 27th november 1951.
the substantial question to decide in the appeal is whether the estate granted by the testator to his widow was a fall woman 's estate under hindu law or merely a limited life estate in the english sense of that expression.
the decision of the appeal thus turns upon the question whether the testator 's intention was to give to his widow ail ordinary life estate or an estate analogous to that of a hindu widow.
the widow in such a case takes as a demise and not as an heir.
the court 's primary duty in such cases is to ascertain from the language employed by the testator what were his intentions keeping in view the surrounding circumstances his ordinary notions as a hindu in respect to devolution of his property his family relationships etc.
in other words to ascertain his wishes by putting itself so to say in his armchair.
the direction to her was that she should enjoy the entire properties including the outstandings etc.
and these shall thereafter pass to her daughters.
though no restraint in express terms was put on her powers of alienation in case of necessity even that limited power was not given to her in express terms.
the extent of the grant so far as the properties mentioned in the schedule are concerned to the daughter and the widow is the same.
this suggestion in the surrounding circumstances attending the execution of this will can not be sustained.
indeed we find that within four years of the death of the testator the widow was able to pay a lump sum of rs 3350 in cash to the daughter in law without alienating any part of the immovable properties and presumably by this time she had discharged all the debts.
by this transaction she substituted one property by another.
in our opinion even if that suggestion is accepted that for the limited purposes mentioned in the will the widow could alienate this power would fall far short of the powers that a hindu widow enjoys under hindu law.
we therefore hold that the estate conferred on ranganayaki ammal was more like the limited estate in the english sense of the term than like a full hindu widow 's estate in spite of the directions above mentioned.
she had complete control over the income of the property during her lifetime.
but she had no power to deal with the corpus of the estate.
and it had to be kept intact for the enjoyment of the daughter.
though the daughter was not entitled to immediate possession of the property it was indicated with certainty that she should get the entire estate at the proper time.
and she thus got an interest in it on the testator 's death.
she was given a present right of future enjoyment in the property.
the learned counsel in support of his contention drew our attention to a number of decisions of different high courts and contended that the words of this will should be construed in the manner as more or less similar words were construed by the courts in the wills dealt with in those decisions.
vide sasiman v shib narain 491.
a 2 5.
nath prasad 3 pat.
l j 199.
but as regards the immovable property none shall have the lest right of alienation.
they will of course be entitled to enjoy the balance left after payment of rent.
the provisions contained in this will bear no analogy to those we have to construe.
but there were other indications in that will showing that a widow 's estate had been given.
the fact that the gift over was a contingent bequest was by itself taken as a sure indication that the preceding bequest was that of a widow 's estate.
there is no such indication in the will before us.
reliance was next placed on the decision in pavani subbamma v ammala rama naidu 1937.
1 m l j 268.
1936 indlaw mad 236.
under the will there dealt with the widow s was to enjoy the properties and after her lifetime the properties were to be taken in the ratio of three to five by the son 's daughter and the daughter 's son respectively.
the following remarks in the privy council decision in nathu ram mahajan v gangayabai 1938.
in vasantharao ammannamma v venkata kodanda rao pantalu 1939.
indlaw mad 621 1940.
thereafter they shall pass to my grandson through my daughter.
it seems to us that he meant to give a daughter 's estate rather than a life estate.
he omits the words during her life with reference to the disposition in favour of the daughter.
these remarks do not throw much light on the point before us.
the question in every case can not be determined merely on the theory that every hindu thinks only about a hindu widow 's estate and no more.
what is given must be gathered from the language of the will in the light of the surrounding circumstances.
the learned counsel for the respondent followed the line adopted by mr krishnaswami iyengar.
there the testator made a will in favour of his wife providing inter alia.
and then my wife would enjoy all the remaining properties with absolute rights.
this decision only decides that case and is not very relevant in this enquiry.
reference was also made to the decision of their lordships of the privy council in mst.
bhagwati devi v chowdry bholonath thakur 1874 75 2 i a 256.
this was a case of a gift inter vivos.
the gift to mst.
their lordships see no sufficient reason for importing into this document words which would carry with them all these consequences and they agree with the subordinate judge in construing it according to its plain meaning.
this will was couched in different language than the will in the present case.
there was a clear prohibition forbidding the widow to make any transfers of the milkiuit estates and the slaves.
the will there ran as follows.
when i die my wife named suraj is owner of that property.
mr krisbnaswami lyengar on the other hand contended that the absence of any words in the will restricting her powers of alienation and putting a restraint on them suggested a contrary intention and that the daughter 's estate was described as coming into being after the estate of the widow and was not conferred on her simultaneously with the widow and this connoted according to the notions of hindus a full hindu widow 's estate.
in our judgment there is force in the contention of mr rajah iyer for reasons already stated and in the result therefore we dismiss this appeal with costs.
