this is an appeal on a certificate article 1331 of theconstitution from a judgment and decree passed by the appellate bench of the high court of calcutta.
modifying on appeal the judgment and decree passed by mr justice bose on the original side of that court.
on the 10th june 1891 he made and published his last will and testament whereby he dedicated to this family idol.
shree shree iswar sridhar jew his two immoveable properties to wit.
No 41 and No 401.
grey street in the city of calcutta.
probate of his said will.
on the 4th september 1909 bhupendra jnanendra.
and nagendra then a minor the three sons of rajendra filed a suit being suit No 969 of 1909on.
the idol was not made a party to this suit.
No 401.
grey street.
she obtained probate of the will on the 6th august 1912.
nagendra thereafter executed several mortgages of the said premises.
snehalata dutt filed in the year 1929 a suit being suit No 1042 of 1929 against nagendra the trustees under the said deed of settlement and the puisne mortgagees for realisation of the mortgage security.
hari pada.
dutt and durga charan dutt for a sum of rs 19000.
a petition made by the purchasers on the 12th january 1937 for setting aside the sale was rejected by the court on the 15th march 1937.
haripada dutt died on the 3rd june 1941 leaving him surviving his three sons pashupati nath dutt shambhunath dutt and kashinath dutt the appellants before us.
41 a and 402 a grey street were its absolute properties and for possession thereof for a declaration that the consent decree dated the 24th november 1910 in suit No 969 of 1909 and the award dated the 12th october 1920 and the dealings made by the heirs of jogendra.
No 41 a.
No 402 a grey street as in his opinion sushilabala as executrix to her husband 's estate and her two sons had acquired title to the said premises by adverse possession and the title of the idol thereto had been extinguished.
in regard however to the cross objection relating to premises.
the high court rejected the said application stating that there was no rule allowing cross objections in the supreme court.
the said cross objections were however printed as additional record.
the petition for special leave was therefore allowed to be withdrawn and no objection now survives in regard to the decree passed by the trial court dismissing the idol 's claim to the premises No 402 a.
the appeal is concerned only with the premises.
No 41.
with a view to provide for the expenses of his daily and periodical sheba and festivals etc.
grey street No 401.
if there be any surplus left after defraying the debsheba expenses the same shall be credited to the said sridhar jew thakur 's fund and with the amount so deposited repairs etc from time to time will be effected to the said house.
No 41 with a view to preserve it and the taxes etc.
and shall take the municipal bills in his name.
t is quite true that a dedication may be either absolute or partial.
the question whether the idol itself shall be considered the true beneficiary subject to a charge in favour of the heirs or specified relatives of the testator for their upkeep or that on the other hand these heirs shall be considered the true beneficiaries of the property subject to a charge for the upkeep worship and expenses of the idol is a question which can only be settled by a conspectus of the entire provisions of the will pande har narayan v surja kunwari 1921 l r 48 i a 143 145 146 1921 indlaw pc 56.
what we find here in cl.
3 of the will is an absolute dedication of the premises.
of the deity.
the said premises are expressly declared as dedicated to the deity.
of the said premises.
there is thus a clear indication of the intention of the testator to absolutely dedicate the said premises to the deity and it is impossible to urge that there was a partial dedication of the premises to the deity.
this argument however can not avail the appellants.
it was observed by lord buckmaster in delivering the judgment of the privy council in gnanendra nath das v surendra nath das 1920 24 c w n 1926 at p 1030.
in that case it is provided that the shebait for the time being shall be entitled to reside with his family in the said dwelling house but the dwelling house itself is the place specially set apart for the family idols to which specific reference is made in the will and in their lordships opinion the gift is only a perfectly reasonable arrangement to secure that the man in whose hands the supervision of the whole estate is vested should have associated with his duties the right to reside in this named dwelling place.
41 grey street to the idol was an absolute dedication.
cal 54 1932 indlaw cal 59.
but in the present case we have to see whether the possession of two joint shebaits becomes adverse to the idol when they openly claim to divide the property between them.
neither nagendra nor the appellants who derive their title from the auction sale held on the 9th december 1936 could therefore claim to have perfected their title to the premises.
grey street by adverse possession.
the second contention of the appellants also therefore fails.
appeal dismissed.
