the respondent No.
i was tried before the court of sessions visakhapatnam for offences under section 120 b indian penal code section 409 section 477 a and section 471 read with section 467 i p c while respondent No 2 was tried for an offence under section 120 b and for offences under sections 409 read with section 109 477 a and 471 read with section 467 i p c each of the respondents was convicted of the first two offences but.
the respondent No i alone was convicted of the other two offences.
the respondents preferred appeals before the high court challenging their convictions and sentences.
p c for the enhancement of the sentences passed on the respondents.
the prosecution case in so far as it is material for the decision of this appeal is as follows.
in the year 1929 the andhra engineering co which was originally a partnership firm formed by one d l n raju was converted into a private limited company with its headquarters at visakhapatnam.
we shall refer to this company throughout as the aeco.
the original managing agency agreement in favour of aeco with respect to vesco was for a period of 15 years i e from 1933 to 1948 and was later renewed for the remaining term of the currency of the licence granted by the government under the electricity act.
the vesco had its own board of directors while the aeco had also its own separate board of directors.
the vesco had no managing director but at each meeting of its board of directors one of the directors used to be elected chairman.
the same practice was followed at the meeting of the general body of the shareholders.
eventually many of those ventures failed.
the respondent No 1.
all this is not disputed.
the explanations of the managing agents and the directors of vesco with respect to the items mentioned in the orders of the board used also to be placed by him before the shareholders.
there were no complaints about the management of the affairs of vesco or the aeco till the end of 1946 or the beginning of 1947.
one significant fact however which occurred prior to 1946 is referred to by the prosecution.
this person was auditor for greenlands hotel at visakhapatnam.
of which the respondent No i was a director.
srinivasa rao originally a stores boy.
laksbminarayana rao was appointed the cashier.
the term of the managing agency was renewed in 1943 and aeco con tinued to be managing agents until the vesco was taken over by the government in 1952.
this amount was however paid by the aeco from the funds of vesco.
he agreed and was elected managing director of aeco in the middle of 1948.
upon this understanding he accepted the position offered to him.
the vesco used to receive large amounts of money from high tension power consumers such as the railways k g hospital the port administration the andhra university etc.
the respondent No 2 was asked by the respondent No i to maintain a private note book.
in that book payments which used to be made by respondent No 2 on the basis of slips issued by the respondent No i used to be noted and the amount totalled up at the end of the day.
on the basis of the entries in the handover book the final accounts were written up.
when the respondent No i had to issue a personal cheque on any of these banks he used to ask the second respondent to send an equivalent amount to the bank concerned for being credited to his account.
it may be mentioned that subba raju used to visit visakhapatnam twice a month and check up the account books.
a lakh of rupees passed through that account.
amounts which were misappropriated used to find their way in this account.
subba raju was not satisfied with the nature of supervision exercised by c section raju over the affairs of vesco because he used to look only at the cash book entries of the days on which he paid visits to vesco 's office to which he used to go with previous intimation.
subbaramayya took his work seriously and called for information on a number of points from the respondent No 1.
he however was unable to obtain any information.
in january 1952 he therefore brought one section g krishna aiyar who had vast experience in the maintenance of accounts of electrical undertaking 's having been chief accountant of the south madras electric supply corporation to undertake an investigation and then to act as financial adviser.
the shareholders felt that the report had been received but was being suppressed or deliberately withheld.
however the meeting was postponed and eventually held on december 9 1951.
on that date the respondent No 1 produced the auditor 's report.
according to the prosecution the report is a forged document.
that report showed that during the period 1948 49 rs 33 271 10 0 shown as paid to the andhra power system were in fact not paid.
the respondent No 1 on being asked to explain said that he would give his explanation to the managing director.
in fact in april 1952 the collector attached vesco properties for realising this amount.
he was given time for doing so but he failed to pay it.
he however directed ramana to make his confession before a submagistrate.
the high court set aside the conviction of the respondents on a number of grounds.
according to it the provisions of section 239 were of no avail.
then according to the high court offences under.
section 409 and section 471467 are of different kinds and are not capable of joint commission.
therefore they could not be jointly tried.
in so far as the respondent No 2 is concerned the high court has held that since he was charged with a specific offence under s 409 i p c he could not be convicted of mere abetment of an offence.
the high court has also held that his evidence is unreliable and further that the additional sessions judge was in error in allowing him to refresh his memory by referring to various documents in a manner not permitted by section 159 of the evidence act.
the high court has further stated that inadmissible evidence was taken on record by the additional sessions judge namely account books of billimoria brothers maintained in gujrati and further that the additional sessions judge was in error in allowing the prosecution to use those account books for establishing absence of entries with regard to certain payments alleged in the vesco books to have been made to them.
finally the high court held that the examination of the respondent under section 342 of the code was unfair for a number of reasons and that the additional sessions judge had failed to perform an important duty in that he did not call the attention of the respondents to the provisions of section 342 which enable an accused person to give evidence in his own behalf.
the procedure adopted in the investiga tion and committal stages was irregular.
4 that the court abused its powers under s 342 cr.
p c while conducting the examination of the respondents.
the evidence of the approver was inadmissible because the pardon granted to him was illegal that in any case it is unreliable was so found even by the sessions judge and must therefore be rejected.
if the evidence of the approver is left out the remaining evidence would be inadequate to sustain the prosecution case.
the first question for consideration is whether there was a misjoinder of parties and of persons.
on the face of it this is a valid charge.
unless therefore the provisions of section 239 are applicable it would follow that there was a misjoinder of charges.
the third charge is that the two respondents along with the approver.
the main reasons upon which the conclusion of the high court is based are firstly that there could be no clubbing together of the provisions of the various clauses of section 239 and secondly that the respondents were charged with more than three offences of the same kind and that this was in contravention of section 239 c.
in coming to the conclusion that the provisions of various clauses of section 239 can not be applied cumulatively the high court has relied upon the decision in re vankavalapati gopala rao 1956 airandhra 21.
221 to 223 deal with the framing and content of charge.
then we come to the other sub head of this chapter.
it thus lays down the normal rule to be followed in every case.
234 235 236 and 239.
now if the respondent No 1 were alone tried upon the second third and the fourth charges the provisions of section 2351 could have been pressed in aid if the allegations were that the offences were so connected together as to form one and the same transaction and the validity of the trial would not have been open to any attack.
similarly if the second respondent were alone tried on the second charge his trial would not have been open to any objection if the allegation were that the offences were so connected together as to form the same transaction.
let us therefore examine closely the provisions of section 239.
on the other hand at the end of cl.
f there is a conjunction and.
of course a court has the power to depart from the grammatical construction if it finds that strict adherence to the grammatical construction will defeat the object the legislature had in view.
obviously section 233 does not override the provisions of section 239.
c of section 239.
these words he contended clearly show that cl.
c of section 239 is subject to the provisions of section 234.
in our opinion the words within the meaning of section 234 indicate that what was meant by the words offence of the same kind persons accused of more offences than one of the same kind not exceeding three in numberor may have used the words person accused of more than one offence of the same kind to the extent permissible under section 234.
the expression same transaction occurring in cls.
looking at the matter in that way it is pointless to inquire further whether the provisions of section 239 are subject to those of section 2361.
bearing in mind the fact that the provisions in the former part of chapter xix are applicable to charges made with the aid of section 239 only so far as may be it would not be right to construe section 239 as being subject to the provisions of sections 233 to 236.
we can not however give the expression such a restricted meaning.
indeed the very expression so far as may be empha sises the fact that while the earlier provisions have to be borne in mind by the court while applying section 239 it is not those provisions but the latter which is to have an overriding effect.
apart from this the question whether the provisions of sections 233 to 236 have or have no overriding effect on section 239.
we have already indicated how those clauses may be grammatically read.
the decision of the allahabad high court in t r mukherji 's case il is directly in point and is clearly to the effect that the different clauses of section 239 are mutually exclusive in the sense that it is not possible to combine the provisions of two or more clauses in any one case and to try jointly several persons partly by applying the provisions of one clause and partly by applying those of another or other clauses.
no corresponding advantage can be gained by the accused persons by following the procedure of separate trials.
we entirely agree with the high court that joint trial should be founded on some principle.
no reason has been stated in support of this view.
let us consider whether there is anything intrinsically incompatible in combining two clauses of section 239.
a and b.
the transaction in which all of them have participated is the same and the abetment by x y and z of the offence committed by a b and c would itself establish the connection of their acts with those of x y and z next let us take cls.
let us consider these clauses along with another illustration.
each of them has committed two offences and each of them participated in the same offence.
now supposing in the illustration given a killed the man and b killed his wife.
c they could be tried together because the offences are of the same kind.
a and c can not be combined.
then take section a and d d persons accused of different offences committed in the course of the same transaction can be tried together.
some of the members of the unlawful assembly carried axes with them while some others carried lathis and attacked the other group.
during the course of the attack one person from the second group was killed as a rest of blows with an axe inflicted by the aggressors a b and c two persons of the second group sustained grievous hurt as a result of lathi blows and one person sustained simple hurt.
a of section 239.
nor again could they be tried jointly only with the help of cl.
d yet the transaction in which the offences were committed is the same and there is a close association amongst the persons who have committed the different offences.
a and d of section 239.
a so also a b and c could be jointly tried together for an offences under section 302.
read with section 149 and section 325.
read with section 149.
similarly if we take cl.
to repeat the object of the legislature in enacting section 239 cr.
the reasons given by the allahabad high court therefore do not merit acceptance.
the decision in singarachariar 's case 1934 indlaw mad 352 c has really no bearing upon the point before us.
what was held there was that sections 235 1 and section 236 are mutually exclusive and if a case is covered by one of them it can not be covered by the other.
in that case the question was whether a person who was first tried for an offence under section 380 i p c for stealing a blank second class railway ticket from the booking office tried for it and acquitted could not be tried subsequently for the offence of forgery by making entries in that ticket and using it.
the high court however held that to be a kind of case which fell under section 2351 of the code and that since that was so the provisions of section 236 were excluded.
the precise point which we have to consider here did not fall for consideration in that case i e whether the provisions of the various clauses of section 239 could be used together or not.
this decision is therefore of little assistance.
on the other band there is the decision of this court in the state of andhra pradesh v kandinmlla subbaiah which is to the effect that where several persons had committed offences in the course of the same transactions they could jointly be tried in respect of all those offences under section 239 of the code of criminal procedure and the limitation placed by section 234 of the code could not come into operation.
two of the accused persons preferred a revision application before the high court of andhra pradesh in which they challenged the charges framed against them.
the high court allowed the revision application.
but then section 235 1 provides that if in any one series of acts so connected together as to form the same transaction more offences than one are committed by the same person he may be charged with and tried at one trial for every such offence.
to this kind of charges.
239 would apply.
this court has thus clearly read the provisions of the various clauses cumulatively and we see no reason to read them differently.
there remains the decision of this court in k v krishna murthy iyer v the state of madras in on which mr bhimasankaram strongly relied.
in that case this court upheld the order of the high court of madras in quashing the charges in the exercise of its inherent powers even before the conclusion of the trial.
it is true that there the charges were 67 in number and spread over a long period of time.
but in the case before us no objection was taken to multiplicity or misjoinder of charges before the learned additional sessions judge and it was only in the high court that the point was raised.
the whole question has again been examined by this court recently in birichh bhuian v the state of bihar subba rao j who delivered the judgment of the court has stated the position thus even if we were to assume that there has been a misjoinder of charges in violation of the provisions of sections 233 to 239 of the code the high court was incompetent to set aside the conviction of the respondents without coming to the definite conclusion that misjoinder had occasioned failure of justice.
this decision completely meets the argument based upon dawson 's case.
merely because the accused persons are charged with a large number of offences and convicted at the trial the conviction can not be set aside by the appellate court unless it in fact came to the conclusion that the accused persons were embarrassed in their defence with the result that there was a failure of injustice.
for all these reasons we can not accept the argument of learned counsel on the ground of misjoinder of charges and multiplicity of charges.
then this court has observed.
this decision is sufficient to dispose of the point under consideration.
in swamirathnam 's case 1 which is a decision of this court certain persons were tried for the offence of the conspiracy to cheat the members of the public and for specific offences of cheating in pursuance of that conspiracy.
it was urged before this court that there was misjoinder of charges and persons.
negativing the contention.
this court held that the charge as framed disclosed a single conspiracy although spread over several years that there was one object of the conspiracy and that was to cheat the members of the public that the fact that in the course of years other joined the conspiracy or that several incidents of cheating took place in pursuance of the conspiracy did not have the effect of splitting the conspiracy into several conspiracies.
no doubt there is no discussion there as to the question whether the various clauses of section 239 could be combined or as to the impact of the provisions of section 233 to 236 on those of section 239.
the actual decision of the case is however directly opposed to the contention now put forward before us.
this decision has been followed in natwarlal sakarlal.
mody v the state of bombay.
a No iii of 1959 decided on january 19 1961.
in that case the impact of section 120 b i p c on sections 233 and 239 of the code of criminal procedure was considered by this court and this court observed.
here again the question of clubbing together of the various provisions of cls.
but the ultimate decision of the case would negative such argument.
in the first place there the trial had not actually begun.
the last objection was that the charge of conspiracy was added to the charge sheet very late.
in the indian penal code as originally enacted conspiracy was not an offence.
but what the amendment did was to make that conspiracy itself punishable.
in so far as the fourth point is concerned that would have a bearing not on the form of the charge but on the credibility of the evidence bearing on the point of conspiracy.
in so far as the portion included in the bracket is concerned we agree with the learned counsel that it should not have found place there.
the ideas however of the committing magistrate in stating all that is said there appears to have been merely to describe the conspiracy and do nothing more.
be said to vitiate the charge.
the object in saying what has been set out in the first charge was only to give notice to the respondents as to the ambit of the conspiracy to which they will have to answer and nothing more.
in support of his first contention he referred to questions nos 4 8 9 10 and 20 put to the respondent No i and question No 12 put to the respondent No 2 and tried to show that those questions rolled up a large number of separate questions and that it could not have been possible for the respondents to give any rational answers to those questions.
we have read the questions and so also the answers.
in fact written statements have been filed by each of them in which every point left over has been fully answered.
a pointed reference was made to question.
No 20 put to respondent.
it is true that by introducing this provision the disability placed on an accused person in respect of giving evidence on oath in his own defence has been removed and to that extent such person is placed on par with an accused person under the english law.
in the circumstances this point must also be rejected as being without substance.
the irrelevant evidence to which mr bhimasankaram referred was certain account books.
the entries in the account books of vesco show that certain sums of money were paid to various parties crompton engineering co lumin electric co d brothers radio and electrical madras vizagapatam municipality p v ramanayya bros and andhra power system.
they also show payment case was that the payments which were entered in the account of vesco do not find a place in the account books of the corresponding firms or authorities because they were never made by vesco.
the high court has pointed out that the main evidence on which the prosecution rests its case that the amount represented by the entries against these various firms were in.
fact misappropriated by the respondents in the circumstance that there are no corresponding entries in the account books of those firms.
the prosecution be established by reference to section 34 of the indian evidence act which reads thus.
therefore when a sues b for a sum of money it is open to him to put his account books in evidence provided they are regularly kept in the course of business and show by reference to them that the amount claimed by him is debited against b the entry though made by a in his own account books and though it is in his own favour is a piece of evidence which the court may take into consideration for the purpose of determining whether the amount referred to therein was in fact paid by a to b the entry by itself is of no help to a in his claim against b but it can be considered by the court along with the evidence of a for drawing the conclusion that the amount was paid by a to b to this limited extent entries in the account books are relevant and can be proved.
section 34 does not go beyond that.
it says nothing about non existence of entries in account books.
we therefore agree with the high court that the account books of the various concerns to whom payments are said to have been made by the respondents are not by themselves evidence of the fact that no payments were received by them.
cal 1024 upon which reliance is placed by the high court in support of its view is also to that effect.
similarly in ram prashad singh v lakhpati koer 1902 i l r 30.
cal 231 247.
that however is not the only provision to be considered.
there is section ii of the evidence act which provides that facts not otherwise relevant are relevant if they are inconsistent with any fact in issue or relevant fact.
these are relevant facts.
absence of entries in their account books would be inconsistent with the receipt of the accounts and would thus be a relevant fact which can be proved under section 11.
similarly there is section 5 of the evidence act which reads thus it is the case of the prosecution that the alleged payments were never made by vesco to the various firms.
one of the partners of the firm was examined by the prosecution as a witness in the case and he produced the account books of the firm.
the high court held that since the account books were not translated they are not admissible in evidence.
the high court was clearly wrong in so holding.
in coming to this conclusion it has relied upon the provisions of section 356 2a of the code of criminal procedure.
mr bhimasankaram therefore very rightly did not support the view of the high court.
in the circumstances we wish to say nothing further on the point.
we may however point out that billimoria himself gave his evidence in english.
in our opinion where a witness has to depose to a large number of transactions and those transactions referred to are or mentioned either in the account books or in other documents there is nothing wrong in allowing the witness to refer to the account books and the documents while answering the questions put to him in his examination.
the next point is a formidable one.
for all these reasons the evidence of the approver must be left out of account.
the pardon is stated to be illegal for two reasons.
section 337 1 as it stood before its amendment by act 26 of 1955 read thus.
for the pardon granted in this case can be regarded as being within the ambit of section 337 1 for another reason.
be that as it may there is no substance in the first ground.
what we have said about pardon in respect of an offence under section 409 would apply equally to that for one under section 120 b because the punishment for it is the same as that for the offence under section 409.
no doubt under entry 9 a in part iii of sch.
therefore a pardon granted by him in such a case would be illegal.
in order to appreciate and consider the argument it is desirable to bear in mind the changes in the magisterial set up in the former province of madras which comprised within it the district of visakhapatnam.
it divided the magistrates into two groups judicial magistrates and executive magistrates.
para 4 of the instructions provides.
this body of magistrates was made subordinate to the high court.
consequent on the separation.
he became only an additional district magistrate.
in spite of the government order all magistrates who have under sch.
in our opinion there is no subtance in the contention.
but entry 7 a in part v of sch.
there is therefore no warrant for drawing a distinction between the powers of the district magistrate and the powers of a district magistrate.
iii of the government order which reads thus.
in support of his contention he strongly relied upon the decision in kandaswamy gounder.
in re the appellant i l r 1957 mad 715 and the cases referred to therein in particular the decision in winson v queen 1866 l r i q b what has been held in all these cases is that where the trial of a person who was charged with having committed an offence or offences jointly with several persons is separated from the trial of those persons he would be a competent witness against them though of course there will always be the question as to what weight should be attached to his evidence.
the question raised is an important one and requires a serious consideration.
but in the view we take about the legal validity of the pardon tendered we do not wish to pronounce one way or the other on this very interesting question.
now as regards the reliability of the approver.
it is no doubt true that an approver has always been regarded as an infamous witness who on his own showing has participated in a crime or crimes and later to save his own skin turned against his former associates and agreed to give evidence against them in the hope that he will be pardoned for the offence committed by him.
that in our opinion is not the correct legal position.
the section itself shows that the motivating factor for an approver to turn what in england is called king 's evidence is the hope of pardon and not any noble sentiment like contrition at the evil in which he has participated.
whether the evidence of the approver should in any given case be accepted or not will have to be determined by applying the usual tests such as the probability of the truth of what he has deposed to the circumstances in which he has come to give evidence whether he has made a full and complete disclosure whether his evidence is merely self exculpatory and so on and so forth.
the court has in addition to ascertain whether his evidence has been corroborated sufficiently in material particulars.
we however find that certain documents upon which mr chari wants to rely are not included in the paper book.
there is another thing which we would like to make clear.
the decision in sarwan singh v the state of punjab 1957 b c r 953 on which reliance has been placed by the high court has been explained by this court in the case of maj e g barsay v the state of bombay.
this court has pointed out in the latter decision that while it must be shown that the approver is a witness of truth the evidence adduced in a case can not be considered in compartments and that even for judging the credibility of the approver the evidence led to corroborate him in material particulars would be relevant for consideration.
with these observations we set aside the acquittal of the respondents and remit the appeal to the high court for decision on merits in the light of our observations.
