the facts of the case in brief are that in view of the chinese invasion air field at sirsa required to be extended for which purpose the ministry of defence govt.
this agreement was signed both by the appellant and p w 14.
pursuant to this agreement it is said that symbolic possession of the land which was acquired was taken over by the tehsildar on 1st february 1963 after which at any rate it appears from exhibit p 24 that actual possession of this land was handed over by the said tehsildar on 13th.
february 1963 to the appellant.
the receipt ex.
in respect of this allegation the first information report exhibit p 29 was issued on 14 1 64 in which the following statement is relevant.
after accepting illegal gratification of rs 3000 from them.
major som nath did not account for this amount in the govt.
he thus.
against that conviction and sentence he appealed to the high court which maintained the conviction and sentence.
it was also contended that the high court had not considered the contradictions in the earlier statement made by some of the witnesses to the military authorities and that it relied on many of the documents for affirming the conviction of the appellant without their actually being put to him under section 342.
before we consider these contentions it is necessary to determine another submission of the learned advocate for the appellant which goes to the root of the jurisdiction of the court to try the offence under section 51c.
if this contention is valid then the conviction of the accused can not stand and therefore it is necessary to deal with this matter first.
in any case we do not think that there is any validity in the submission.
that the sanction given by the govt.
the sanction that has been accorded is in the following terms 11th april 1966.
by order and in the name of the president.
sd a p veera raghavan.
deputy secretary to the govt of india.
from the above order it is apparent that the facts which the central govt.
the question therefore would be whether these facts were sufficient to sustain the sanction under 51c even if the charge under 51d had failed.
this question in turnwill depend upon what are the ingredients of the offences under 51c and d read with section 52.
it would be seen therefore that under section 51c a public servant will be said to commit the offence of misconduct in hi duties if he dishonestly allows any other persons to convert to his own use property which is entrusted to the said public servant the facts which have been set out in the order granting the sanction certainly are sufficient to indicate that the authorities granting the sanction had the offence under section 51c also in their contemplation.
in fact the order specifically mentions thisprovision while granting sanction.
there is therefore no basis for sanction for a charge under section 51c.
and gokulchand dwarkadas mordrka v the king 1948 indlaw pc 39.
nor in their lordships view is a sanction given without reference to the facts constituting the offence a compliance with the actual terms of cl.
in the present case there is nothing on the face of the sanction and no extraneous evidence to show that the sanctioning authority knew the facts alleged to constitute a breach of the order and the sanction is invalid.
the case of jaswant singh v the state of puniab.
the session judge had found that both charges were proved.
section 61 of the act bars the jurisdiction of the court to take cognizance of an offence for which previous sanction is required and has not been given.
in our view there is no justification for holding that the conviction under section 51c read with 52 is bad for want of the requisite sanction.
before we deal with the contentions urged on behalf of the appellant it is necessary to have a clear picture of certain broad features of the case.
the acquired land extended from rd 1200 to rd 00.
there is however nothing in this document to show what is the site of which possession was handed over to and taken by telu ram on 10th january 63.
in this letter he says 12th feb 1963.
my dear mr nagpal i am writing to you with regard to.
acquisition of land for sirsa airfield.
as you know.
this is interest of the project.
in fact as we have noticed earlier this is what telu ram says in his evidence namely that on loan january63 no delivery of possession of the remaining land other than rd 4500 to 1200 the land in which there is the existing run way was given.
a copy of this letter was sent to the garrison engineer the appellant.
the work on that land is only at the stage of getting approval.
p w 14 says that symbolic possession was delivered to him in respect of the acquired land on the 1st february63.
it would however appear from exh.
as otherwise there is no meaning in the appellant saying therein that it is desirable that entire proceedings with regard to acquisition of land and determining compensation for standing crops for the total area of 39 58 acres are finalised on the 13th february.
the khasra girdawari exhibit p 3 would show that there was a crop of sargon mustard gram and lusan at any rate on 20th march 63 at a time when the land has been shown therein to have been in possession of the military authorities.
this evidence however does not assist the accused.
this again does not specifically refer to the land which is being acquired.
he may please be asked to complete this formality without any loss of time.
in reply the appellant states in his letter exhibit p 12 dated the 10th april.
the matter has already been discussed with you and finalised.
no further action is required to be taken.
it can be seen from the above that the appellant is reluctant to reply in writing as to what he is asking the contractor to do under verbal orders while the contractor for safeguarding his position is insisting on having it in writing.
the trial court as well as the high court are in our view justified in holding that crops of sarson gram and lusan were standing on the land acquired by the military for extension of the aerodrome.
it 1is true that when a witness has admitted having signed his previous statements that is enough to prove that some statement of his was recorded and he had appended his signature thereto.
the only question is what use can be made of such statements even where the witness admits having signed the statements made before the military authorities.
if this is not done the evidence of the witnesses can not be assailed in respect of those statements by merely proving that the witness had signed the document.
the whole of the previous statement however can not be treated as substantive evidence.
as already noticed is the letter of telu ram jain to the assistant garrison engineer and p 10 is the letter of telu ram jain to the garrison engineer.
both these related to possession of the acquired land not being given to him.
in the examination of the accused under section 342 the special judge in our view did put all the circumstances against the accused which formed the basis of the conviction.
the letter exhibit p 13 was also put to him and he was asked about the existence of the crops.
we do not therefore think that there is any justification in the criticism that circumstances appearing in the several documents have not been put to him.
it is lastly contended that certain witnesses who would be necessary to unfold the prosecution story have not been called and in spite of the court directing the production of the usufruct register it was not produced.
these omissions it is submitted by the learned advocate has prejudiced the accused.
similarly it is said that the tehsildar n l handa has not been produced.
we are therefore not impressed with this argument.
we do not think in these circumstances there is any justification whatever for interfering with the concurrent findings of the trial court and the high court that the appellant is guilty of an offence under section 51c read with section 52 of the prevention of corruption act and consequently the appeal is dismissed.
appeal dismissed.
