the main question raised in this appeal by special leave at the instance of state of gujarat and the collector of sabarkantha against the gujarat high court 's judgment and order dated january 30311975 allowing the writ petition of the respondent is whether once the competent authority under s 24 i of the bombay merged territories and areas jagirs abolition.
act1953 bombay act.
according to the respondent by these grants parvanas read together he was given full proprietary rights in the soil of the said villages that is to say it was a proprietary jagir that was granted to him by the then ruler.
it further appears that pursuant to an order dated november 241959passed by the mamlatdar idar an entry was made on june 181963in the relevant revenue records village form no 6 of one of the villages kapoda comprised in the jagir to the effect that the respondent 's right to take out gravel and stones was recognised but the right relating to excavation of mica had been reserved and retained by the government this entry was only certified on march 301965 according to the respondent since the entries made in the revenue records in respect of his rights to mines and mineral products were not sufficient and proper and though the mamlatdar 's order dated november 241959 was in respect of two villages namely kapoda and isarwada the relevant entry in respect of greval and stones had been made only in regard to village kapoda he by his application dated october 111968requested the collector sabarkantha to issue necessary orders to the mamlatdar idar to make appropriate entries regarding his rights in the minerals in village isarwada.
accordingly the high court set aside the collector 's order and further issued an injunction permanently restraining the state of gujarat and the collector from initiating any inquiry under s 372 in respect of the respondents rights to mines and mineral products in the said villages.
the appellants seek to challenge the said judgment and order of the gujarat high court in this appeal.
according to learned counsel the mere circumstance that the respondent 's jagir was found under s 24.
he therefore urged that the high court was right in quashing the collector 's order dated february 231973.
the general question is whether once the competent authority under s 2 4 i of the act declares that the particular jagir is a proprietary one a further inquiry under s 372 of the land revenue code with a view to determining whether the jagirdar had rights to mines and mineral products in such jagir subsisting on the appointed date is competent.
the other specific question is whether in the facts of the case and having regard to the nature of evidence considered and the specific finding made by the competent authority while determining the question under s 24.
ithe further inquiry initiated by the collector under s 372 was misconceived and uncalled for.
dealing with the first question which is of a general character it is clear that the answer thereto depends upon the true scope and ambit of the inquiry under s 2 4 i of the act and to determine the same it will be necessary to consider the scheme and object of the act and in particular the purpose of the said inquiry.
the enactment as its preamble will show has been put on the statute book with a view to abolishing jagirs of various kinds in the merged territories and merged areas in the state of bombay and to provide for matters consequential and incidental thereto.
s 2 contains the definitions of various expressions some of which are material s 2vi defines the expression jagir as meaning the grant by or recognition as a grant by the ruling authority for the time being before the merger of a village whether such grant is of the soil or an assignment of land revenue or both there is also an inclusive part of definition with which we are not concerned.
s 2vii defines jagirdar as meaning a holder of a jagir village and includes his co sharer.
if any question arises.
i whether a jagir is proprietary or non proprietary iiwhether any land is ghatked or jiwai or iiiwhetherany person is a permanent holder.
the state government shall decide the question and such decision shall be final.
section 3which contains the main provision dealing with abolition of jagirs provides that notwithstanding anything contained in any usage grant sanad order agreement or any law for the time being in force on and from the appointed date which under s 2 1 i is a date on which the act comes into force which is august 11954all jagirs shall be deemed to have been abolished and save as expressly provided by or under the provisions of this act the right of a jagirdar to recover rent or assessment of land or to levy or recover any kind of tax cess fee charge or any hak and the right of reversion or lapse if any vested in a jagirdar and all other rights of a jagirdar or of any person legally subsisting on the said date in respect of a jagir village as incidents of jagir shall be deemed to have been extinguished.
ss 5 and 6 make provision as to what persons upon abolition of jagirs and conversion of jagir land into unalienated land would be occupants who shall be primarily liable to the state government for payment of land revenue.
grant or law for the time being in force or by custom or usage.
ss 13 and 14 provide for methods of awarding compensations to jagirdars by the collector and against the awards of the collector under either of these provisions a appeal has been provided at the instance of the aggrieved party to the revenue tribunal under s 16 s 17 provides the procedure for disposal of appeals by the revenue tribunal while s 18 prescribes a period of limitation for preferring such appeals and s 20 gives finality to the award made by the collector subject to appeal to the revenue tribunal.
the rest of the sections are if formal character and not material for our purposes.
the aforesaid survey of the material provisions of the act will bring out two or three aspects very clearly.
there is yet one more aspect emerging from the definition of the expression proprietary jagir which leads to the same inference.
proprietary jagir has been defined in s 2xviii to mean a jagir in respect of which the jagirdar under the terms of a grant or agreement or by custom or usage is entitled to any rights or interest in the soil.
these aspects bring out true scope and ambit of the inquiry under sec 24i and clearly show that the determination of the question whether a jagir is proprietary or nonproprietary does not necessarily involve the determination of the question whether the jagirdar had any rights to mines and mineral products on the appointed date it is true that prima facie the owner of the surface of the land would be entitled to everything beneath the land and ordinarily mines and mineral products would pass with the right to the surface but this would be so in the absence of any reservations made in the grant if there be reservations or qualifications in regard to mines or mineral products in the grant then these would not pass.
it is therefore not possible to accept the contention of learned counsel for the respondents that a determination under s 2 4 i of the act to the effect that a particular jagir is a proprietary one necessarily implies that the grantee is entitled to mines and mineral products in the villages comprised in the grant especially when having regard to the definition given in s 2xviii a jagir could be proprietary without a right to mines and mineral products.
in other words our answer to the general question raised above would be that even after the competent authority has declared a particular jagir to be a proprietary one under s 24.
i of the act a further inquiry under s 372 of the bombay land revenue code into the question whether a jagirdar had any subsisting rights to mines and mineral products in the jagir villages on the appointed date would be competent unless the grant of a right to mines and mineral products or the actual enjoyment thereof in keeping with the grant happens to be the basis of the determination under s 2 4 1 of the act.
the main valid objection to the said inquiry is that the condition precedent the existence of which canlead to the initiation of such inquiry is absent here.
s 371 of the code contains the well known declaratory provision where under all public roads lanes and paths the bridges ditches dikes beds of the sea harbours and creeks below high water mark and of rivers streams nallas lakes and tanks etc and all lands wherever situated which are not the property of individuals are declared to be with all rights in or over the same or appertaining thereto the property of the crown then follows sub s 2 which is material and it runs thus 372.
in other words before the collector can initiate an inquiry under that provision either the state or the individual must put forward a claim to a property or any right in or over the property and it is such claim that is to be inquired into by the collector whose decision subject to a civil suit filed within one year is rendered final.
the question in the instant case is whether the respondent by making the two applications one dated october 111968 to the collector of sabarkantha and the other dated october 41971to the mamlatdar taluka idar could be said to have put forward or laid a claim to a right to excavate gravel and stone a particular mineral product so as to afford an occasion for the collector to initiate the inquiry.
the material on record clearly shows that the respondent could not be said to have done so.
that being the position there was no occasion for the collector to initiate the inquiry under s 372 of the code in fact he had no jurisdiction to do so the condition precedent not being satisfied.
moreover having regard to the statement made by counsel for the respondent before us it would be unfair to subject the respondent to the further inquiry under s 372 of the code.
we find considerable force in this contention.
in these circumstances it would be fair and proper that the respondent is not subjected to a further inquiry under s 372 of the code so far as his right to excavating gravel and stones from the two villages of kapoda and isarwada is concerned.
if and when he prefers a claim to this particular mineral productfrom other villages comprised in his grant or to the other mines ormineral products in all the villages including isarwada and kapodaan inquiry into such claim under s 372 could be held but even the decision at such inquiry would be subject to adjudication by a civil court in appropriate proceedings for the final pronouncement on such rights must as is clear from the scheme of the bombay land revenue code always rest with the civil court.
in this view of the matter we feel that the high court was right in its final conclusion whereby it has quashed the inquiry initiated by the collecor under s 372 of the code and issued the necessary injunction prayed for by the respondent.
the appeal is therefore dismissed with costs.
