whether the appellant herein and his father had sublet the premises in question in or about 1960 in terms of section 131e of the bombay rents hotel and lodging house rates control act1947.
in order to decide this question it is necessary to decide the scope and ambit of section 292 of the rent act.
to decide this facts must be referred to.
the respondent is the landlord of the two premises and these were situated at raikhad ward ahmedabad.
the respondent had alleged in the two suits that the appellant was his tenant in the suit premises which were leased out to him and before him his father for conducting the business in the name of ahmedabad fine.
weaving works and according to the terms of tenancy suit premises were leased for manufacturing cloth in the name of ahmedabad fine.
weaving works.
nos 24 and 5 in the name of respondent no 2m s.
bharat neon signs hereinafter referred to as respondent no 2.
at the time of the institution of the suit the defendants nos 2 to 5 were admittedly the partners.
the present appellant who was the original defendant no 1 claimed to be a partner.
the said partnership deed records six persons who were to run the business in manufacturing and selling bharat neon signs tubes.
however the document is silent as to where the business was started.
on or about 24th of october1960.
another partnership deed being exhibit 69 came to be executed among the six persons and the father of the appellant girdharlal.
the document is exhibit 69 and is signed by the father of the appellant and the appellant himself also.
in 1965 some partners retired and the remaining four partners executed a fresh partnership deed exhibit 117 on 1st.
april1965 this last partnership deed was executed by the appellant and original defendants.
nos 34 and 5.
it is true that since after 4th of october1960 the partnership firm was carrying on business in the premises in question.
for this proposition see the decision of the gujarat high court in the case of mehta jagjivan vanechand v doshi vanechand harakhchand and others.
indlaw sc 748.
the trial court in the instant appeal held that there was subletting.
the suit inter alia was filed by the landlord on the ground of subletting.
in the premises the appeal was allowed.
it may be mentioned that the respondent no 1 is the landlord of two premises which were quite adjacent as mentioned before.
weaving works and according to the terms of tenancy suit the suit premises were leased for manufacturing cloth in the name of ahmedabad fine weaving works.
there was a decree for possession.
this was set aside in appeal.
the partnership deeds were there the appellant was not to share in the losses.
the high court in revision reversed that finding.
the first question therefore is whether the high court could do so in the facts of this case and secondly whether the high court was right in so doing.
the first question therefore is what is a partnership.
the following important elements must be there in order to establish partnership1 there must be an agreement entered into by all parties concerned2.
the agreement must be to share profits of business and 3 the business must be carried on by all or any of the persons concerned acting for all.
the partnership deeds were there entitling the petitioner to share in the partnership.
but there is nothing illegal about it.
the appellant was to bring his asset being the tenancy of the premises in question for the user of the partnership.
the appellate court had considered the partnership deeds.
it was in the second partnership deed that the appellant and his father joined the firm.
the firm started as emphasised by mr mehta on 4th of october1960 and it was only on the 24th of october1960 the second partnership deed was executed.
we are unable to agree.
secondly it was emphasised by mr mehta that the partnership deed was a camouflage.
it was so in the income tax returns and assessments.
therefore it was submitted that the court of small causes committed an error of law resulting in miscarriage of justice.
there was evidence of suit of dissolution of the partnership where none of the partners took the plea that it was a false or a fictitious document.
all these factors were present before the court of small causes.
that in the partnership deed which is not necessary to recite the terms the petitioner was completely excluded in operating the bank accounts etc.
there is nothing inherently illegal or improbable making a provision of such a type.
in the eye of law such a clause is really non sequitur or neutral proving neither the existence nor non existence of a genuine firm.
in this the appellant was not a partner.
it recited that the partnership started from 4th of october1960 at ahmedabad.
it was registered in the name of 7th and 8th partners girdharlal who was the appellant and his father.
we find intrinsically nothing improbable.
it is embodied in the deeds the functioning of the partnership.
1 the entire work of our partnership has to be carried out in the name of bharat neon signs.
2 the work to be carried out by our partnership is of manufacturing and selling neon signs tubes and of obtaining orders therefore.
we are of the opinion that these were evidence that these terms were acted upon.
there was nothing intrinsically wrong in law in constituting a partnership in the manner it was done.
in any event all these factors were considered by the court of small causes bearing in mind the correct legal principles.
the question is can the high court do so in law.
this court in hari shankar v rao girdhari lal chowdhury1962 1 suppl.
scr 933 1961 indlaw sc 157 had to consider section 351 of the delhi ajmer rent corntrol act1952.
the said section reads as follows 351.
this court emphasised that the distinction between an appeal and revision is a real one.
this view had also been expressed in the decision of this court in puranchand v motilal1963.
supp 2 s c r 906 1962 indlaw sc 455.
in that case the question whether the appellant was legally married no finding was necessary in the eviction suit.
it was further held that whether there was subletting was not a mixed question of law and fact.
it extended to corrections of all errors which would make the decision contrary to law.
in this view in our opinion the ambit of the power was expressed in rather wide amplitude.
as we read the power the high court must ensure that the principles of law have been correctly borne in mind.
secondly the facts have been properly appreciated and a decision arrived at taking all material and relevant facts in mind.
it must be such a decision which no reasonable man could have arrived at.
lastly such a decision does not lead to a miscarriage of justice.
the fact that the high court would have taken a different view is wholly irrelevant.
judged by that standard we are of the opinion that the high court in this case had exceeded its jurisdiction.
in the case of punamchandra revashankar joshi v ramjibhai maganlal gujarat law reporter.
the authority vested in the high court under the amendment still remained only in the domain of the jurisdiction and power of revision and no further.
the amending provision therefore only related to procedure and not to any rights of the parties.
this court in the case of bhai chand ratanshi v laxmishanker tribhavan1982 1 rent control journal 2421981.
the high court could not substitute its own finding for the one reached by the courts below on a reappraisal of evidence.
the court of small causes considered these principles evaluated the evidence and held that there was in fact and in law a partnership.
such a view was not an impossible one or a perverse one.
we may mention that in gundalapalli rangamannar chetty v desu rangiah and others a i r 1954.
the mere fact that another is allowed to use the premises while the lessee retains the legal possession is not enough to create a sub lease.
we are further of the opinion that the court of small causes was right in the view it took.
and it was a possible view to take.
in the result the appeal is allowed and the judgment and order of the gujarat high court dated 21st of august1979 are set aside.
the appellant herein is entitled to the costs throughout.
appeal allowed.
