the order of the court was as follows.
in these matters relating to admission to professional courses in medicine engineering pharmacy nursing etc in educational institutions which are claimed to be minority educational institutions the petitioners have questioned the applicability of the scheme framed by this court in j p unni krishnan v state of a p 1993.
1 scc 645 1993 indlaw sc 1056.
in pursuance of the said order this bench has been constituted.
the claim of being a minority whether based on religion or language and the claim of being a minority educational institution put forward by the petitioners can not be pronounced upon without first ascertaining what the said expressions connote and signify.
we have heard shri soli j sorabjee learned senior counsel for the petitioners in these two writ petitions.
there will be an interim order in the following terms i fifty per cent of the total intake in the petitioners educational institutions shall be permitted to be filled up by candidates selected by the agencies of the state government on the basis of a competitive examination test.
it is open to the respondents to question this status claimed by the petitioners.
it was directed that the order dated may 141993would not apply to educational institutions falling in categories 4 and 5 and the institutions referred to in paragraph 18 of the order dated august 181993 the order dated may 141993was made applicable to the institutions falling in categories 12 and 3 with the modification that following were added in continuation of the said order in continuation it is made further clear that whether any of the petitioner institutions is a mei or not is a matter for the government to verify and determine.
we do not more particularly at this stage make any pronouncement in that behalf.
this order shall be shahal h musaliar v state of kerala1993 4 scc.
such statements shall contain as full a particulars as possible.
any such irregularity if proved may entail serious consequences.
the fees charged in the government colleges and that the admission to these institutions is made on the basis of an all india common entrance test separately conducted by the petitioner and admissions are made on the basis of merit as determined in the said test and further that in view of the reputation of these institutions thousands of students apply for and appear in the entrance test every year.
in the order dated august 181993the following directions were given in respect of the institutions covered by the aforesaid writ petitions nos 284 of 1993 and 482 of 19932 having regard to the above circumstances we permit the petitioners.
in the above two writ petitions to admit students to their colleges on the basis of entrance test conducted by them and on the same basis on which admissions were made by them in the said colleges in the previous academic year.
in case of irregularity any of the said authorities shall be entitled to call upon the petitioner to rectify the said irregularity.
dealing with writ petition no 598 of 1993the court after noticing that an agreement was entered into between the institution and the government of kerala according to which while 85 of the seats were to be filled by the government and the remaining 15 of the seats were left for the management to fill up in its discretion observed that since the basic principle in unni krishnan as well as the order dated august 181993 is that merit shall be the guiding principle in the matter of admission a plea for discretionary quota could not be countenanced and it was directed that the said writ petition shall also be governed by the order dated may 141993as modified by addition.
indlaw sc 2264 unnikrishnan j p v.
it was further made clear that this was a special provision made only for that year.
since the entire expenditure of the colleges is borne by the state the entire fees collected are also made over to the state these colleges must be required to draw the students even with respect to the seats to be filled by the management from out of the state merit list if any.
in the absence of such list they can themselves devise the method for such selection.
we make it clear that regarding the character of these institutions whether they are minority educational institutions we express no opinion.
that is a matter between the institutions and the government of kerala.
in rest of the minority educational institutions falling in categories 12 and 3 indicated in paragraph 5 of the order dated august 1819932admission shall be made in accordance with the directions contained in the order dated may 141993 in writ petitions nos 350 and 355 of 1993 as modified by order dated august 1819932but the directions would not apply to the institutions referred to in paragraph 18 of the order dated august 1819932 in this context we would like to impress upon the managements of the institutions concerned that while assessing the merit of a candidate for admission the objective should be to promote the excellence of the institution as a vehicle of general secular education.
written submissions in brief should be submitted by learned counsel by july 131994.
conservators forest working in the forest department.
in k c joshi case it was concluded that the promotees were appointed on ad hoc basis as a stop gap arrangement in 7ubstantive posts.
their appointments were dehors the rules.
their continuous length of ad hoc service from the date of their initial appointment can not be counted towards seniority.
their seniority shall be counted from the date of their discharging duties of the post of asstt.
conservators forest and the seniority of direct recruits shall accordingly be fixed.
the seniority of the promotee asstt.
all the employees are entitled to all consequential benefits.
it came up for hearing on august.
in the light of that stand while dismissing the contempt petition this court directed the sate government to dispose of the matter on the basis of the representation that may be received from the petitioners therein against the draft seniority list within six months from that date.
shri r k garg for the promotees contended that as on august 311982 selection of the promotees on regular basis to fill up the posts of asstt.
therefore they are entitled to the seniority from the respective years.
it is also contended that the promotees are entitled in terms of the judgment in k c joshi case for appointment by promotion to substantive vacancies within their quota in the respective years and that therefore their seniority should be counted from the years in which they started discharging their duties as asstt.
conservators forest as they were initially appointed to the substantive vacancies.
as per the ratio the promotees are entitled to 33 13per cent quota.
as on march 11198532 more posts were created and the total posts available were 218 on.
december 1198640 more posts were created.
therefore as on march ii1985the total posts available were.
258 on march 11985the quota was increased by 50 per cent.
the promotees therefore are entitled to 50 per cent of the posts.
as in the year 199072 more posts were created and the total posts are now 330 therefore they are entitled to 50 per cent of the quota in the tentative list.
but that was not done.
thereby the action of the state is in defiance of the direction issued by this court.
therefore they are entitled to only 33 13 per cent quota.
we have to consider therefore whether the procedure adopted by the sate to determine the inter se seniority is in accordance with the rules and the law laid down in k c joshi case.
from the averments it would appear that 100 promotee asstt.
conservators forest are awaiting appointment to substantive vacancies.
the total number of direct recruits appears to be 215 prior to december 311974the quota was 75 per cent to the direct recruits and 25 per cent to the promotees.
similarly as on january 11975the ratio was increased to 33 13 per cent namely66 23 per cent to the direct recruits and 33 13 per cent to the promotees.
therefore the operative rule as on that date appears to be 33 13 per cent in respect of promotees.
therefore the procedure to be adopted by the state in fixing the inter se seniority of the direct recruits and the promotees in their respective quota is the sole question.
there is no rota prescribed in the rules.
it is a policy matter.
in the event of converting them as permanent under rule 24the quota prescribed in rule 6 would be applied to substantive posts.
on so determining the direct recruits would go en block as seniors to the promotees and the promotee officers in the order of their inter se seniority be appointed by the governor under rule 5b read with rule 6 and would be placed below the direct recruits.
the officers he they direct recruits or promotees would rank below the juniormost officer in the list of the previous year.
as and when the temporary posts are converted either into permanent posts or the vacancies arise due to superannuation of the senior officers they should be fixed in the respective vacancies and fitment made.
these directions would meet the exigencies.
the contempt petitions are accordingly disposed of.
petition disposed of.
