twelve accused persons were tried for offences under section 302307149324147148 and section 3 of terrorist and disruptive activites.
prevention act1987 hereinafter referred to as tada by the learned designated judge pune.
out of the said twelve accused6 accused were acquitted of all the charges while the five appellants herein namely bonkya alias bharat shivaji mane a 5mandu baliba dombe a 8ashok baloba dombe a 9ranjar bhausaheb dombe a 10 and kaka alias pandurang baloba dombe a 11 were convicted for offences under section 302307149 ipc and section 3 of tada and sentenced to suffer life imprisonment and to pay a fine of rs 5000 each for the offence under section 302149 ipc.
the substantive sentences of imprisonment were however directed to run concurrently.
one accused died during the pendency of the trial.
for the sake of convenience the accused shall be referred to hereinafter by the number assigned to them in the trial court judgment as accused i e a 5a 8a 10 etc.
the accused a 6a 10 and a 11 alongwith one other person were also present at the video parlour.
pw both the prosecution witnesses as well as.
the accused party left the video parlour threatening each other.
on the arrival of accused party anna shetty ran away.
he ran away to conceal himself.
all the injured persons were admitted to the hospital.
while receiving the treatment popat succumbed to his injuries.
on receipt of information asstt.
on the basis of the said report an fir for offences under section 302307149147148 ipc was registered vide cr no 101 of 1990 at about 6 00 p m the inquest on the dead body of popat was conducted and the body was sent for post mortem examination.
an auto rickshaw bearing registration no mwq 5624 belonging to manik bhende gavali was found abandoned in a damaged condition with broken glasses.
it was also taken into possession vide a panchnama.
the accused were searched for but could not be traced.
they were subsequently arrested on different dates.
a 10 also made a disclosure statement under section 27 of the evidence act to the effect that he had buried a sword behind yamai tukai temple and could get it recovered.
samples of blood of the accused were collected for ascertaining their blood groups and sent for chemical analysis.
the blood samples of bajrang pw 14 and baban karpe pw 9 were similarly collected.
during the pendency of the two charge sheets the addl.
public prosecutor through an application ex.
baloba a 1 died during the pendency of the trial and therefore the proceedings against him abated.
the plea of the remaining accused in their statements under section 313 cr.
p c was one of total denial and false implication.
the appellants however were convicted and sentenced in the manner as already noticed.
we have heard learned counsel for the parties and perused the record.
from the post mortem report prepared by dr a p khiste.
pw 22we find that the deceased had four incised injuries which had caused extensive damage to his internal organs also.
transverse incised wound on right parital region bone deep4 x 2 x 1 cms.
cms above right ear fracture of right parietal bone with laceration of brain.
3 verticle incised wound 5 x 1 x 1 cms.
bone deep at centre of vertex fracture of skull with laceration of brain.
pw 22 opined that these injuries individually as well as collectively were sufficient in the ordinary course of nature to cause death.
edges were clean out.
2 abraded contusion below right knee and front of right leg5 x 5 cm.
pw 14 bajrang was also medically examined and the following injuries were found on him 1.
transverse lacerated would on occipital region3 x 1 cm.
injury was bleeding fresh.
2 multiple abraded contusion all over the back.
so far as the first incident is concerned that merely provided the motive for the assault near the jagdamba hotel and the math.
the evidence regarding the first incident was given by pw10pw11 and pw12 these witnesses deposed that while they were watching a movie at the video parlour a 11a 6 and a 10 alongwith one other person had occupied the seats in the row behind them and when the leg of a 11 dashed against the leg of pw10who told him to keep his leg properly a 11 started abusing him in filthy language and threatened him that he would deal with him.
in view of the altercation the complainants left the video parlour and went towards jagdamba hotel.
some of the prosecution witnesses including the deceased pw9 and pw14 were already standing near the jagdamba hotel.
near the jagdamba hotel it was bajrang pw 14 who received the injuries at the hands of the accused.
pw 19 was declared hostile by the prosecution and was cross examined by the addl.
we are in agreement with the designated court that there is ample evidence led by the prosecution to establish the incident at the video parlour and also that the said incident was the origin for the subsequent assault.
public prosecutor with the permission of the court.
out of the remaining witnesses mentioned above pw 9 and pw 14 are the injured witnesses.
an identification parade had been held by shri shrikant chimanaji jahagirdar pw 32executive magistrate.
so far as other accused are concerned none of the prosecution witnesses ascribed any role to a 2a 3 and a 12 and even though pw 15 deposed at the trial about the presence of a 4a 6 and a 7 and stated that they were present with the accused party but the trial court for good and sufficient reasons found that his testimony as regards their presence in the unlawful assembly had not received trustworthy corroboration from any other prosecution evidence.
baban karpe pw 9himself an injured witness failed to identify a 10 at the time of the identification parade held by pw 32though he identified a 10 later on in the court during the trial.
that apart the name of a 10 does not figure specifically in the statement of baban pw 9which formed the basis of the fir ex 77 pw 10pw 11 and pw 15 have tried to implicate a 10 by making tell tale improvements in their statements at the trial by ascribing a role to him in the assault by improving upon their statements earlier recorded during the investigation with which statements they were duly confronted.
in view of the improvement made by the prosecution witnesses at the trial from their earlier statements and the infirmities already noticed we are of the opinion that it can not be said with any amount of certainty that the participation of a 10 in the assault or even his presence in the unlawful assembly at the time of the assault near jagdamba hotel or the math has been substantiated.
in so far as the remaining appellants are concerned the evidence of the eye witnesses and particularly of pw 3 and pws 9 to 14 unmistakably connects them with the assault on the complainant party near the jagdamba hotel and at the math resulting in the death of popat and injuries being caused to pw9 and pw14 despite searching cross examination nothing has been brought out in their cross examination from which any doubt may arise about the participation of a 1a 5a 8a 9 and a 11 in the assault or discredit the testimony of any of these witnesses.
the victims it appears from the record belong to the wadar community.
there is no basis for such an assumption.
prosecution has led no evidence in that behalf either.
it appears to be a mere coincidence that pw9pw14 and the deceased all belong to the wadar community.
by no stretch of imagination.
in hitendra vishnu thakur and others vs.
state of maharashtra.
and others 1994 4 scc602.
appellants no 1 a 52 a 83 a 9 and.
the designated court therefore rightly found the said appellants guilty of the offences under section 302149307149 and section 324149.
in the result the appeal succeeds insofar as a 10 appellant no 4 is concerned.
he is given the benefit of doubt and acquitted of all the charges against him.
he shall be released from custody forthwith if not required in any other case.
before we part with the judgment we would also like to deal with a submission made on behalf of the appellants by their learned counsel that since the offence under section 3 of tada is not made out the criminal appeal filed in this court may be transferred to the high court for its disposal in exercise of our jurisdiction under article 142 of the constitution of india for the reason that a first appeal against conviction and sentence recorded for various offences under the indian penal code by the sessions court lies to the high court.
the argument is fallacious and runs in the teeth of the express provisions of section 19 of tada.
section 19 1 and 2 of tada read as follows.
there can not be piece meal hearing of an appeal on merits first by this court to determine if an offence under tada is made out or not and then by the high court.
the submission of the learned counsel is thus devoid of merits and is consequently rejected.
