we have heard learned counsel on both sides.
the admitted facts are that the respondents through their agents had registered trade mark raleigh and other trade marks 12 marks under the indian merchandise marks act1889 4 of 1989 and the trade marks act1940 5 of 1940 the trade and merchandise marks act1958 43 of 1958 for short the act which came into force with effect from october 31958 has repealed the predecessor act and now the act is in operation.
the respondents entered into an agreement with sudhir kumar sen on november 31948 to render technical know how to the indian company to be formed which would manufacture bicycles and market them under raleigh 's indian trade marks.
raleigh was recorded as permitted users of the trade marks.
by agreement dated december 291962sen raleigh and the respondents agreed that sen raleigh was registered user for further period up to 1976 sen raleigh was taken over by the government of india on september 81975 under the idr act and the government took over the management of sen raleigh limited.
the agreement dated december 291962 was modified and the respondents were given option to terminate the agreement.
an agreement dated december 201976 was entered into between the appellant as registered user and the respondent in respect of 12 trade marks for a period of 5 years.
there is no specific bar for an unregistered lincesee to use registered trade mark so long as there is a connection in the course of trade between the licenser and the lincesee.
the appellant was unable to prove that there had been no such user of the trade mark for a continuous period of 61 months or longer and the lack of bona fide intention the expression by any registered proprietors in s 461b should not be restricted to user by proprietor or registered user who should also include bona fide or authorized users the legislature did not intend to register proprietor to be deprived of their property at the instance of user whose use is unregistered.
the appellant had not taken any steps to withdraw registered user applications and as such should not be permitted to take such a contradictory stand of applying for rectification at the same time.
the power u s 46 is discretionary.
in view of the appellant 's conduct it was taking advantage of its own wrong.
the discretion therefore was not to be extended in favour of the appellant.
thus this appeal by special leave.
shri raju ramchandran learned senior counsel for the appellant raised three fold contentions.
the respondents admittedly did not use the same.
it is contended that the registered user must be understood to be the user by the proprietor or authorized user registered under section 48 the period of 5 years should be computed from that date of expiry of registered user.
on the other hand it is for the respondent to prove the same.
the respondents did not prove that they were prevented to use the same for 5 years or more preceding the date of the application.
in the absence of such a findings the high court was wrong in law in refusing to rectify the trade mark and striking it off the register.
the court while exercising its discretion u s 46 should look into not only commercial interest of the parties but also public interest.
shri ashok desai learned senior counsel for respondents resisted the contentions.
the appellant was using the same as an agent.
it would also be considered as a special circumstance for non user.
in view of the diverse contentions the question arises whether the high court was right in refusing to rectify and strike off the trade marks of the respondents from the register of trade marks.
s 461b reads as under.
46 removal from register and imposition of limitations on ground of non use  1.
s 48 provides for registered users which reads thus 48 registered users  1 subject to the provisions of section 49a person other than the registered proprietor of a trade mark may be registered as the registered user thereof in respect of any or all of the goods in respect of which the trade mark is registered otherwise than as a defensive trade mark but the central government may by rules made in this behalf provide that no application for registration as such shall be entertained unless the agreement between the parties complies with the conditions laid down in the rules for preventing trafficking in trade marks 2 permitted use of a trade mark shall be deemed to be use by the proprietor thereof and shall be used by a person the proprietor for the purpose of s 46 or for any other purpose for which such use is material under this act or any other law.
sub s 2 of s 48 give defence to permitted user in relation to a registered trade mark.
it means the use of the trade mark by a registered user of the trade mark in relation to good with which he is connected in the course of trade and in respect of which the trade mark remains registered for the time being and for which he is registered as a registered user and which complies with any conditions or restrictions to which the registration of the trade marks is subjected to.
s 48 1 envisages that subject to the provisions of section 49a person other than the registered proprietor of a trade mark may be registered as a registered user thereof in respect of any or all of the goods in respect of which the trade mark is registered otherwise than as defensive trade mark.
the central government is empowered to prevent trafficking in trade mark.
should be either by the registered proprietor of the trade mark or a person other than the registered proprietor registered u s 481 to use the trade mark by operation of sub section 2 an un registered person u s 481 or a person who did not register u s 1 of s 48 shall not be deemed to be a registered user for the purpose of s 46 or any other law.
it is true as held by this court that to get a trade mark registered without any intention to use it in relation to any goods but merely to make money out of it by selling it to others the right to use it as a commodity would be trafficking in that trade mark.
it requires to be prevented and prohibited.
the court would not lend assistance to such registered proprietors of the trade mark.
it is a question of fact in every case.
the question is whether the trade connection exists to dispel the charge of trafficking in the trade mark.
it was therefore not a case of getting the trade mark registered under the predecessor act and continuing under the act for trafficking of the trade mark.
the benefit of s 46 would be available during the period for which the agreement registered and user continued in furtherance thereof.
it must therefore be held that though the deemed presumption under sub s 2 of s 48 is referable to the permitted user or the registered user and it does not extend to unregistered permitted user the connecting link of passing off the goods between the licensor 's trade mark and the lincesee should bona fide be with the permission or consent which may be express or implied by long course of dealings.
it would connect the registered proprietor and the user of the trade mark by the unregistered lincesee.
in k r beri and co vs.
the metal godds mfg.
co pvt limited and anr.
we have given anxious consideration to the reasoning therein.
although the special circumstances of trade taken by themselves would have prevented the use of the trade mark.
though there was a ban on impart of the raleigh cycles manufactured outside india and passed off under the registered mark of the respondents as a registered proprietor the circumstances do not attracted sub section 3 of s 46 to relieve the respondents to establish non user but on the facts of this case we have the admitted position that sen raleigh admittedly was a registered user through which the appellant had bona fide used the registered trade mark of the registered proprietor there is no discontinuance or non use of the trade mark by the respondent to establish the special circumstances in this case.
suffice it to hold that subs 3 of s 46.
is not attracted to the facts in this case.
the question then is whether the discretion has been properly exercised by both the division bench as well the single judge in refusing to take off the trade mark from the register by striking off trade mark from the register of the registrar of trade marks.
though the appellant has not used the trade mark by itself since 1954 and after the expiry of the permitted use by sen raleigh until the notice was issued by the respondent directing the appellant not to use the trade mark the appellant came to use the same in passing off bicycles manufactured by it under trade mark of the respondent.
the high court in our view declined for good reasons to rectify the trade mark under section act b of the act.
in these circumstances we are of the view that the high court has properly exercised its discretion and refused to rectify and strike off the trade mark from the register of trade marks of the registrar.
the appeal is accordingly dismissed but in the circumstances without costs.
