the appellant is a trust which wanted to establish a self financing engineering college and submitted an application during 1994 95 to the university of kerala as well as to all india council for technical education hereinafter called the aicte.
there was an inspection by a team of professors of the university and it recommended favourably when it stated that the facilities provided by the appellant would be sufficient for establish ing an engineering college.
the abovesaid approval was subject to the fulfilment of specific conditions mentioned in annexure i and the general conditions mentioned in annexure ii to the said letter.
in the event of contravention of the conditions guidelines norms and regula tions of the aicte the aicte could withdraw the approval at any time.
under the impression that the state govt was to grant permission the appellant requested the state government by letter dated 24 6 1995 for permission to start the college.
in inviting your attention to the reference cited i am to inform you that government regret their inability to comply with your request.
the government was also directed to reconsider its decision.
it is against the abovesaid judgment of the division bench that this appeal has been preferred.
learned senior counsel for the appellant.
sri t l vishwanatha.
the aicte had consulted the state of kerala as well as the mahatama gandhi university.
the university had granted conditional approval as stated earlier.
therefore the aicte consti tuted a task force and obtained its opinion and thereafter granted its approval on 13 11 1995 subject to various conditions.
according to the learned senior counsel it was indeed not necessary for the appellant to have applied to the state government for any further sanction to establish the college.
another v adhiyaman educational research institute.
also there were four engineering colleges at kannur trichur kottayam and thiruvananthapuram districts and three private aided engineering colleges at palakkad ernakulam kothamangalam and kollam districts.
the model engineering college emakulam was a selffinancing engineering college and others were the colleges at changannur and pathansamthitta and there was a self financing engineering college at kasargode.
there were also two unaided engineering colleges at mallappuram and thiruvananthapuram.
thus the government policy was not to grant fresh approvals.
if more approvals were granted it might lead to commercialisation of education.
the following points arise for consideration 1.
whether any statute in the state of kerala if it required such approval would be void.
this point is more or less covered by the judgment of this court in state of tamil nadu.
but in the context of s 10k regarding approval for starting a technical institution certain aspects of the judgment need to be highlighted.
before we refer to the abovesaid judgment it will be necessary to refer to certain provisions of the aicte act and the relevant regulations.
s 11 of the act deals with inspection.
regulations have been framed on 31st october1994 by the aicte in exercise of powers conferred on it by s 231 of the aicte act.
d no approved intake capacity of seats shall be increased or varied except with the approval of the council.
regulation 5 deals with the forms of the applications and regulation 6 deals with the conditions for grant of approval sub cls 1 of regulation 6 deals with the financial position.
sub cl 2 with the courses or programmes and sub cl 3 deals with the power of admissions and sub cl 4 with tuition fees etc and sub cl 5 with the staff and sub cl 6 with the governing body of the private institutions and subcl 7 with other matters.
regulation 8 deals with scrutiny of applications.
there is a prelimi nary scrutiny of the applications by the bureau rc of the council.
sub cl 4 of regulation 8 reads as follows.
the bureau rc shall invite comments recommendations on the applications referred to in sub regulation 3 from the follow ing namely.
i the state government concerned ii the affiliating university state board of technical education iii bureaus mpcd iv bureau bos v bureau ra vi the regional office.
sub cl 5 of regulation 8 requires the regional office to arrange visits by an expert committee constituted by the council which is to forward its recommendations to the council.
on the recommendation of the central task force the council shall decide the question of grant of approval as sought for in the application.
provided that the council may for reasons to be communicated to the applicant allow the approval with such restrictions or modifications as it may deem necessary.
the tamil nadu case.
at that time in 1984the aicte act was not on the statute book.
the university also granted permission on 21 11 87 for the academic year 1987.
the learned single judge and the division bench held in favour of the trust and quashed and orders of the government and the university.
the said judgments were affirmed by this court.
it was held that the aicte act was referable to entry 66list.
after the constitutional amendment 42 amendment act1976 entry 25 of list iii in the concurrent list.
thus the state law under entry 23 of list iii would be repugnant to any law made by the parliament under entry 66 of list i to the extent of inconsistency.
the tamil nadu act was of 1976 and the university act was of 1923 and were laws referable to the list.
i in the above case this court referred to the various provisions of the aicte act and on the question of repugnancy held as follows.
hence on the subjects covered by the statute the state could not make a law under entry 25 of list iii after the forty second amendment.
such repugnancy would have to be adjudged on the basis of the tests which are applied for adjudging repugnancy u art 254 of the constitution.
we shall now refer to the above judgment dealing with the question of approval for establishing technical institutions under s 10k of the aicte act.
it was stated that inasmuch as the state act will overlap and will be in conflict with the provisions of the central act in various areas.
granting approval for starting new technical institution.
inspection of technical institution which are matters covered by the central act.
it is not the university act and the university but it is the central act and the council created under it which will have the jurisdiction.
to that extent after the coming into force of the central act the provisions of the university act will be deemed to have become unenforceable.
the question is as to how far the judgment in the tamil nadu case is to be applied in the state of kerala.
it was however contended that the tamil nadu case was concerned only with the standards of education and as to who could fix them.
we are not inclined to agree.
we have already pointed out under point 1 that in the tamil nadu case s 10k of the aicte act was referred to and the power of approval for establishing a technical institution was considered in our opinion even if there was a state law in the state of kerala which required the approval of the state government for establishing technical institutions such a law would have been repugnant to the aicte act and void to that extent as held in the tamil nadu case.
it reads as follows grant of affiliation 1.
in case affiliation is granted the fact shall be reported to the senate at its next meet ing.
it will be noticed that cl 97 of the statute required that before the university took a decision on affiliationit had to ascertain the views of the state government.
the reference to the commission in the above cl 97 is to the commission of inspection appointed by the university.
sub cl 1 of cl 9 of the statute required verification of the facilities that may exist for starting the new colleges course.
that could not be characterised as requiring the approval of the state government.
as pointed out in the tamil nadu case there were enough provisions in the central act for consultation by the council of the aicte with various agencies including the state governments and the universities concerned.
the state level committee and the central regional committees contained various experts and state representatives.
in case of difference of opinion as between the various consultees the aicte would have to go by the views of the central task force.
the university could not therefore in any event have sought for approval of the state government.
thus we hold in the present case that there was no statutory require ment for obtaining the approval of the state government and even if there was one it would have been repugnant to the aicte act.
the university statute 97 merely required that the views of the state government be obtained before granting affiliation and this did not amount to obtaining approval.
if the university statute required approvalit would have been repugnant to the aicte act.
factual position and pleadings in this case.
the aicte had granted condition approval and the conditions were specified in annexure.
the letter said that for that reason the proposals of the university were being submitted to the government for necessary action.
the all india council for technical education and the mahatma gandhi university have sought for the remarks of the state government.
the state government in its counter then gave the names of the existing colleges and their location.
we have already referred to these details.
it also observed that there was widespread student prospects against starting new colleges and it was necessary to be cautious in the matter of starting new engineering colleges.
state government 's refusal to grant permission is illegal and void on merits.
this ground of repugnancy alone would be sufficient to quash the state government 's letter dated 16 8 1996 refusing to give their approval.
even on merits the reasons given by the state government in its counter are not tenable in law.
the director of technical education of the state was a member of the state level committee as per regulation 94 of the aicte regulations.
the secretary technical education of the state of kerala was also a member of that committee.
the aicte 's approval dated 30 4 95 showed that the approval had been given by the state level com mittee of which they were obviously members.
it is therefore not under standable how the director had given a contrary opinion to the state government.
regulation 84 of aicte only required calling for the com ments recommendations of the state government and of the university.
in case there was difference between the state government university or the regional committee the central task force was to make a final recommen dation under regulation.
the letter of approval of the aicte dated 30 4 95 showed that the central task force had given its approval.
the so called policy of the state as mentioned in the counter affidavit filed in the high court was not a ground for refusing approval.
decision of university in not granting further or fined affiliation wrong on merits.
admittedly the university 's inspection report was in favour of the appellant.
this is clear from the appellant 's letter dated 31 5 95 to the state government.
the only requirement as per the statute 97 was for the university to obtain the views of the state government.
obtaining the views of the state government as already stated did not amount to obtaining its approval.
procedure and conditions for affiliation could not be inconsistent with the provisions of the central act in particular s 10k of the regulation and the university could not seek approval of government.
there will be no order as to costs.
m jagannadha rao j.
the petitioner was not a party in the high court of kerala and this special leave petition was filed with leave of this court.
it will be for the petitioner to have the said matter disposed of by the high court of delhi.
