a suit was filed in s c suit no 493 of 1986 in the bombay city civil court bombay by vicco laboratories appellant herein manufacturers of ayurvedic pharmaceutical products against defendant nos 1 to 4respondents herein for a declaration that the title and format of the suit serial yeh jo hai zindagi exclusively belonged to them and respondents nos 1 to 4 have no right thereto and for permanent injunction restraining the said respondents from making use of the title or episodes belonging to the petitioners or any episodes hereafter made.
a number of averments germane to this case as set out in the plaint are set out hereunder.
the petitioners carried on business as manufacturers of ayurvedic pharmaceuticals products which were sold under the brand name of vicco and have acquired substantial reputation in the market.
in 1984doordarshan in order to popularize sponsored serial undertook the production of a serial by the name humlog.
the petitioners claimed that they were the real producers and owners of the said serial yeh jo hai zindagi and the petitioners to the knowledge of the respondents have entered into an agreement assigning the video rights in the said serial to one m s esquire distributing and servicing pvt.
the petitioners apprehended that the respondent nos 1 to 3 intended to produce further episodes under the title yeh jo hai zindagi making use of the same format as the earlier serial for and on behalf of the third party.
the petitioners reserved their right to sue for damages in terms of order ii rule 2 cpc.
the respondent nos 1 to 4 in their written statement contested the suit.
therefore it was submitted that the suit lacked cause of action.
consistently with the said intention further the master cassette of the said serial at all relevant times remained exclusively with the respondents and not with the petitioners and the petitioners paid to the respondents 50 of the royalty received from m s esquire distributing and servicing pvt.
in the course of his business the 2nd respondent has developed contacts and connections with important and renowned personalities artists technicians etc in the film industry.
the 5th respondent thereafter decided to entertain welcome andor encourage the proposals from the private producers to produce such serials or films at their own cost and responsibility and under the said scheme the advertisers desirous of linking up their advertisements with such films or serials were required to negotiate and settle directly with the producers of such films andor serials the royalty or consideration payable to such producers for linking up their advertisements and commercials with their film serial and under the said scheme further such advertisements were offered handsome concessions in the rates of advertisements for display of their ads on tv.
the 2nd respondent undertook the preliminary project work on his own without loss of any time.
the 2nd respondent made extensive study and research and prepared a format of the proposed serial.
the 5th respondent registered the respondent nos 1 and 2 as the producers of the said serial.
petitioners agreed to link up their ads with 26 episodes of the said serial.
in these circumstances the respondents contended that by entering into the said agreement of sponsorship neither the petitioners nor the respondents created nor did they ever intend to create any relationship of employer and employee andor master and servant or principal and agent between the petitioners on the one hand and the respondents no 1 to 4 on the other.
the trial court raised as many as 12 issues and they are as follows 1 is it proved that this court has no pecuniary jurisdiction to entertain and try this suit.
the plaintiffs prove that the t v serial entitled yeh jo hai zindagi was produced by the defendant nos 1 to 4 as agents and the said serial made by defendant nos 1 to 4 in the course of their employment with the plaintiffs as alleged.
3 do the plaintiffs prove that the entire serial rights including the excluding the exclusive right to use the title thereof belong to the plaintiffs as alleged.
4 are defendant nos 1 to 4 entitled to deny the ownership of the plaintiffs of the film.
the defendants prove that the plaintiffs are not the owners of the copyright of the tv serial film viz.
yeh jo hai zindagi within the meaning of s 17 of the copyright act.
the defendant nos 1 to 4 prove that it was intended between the parties that copyrights in respect of the said film should vest exclusively with the defendants or that the right of ownership was waived by the plaintiffs.
the suit suffer from non joinder of necessary parties.
the plaintiffs entitled to the declaration sought.
the plaintiffs entitled to permanent injuction as prayed for.
11 to what relief if any are the plaintiffs entitled.
12 what order.
after examining the oral and documentary evidence on record it is disclosed that prior to letter sent on 11 july 1984 the petitioners were acquainted even with the format of the suit serial they did not have any connection with the suit serial till that date and relied upon the wording used therein to the effect that you and mr g k pendharkar are requested to join mr oberoi and his creative team when the format of the proposed half and hour sponsored programme shall be presented to you.
that was the first occasion when the format was presented to the petitioners.
that letter had been addressed to respondent no 1m s art commercia.
the trial court felt that it was addressed not to the petitioners but to the respondents alone.
the evidence was found to be inconsistent with the theory put forth by the petitioners that they are producers of the suit serial and if it were to hold otherwise the agreement or arrangement with the respondents was only for 26 episodes whereas the sponsorship was for 52 episodes.
the trial court examined in detail the letter dated 19 july 1984 exhibit f 1 written by shri g k pendharkar of the petitioners and concluded that averments made in the plaint stated that the original agreement was to have 27 episodes but having regard to the popularity of the serial programme the petitioners decided to increase the said serial to 52 episodes.
it is held that words produced by sponsors would not mean that the sponsors themselves are the producers of the said programmes as is clear from the tariff card.
the trial court proceeded thereafter to examine the payments made in regard to production of the serial.
on proper construction of the bills the trial court rejected the contention that these bills and payments as showing that they had borne the costs of production of the suit serial and therefore they are the producers.
the change in the title from 55th episode for vicco laboratories was introduced.
therefore it can not be said that there is any communication between the same.
the trial court also noticed that in respect of both the advertisements and also in respect of suit serial the petitioners paid to the respondent nos 5 and 6 amount which was to be the maximum amount.
the suit serial was produced by the respondents as agents of the petitioners was false.
the trial court summed up the position that the two capacities sponsor and producer can not co exist in one and the same person.
thus the trial court proceeded to uphold the contentions raised on behalf of the respondents to dismiss the suit.
the learned counsel for the petitioners strongly relied upon the following documents 1 the cost estimate.
2 the bills of cost of production.
3 letters dated 14 december 1984 and 15 november 1985.
4 contracts with doordarshan.
5 contractd with esquire distributing servicing pvt ltd.
we have carefully considered the contentions urged on behalf of the petitioners.
it is clear from the findings recorded by the trial court and the appellate court 1 that the respondents have not undertaken the production of the said serial at the instance of the petitioners.
2 that the petitioners had agreed to sponsor only 26 episodes whereas the respondents had agreed to produce 52 episodes and had given a firm commitment to that effect to doordarshan as is clear from the letter dated 12 july 1984 sent by the respondents to doordarshan.
the trial court thus rightly noted that there was no agency between the parties.
however the titles continued to show mr s s oberoi as the producer of the serial and the petitioners did not withhold payments.
6 that the evidence of mr s s gill who gave evidence on behalf of the information broadcasting ministry that he was not acquainted with mr pendharkar and that doordarshan had no direct connection with the petitioners but only with the respondents as producers or the director stood un impeached.
7 that the video rights were assigned to esquire distributing servicing pvt.
ltd as their property.
8 that there was no transfer of rights in favour of the petitioners by the respondents in the aforesaid letters and no consideration whatsoever was paid to the respondents for issuing the said letters which have no legal consequences and it was after the petitioners received the letter dated 19 october 1985 from esquire distributing servicing pvt.
ltd that the respondents were asked by the petitioners to issue another letter in this regard.
if the expenses were less the petitioners did not ask for a refund and the profit or loss was entirely of the respondents.
it is probable that the respondents had obliged the petitioners by issuing these bills because the bills can not be read in isolation but with reference to surrounding circumstances.
therefore the view taken by the courts below in this regard appears to be correct.
thus we find absolutely no merit in this petition.
we decline to interfere with the order made by the high court affirming the decree of the trial court.
