herein after referred to as pob act to the second respondent gurcharan singh but maintained the conviction preferred the above appeal.
the brief facts leading to the filing of the above appeal are as under.
one mr m k verma.
aggrieved by that order the second respondent accused filed an appeal before the sessions court delhi.
the said court by an order and judgment dated 23 3 2004 dismissed the appeal by holding that there was no infirmity in the order passed by the trial court annexure p 2.
besides that he has already undergone some period in custody.
the appellant aggrieved by the judgment of the high court preferred the above appeal by way of special leave petition before this court.
in the said case the accused respondent was convicted under section 332461 of the dmc act and sentenced to six months simple imprisonment with a fine of rs 5000.
it was further submitted by learned senior counsel appearing for the appellant that the court shall not direct release of offender unless it is satisfied that the offender or his surety if any has a fixed place of abode or regular occupation in the place over which the court exercises jurisdiction or in which the offender is likely to live during the period for which he enters into the bond.
therefore learned senior counsel appearing for the appellant prayed that order dated 26 3 2004 in crl.
rev pet.
no 185 of 2004 be set aside and appropriate orders be passed in this appeal.
it was therefore submitted that the high court passed the said order in the presence of the counsel of all the parties.
therefore there is no occasion for the high court to go into the issue of extent of constructions being raised by the answering respondent.
he further contended that the trial court has committed serious error in exercising jurisdiction while not granting the benefit of probation to the answering respondent and the order of the trial court was therefore rightly and justifiable modified by the high court.
in the above background two questions of law arise for consideration by this court 1 whether the high court was correct in extending the benefit of the probation of offenders act1958 to the accused respondent without calling for a report from the authorities relating to the conduct of the respondent as per section 4 of the act.
2 whether.
power of court to release certain offenders on probation of good conduct.
2 before making any order under sub section.
in the said case the accused has been convicted under sections 332461 of the dmc act and sentenced to six months simple imprisonment with fine of rs 5000 in our view there was no good reason for letting the respondent off by granting to him the said benefit of pob act particularly keeping in view the large scale irregularity and unauthorized constructions carried by the builders in delhi despite strict direction of the municipal authorities and despite of the courts passing various orders from time to time against the unauthorized construction.
in fact as could be seen from the annexures filed along with this appeal the respondent has been convicted for offence under sections 332 and 461 of the dmc act.
the trial court heard the respondent on sentence also and passed the following order convict in person with counsel heard on sentence.
it is contended that he is first offender.
he is not a previous convict nor habitual offender.
he has faced trail since 1991 he is aged about 57 years.
he is not doing any business due to his bad health.
considering the above facts and circumstances and gravity of the nature of the offence i e extent of construction raised by the accused for commercial as 11 shops at ground floor and 11 shops at first floor i am not inclined to release the accused convict on probation.
hence request declined.
fine deposited.
convict remained for sentence.
thus the contesting respondent has come to the high court with unclean hands and withholds a vital document in order to gain advantage on the other side.
in our opinion he would be guilty of playing fraud on the court as well as on the opposite party.
we have no hesitation to say that a person whose case is based on falsehood has no right to approach the court and he can be summarily thrown out at any stage of the litigation.
in the instant case non production of the order and even non mentioning of the conviction and sentence in the criminal case no 202 of 1997 tantamounts to playing fraud on the court.
a litigant who approaches the court is bound to produce all documents which are relevant to the litigation.
if he withholds a vital document in order to gain advantage on the other side then he would be guilty of playing fraud on the court as well on the opposite party.
the second respondent in our opinion was not justified in suppressing the material fact that he was convicted by the magistrate on an earlier occasion.
since the second respondent deliberately suppressed the crucial and important fact we disapprove strongly and particularly the conduct of the second respondent and by reason of such conduct the second respondent disentitled himself from getting any relief or assistance from this court.
we however part with this case with heavy heart expressing our strong disapproval of the conduct and behaviour but direct that the second respondent to pay a sum of rs 10000 by way of cost to the appellant herein.
we have already reproduced section 4 of the pob act.
it applied to all kinds of offenders whether under or above 21 years of age.
such exercise of discretion needs a sense of responsibility.
the section itself is clear that before applying the section the magistrate should carefully take into consideration the attendant circumstances.
the second respondent is a previous convict as per the records placed before us.
such a previous convict can not be released in view of section 4 of the pob act.
goa 49 1969 indlaw goa 8 and a release without such a report.
would therefore be illegal.
in the case of ram singh and ors v.
these facts are of primary importance before the court can pass an order under the probation of offenders act.
this plea can not be entertained in this court.
in the case of r mahalingam v g padmavathi and anr.
1979 crl.
lj noc 20 mad.
the court observed as under if any report is filed by the probation officer the court is bound to consider it.
if any do not mean that the court need not call for a report from the probation officer.
but if for one reason or the other such a report is not forthcoming the court has to decide the matter on other materials available to it.
in the instant case the magistrate passed order releasing the accused on probation without taking into consideration their character.
held the requirement of s 41 was not fulfilled and therefore the case remanded.
we therefore have no hesitation in setting aside the order impugned and remit the matter to the high court for fresh disposal strictly in accordance with law.
appeal allowed.
