appellant before us was detained u s 3 of the conservation of foreign exchange and prevention of smuggling activities.
for short cofeposa.
it was an exporter and held a valid licence therefor.
the company was to export products of alloy steel.
scheme introduced by the government of india with an object of encouraging exports.
the said prabhjot singh was said to have been operating three firms viz.
m s s p industrial corporation m s.
aaysons india and m s p j sales corporation ludhiana.
various incriminating documents were recovered.
non alloy.
invoices with a higher value were presented before the indian customs authorities with a view to avail depb incentives but in fact invoices with a lower value were presented for clearance.
the said writ petition was dismissed by an order dated 23 11 2005 by a learned single judge.
before us several other grounds viz.
he was released from custody on 17 5 2006.
we may first deal with the question of unexplained delay.
in this regard we may notice the following dates.
on 13 10 2003appellant was arrested.
the order of detention was passed on 5 4 2005.
indisputably delay to some extent stands explained.
but we fail to understand as to why despite the fact that the proposal for detention was made on 2 12 2004the order of detention was passed after four months.
b l  2 misc.
am 2003 ldh dated 17 05 2004 is being referred which is not received in this office.
the said documents in our opinion were material.
the said question has also not been examined by the authorities before issuing the order of detention.
the question as regard delay in issuing the order of detention has been held to be a valid ground for quashing an order of detention by this court in t d abdul rahman v state of kerala and others air 1990 sc 225 1989 indlaw sc 205 stating the conspectus of the above decisions can be summarised thus the question whether the prejudicial activities of a person necessitating to pass an order of detention is proximate to the time when the order is made or the live link between the prejudicial activities and the purpose of detention is snapped depends on the facts and circumstances of each case.
it follows that the test of proximity is not a rigid or mechanical test by merely counting number of months between the offending acts and the order of detention.
however when there is undue and long delay between the prejudicial activities and the passing of detention order the court has to scrutinise whether the detaining authority has satisfactorily examined such a delay and afforded a tenable and reasonable explanation as to why such a delay has occasioned when called upon to answer and further the court has to investigate whether the causal connection has been broken in the circumstances of each case.
similarly when there is unsatisfactory and unexplained delay between the date of order of detention and the date of securing the arrest of the detenu such a delay would throw considerable doubt on the genuineness of the subjective satisfaction of the detaining authority leading to a legitimate inference that the detaining authority was not really and genuinely satisfied as regards the necessity for detaining the detenu with a view to preventing him from acting in a prejudicial manner.
in fact no reason in that behalf whatsoever has been assigned at all.
delay as is well known at both stages has to be explained.
the court is required to consider the question having regard to the overall picture.
we may notice that in sk.
in abdul salam alias thiyyan s o thiyyan mohammad detenu no 962general prison trivandrum v union of india and others 1990 3 scc 15 1990 indlaw sc 994 whereupon the learned additional solicitor general has placed strong reliance this court found that there had been potentiality or likelihood of prejudicial activities and thus or mere delay as long as it is explained the court may not strike down the detention.
in the instant case we have noticed hereinbefore that the authorities of dri themselves categorically stated that the activities of appellant after 11 10 2003 were not in question and in fact all the bank accounts were defreezed.
it may be true that the period of detention is over.
in a case of this nature we do not think in view of the admitted facts that we would not permit appellant to raise the said questions.
so far as the question of non placement of material documents before the detaining authority is concerned we may notice the following dates i by a letter dated 5 7 2002the authorities of dri stated that appellant stood exonerated for earlier years after detailed examination.
by an order dated 13 8 2004the tribunal ordered release of goods.
we have noticed hereinbefore that learned additional solicitor general contended that appellant obstructed the proceedings by initiating various civil litigations.
furthermore the civil court proceedings were over on 19 11 2004.
evidently the detaining authority did not take immediate steps to detain appellant.
on their own showing respondents admit that they were relevant documents.
the question has been considered by this court in rajinder arora 2006 indlaw sc 87 supra stating admittedly furthermore the status report called for from the customs department has not been taken into consideration by the competent authorities.
there could be no two opinions on it.
it contains the very stand of the detenu of whatever worth.
what else would be relevant if not this.
the statements of appellant and prabhjot singh were noticed by the detaining authority.
it had specifically been referred to in extenso in the order of detention.
respondents contended that on first information report was registered against appellant as also one sepoy narender singh.
in paragraph 36 of the order of detention the detaining authority stated in view of the facts mentioned above i have no hesitation in arriving at the conclusion that you have through your acts of omission and commission indulged in prejudicial activities as narrated above.
we have been taken through the order of detention.
the same was not done.
union of india and another.
1991 1 scc 128 1990 indlaw sc 85 the said decision was rendered in a different fact situation.
in the said decision this court stated the law thus if merely an incidental reference is made to some part of the investigation concerning a co accused in the grounds of detention which has no relevance to the case set up against the detenus it is difficult to understand how the detenus could contend that they were denied the right to make an effective representation.
we are therefore of the opinion that the view taken by the bombay high court in this behalf is unassailable.
what is therefore relevant was as to whether the documents were material.
they could not have been withheld.
the very fact that he had referred to the said statements in ex tenso is itself a pointer to the fact that he had relied upon the said documents.
in view of our findings aforementioned it is not necessary to consider the contention raised by mr mukul rohtagi that order of detention suffers from non application of mind.
the judgment of the high court therefore cannot be sustained.
it is set aside accordingly and the order of detention passed against appellant is quashed.
the appeal is allowed.
no costs.
appeal allowed.
