act 1992 for short the act in misc.
application nos.
41 of 1999 4 of 2001 265 266 and 275 of 2003.
background facts.
the family of the appellants consists of four brothers their wives children and their widowed mother.
the eldest among them harshad section mehta has since expired.
the appellants herein and the said.
however out of the said 29 entitles only late harshad mehta and two of his younger brothers were cited as accused in various criminal cases filed against them.
proceedings before the special court.
it is not in dispute that the learned special court on or about 3 august 1993 issued directions in various proceedings before it appointing auditors to prepare and audit the books of accounts of all notified persons for the period 1 april 1990 and 8 june 1992 i e the date of the notification.
a misc.
the appellants herein filed several misc.
alternatively it was prayed that since their asset base was greater than genuine liabilities the said residential premises should be released from attachment.
impugned judgment.
applications nos.
4 of 2001 and 41 of 1999.
the misc.
it was directed in case all adult members of the family of late shri harshad metha who are presently occupying the abovereferred flats file an undertaking in this court within a period of four weeks from today undertaking to vacate the flat occupied by them and hand over peaceful possession thereof to the custodian within a period of four weeks from the date on which the custodian sends them communication asking them to vacate the flats on sale of the flats being sanctioned by the court.
in case no such undertakings are filed by the adult members as directed above within the aforesaid period the custodian shall stand appointed as receiver of the flats which are described in exh.
8 and exh.
8 1 to misc.
petition No 41 of 1999.
contentions of the parties appellants 9.
there was no occasion for the custodian to club all the notified entities in one block so as to be termed as harshad mehta group andor to club their assets and liabilities jointly.
although in relation to a body corporate incorporated and registered under the indian companies act the doctrine of lifting the corporate veil would be applicable but the same can not be applied in case of individuals.
the liabilities of harshad mehta who was a sui generis could have been recovered from the properties held and possessed by him or from the companies floated by him but not from the individual entities at least two of whom being medical practitioners have their income from other sources.
vi drawing our attention to a representative chart showing the discrepancies in the accounts of mrs deepika a mehta as shown in a affidavit by the custodian b books of accounts maintained by the appellants and c auditor 's report it was submitted that the auditor 's report could not have been relied upon.
civil appeal No 2795 of 2004 and the kedarnath jute mfg.
co ltd v the commissioner of income tax.
central calcutta 1972 3 scc 252 1971 indlaw sc 841.
ivthe appellants herein apart from the corporate entity which is a front company of late harshad mehta have received large loans advances and credits from the harshad mehta group and there had been intermingling of the assets to the tune of crores of rupees they can not escape their liabilities under the act.
even in the case of dr pratima mehta wherein some excesses has been shown if the interest is calculated for the last over 13 years of the amount received the liabilities would exceed the assets.
even before this court the sale of commercial properties had not been questioned.
the act.
section 3 of the act provides for appointment and functions of the custodian.
sub s 2 of section 3 postulates that the custodian may on being satisfied on information received that any person has been involved in any offence relating to transactions in securities after the 1st day of april 1991 and on and before 6th june 1992 the statutory period notify the name of such person in the official gazette.
3 of section 3 contains a non obstante clause providing that on and from the date of notification under sub section 2 any property movable or immovable or both belonging to any person notified under that sub section shall stand attached simultaneously with the issue of the notification and such attached properties may be dealt with by the custodian in such manner as the special court may direct.
provided that no contract or agreement shall be cancelled except after giving to the parties to the contract or agreement a reasonable opportunity of being heard.
section 5 provides for establishment of the special court.
section 7 confers exclusive jurisdiction upon the special court.
section 9 provides for the procedure and powers of the special court.
section 11 of the act reads as under discharge of liabilities.
analysis of the statutory.
the act provides for stringent measures.
recedents as regard scope of the act.
mehta 1998.
do the taxes in cl.
a of section 112 refer only to taxes relating to a specific period or to all taxes due from the notified person.
at what point of time should the taxes have become due.
whether taxes include penalty or interest.
at this stage the taxes due have to be actually paid out.
in the context of section 112 therefore the taxes due refer to taxes as finally assessed.
the priority however which is given under section 112a to such tax liability only covers such liability for the period 1 4 1991 to 6 6 1992.
subject to what follows.
1992 3 bom cr 716 1992 indlaw mum 6066 wherein it was held if the person approaches the special court and makes out for example a case that the property which is attached has no nexus of any sort with the illegal dealings in securities belonging to banks and financial institutions during the relevant period andor that there are no claims or liabilities which have to be satisfied by attachment and sale of such property in our view the special court would have the power to direct the custodian to release such property from attachment.
but the said observation was held to be not laying down a law by a 3 judge bench of this court in l s synthetics ltd v fairgrowth financial services ltd and another 2004 11 scc 456 2004 indlaw sc 715 holding i.
ii sub s.
the provisions of the limitation act 1963 have no application in relation to the proceedings under the said act.
the appeal is accordingly dismissed but without any order as to costs.
the appellants herein are notified persons in terms of the provisions of the act.
therefore all the properties belonging to them stand attached.
in tejkumar balakrishna ruia v a k menon and another 1997 9 scc 123 1996 indlaw sc 2403 this court held in our view the terms of sub s 3 of section 3 are clear.
it seems to us that to give to section 33 the wide meaning that has been ascribed to it in the judgment and order under appeal would render it perilously close to being held unconstitutional for it would deprive the notified person so long as he remained a notified person from earning a livelihood.
even to say that such interpretation would reduce a notified person to beggary would not be accurate because the alms that he received being his property would stand attached.
the courts must interpret the law as it reads.
it has further been held that the property be shares dividends and bonus and rights shares would also be attached property.
ivwhether the commercial properties could have been sold in auction.
vwhether the residential properties should have been released from attachment.
several subsequent events have also been brought to our notice.
the parties have also filed several charts before us showing individual assets and liabilities.
it has as noticed hereinbefore further been contended that various best judgment assessment passed by the assessing authority against some of the appellants have been set aside in appeal and the matters are pending reassessment before the assessing authority.
it is not in dispute that the said applications are pending for consideration before the special court.
they have not been heard.
we therefore as at present advised refrain ourselves from adverting to the said question.
it is no doubt true that the law of limitation bars a remedy but not a right.
air 1957 bom 178 1957 indlaw mum 110 and hari raj singh v sanchalak panchayat.
raj u p govt.
lucknow and others.
air 1968 all 246 1967 indlaw all 16 but as observed hereinbefore.
in l s synthetics ltd 2004 indlaw sc 715 supra this court observed a statute of limitation bars a remedy and not a right.
although a remedy is barred a defence can be raised.
in construing a special statute providing for limitation consideration of plea of hardship is irrelevant.
although we do not intend to enter into the correctness or otherwise of the said contention of the appellants at this stage however there can not be any doubt whatsoever that they being notified persons all their properties would be deemed to be automatically attached as a consequent thereto.
l s synthetics ltd 2004 indlaw sc 715 supra.
however the contention of the appellants that the properties held by them otherwise are sufficient to meet their liabilities was required to be gone into as in our considered opinion there can not be a any dispute that the appellants have such a right.
a corporate veil indisputably can be lifted on several grounds.
lifting the corporate veil.
the principle of lifting the corporate veil however ipso facto would not apply to the individuals.
however nexus between several persons in dealing with the matter may be established by the custodian.
the fact however remains that the copies of the documents books of accounts and other records on the basis whereof the auditors appointed by the court filed their reports had not been shown to the appellants herein on the premise that they were in know of the things.
in para 14 of the sur rejoinder the appellants denied the asset and liability position as arrived at by the custodian.
according to the appellants the custodian has under estimated the assets and exaggerated and overstated their liabilities.
this was not done.
the said contention must be properly adjudged.
several charts have been filed before us by the appellants to show i liabilities have been exaggerated by the custodian.
ii liabilities have been shown in relation to unperformed contracts.
credits not given for relief obtained from income tax.
it is furthermore not in dispute that pursuant to or in furtherance of the directions issued by the learned special court the accounts of all entities be it corporate or individual were drawn up separately which approach had not been dis approved by the auditor appointed by the special court.
our attention has also been drawn to a letter dated 7 october 2003 addressed by all the appellants to the office of the custodian wherein the attention of the custodian was drawn to the fact that all the documents relied upon by him had not been permitted to be inspected and he was requested to forward a report prepared by the chartered accountants in respect of the individual addressors of the letters.
the said letter was replied by the custodian by his letter dated 10 october 2003 wherein none of the queries contained in paragraphs 3 to 8 of the said letter was even attempted to be answered.
the appellants herein contended that the custodian did not furnish the requisite particulars thereof and inspection was refused on the grounds stated therein.
the amount of priority demand of income tax liabilities comes to rs 18297576248.
the estimated value of the immovable properties of this group is rs 184030038.
before us mr desai had filed a chart for showing the same.
the said chart however shows that at least mrs deepika mehta held assets more than her liabilities.
mr desai contended that if interest is calculated liabilities would be more than assets.
it is true that horrendous figures as regard the liabilities of harshad mehta have been projected before us but the same had been shown to be of the entire group.
the contention raised on behalf of the appellants is that the harshad mehta should be considered to be sui generis and the custodian may realize his dues from his personal assets as also of those with which he was concerned together with the assets of his front companies but such liability should not be fastened upon others who had nothing to do therewith.
his death has also forced upon him bankruptcy.
this may be so but then the effect of the rival contentions was required to be gone into by the learned special court.
even in this behalf it was necessary for the special judge to assign sufficient and cogent reasons.
only because there had been large intermingling and flow of funds from harshad mehta and inter se within the group the same by itself may not justify the conclusion that all of their assets were required to be sold irrespective of their individual involvement.
he furthermore wanted to treat the liabilities of the notified entities also as their separate liabilities.
it had however never been the case of the custodian that the examination of claims of all the notified parties is complete.
such claims may also be preferred.
tax liability.
it is not in dispute that the tax liabilities of the appellants individually were assessed on the basis of best judgment assessment.
it is furthermore not in dispute that in a large number of cases the appellate authorities have set aside best judgment assessments.
this court therefore has laid down a law that mere filing of an appeal is not sufficient particularly when there is no order of stay on recovery has been granted and the demand is outstanding.
in kedarnath jute mfg.
but in this case the orders of assessment have been set aside.
a chart has been annexed to the additional written submissions filed by mr desai which originated from a letter dated 9th december 2005 issued by the office of the commissioner of income tax showing the current status of the liabilities of the individual members of the harshad mehta group in the following terms i ashwin mehta rs 1396 crores ii.
deepika mehta rs 120 crores even after deducting the amount set aside by itat.
it exceeds rs 63 crores.
late harshad mehta rs 11829 crores.
iv jyoti mehta rs 1457 crores.
v hitesh mehta rs 73 crores vi.
pratima mehta rs 115 crores even after deducting the amount set aside by itat.
it exceeds rs 35 crores vii.
sudhir mehta rs 339 crores viii.
2 7 crores.
1998 indlaw sc 732 supra.
furthermore the orders of the appellate authority have been passed during pendency of this appeal.
this court it is trite can take into consideration the subsequent events.
such subsequent events could also be taken into consideration for the purpose of review.
this court held it is also not correct to contend that the court while exercising its review jurisdiction in any situation whatsoever can not take into consideration a subsequent event.
sale of commercial properties has never been seriously contested by the appellants.
it is furthermore not in dispute that third party rights have since been created by reason of sale of a large number of commercial properties.
let it be done within two weeks.
however the finalization shall be subject to the result of these appeals.
the said order however was modified and clarified by an order dated 5th may 2004 that the same shall not apply to the sale of commercial properties in view of the order of the learned judge special court dated 17th october 2003 wherein it was pointed out that the notified parties did not dispute the commercial properties being put to sale by the custodian.
in the former event even if such a decree is set aside the interest of the bona fide purchaser in an auction sale is saved.
the said decision has been affirmed by this court in gurjoginder singh v jaswant kaur.
smt and another 1994 2 scc 368 1994 indlaw sc 1613.
in janak raj v gurdial singh and anr.
1967 2 scr 77 1966 indlaw sc 120.
residential property.
the flat belonging to the mother of late harshad mehta has been released.
the flats however during pendency of these appeals have been sold in auction.
one of the flats being flat.
No 202.
No 681 of 2004.
in these appeals we are not concerned with the said flat.
admittedly the flats have been sold subject to the result of these appeals.
the purchasers have also filed applications for their impleadment in these appeals.
the parties shall file their respective documents within one week thereafter.
such documents should be supported by affidavits.
it will also be open to the learned judge special court to pass an interim order or orders as it may think fit and proper in the event any occasion arises therefor.
with the aforementioned observations and directions these appeals are allowed.
however the parties shall bear their own costs.
appeals allowed.
