this appeal by special leave arises out of a judgment and order dated 1st march2005.
rendered by the high court of judicature at bombay whereby the learned single judge has set aside the order passed by the arbitral tribunal holding that they did not have jurisdiction to entertain and try the claim and counter claim made by the parties.
in order to appreciate the issue requiring determination a few relevant facts may be stated.
the appellant m s bharat petroleum corporation limited is a government of india undertaking under the administrative control of the ministry of petroleum natural gas and is engaged in refining distributing and selling of petroleum products all over the country.
the respondent m s great eastern shipping company limited is engaged in the business of shipping and allied activities and owns a fleet of tanker vessels for charter including the vessel known as jag praja.
the respondent agreed to the said proposal.
the terms and conditions exceptions and exemptions contained in the charter party dated 6th may1997 remained unaltered.
in response to the said tender the respondent and other vessel owners submitted their bids.
the appellant intervened in the said matter.
on 12th october1998the respondent informed the ioc that if all its nine vessels mentioned in the letter are used at a fair and reasonable rate for one year from 1st september1998 to 31st august1999 for which the tender had been floated they were agreeable to apply the new agreed rates for use of the said nine vessels from 1st july1998 on 31st october1998.
it was clearly stated that since the tender was not finalized the owners will be guided by the existing terms and conditions.
some other objections not relevant at this stage were also indicated.
as such all said and done oil co ordination committee s proposal was not accepted.
nevertheless some suggestions to resolve the controversy were given.
thus the proposal by the oil co ordination committee was not accepted by the respondent.
admittedly the vessels continued to be chartered by the appellant beyond the date of this letter.
thereafter for almost two months there was no communication between the parties.
finally it was suggested that we therefore suggest that we sign an agreement with you for the period from 1st september1998 until the matter is finally decided by you under the tender on the existing terms and conditions with the charter hire being provisionally paid on an ad hoc basis at 90 of the rate which was prevailing under the existing charter party.
kindly confirm in order to draw up a suitable agreement accordingly.
emphasis supplied.
the respondent was asked to convey their acceptance to the said suggestion.
may2000with the expectation that their outstanding balance of the hire shall be paid to them at the earliest.
however the respondent did not convey their acceptance of the charter hire rates for two vessels viz.
jag praja and jag prayog.
the name of the arbitrator was also communicated to the appellant.
claims and counter claims were filed before the arbitral tribunal.
on the basis of the pleadings of the parties the arbitral tribunal framed as many as eight issues.
however arguments were heard only on the following three issues.
in respect of the vessel jag praja for the reasons stated in para 1 of the written statement.
issue no 2 whether there is any common practice that if the vessel is not re delivered at the end of the period mentioned in the time charter the vessel would be governed by the charter party under which originally it was chartered.
no 5 whether the time charter party dated 6th.
may1997 came to an end by efflux of time on 30th august1998.
vide order dated 12th.
and as the dispute between the parties related to the period subsequent to 31st.
august1998they had no jurisdiction to decide the reference.
the learned tribunal found issue no 2 in the negative and issue no 5 in the affirmative.
the respondent challenged the said award before the high court.
admittedly after 31st august1998re delivery of vessel did not take place and therefore in terms of clause 23the vessel continued to be hired on the same terms and conditions except the term as to the hire charges on which there was disagreement between the parties.
correctness of this order of the high court is questioned in this appeal.
learned counsel argued that even otherwise till the vessel was not re delivered in terms of cls 4 and 23 of charter party dated 6th may1997the said agreement could not come to an end.
it was pointed out that all the obligations of the owners as well as of the charterers during the period the vessel was in use continued to be discharged under the charter party dated 6th may1997 even after the expiry of the period of the charter party.
in support of the proposition that the concurrence of a party can be gathered from his conduct like continued user of the vessel in the present case without any objection to respondent s letter dated 4th january1999reliance is placed on a decision of this court in the godhra electricity co ltd anr.
the state of gujarat anr 1974 indlaw sc 253.
it was also submitted that the view taken by the high court being a plausible view interference in exercise of extra ordinary jurisdiction u art 136 of the constitution is unwarranted.
thus the short question for determination is whether on the expiry of the extended period of charter hire on 31st august1998charter party dated 6th may1997 came to an end and the arbitration agreement between the parties perished with it.
what is in dispute is whether the arbitration agreement between the parties had got extinguished after 31st august1998i e the date of expiry of the extended period of the charter party.
therefore we refrain from expressing any opinion on the scope and ambit of the arbitration clause though prime facie it appears to be quite widely worded.
in our view the principle of sub silentio is clearly attracted in the present case.
as noted above after the extended period of charter party dated 6th may1997 had come to an end on 31st august1998.
october1998the respondent had informed the appellant that they were agreeable to apply new rates for use of the vessel from 1st july1998 provided all the nine vessels are used.
it was suggested that an agreement may be signed between them for the period from 1st september1998 until the matter was finally decided by the appellant under the tender on the existing terms and conditions with the charter hire being provisionally paid on ad hoc basis at 90 of the rate which was prevailing under the existing charter party.
as noted hereinabove there was no response by the appellant to respondent s letter dated 4th january1999 though it appears that vide their letter of even date the appellant did suggest to the respondent that as a token of formal agreement the said letter may be jointly signed by the charterers and the vessel owners.
admittedly no such agreement was signed between the parties.
indubitably there was no further exchange of correspondence between the parties during the year.
january1999coupled with the fact that they continued to use the vessel manifestly goes to show that except for the charter rate there was no other dispute between the parties.
they accepted the stand of the respondent sub silentio and thus continued to bind themselves by other terms and conditions contained in the charter party dated 6th may1997which obviously included the arbitration clause.
in this context it would be appropriate to refer to cls 4 and 23 of the charter party dated 6th may1997 these are in the following terms 4 delivery redelivery 4 1.
charterers to give owners 15 days notice to probable port of re delivery.
indisputably the vessel in question had not been re delivered at least during the relevant period and the appellant continued to use the vessel beyond 31st august1998 having failed to re deliver the vessel in terms of cl 4 1 of the charter party the appellant can not plead that the charter party had been fully worked out.
however the arbitral tribunal answered the said issue against the respondent.
it appears to us that even the question in regard to the effect and consequences of non delivery of the vessel in terms of the cl 4 1 and 23 would by itself be a dispute arising under the said charter party with.
the learned arbitral tribunal overlooked this aspect of the matter.
but it was still in existence for some purposes viz the effect of vessel s non re delivery as per the prescribed mechanism and its continued use beyond the stipulated time.
and thus the arbitration clause in the said charter party operated in respect of these and other allied purposes.
therefore the factual scenario in the instant case leads to an inescapable conclusion that notwithstanding the expiry of the period fixed in the time charter party dated 6th may1997the said charter party did not get extinguished inter alia for the purpose of determination of the disputes arising thereunder and the arbitration clause contained therein could be invoked by the respondent.
in view of the foregoing discussion we do not find any infirmity in the view taken by the high court that charter party dated 6th may1997 had not come to an end by efflux of time and it got extended by the conduct of the parties warranting interference.
having come to the conclusion that an arbitration agreement existed between the parties the question which remains to be considered is whether the disputes between the parties should be referred to the same arbitral tribunal which had come to the conclusion that in the absence of any arbitration agreement it did not have jurisdiction to entertain and try the claims and counter claims.
we feel that it would be proper and expedient to constitute a fresh arbitral tribunal.
appeal dismissed.
