the state of manipur is in appeal before us questioning the judgment and order dated 29 07 2005 passed by a division bench of the guwahati high court in wa nos 61787995 and 100 of 1999 upholding a judgment and order of a learned single judge of the said court dated 19 02 1999 in c r nos 32410125681022 and 1023 of 1998.
one shri a j tayeng was the revenue commissioner of government of manipur.
the commissioner of revenue department was conferred with a power of being the cadre controlling authority for non ministerial post of the revenue department.
the said appointments were made on temporary basis.
no record in regard to the said recruitments was maintained.
imphal the 12th jan.
1998 sub submission of report.
with reference to the u o letter no 21593 comr pt.
dated 6th january1998 regarding the alleged appointment of ad hoc regular appointment to the post of lambus mandols.
shri robert shaiza was instructed to take care.
i therefore deny making of such appointments.
on the other hand md.
i still deny that i have made any appointment of field staffs of revenue department during the recent months.
submitted for information and consideration.
govt of manipur minister revenue.
in view of the aforementioned stand taken by the said shri tayeng the offers of appointment issued in favour of the respondents were cancelled by an order dated 17 02 1998 a corrigendum thereto was however issued on 21 02 1998 stating no 21593 comrev.
temp i dated 17 2 1998.
in civil appeal arising out of slp c no 19375 19376 of 2005the respondents were appointed on ad hoc basis for a period of six months.
their appointments were also cancelled on similar grounds.
i also issued appointment order under my signature.
after my retirement from service i have no access to such files.
the xerox copy of the cyclostyled appointment order bearing no 11497.
dated 11 9 97 annexure a2 to the writ petition appointing 4 persons to the post of mandol are perused by me minutely.
since i have retired from service i have no access to the file and do not know what might have been in the file and where is the file.
chief election commissioner delhi and ors air 1978 sc 851 1977 indlaw sc 53.
so far as the matter relating to civil appeal arising out of slp c no 19375 19376 of 2005 is concerned it was directed that as the appointment of the respondents were made for a period of six months the employees were only entitled to the salary for the said period.
the writ appeals preferred there against by the appellants herein were dismissed.
strong reliance in this behalf has been placed on kendriya vidyalaya sangathan and others v ajay kumar das and others 2002 4 scc 503 2002 indlaw sc 287.
strong reliance in this behalf has been placed on parshotam lal dhingra v union of india.
air 1958 sc 36 1957 indlaw sc 103murugayya udayar and another.
v kothampatti muniyandavar temple by trustee pappathi ammal.
no records there for were available with the state.
the state proceeded on the said basis.
the purported appointment letters were fake ones.
they were not issued by any authority competent therefor.
the action of the state did not thus lack bonafide.
it was thus for them to establish existence of a legal right in their favour and a corresponding legal duty in the respondents to continue to be employed.
with a view to establish their legal rights to enable the high court to issue a writ of mandamus the respondents were obligated to establish that the appointments had been made upon following the constitutional mandate adumbrated in arts 14 and 16 of the constitution of india.
they have not been able to show that any advertisement had been issued inviting applications from eligible candidates to fill up the said posts.
it has also not been shown that the vacancies had been notified to the employment exchange.
the commissioner furthermore was not the appointing authority.
he was only a cadre controlling authority.
the term dpc would ordinarily mean the departmental promotion committee.
even assuming that dpc would mean selection committee there is noting on record to show who were its members and how and at whose instance it was constituted.
the commissioner as noticed hereinbefore was the chairman of the dpc how the matter was referred to the dpc has not been disclosed.
he therefore was wholly incompetent to issue the appointment letters.
the respondents therefore in our opinion were not entitled to hold the posts.
the question which arose herein was not raised.
it was held 34 in our opinion the wide sweep of art 14 undoubtedly takes within its fold the impugned circular issued by the state of u p in exercise of its executive power irrespective of the precise nature of appointment of the government counsel in the districts and the other rights contractual or statutory which the appointees may have.
this too is relevant for deciding the question of arbitrariness alleged in the present case.
arbitrariness is the very negation of the rule of law.
we in the facts and circumstances of this case do not see any arbitrariness on the part of the state in its action directing cancellation of appointments.
their appointment is in the first instance for one year.
for the said purpose the district magistrate and the district judge are required to maintain a character roll and a record of the work done by the officer and the capacity displayed by him in discharge of the work.
his work is also subject to strict supervision.
the shortcomings in the work are required to be brought to the notice of the legal remembrancer.
it will thus be seen that the appointment of the two sets of officers viz.
the latter are not appointed as a part of the spoils system.
the ratio of the said decision can hardly be applied to the appointments of the law officers in the high court whose appointment itself was arbitrary and was made in disregard of art 14 of the constitution as pointed out aboveemphasis added.
in parshotam lal dhingra 1957 indlaw sc 103.
suprathis court held that whoever holds civil posts would be entitled to protection of their services in terms of cl 2 of art 309 of the constitution of india in the event any disciplinary action is taken against them stating the underlying idea obviously is that a provision like this will ensure to them a certain amount of security of tenure.
it will be noted that in cl 1 the words dismissed and removed have been used while in cl 2.
the words dismissed removed and reduced in rank have been used.
what then is the meaning of those expressions dismissed removed or reduced in rank.
foulkes craig and others say that the court can not prejudge what is to be decided by the decision making authority de smith says courts have not yet committed themselves to any one view though discretion is always with the court.
wade says that while futile writs may not be issued a distinction has to be made according to the nature of the decision.
in the former case it can be waived while in the case of the latter it can not be waived.
their application may be subject to the provisions of a statute or statutory rule.
for the reasons aforementioned the impugned judgments can not be sustained.
they are set aside accordingly.
the appeals are allowed.
