the factual matrix of the matter which is not much in dispute is as under.
an ex parte order of injunction was passed on 19 12 1985 against the defendant appellant herein to the following effect.
the plaintiff shall comply with the requirements of order 39 rule 4 of the code of civil procedure.
indisputably during the proceedings in the above suit m s.
jain industries by a deed of assignment assigned the said trade mark along with its goodwill in favour of the appellant.
suraj bhan belanganj agra.
that pursuant to a request on form tm 23 dated 17th june1986 and order thereon dated 24th october1986.
may1986 and may be renewed at the expiration of that period and of each succeeding period of a seven years.
in the said c o no 9 of 1986 filed by the first respondent against m s jain industries despite service of notice nobody appeared on behalf of the defendant 16 1 1987 was the date fixed in the said suit.
let the statement of learned counsel for the petitioner be recorded.
statement of shri k l aggarwal counsel for petitioner without oath.
statement of shri hemant singh counsel for m s thakural mechanical works without oath.
against m s jain industries and the dy.
trade mark no 228867 in.
the request is not opposed on behalf of m s thakural mechanical works.
a fresh application was filed by the first respondent.
the said m s jain industries however was not impleaded as a party therein.
the cause of action is continuous from day to day till the impugned registration is cancelled rectified.
the injunction matter in suit no 2408 of 1985 came up for hearing before a learned single judge of the high court.
correctness or otherwise of the said order has not been questioned.
the second rectification application filed by the first respondent however was transferred to the intellectual property appellate board.
the said application was dismissed.
a writ petition was filed there against by the first respondent.
the said order of the division bench is under challenge in this appeal.
section 56 power to cancel or vary registration and to rectify the register  1.
the power to rectify the register conferred by this section shall include the power to remove a trade mark registered in part a of the register to part b of the register.
indisputably the scope of the provisions for removal from register in terms of s 46 and 56 of the act stand on different footings.
whereas s 46 had a limited application s 56 of the act is wider in nature.
concededly cl a of sub s 1 of s 46 is not attracted in the case.
for the purpose of appreciation of the rival contentions we may notice the findings of the board as also the high court.
the high court on the other hand opined it was not anybody 's case before us that m s jain industries.
the registered proprietor of the trademark used it at all.
if thukral did then it can not be said that there was no bona fide use thereof by its proprietor.
that is m s jain industries.
this appears to be the position at least till 30th may1986 in.
the act was enacted to provide for the registration and better protection of trademarks and for the prevention of the use of fraudulent marks of merchandise.
registration of a trade mark remains valid for seven years.
renewal applications are required to be filed on the expiry of seven years.
m s jain industries got itself registered and obtained periodical renewal thereof as is required under the act.
first respondent withdrew the application against m s jain industries.
the words for the time being would mean differently in different situations.
madhav rao jivaji rao scindia bahadur of gwalior h h maharajadhiraja.
maharana shri bhagwat singhji bahadur of udaipur v union of india and anr air 1971.
there can not be any doubt or dispute that the registration of a trade mark confers a very valuable right.
it confers an exclusive right of use of the trade mark in relation to the goods in which the trade mark is registered.
the same is an assignable right in terms of s 36 of the act whereas an unregistered trade mark is not.
user of the said mark therefore entails the consequences laid down under cl b of sub s 1 of s 46.
however such an application can be filed only by a person aggrieved.
indisputably it would be the registered proprietor.
s 46 is a penal provision.
it provides for civil or evil consequences.
it takes away the valuable right of a registered proprietor.
it therefore can be taken away only when the conditions laid down therefor are satisfied.
while we say so we are not oblivious of the fact that trafficking in trade mark is to be discouraged.
but then such a case has to be made out.
allegation of trafficking is a serious one.
it must be proved in presence of the person against whom such allegations are made.
at the time of grant of original registration advertisements are issued and objections are called for.
renewal of registration in a sense also is not automatic.
the non user for a long time would disentitle a registered proprietor from renewal of the registration.
it must not however be forgotten that s 461b provides for a special remedy.
in other words the mistake of the predecessor should not be visited with non use of the present registered owner.
it must however be observed that whether a use is for bona fide purpose would essentially be a question of fact.
cls a and b operate in different fileds.
sub s 3 covers a case falling within cl b and not the cl a thereof.
it was furthermore opined there may be a case where owing to certain special circumstances a continuous use is not possible.
the trade mark for which registration is obtained is used intermittently.
it was observed that in cases of intermittent use also cl b shall apply.
in kabushiki kaisha toshiba this court relied upon hardie trading ltd anr.
the submission of mr sudhir chandra.
if appellant infringed the right of m s jain industries it was for it to take action there for.
it did not.
first respondent itself accepts that at least immediately prior to the institution of the suit appellant had been using the same.
we are not concerned herein as to since when it had been doing so.
it obtained an or of injunction.
the order of injunction was vacated.
for one reason or the other the said order attained finality.
prima facie therefore appellant has been held to be the registered owner of the trade mark.
notes on clauses.
consequential amendments have been made to cover services cl 47 of the bill.
the court while construing a statute takes into consideration the parliamentary intent in amending the provisions thereof.
thus a case of speculative assignment is specifically required to be made out.
it only consented for grant of liberty in favour of the first respondent for filing of an application for the self same cause of action.
the second contention of mr that the appellant was an infringer of the trade mark is again a question of fact.
it is not correct that no cause of action survived against jain industries.
it was not lost by reason of assignment as was contended by the learned counsel.
two interpretations of the said provision s 461b are possible.
while interpreting the same however certain basic principles of construction of statute must be kept in mind.
as it takes away somebody 's right it deserves strict construction.
the right of a registered trade mark is not lost automatically on the expiry of five years and one month.
it does not provide for a sun set law.
it has to be adjudicated upon.
the principle of purchaser of a property has a duty to make enquiriestherefore cannot apply in a case of this nature.
in the case of american home products corporation v mac laboratories pvt ltd.
such continuous non user.
if that be so any registered proprietor could easily defeat an application for rectification by assigning the mark to some other person to have a fresh period of 5 years from the date of assignment and thus effectively frustrate the very object of the provision in s 471a and b further it is to be noted that an assignment is subject to the provisions of the act and any rights vested in any other person see.
s 37 the assignor can not obviously transfer more rights than he himself has to the assignee under the act.
we do not think that the approach of the learned author is entirely correct.
an assigner can transfer only such right which he possesses.
for the views we have taken we are of the opinion that the impugned judgment can not be sustained.
it is set aside accordingly.
the board shall however proceed to determine afresh the application filed by the first in the light of the legal principles explained above.
the appeal is allowed with costs.
counsel 's fee assessed at rs 100000.
