the present appeal arises out of the judgment and order dated 01 07 2002 passed by the high court of bombay at goa in criminal appeal No 6 of 2000 convicting the accused appellant section 302 of the indian penal code for short the the ipc and sentencing him to undergo life imprisonment for the offence by setting aside the order of acquittal passed by the trial court.
facts giving rise to the present appeal may be stated first so as to enable us to appreciate the arguments raised by the parties more effectively.
on receipt of the aforesaid message pw 21 along with asi tabit mamlekar went to the scene of offence.
on enquiring from her pw 21 learnt that her name was yeshoda who was later on arrayed as accused No 3.
two juvenile girls named sarita and sharmila who are the sisters of the appellant were found in the house.
not finding the appellant and accused no 2 in the house dy.
s p shri raikar and p i shri alan osa were sent in their search.
religious ceremony was performed by installing the statue of lord ganesh in the house and.
while the said religious ceremony was being performed accused No 2 started uttering insults while standing in the kitchen.
accused No 3 told the appellant not to do anything in the ceremony and insulted the family members of rauji.
on his return he went to take bath and after having bath he went and switched off the light of the room.
as soon as the deceased switched off the light the appellant came from the room and started abusing rauji.
thereupon the appellant went and removed the fuse of the said light.
accused No 3 had then lit a kerosene lamp and brought the same in the hall.
there was already an oil lamp burning which was attached to the ceiling by a brass chain.
meanwhile accused No 3 started abusing pw 1 pw 8 pw 18 and the deceased rauji.
according to pw 1 in order to avoid the assault by all of them they went to bulcao balcony.
when they went there the appellant went to his mother 's room and brought a knife with which he stabbed rauji.
at that time all the accused persons were in the balcony.
it was also alleged that after the deceased rauji fell down on the ground accused No 3 kicked him.
then accused No 3 told the appellant and accused No 2 to finish off rauji first.
pw 8 pw 18 and pw 1 then lifted rauji and brought him in the courtyard.
in the meanwhile residents of the locality had gathered in the courtyard and told the accused persons not to assault rauji.
pw 1 however intervened and removed the said piece of cement block from the hand of accused No 3 but.
however pw 1 again intervened and removed the said stone from the hand of accused no 3.
pw 18 rushed to the rescue of deceased rauji.
the accused then started assaulting her and pw 8 with slaps.
in the meantime police jeep arrived at the scene and on seeing the police jeep all the accused ran away from the courtyard and went inside.
pw 1 and others asked the police to take rauji to the hospital.
whereupon the police took him to the hospital in the police jeep along with pw 1 pw 2 and pw 8.
on the basis of complaint made by pw 1 an fir was registered and the accused came to be arrested.
the accused pleaded not guilty and claimed to be tried.
after completion of the arguments the trial court reserved the verdict.
1 to 3.
the high court by impugned judgment convicted appellant.
accused No 1 section 302 ipc and accused nos.
2 and 3 were held guilty of an offence punishable section 323 read with section 34 of the ipc.
302 ipc.
counsel for the respondent has therefore taken us through the evidence of pws.
but in any case there was an electricity light post in the front of the house which was giving enough light to the house.
the said fact is proved by the evidence of pws.
2 8 18 and the complainant herself pw 1.
the deceased was taken to the hospital and while so taken he died.
therefore he proceeded to survey the place of occurrence with the help of torches.
he stated that although the house had electricity connection but was not having the electricity supply.
he also recovered the knife at the instance of accused sharmila which he seized.
it was found that accused No 1 was having injury on his back.
and he was medically examined.
on medical examination his injury was found to be simple.
the issue with regard to the initiation of the investigation without recording the fir was succinctly addressed by this court in the case of state of u p v bhagwant kishore joshi 1964 3 scr 71 1963 indlaw sc 268 observed as follows 17.
investigation in substance means collection of evidence relating to the commission of the offence.
he is also entitled to search the place of the offence and to search other places with the object of seizing articles connected with the offence.
since no irregularity was committed by him there is no occasion to invoke the aid of the curative provisions of the code.
emphasis underlined.
in order to verify the information received pw 21 went to the place of occurrence and found the entire house in total darkness.
when he reached at the place of occurrence even the complainant party was not available there.
but at a later stage they came there.
besides the fact of his going to the place of occurrence would not amount to making an investigation.
the ratio of the decision in bhagwant kishore joshi 1963 indlaw sc 268 supra is applicable to the facts of the present case as the police officer merely visited the spot and place of occurrence and made some survey which can not be regarded as investigation.
certain basic facts are not denied or disputed.
pw 1 also sustained injuries in the said incident.
immediately after the incident hearing cries of passengers the driver of the bus stopped the bus.
not only the accused persons fled away all others also did including pws 3 and 4.
they came back after a short while hearing the cries of pw 1.
they acceded to his request to take the bus to his house.
from the records it appears that the distance between the place where the accident took place and the village in question was not much.
in any event the destination of the bus was the said village and they were bound to take the bus thereat.
pw 1 informed about the incident to pw 2 another son of the deceased.
the dead body of the deceased was brought down from the bus and taken to the house.
the conductor of the bus sent an information to the depot manager of the state road transport corporation at tuni.
the investigating officer was also informed.
it was not necessary for him to take that step only on the basis of a first information report.
an information received in regard to commission of a cognizable offence is not required to be preceded by a first information report.
the ratio of the aforesaid decision is squarely applicable to the facts of the present case.
in that view of the matter it can not be said that the fir was in any manner hit by the provisions of section 162 of crpc.
the next contention that we proceed to discuss now is about whether sufficient light was available at the place of occurrence for the eye witnesses to see the occurrence as stated by them in the evidence.
we have pws.
1 2 8 and 18 as eye witnesses to the occurrence.
blood was found by the police on the wall of the verandah and in the courtyard.
it is also established from the evidence on record for it is clearly stated that the street light having tube light was giving sufficient light to the place of occurrence and that it was directed towards the house which was the place of occurrence.
the aforesaid eye witnesses although are related witnesses were natural witnesses for they were the inmates of the house where the incident had taken place.
the said eye witnesses are consistent about the principal act of the appellant in stabbing the deceased.
the mere fact that the witnesses were related to the deceased can not be a ground to discard their evidence.
in law testimony of an injured witness is given importance.
the truth or otherwise of the evidence has to be weighed pragmatically.
the court would be required to analyse the evidence of related witnesses and those witnesses who are inimically disposed towards the accused.
conviction can be made on the basis of such evidence.
he further stated that the death was caused due to hemorrhage and shock as a result of stab injury.
he further stated that injury No 1 was sufficient to cause death in the ordinary course of nature.
therefore the alleged discrepancy can not be said to be very vital as it has been held by this court in several decisions that ocular evidence can not be brushed aside only because to some extent it is not in consonance with the medical evidence.
all the contentions raised by learned counsel appearing for the appellant were considered by us in the light of evidence on record.
and we find that none of the aforesaid submissions has any basis.
section 299 and section 300 ipc deals with the definition of culpable homicide and murder respectively.
both the expression intent and knowledge postulate the existence of a positive mental attitude which is of different degrees.
the mental element in culpable homicide i e mental attitude towards the consequences of conduct is one of intention and knowledge.
if that is caused in any of the aforesaid three circumstances the offence of culpable homicide is said to have been committed.
section 300 ipc however deals with murder although there is no clear definition of murder provided in section 300 ipc.
the aforesaid distinction between an act amounting to murder and an act not amounting to murder has been brought out in the numerous decisions of this court.
in the scheme of the penal code culpable homicides is genus and murder its specie.
all murder is culpable homicide but not vice versa.
speaking generally culpable homicide sans special characteristics of murder is culpable homicide not amounting to murder.
for the purpose of fixing punishment proportionate to the gravity of this generic offence the code practically recognises three degrees of culpable homicide.
the first is what may be called culpable homicide of the first degree.
this is the greatest form of culpable homicide which is defined in section 300 as murder.
the second may be termed as culpable homicide of the second degree.
this is punishable under the first part of section 304.
then there is culpable homicide of the third degree.
this is the lowest type of culpable homicide and the punishment provided for it is also the lowest among the punishments provided for the three grades.
culpable homicide of this degree is punishable under the second part of section 304.
b of section 299 corresponds with cls 2 and 3 of section 300.
it is noteworthy that the intention to cause death is not an essential requirement of cl.
this aspect of cl 2 is borne out by illustration b appended to section 300.
b of section 299 does not postulate any such knowledge on the part of the offender.
in cl 3 of section 300 instead of the words likely to cause death occurring in the corresponding cl.
b of section 299 the words sufficient in the ordinary course of nature have been used.
obviously the distinction lies between a bodily injury likely to cause death and a bodily injury sufficient in the ordinary course of nature to cause death.
the distinction is fine but real and if overlooked may result in miscarriage of justice.
the difference between cl.
b of section 299 and cl.
3 of section 300 is one of degree of probability of death resulting from the intended bodily injury.
the word likely in cl.
b of section 299 conveys the sense of probable as distinguished from a mere possibility.
rajwant singh v state of kerala is an apt illustration of this point.
in virsa singh v state of punjab4.
1958 indlaw sc 82 vivian bose j speaking for the court explained the meaning and scope of cl.
it was observed that the prosecution must prove the following facts before it can bring a case under section 300 thirdly.
first it must establish quite objectively that a bodily injury is present secondly the nature of the injury must be proved.
these are purely objective investigations.
this part of the enquiry is purely objective and inferential and has nothing to do with the intention of the offender.
if he can show that he did not or if the totality of the circumstances justify such an inference then of course the intent that the section requires is not proved.
whether he knew of its seriousness or intended serious consequences is neither here nor there.
these observations of vivian bose j have become locus classicus.
illustration c appended to section 300 clearly brings out this point.
c of section 299 and cl.
4 of section 300 both require knowledge of the probability of the act causing death.
it is not necessary for the purpose of this case to dilate much on the distinction between these corresponding clauses.
it will be sufficient to say that cl.
the above are only broad guidelines and not cast iron imperatives.
in most cases their observance will facilitate the task of the court.
the aforesaid principles have been consistently followed by this court in several decisions.
2009 indlaw sc 859.
as already noted it is quite clear from the record that there was an altercation preceding the incident.
so it was only injury No 1 which was fatal in nature.
factually therefore there was only one main injury caused due to stabbing and that also was given on the back side of the deceased and therefore it can not be said that there was any intention to kill or to inflict an injury of a particular degree of seriousness.
there is therefore provocation and the incident happened at the spur of the moment.
his bail bonds shall stand cancelled and the appellant shall surrender immediately to serve out the remaining period of sentence.
the appeal stands disposed of in terms of aforesaid order.
appeal disposed of.
