an fir was registered on 23 3 1996 on the statement of one prakashi devi.
she stated that on the night of 2223 3 1996while.
she and her daughter in law sheela devi were sleeping in her house around 11 30 pm the appellant jumped over the front wall of her house and broke the bulbs and ran away that at that time no male member was present in the house except the children.
and i hereby direct that you be tried on the above said charge by this court.
she also admitted that the appellant did not touch her nor teased her nor abused her.
pw 2 also stated that she did not know the particulars of the dispute between the accused and her in laws.
the appeal filed by the accused was dismissed by the addl.
that order is challenged by the accused.
s 211 of the code relates to the contents of the charge.
in willie william slaney vs state of madhya pradesh.
air 1956 sc 116 1955 indlaw sc 80 this court explained the concepts of prejudice to the accused and failure of justice thus 6 before we proceed to set out our answer and examine the provisions of the code we will pause to observe that the code is a code of procedure and like all procedural laws is designed to further the ends of justice and not to frustrate them by the introduction of endless technicalities.
that broadly speaking is the basic principle on which the code is based.
now here as in all procedural laws certain things are regarded as vital.
this court then examined the question as to when a procedure adopted could be said to have worked actual injustice to the accused and held except where there is something so vital as to cut at the root of jurisdiction or so abhorrent to what one might term natural justice the matter resolves itself to a question of prejudice.
these go to the foundations of natural justice and would be struck down as illegal forthwith.
in still another class of case the matter may be so near the border line that very slight evidence of a reasonable possibility of prejudice would swing the balance in favour of the accused.
it is the substance that we must seek.
neither can be done if the shadow is mistaken for the substance and the goal is lost in a labyrinth of unsubstantial technicalities.
in adjudging the question of prejudice the fact that the absence of a charge or a substantial mistake in it is a serious lacuna will naturally operate to the benefit of the accused and if there is any reasonable and substantial doubt about whether he was or was reasonably likely to have been misled in the circumstances of any particular case he is as much entitled to the benefit of it here as elsewhere but if on a careful consideration of all the facts prejudice or a reasonable and substantial likelihood of it is not disclosed the conviction must stand also it will always be material to consider whether objection to the nature of the charge or a total want of one was taken at an early stage.
but these are matters of fact which will be special to each different case and no conclusion on these questions of fact in any one case can ever be regarded as a precedent or a guide for a conclusion of fact in another because the facts can never be alike in any two cases however alike they may seem.
in shamnsaheb m multtani vs state of karnataka 2001 2 scc 577.
2001 indlaw sc 19904this court considered the meaning of the expression failure of justice occurring in s 464 of cr.
pc this court held thus the crux of the matter is this would there be occasion for a failure of justice by adopting such a course as to convict an accused of the offence under section 304 b ipc when all the ingredients necessary for the said offence have come out in evidence although he was not charged with the said offence.
the criminal court particularly the superior court should make a close examination to ascertain whether there was really a failure of justice or whether it is only a camouflage.
however if the aspect is of such a nature that non explanation of it has contributed to penalizing an individual the court should say that since he was not given the opportunity to explain that aspect there was failure of justice on account of non compliance with the principle of natural justice.
6 scc 554 1998 indlaw sc 1286dalbir singh v state of up 2004 5 scc 334 2004 indlaw sc 247dumpala chandra reddy vs nimakayala bali reddy 2008.
8 scc 339 2008 indlaw sc 1064 and sanichar sahni vs state of bihar 2009 7 scc 198 2009 indlaw sc 736.
in judging a question of prejudice as of guilt the courts must act with a broad vision and look to the substance and not to the technicalities and their main concern should be to see whether the accused had a fair trial whether he knew what he was being tried for whether the main facts sought to be established against him were explained to him fairly and clearly and whether he was given a full and fair chance to defend himself.
the respondent relied upon the decision of this court in state of himachal pradesh v geeta ram 2000 7 scc 452 2000 indlaw sc 408 in that case.
the special court framed a charge only for an offence u s 376 ipc and after trial convicted the respondent u s 376 ipc and sentenced him to ten years imprisonment.
this court reversed the decision of the high court on the ground that a special court under the act being a sessions court it continued to have jurisdiction to try the case for the offence u s 376.
ipc that matter was considered u s 465 of the code and not relevant on the facts of this case.
as noticed above in this case the charge was that appellant committed trespass into the house of prakashi devi for assaulting prakashi devi and assaulted the said prakashi devi and outraged her modesty.
illustration e u s 215 of the code as contrasted from illustration d under that section throws some light on this issue.
the witnesses present in his defence were witnesses in the case of haidar baksh.
the court may infer from this that a was misled and that the error was material.
if sheela devi alone had been present at the house at the time of the incident and the accused had assaulted and outraged the modesty of the said sheela devi but in the charge the name of the victim had been erroneously mentioned say as sushila devi or prakashi devi though there was no person by such nameand the inquiry exclusively referred to the assault and outraging the modesty of sheela devi the court could infer that the accused was not misled and the error in the charge was immaterial.
the court having charged the accused with the offence of having trespassed into the house of prakashi devi with intent to assault her and having further charged him for having assaulted the said prakashi devi by outraging her modesty convicts him on the ground that though he did not assault or outrage the modesty of prakashi devi he had outraged the modesty of sheela devi that would lead to failure of justice.
there was a material error in the charge as it violated the requirement of sub s 1 of s 212 of the code that the charge shall contain particulars as to the person against whom the offence was committed.
in view of the specific charge the accused concentrated on showing that the charge was false.
therefore we are of the view that there should be a new trial after charging him with the offence of outraging the modesty of sheela devi.
