accused pathan hussain basha was married to pathan haseena begum now deceased on 23rd june2002 at guntur.
it was an arranged marriage.
at the time of marriage it was promised that a dowry of rs 25000 besides other formalities would be paid by the side of the wife to the husband.
the father of the bride could not pay the balance amount within time because he lacked the resources.
despite such pressure she was not able to get that money from her family.
they even refused to send her to her parental house.
she was unable to bear the cruelty to which she was subjected by the accused persons.
when pathan basheerunnisa lw3 returned from her work the accused sent her out giving her money to bring the soaps upon which she went out and when she came back she found the accused absent and the bride hanging in the house.
the father of the deceased pathan yasin khan lw 1 and her mother pathan shamshad begum lw 2 were present at that time.
the fir was registered under section 304b and section 498a of the indian penal code1860 for short the ipc thereafter investigation was conducted by one shri p devadass lw 17 he inspected the site from where he recovered and seized the saree that had been used for hanging.
on 16th february2003at about 5 p m.
investigating officer arrested all the three accused persons.
the sentence awarded by the trial court was confirmed.
this gave rise to filing of the present appeals.
first and the foremost we must consider what is the evidence led by the prosecution to bring home the guilt of accused.
the accused asked for rs 1000 with a ring for the deceased.
later on the accused came to fetch deceased.
it is stated by lw 3 that she knew all the accused persons as she was residing in the house of the accused and the deceased.
according to this witness also in the beginning they were happy however after some time she used to hear some quarrel between the deceased and the accused persons.
he confirmed the fact that rs 15000 was given at the time of marriage and rs 10000 was to be given within some time which the father of the deceased failed to provide.
in fact there is no dispute to the fact that the deceased died of hanging.
lw 14 is a witness to the seizure of the body and she noticed injuries on the body of the deceased.
at this stage it will be appropriate for us to examine as to what are the ingredients of an offence punishable under section 304b of the ipc.
in the case of biswajit halder alias babu halder and others v state of w b 2008 1 scc 202 2007 indlaw sc 304the court stated the ingredients of this provision as follows 10 the basic ingredients to attract the provisions of section 304 b are as follows.
11 alongside insertion of section 304 b in ipc the legislature also introduced section 113 b of the evidence act which lays down when the question as to whether a person has committed the dowry death of a woman and it is shown that soon before her death such woman had been subjected by such person to cruelty or harassment for or in connection with any demand for dowry the court shall presume that such person had caused the dowry death.
12 explanation appended to section.
in the case of ashok kumar v state of haryana 2010 12 scc 350 2010 indlaw sc 502this court explained these terms in some elucidation and the effect of the deeming fiction appearing in the section as follows 11 the appellant was charged with an offence under section 304 b of the code.
it is the first criteria which the prosecution must prove.
the explanation to this section requires that the expression dowry shall have the same meaning as in s 2 of the act.
12 the definition of dowry under s 2 of the act reads as under 2 definition of dowry.
the expression in connection with the marriage can not be given a restricted or a narrower meaning.
the expression in connection with the marriage even in common parlance and on its plain language has to be understood generally.
at this stage it will be appropriate to refer to certain examples showing what has and has not been treated by the courts as dowry.
again in satvir singh v state of punjab20018 scc 633 2001 indlaw sc 224.
this court held that the word dowry should be any property or valuable given or agreed to be given in connection with the marriage.
the customary payments in connection with birth of a child or other ceremonies are not covered within the ambit of the word dowry.
this court in madhu sudan malhotra v kishore chand bhandari1988 supp.
raj gopal asawa20044 scc 470 2004 indlaw sc 205.
the courts have also taken the view that where the husband had demanded a specific sum from his father in law and upon not being given harassed and tortured the wife and after some days she died such cases would clearly fall within the definition of dowry under the act.
s 4 of the act is the penal section and demanding a dowryas defined under s 2 of the act is punishable under this section.
we have already referred to the provisions of section 304 b of the code and the most significant expression used in the section is soon before her death.
in our view the expression soon before her death can not be given a restricted or a narrower meaning.
these are the provisions relating to human behaviour and therefore cannot be given such a narrower meaning which would defeat the very purpose of the provisions of the act of course these are penal provisions and must receive strict construction.
but even the rule of strict construction requires that the provisions have to be read in conjunction with other relevant provisions and scheme of the act.
this court in tarsem singh v state of punjab2008.
similar view was expressed by this court in yashoda v state of m p20043 scc 98 2004 indlaw sc 132 where this court stated that determination of the period would depend on the facts and circumstances of a given case.
if this is so the legislature in its wisdom would have specified any period which would attract the provisions of this section.
however there must be existence of proximate link between the acts of cruelty along with the demand of dowry and the death of the victim.
similarlyin connection with the marriage is an expression which has to be given a wider connotation.
these are penal provisions but ultimately these are the social legislations intended to control offences relating to the society as a whole.
dowry is something which existed in our country for a considerable time and the legislature in its wisdom considered it appropriate to enact the law relating to dowry prohibition so as to ensure that any party to the marriage is not harassed or treated with cruelty for satisfaction of demands in consideration and for subsistence of the marriage.
in other words the rule of law requires a person to be innocent till proved guilty.
the concept of deeming fiction is hardly applicable to the criminal jurisprudence.
in contradistinction to this aspect the legislature has applied the concept of deeming fiction to the provisions of section 304 b where other ingredients of section 304 b are satisfied in that event the husband or all relatives shall be deemed to have caused her death.
applying these principles to the facts of the present case it is clear that the ingredients of section 304b read with section 498a ipc are completely satisfied in the present case.
denial can not be treated to be the discharge of onus.
onus has to be discharged by leading proper and cogent evidence.
it was expected of the accused to explain as to how and why his wife died as well as his conduct immediately prior and subsequent to the death of the deceased.
in the present case the prosecution by reliable and cogent evidence has established the guilt of the accused.
while we see no reason to differ with the concurrent findings recorded by the trial court and the high court we do see some substance in the argument raised on behalf of the appellants that keeping in view the prosecution evidence the attendant circumstances the age of the accused and the fact that they have already being in jail for a considerable period the court may take lenient view as far as the quantum of sentence is concerned.
consequently we award ten years rigorous imprisonment to the appellants.
the appeals are partially accepted to the extent afore indicated.
appeals partly allowed.
