this civil appeal by special leave is directed against the judgment and decree dated 29th november1977 rendered by a single judge of the gujarat high court in second appeal no 348 of 1973which arose out of regular civil suit no 921 of 1966 filed in the court of joint civil judge baroda civil court by the appellant herein as plaintiff against respondents 1 and 2 herein.
defendants 1 and 2 for redemption of suit properties which were mortgaged as security for certain monies borrowed by the plaintiff from defendant l under two deeds of mortgage executed in the year 1961.
plaintiff filed the suit for redemption of the said mortgages in the year 1966 defendant 2brother of defendanti had been joined in that suit on the allegation that the latter was put in possession of mortgage properties by the former subsequent to the coming into existence of the mortgages.
such findings were firstly that the defendants had failed to prove that the suit properties were sold in favour of defendant l subsequent to the giving of security of those properties in his favour under the mortgage deeds secondly that the defendants had failed to prove the past tenancy of the suit properties on its view that what was pleaded by them in the written statements was tenancy prior to the date of filing of the suit and thirdly that the mortgages of the suit properties were mortgages by conditional sale.
court it also made a preliminary decree in favour of the plaintiff for redemption of the suit properties.
al act as it stood before its amendment at the time of filing of the suit and as it stood after its amendment after the filing of the suit.
consequently the learned single judge set aside the judgments and decrees of the trial court and the appellate court relating to the issue of tenancy raised by the defendants in the suit and remanded the case to the civil court trial court directing it to refer the issue of such tenancy to the mamlatdar baroda for his determination and to stay all further proceedings in the suit till he got the finding from the mamlatdar on that tenancy issue and thereafter to proceed to dispose of that suit in the light of that finding and the other findings recorded by the appellate court district judge.
in any event it was not the case of the plaintiff that defendant l was a tenant of the suit properties and hc surrendered his possession of the suit properties either expressly or impliedly and the possession so obtained by the plaintiff was re delivered to defendant l in pursuance of the mortgages by conditional sale executed in his favour.
according 10 him a mortgagee in possession being a person who can not be deemed to be a tenant under section 4 of the bt al act it was not open to the defendants to claim that they were the tenants of suit properties and if that be so question of raising issue of tenancy by the civil court in the suit before it did not arise at all nor was it necessary to refer such issue to the mamlatdar under section 85 a of the bt al act and stay the suit till receipt of the finding on such issue as was directed by the high court in its judgment under appeal.
according to him when the plaintiff had not admitted that the defendants were tenants of the suit properties it was not open to the defendants to force the plaintiff who had a right to choose his forum to file a suit to go before another forum on the plea that jurisdiction lay before another forum that is mamlatdar.
in this regard support was sought from the decision of this court in raizada topandas and another v m s gorakhram gokalchand 1963 indlaw sc.
questions which arise for our consideration and decision in the light of the aforesaid arguments of learned counsel for the contesting parties admit of their formulations thus 1 does the lease hold of a tenant lessee in a property merge in mortgage security if the same property is given by the landlord lessor to the tenant lessee as a mortgage security under a mortgage by conditional sale as would debar the tenant from desisting the suit of the landlord mortgagor for recovery of possession of such property by obtaining a decree for redemption of the mortgage.
2 when a plea of tenancy is raised with regard to suit property an agricultural land by a defendant who claims to be a tenant of such property under the bt al act and seeks a reference of that issue by the civil court to the mamlatdar under that act for obtaining a finding thereon can the civil court decide such issue by itself and proceed to decide the suit on the basis of the finding thereon.
bombay tenancy and agricultural lands act1948bombay tenancy and agricultural lands act1948.
2 no order of the mamlatdar the tribunal the collector or the maharashtra revenue tribunal or the state government made under this act shall be questioned in any civil or criminal court.
2 on receipt of such reference from the civil court the competent authority shall deal with and decide such issues in accordance with the provisions of this act and shall communicate its decision to the civil court and such court shall thereupon dispose of the suit in accordance with the procedure applicable thereto.
section 85a as it came into force after it was amended by gujarat act no 5 of 1973 w e f 3rd march1973.
question 1.
interests of the lessee and the lessor in the whole of the property become vested at the same time in one person in the same right because of section 11 ld of the t p act.
if that be the position there can be no bar for the defendants to claim the right to continue in possession of the suit properties as tenants under the bt.
shah mathuradas case 1976 indlaw sc 400 supra was that where the respondent had executed a mortgage in favour of the appellant respecting a premises of which he was a tenant.
it was agreed under the terms of the mortgage deed that no interest need be paid by the respondent since the premises the possession of which was given to the tenant pursuant to the mortgage was to be enjoyed in lieu of interest payable on the mortgage.
this court held that the mortgage deed established beyond doubt that there was no subsistence or continuation of lease in that there was delivery of possession by the tenant to the landlord immediately before the mortgage and redelivery of possession to the tenant of the premises made by the landlord was pursuant to the mortgage as a mortgagee and not as a tenant.
secondly this court held that the appellant was not entitled to retain after redemption possession of the mortgage property by reason of his previous right to be in its possession as a tenant.
in the case of a lease the estate that is in the lessor is a reversion.
in the case of a mortgage the estate that is outstanding is the equity of redemption of the mortgagor.
coming to g appalaswamy case 1984 indlaw sc 314 supra which considered the question whether a sitting tenant who took property by a possessory or usufructuary mortgage in his favour was liable to deliver physical possession upon redemption to the mortgagor.
dealing with the question of non merger this court approved the ratio of the decision in shah mathuradas 1976 indlaw sc 400 supra thus in our view there can be no merger of a lease and a mortgage even where the two transactions are in respect of the same property.
accordingly there can not be a merger of a lease and a mortgage in respect of the same property since neither of them is a higher or lesser estate than the other.
hence the lease hold of a tenant lessee in a property does not merge in mortgage security of that property even if it is given to.
him by the landlord lessor on a mortgage by conditional sale as would debar the tenant from desisting the suit of the landlord mortgagor for recovery of possession of such property by obtaining decree for redemption of the mortgage.
question 2.
the only question which arose for decision in topandas case 1963 indlaw sc 379 supra was whether on a proper interpretation of section 28 of the bombay rents hotel and lodging house rates control.
bombay had exclusive jurisdiction in dealing with the suit out of which the appeal had arisen.
there the respondent a partnership firm was in possession as a tenant of a shop at mulji jetha market bombay.
the appellants despite being asked not to visit the shop after the expiry of the period in the concerned agreement they continued to visit the shop and were preventing the respondent from having access to its various articles such as stock in trade books of account furniture fixtures etc.
the defence of the appellants defendants in substance was that the agreement on which reliance was placed by the respondents in their suit was a sham agreement and that the appellants in reality were the tenants of the shop and the relationship between the respondents and appellants was that of the landlord and tenant.
if he establishes the correctness of his facts he will get his relief from the forum chosen.
it does not invest those courts with exclusive power to try questions of title such as questions as between the rightful owner and a trespasser or a licensee for such questions do not arise under the act.
as seen from the above observations this court has held that it did not think that the section concerned says or intends to say that the plea of the defendant will determine or change the forum.
but if the provisions of the bt al act which bear on the question of matters to be decided by the mamlatdar are seen they give no room for one even to think that those matters could be decided by a civil court when a question is raised in that behalf even by a defendant in a suit.
section 70 of the bt al act to which we have adverted already imposes a duty on the mamlatdar to decide whether a person is an agriculturist or a tenant or a protected tenant or a permanent tenant when such person claims to be so under that act.
thus we are constrained to answer the question in the negative by agreeing with the view expressed by the single judge of the high court in this regard in his judgment and order under appeal.
in the result we dismiss this appeal with costs.
appeal dismissed.
