March 15.
The Judgment of the Court was delivered by MUDHOLKAR J.
The two villages are however 25 miles or so distant from each other.
Acting suo motu the Additional Custodian made an order on October 31 1952 cancelling the order of allotment of land in the village Raikot made in favour of the appellants in the year 1949 and instead allotted to them land in Karodian in substitution of the lands at Raikot and of the lands allotted to their father.
These fourteen allottees preferred an application for review of the order cancelling their allotment on the ground that this cancellation was a result of misapprehension of the actual facts and that they were not entitled to allotment of suburban lands at all.
The Additional Custodian for the State of Punjab recommended to the Custodian General the restoration 331 of the land to the 14 allottees which had been taken away from them by reason of cancellation of the allotment in their favour by the order dated October 31 1952.
The Additional Custodian admitted that these persons were not entitled to allotment of suburban land and that consequently their allotment had been wrongly made but referred the matter back to the Additional Custodian for decision.
The application made by the appellants was kept pending till the decision of the application of the 14 allottees of Karodian.
The Additional Custodian however dismissed the application on the ground that r 146 of the Evacuee Property Rules which came into force on July 22 1952 stood in the way of cancellation of the allotment in favour of the appellant.
and allotment of which had been cancelled earlier.
As a result of this order the allotment of Karodian land made in favour of the appellants automatically stood cancelled.
Consequent upon the cancellation of the appellants  allotment of the Raikot land they were allotted to respondents 2 to 4.
These persons were therefore impleaded as parties to the proceedings before the Deputy Custodian General.
By the order dated November 8 1957 the Deputy Custodian General dismissed the appellants  application.
The appellants have therefore come up to this Court by way of appeal with special leave.
In that case the Court has held that the powers of the Custodian General to deal with matters of this kind have been taken away by the  and that these powers now vest in another authority and that there is no provision for continuing the pro ceedings which had been commenced under the  but had not been concluded.
Mr Achhruram for the appellants challenged the correctness of this decision.
What is urged by Mr Khanna on behalf of the Custodian General is that this is the effect of the provisions of sections 122 and 19 of the Act.
It is common ground that by notification section R 0 697 dated March 24 1955 the Central Government decided to acquire all evacuee property allotted to displaced persons by the Custodian under the Conditions contained in the notification of the Government of Punjab in the Department of Rehabilitation No 4892 6 dated July 8 1949 except certain categories of property specified in the schedule.
333 provides that on the publication of the notification under sub section 1 the right title or interest of any evacuee in the property specified in the notification shall immediately stand extinguished and that property shall vest absolutely in the Central Government free from all encumbrances.
But the consequence of the publication of the notification by the Central Government under section 121 of the with respect to any property or a class of property would be to divest the Custodian completely of his right in the property flowing from section 8 of the  and vest that property in the Central Government.
Sub section.
Under section 161 of this Act the Central Government is empowered to take such measures as it considers necessary or expedient for the custody management and disposal of the compensation pool.
Sub section.
This provision thus confers the power to deal with evacuee property acquired under the Act only on a managing officer appointed or managing corporation constituted under the Act and makes no mention whatsoever of the Custodian appointed under the .
Therefore they must prevail over the provisions of B 10 of the .
It is true that there is nothing on record to show that a managing officer was appointed with respect to the Raikot properties acquired under the notification dated March 24 1955.
But it is not necessary to ascertain that fact.
It is no doubt true that the Raikot lands were allotted to the appellants under the notification referred to in el.
a of this section and therefore they would be entitled to the benefits conferred by this section provided they satisfied all the other requirements of this section express or implied.
It is implicit in this section that the displaced person to whom land was allotted held the land and was in possession of such property at the date of the notification.
336 Mr Achhruram then referred to the Conditions on which allotments of land may be made under the notification referred to in sub section.
That may or may not be so.
That rule reads as follows Allotments which are the subject matter of dispute.
No property in a rural area in respect of which any case is pending in a Civil Court or before a Deputy Custodian Custodian or Custodian General shall be transferred to the allottee.
There is therefore no substance in this argument.
Sub section.
Sub section.
The argument is that unless there is such entrustment the managing officer or managing corporation has no function to perform with respect to evacuee property.
d of r 102 permits the managing officer or managing corporation to cancel allotment for any other sufficient reason to be recorded in writing.
That is all.
