March 24 1964.
The Judgment of the Court was delivered by DAS GUPTA J.
In July.
In September 1959 an agreement was entered into between the Company and its employees at Calcutta under which the age of retirement was extended to 58 years subject to the employees passing a medical examination on reaching the age of 55.
It is the endeavour of industrial adjudication to prevent this.
In support of their demand for fixing the age of retirement at 60 the workmen tried to show that in recent years at least the tendency in comparable concerns in Bombay region has been to fix the retirement age at 60.
The Chart which is marked exhibit U 5 mentions 50 concerns in which the age of retirement is 60.
The workmen claim that these showed clearly a tendency in the Bombay region to fix the age of retirement in comparable concerns at 60.
The Court then took into account the fact that the Tribunal had found that in all the awards in recent times in various concerns in Bombay region the trend had been to fix the age of retire ment at 60 years.
Reliance was placed for this purpose on the Chart exhibit Cl.
The work men objected to this being received in evidence on the ground that the original letters had not been brought on the record.
This Chart shows the age of retirement for 75 concerns.
The Statement filed by the workmen to explain this Chart shows that in two of these cases  viz Ingerzoll Band and Northern Assurance Co the demand for fixing the age of retirement at 60 years is under negotiation.
There is thus good ground for thinking that the reason why these concerns have kept the age of retirement at 55 or 58 are special to them and do not show any recent trend in the matter.
Having embarked an this enquiry the Tribunal appears to have taken considerable pains to perform this duty and it has ultimately persuaded itself to hold that no such trend is established in fact.
We ought to add in this connection that the approach adopted by the Tribunal in dealing with this aspect of the problem is not very commendable and that its present conclusion that what was said by itself on an earlier occasion and was confirmed by this Court in appeal was in fact inaccurate is on the whole unsound.
If this Court had erred in making those pronouncements we would be the first to admit such mistakes and to correct the error.
What the Tribunal has failed to notice is that instances which may justify a revision of the judicial opinion expressed on an earlier occasion about a particular trend must be strong and unambiguous and they must speak for the period both before and more particularly after the previous finding had been recorded in the matter.
Accordingly the norm for retirement age is fixed at 60.
This considered opinion of a Committee on which both employers and employees were represented emphasised the fact that in the Bombay region at least there is a general agree ment that the age of retirement should be fixed at 60.
The Tribunal has referred to these observations but has brushed them aside in a way for which we find no justification.
On a consideration of all the facts and circumstances disclosed by the oral and documentary evidence on this record we have come to the conclusion that the age of retirement of the appellant workmen should be fixed at 60.
Appeal allowed.
