MC Setalvad Attorney General for India B Sen with him for the appellant in Case No 297.
AR Sornanatha Iyer Advocate General of Mysore K Ramaseshayya Choudhry with him for the State of Mysore.
The High Court by a Full Bench consisting of the Chief Justice and four other Judges quashed the conviction and directed the trial of the respondent and the other accused persons according to law.
Section 3 empowers the State Government by notification in the official gazette to constitute Special Courts and section 4 provides for the appointment of spe cial judges to preside over such courts.
concurred applied the test of what may be called reasonable classification and held that although the need for a speedier trial than what is possible under the procedure prescribed 291 by the Code of Criminal Procedure might form the basis of a reasonable classification and section 5 1 could not be regarded as discriminatory in so far as it authorises the State Government to direct that certain offences or classes of offences or classes of cases should be tried by a special court the provision was discriminatory and violative of article 14 of the Constitution in so far as it purported to vest in the State Government an absolute and arbitrary power to refer to a special court for trial any cases  which must include an individual case whether the duration of such a case is likely to be long or not .
delivered separate judgments agreeing with the conclusion of the Chief Justice Das Gupta J however going further and holding that section 5 1 was unconstitutional in its entirety inasmuch as the clas sification sought to be made on the expediency of speedier trial is not a well defined classification.
The object of the law we assume until the lower Court shall decide otherwise is single to keep up competition and the general language is to be restricted by the specific provi sions and to the particular end.
Government is not a simple thing.
It is interesting to find that the trend of recent decisions in America has been to lean strongly toward sus taining State action both in the legislative and in the administrative spheres against attacks based on hostile discrimination.
 These decisions seem to my mind to reveal a change of approach marked by an increasing respect for the State s regulatory power in dealing with equal protection claims and underline the futility of wordy formulation of so called tests in solving problems presented by concrete cases.
3  2  300 provision Day J observed after referring to certain prior decisions  These cases leave in no doubt the proposition that the conferring of discretionary power upon administrative boards to grant or withhold permission to carry on a trade or business which is the proper subject of regulation within the police power of the state is not violative of rights secured by the 14th Amendment.
Whether a law conferring discretionary powers on an administrative authority is constitutionally valid or not should not be determined on the assumption that such authority will act in an arbitrary manner in exercising the discretion committed to it.
In other words clause 2 of article 19 having allowed the imposition of restrictions on the freedom of speech and expression only in cases where danger to the State is involved an enactment which is capable of being applied to cases where no such danger could arise cannot be held to be constitutional and valid to any extent.
FAZL ALl J.
3 Article 14 is as widely worded as if not more widely worded than its counterpart in the American Consti tution and is bound to lead to some inconvenient results and seriously affect some pre Constitution laws.
FN Balsara C and the principles laid down in those decisions have to be kept in view in deciding the present case.
I think the fallacy of the argument lies in overlooking the fact that the insid ious discrimination complained of is incorporated in the Act itself it being so drafted that whenever any 310 discrimination is made such discrimination would be ulti mately traceable to it.
MAHAJAN J.
FN Balsara 2.
The elimination of the committal proceedings and of trial by jury sec 6 the taking away of the right to a de novo trial on transfer sec 7 the vesting of discretion in the Special Court to refuse to summon a defence witness if it be satisfied that his evidence will not be material sec.
Section 5 1 of the Act runs as follows  A Special Court shall try such offences or classes of offences or cases or classes of cases as the State Government may by general or special order in writing direct.
The classifi cation of  offences by itself is not calculated to touch any individual as such although it may after the classifi cation is made affect all individuals who may commit the particular offence.
I have already stated that this part of the sub section contemplates a process of classification of of fences classes of offences and classes of cases.
CHANDRASEKHARA AIYAR J.
Distinctions have to be made for different classes and groups of persons and a rational or reasonable classification is permitted as otherwise it would be almost impossible to carry on the work of Govern ment of any State or country.
To use the felicitous language of Mr Justice Holmes in Bain Peanut Co vs Pinson1 We must remember that the machinery of government could not work if it were not allowed a little play in its joints.
Bombay and Another vs.
 When the Inspector of Mines wrote to the plaintiff company Plymouth Coal Co asking their engineer to meet him so that they can meet the engineer of the neigh bouring coal company to decide about the thickness of the barrier pillar to be left unmined between the two adjoining coal properties the plaintiff company declined to co oper ate.
Thereupon the Inspector filed a bill of complaint against the plaintiff company for a preliminary and a per petual injunction from working its mines without leaving a barrier pillar of the dimensions he thought necessary.
On this point I would invite special attention to the view taken by Mr Justice Das Gupta in the following passage of his Judgment The Act lays down no principle on which selection of classes of offences or classes of cases should be made by the State Government.
The Act indicates no basis whatsoever on which such classification should be made.
 Bose J We are concerned here with article 14 of the Constitution and in particular with the words equality before the law and equal protection of the law.
The law of the Constitution is not only for those who govern or for the theorist but also for the bulk of the people for the common man for whose benefit and pride and safeguard the Constitution has also been written.
