 On the basis of this finding of fact the Tribunal held that if the minimum wage in the Company is to be fixed more on the basis of the minimum wage prevailing in other industries in that region which in its opinion would be appropriate under the circumstances of the case then a revision was really necessary.
Learned counsel had to admit that no specific plea was taken by the Company in this behalf and at least no evidence at all was led to show that these concerns are not comparable with the Company.
Having come to this view it is clear that to give full effect to the principle laid down by this Court the case of French Motor Car Co1 the Tribunal should have proceeded to fix the minimum wage in the Company on the basis of the average minimum wage prevailing in these concerns.
payable as production bonus.
necessary that the minimum wage.
not think that such a consideration should be taken.
into account.
between.
different industries.
Finally it was argued that other amenities being provided by the Company should also be taken into account when fixing the minimum wage.
In this case however there is nothing to show that the Company is providing any such amenities which are different from the amenities that are being provided by those concerns in the region which.
The nature of work is such that the total number of workmen employed does not exceed 125 which is a very small number as compared  with the number of workmen employed by the Company.
cannot be held to be incorrect and must be upheld.
of arguments at the last stage before us learned counsel for the workmen confined his arguments to the bonus for the year 1962 63 only.
The reference was ultimately made by the Government under section 101 of the Act but it was made in the same form in which the parties had agreed to.
refer it.
The reference was made by the Government on the 4th October 1962.
Further the Tribunal was expected to decide the dispute only as referred to it and at the time of reference at least there was not and there could possibly not be a claim for higher bonus on the basis of the application of the Full Bench Formula.
The claim was in fact based on the circumstances that according to the workmen the bonus in their case was being calculated as equivalent to three months  basic wages while the case of some clerical staff the calculation was made on the basis of their consolidated wages consisting of basic wages and dearness allowance.
The argument is incorrect.
that the bonus is worked out on the basis of the total wages paid.
