Besides the learned Judge was openly attacking the Govern ment in its political as well as administrative decision.
Chandrawati.
The High Court did not take any action against two persons on the letter written by five members of the Bar Association of Charkhi Dadri.
The letter was addressed bona fide in good faith and without 245 any ill will and no publicity was given to it.
The deponent submits that the contents of the letter.
have no relevance or relation to the functioning of the learned Judge of the High Court.
The deponent submits that there was no intention whatsoever on his part to scandalise the Hon ble Judge or this Hon ble Court or to lower the authority or undermine the prestige of the learned Judge or of the Hon  ble Court or to weaken in any way the confidence of the people in the administration of justice.
The deponent respectfully submits that the communication does not bear out any foundation for an action for criminal contempt.
The Full Bench thereafter referred to paragraph 9 of the affidavit where the deponents said that if in view of this Hon ble Court the action of the deponent in addressing the letter in question constituted for any reason contempt of court no one would be more sorry than the deponent himself.
Therefore the deponent tender his apology to this Hon ble Court for the same and prays for its acceptance.
The elementary basis of acceptance of apology is that there is to be a finding of committal of contempt.
It is indeed curious 246 that the High Court in the notice referred to the letter of the appellant and said on a perusal of the contents thereof a prima facie case contempt is made out.
It is necessary to state here that if any Judge address es on political problems or controversies the Judge exposes himself to discussion by public.
Invitations by the Bar Associ ation or social invitations naturally Stand on a different footing and no one will find an exception to any Judge attending a social function.
Judges are by reason of their office and nature of work expected not to get involved in controversial matters or to concern themselves with political issues or policies under taken by political parties as a part of their political programme.
The High.
The contempt proceedings are dropped.
