LN Sinha Attorney General R B Datar and Miss A Subhashini for the Appellants.
of Delhi.
Such a direction was first issued by Notification dated January 28 1976 published in the Government Gazette dated February 27 1976 by which the Development Authority Korba was directed to exercise the powers and perform the functions of a Class I Municipality constituted under the Madhya Pradesh Municipality Act 1961.
It says that the Corporation shall impose a tax payable by the owners of buildings or lands situated within the city with reference to the gross annual letting value of the building or land called the property tax.
Rs 6000.
Petitions Nos.
That is because the legislature which adopts by incorporation the existing provisions of another law cannot be assumed to intend to bind itself to all future amendments or modifications which may be made in the earlier law.
The property tax is imposed by respondent 1 under section 127A of the Municipalities Act and section 135 of the Municipal Corporation Act.
It is not possible to accept this submission because sections 127A and 135 of the two Acts in question leave no such choice open to the taxing authority.
The obligation which the statute places upon it is to impose tax on lands where there are lands only and they can be taxed on buildings where buildings alone can be brought to tax and on both lands and buildings where lands are built upon and both can be brought to tax.
puts the matter beyond all doubt.
In Pennington s Company Law 4th Edition pages 50 51 it is stated that there are only two decided cases where the court has disregarded the separate legal entity of a company and that was done because the company was formed or used to facilitate the evasion of legal obligations.
Under section 51 of the Coal Mines Nationalisation Act 26 of 1973 which applies in the instant case the right title and interest of a nationalised coal mine vest by direction of the Central Government in the Government company.
This contention does not appear to have been taken before the assessing authority.
No documents seem to have been filed before it to bear out facts which are sought to be placed before us nor indeed have we evidence before us to show that the lands belong to the State Government.
Entry 23 of List II relates to Regulation of mines and mineral development subject to the provisions of List I with respect to regulation and development under the control of the Union.
Entry 54 of List I relates to Regulation of mines and mineral development to the extent to which such regulation and development under the control of the Union is declared by Parliament by law to be expedient in the public interest.
It is true that on account of the declaration contained in section 2 of the Mines and Minerals Development and Regulation Act 1957 the legislative field covered by Entry 23 of List II will pass on to Parliament by virtue of Entry 54 List I.
one of which is to provide for the development and administration of Special Areas through Special Area Development Authorities Section 64 of the Act of 1973 which provides for the constitution of the special areas lays down by sub section 4 that Notwithstanding anything contained in the Madhya Pradesh Municipal Corporation Act 1956 the Madhya Pradesh Municipalities Act 1961 or the Madhya Pradesh Panchayats Act 1962 the Municipal Corporation Municipal Council Notified Area Committee or a Panchayat as the case may be shall in relation to the special area and as from the date the Special Area Development Authority undertakes the functions under clause v or clause vi of section 68 cease to exercise the powers and perform the function and duties which the Special Area Development Authority is competent to exercise and perform under the Act of 1973.
Section 69 which defines the powers of the Authority shows that those powers are conferred inter alia for the purpose of municipal administration.
The power conferred by the State Legislature on Special Area Development Authorities to impose the property tax on lands and buildings is therefore not in conflict with the power conferred by the Coal Mines Nationalisation Act on the Union Government to regulate and develop the Coal mines so as to ensure rational and scientific utilisation of coal resources.
The second sub rule added to Rule 20 was held to be without jurisdiction for the same reason.
