Respondent in person.
On 1st January 1957 the account showed a credit of Rs 150740.
On that day the assessee had addressed a letter to the Company stating that he had decided to gift away for love and affection various sums to the following persons 125 Ved Prakash Gupta .
A similar letter was written by Ved Prakesh thanking the assessee his father for the gift of Rs25000 made to him and Rs50000 gifted to his son.
It was also stated to be carrying on business of advancing money and taking money on loan when necessary.
In the case of banking companies or other firms and companies who have overdraft facilities even if the sums are not in credit of the donor and are not with such companies or firms gifts might be possible by adjustment of the book entries.
In the case of Commissioner of IncomeTax Ahmedabad vs Digvijaysinghji Tin Factory  on the contrary it was held that the gifts were valid though not sufficient cash with firm avail able but proper book entries were made.
It was held by the Bombay High Court that there was no valid gift.
It may be noted that in EMV Muthappa Chettiar vs Commission er of Income Tax Madras the Madras High Court held that mere entries were not enough to constitute valid gifts particularly when gift of fund continued to be used in the donors  business.
The Madras High Court in the case of Mrs Ida L Cham bers and Three Others vs Kelland Huxford Chambers was dealing with a case where C proprietor of a business who had invested a large amount of capital in it caused entries to be made in his account books crediting his wife and certain other members of his family with sums which were debited to his capital account.
C was not in a position to make gifts in cash of the amounts credited in favour of his wife and relatives.
He had large assets but these were represented by land buildings plant machinery and stock in trade.
Interest on the amounts was also credited in the accounts regularly for some time until a bank from which C had obtained an overdraft objected to such crediting of interest.
It was further held that there was no trust either and that there was nothing in the acts or conduct of C to show that he intended to create a trust or to constitute himself a trus tee.
Where moneys were actually paid by way of interest on the alleged gifts those became completed gifts.
Father had complete control and dominion over that amount.
There was no evidence that gifts were accepted on behalf of minors.
Rangoon High Court in Abba Dada and Company vs Commis sioner of Income Tax Burma held that the mere book entries were not sufficient in that case to constitute valid gift.
Shyamo Bibi had to deal with a case where the credit balance of 2 12 lakhs was with the firm.
It was held that the gift was not valid.
Cash Balance was only Rs7626.
No acceptance was produced.
There the assessee was the karta of a Hindu undivided family.
The transfer was effected by debit ing the assessee s personal account in the books of the Hindu undivided family with Rs50000 and crediting the same in the personal account of his son.
In the impugned judgment the Allahabad High Court had followed the said decision.
But in that case the question in the present form in which it arises before us in the instant case did not arise.
