Under Article 32 of the Constitution of India.
G Ramaswamy Additional Solicitor General RP Srivastava 634 and Miss A Subhashini for the Respondent.
The Judgment of the Court was delivered by RANGANATH MISRA J.
The petitioner of this application under Article 32 of the Constitution is an engineer who was employed in the Central Public Works Department under the Ministry of Works and Housing in Government of India and was compulsorily retired by order dated 381976 with effect from 5111976 made under Rule 56j of the Fundamental Rules.
He has assailed that order for retirement and has claimed payment of remuneration which he would have been entitled to draw upto the normal date of superannuation.
The short facts are these.
The petitioner was born on 1021922 and secured his first appointment as a Section Officer under the named employer on 22101947.
He was pro moted as officiating Assistant Engineer in class II service with effect from  255.
1954 and came to be confirmed as Section Officer by an order dated 8101955.
On 371961 he was further promoted as officiating Executive Engineer in Class I service but on 491965 he was reverted to the post of Assistant Engineer in officiating position and was con tinuing in that post when he was compulsorily retired.
According to the said judgment FR 56 ji has no application to officiating government servants hence can have no appli cation to the petitioner since the petitioner was an officiating government servant.
 The impugned notice ran thus No 3245266 EC.
Sd VR .
VAISH ENGINEER IN CHIEF To Shri AL Ahuja Assistant Engineer Civil Under Suspension A1185 Lajpat Nagar New Delhi 110024.
Therefore sub clause 1 was not contravened when the order was made.
In short an officiating Govern ment servant does not really belong to Class I or Class II service until he acquires a right thereon.
It is clear that sub clause ii is the general rule applicable to all Government servants and sub clause i carves out a class of Government servants into a category and makes a special provision.
We have already indicated that sub clause ii did not apply to the facts of this case as the petitioner had not attained the age of 55 years by the date of the order.
There is however no reasons why sub clause i should be confined to service or post held on substantive basis.
There is no warrant for the conclusion that officiating Government servants in Class I or Class II service or post are outside the purview of sub clause i.
The purpose of Fundamental Rules 56j is to confer power on the appropriate authority to compulsorily retire Government servant in the public interest and the classification of Government servants into two categories covered by sub clauses i and ii has a purpose behind it.
If the condi tion indicated in sub clause i is satisfied namely the Government servant is in Class I or Class II service or post and he had entered into service before attaining the age of 35 years and has attained the age of fifty the further condition that he must substantively belong to the two classes of service or post cannot be introduced into the scheme.
1976 and 292.
There will be no order for costs.
WRIT PETITION NOS.
