VN Ganpule for the Petitioner.
Soli J Sorabjee KJ John and AK Desai for the Respondents.
The Judgment of the Court was delivered by SEN J.
The by section 630 enacts 630.
1 of section 630 of the Act.
The controversy is as to the meaning of the term officer or employee  used in sub s1 of section 630 and as to the meaning of the words any such property  in cl.
b thereof and there is a conflict of opinion between the High Courts of Calcutta and Bombay on the question.
On a literal construction of the term officer or employee  occurring in sub section.
It also held that the words any such property  in section 630lb relate to property specified in cl.
a viz property of a company wrongfully taken possession of by a present officer or employee of the company.
1 of section 630 must be interpreted to mean not only the present officers and employees of a company but also to include past officers and employees of the company.
That has been the consistent view taken by the High Court of Bombay in a series of cases.
The issues involved in the special leave petition are of considerable importance to the corporate sector as many of the business organisations both in the public as well as the private sector are required to provide residential accommodation to their officers and employees as a condition of their service to attract better talent and have of necessity to purchase residential flats in multi storeyed buildings in large cities and towns for the use of such officers and employees during the course of their employment and the question is whether the provisions contained in sub section.
1 of section 630 which provide for the launching of a prosecution against an officer or employee of a company for wrongful possession of such property under cls.
1 of section 630 and for the recovery of such property by the issue of process under sub section 2 also extends to past officers and employees of the company and whether the Court trying the offence has the power to issue a process under sub section.
2 against such officer or employee.
At the conclusion of the hearing we had by a short order dismissed the special leave petition and held that the view expressed by the learned Single Judge following the earlier decisions of the High Court in Harkishan Lakhimal Gidwani and reiterated in Govind T Jagtiani was to be preferred to the view to the contrary expressed by the High Court of Calcutta in Amritlal Chum.
The reasons therefor follow.
At the very threshold it is necessary to set out a few facts.
The petitioner Baldev Krishan Sahi was an Under Secretary to the Government of India in the Ministry of Shipping  Transport and on May 21 1974 accepted employment as Joint Manager in the Mogul Line Limited a Government of India undertaking after obtaining release from government service.
He was first allotted a service quarter.
Prior to that ie On September 26 1984 he addressed a letter requesting the company to permit him to continue to live in the company s premises during the period of his accumulated leave after his retirement ie for a period of six months undertaking to vacate the flat as early as possible.
After the expiry of the said period of six months the company addressed a letter dated April 26 1985 requesting the petitioner to vacate the premises stating that if he failed to do so he would be liable to pay higher compensation as per the company s rules.
Since the petitioner failed to vacate the flat the company initiated proceedings for his eviction under the Public Premises Eviction of Unauthorised occupants Act 1971.
The Estate officer by order dated December 2 1985 directed the eviction of the petitioner.
Instead of availing of that opportunity the petitioner on March 3 1986 moved the High Court by a petition under article 226 of the Constitution and obtained ad interim stay of the proceedings before the Estate officer.
In view of this the company was constrained to lodge a complaint against the petitioner under section 630 of the Act in the Court of the Additional Chief Metropolitan Magistrate 37th Court Esplanade Bombay alleging that he was wrongfully withholding the flat in question which had been given to him for his residence during the period of his employment and and thereby committed an offence punishable under section 630.
The learned Magistrate by his order dated May 22 1986 took cognizance of the complaint against the petitioner and directed issue of process.
On June 30 1986 the company merged with the Shipping Corporation of India and all its assets and liabilities were taken over by the Corporation.
It is further pleaded that the petitioner was given the flat for his residence during the period of his employment and that he was bound to vacate the same after his retirement.
It is asserted that the petitioner with a dishonest intention is wrongfully with holding the flat and has instituted false and frivolous proceedings with the ulterior object of protracting and delaying the eviction proceedings.
We are informed that the petitioner has been deliberately and dishonestly withholding the flat covering an area of 1750 square feet in Cuffe Parade which is a posh area valued at approximately Rs30 lakhs and putting it to his own use contrary to the terms of his employment.
The first and foremost argument of learned counsel for the petitioner is that the provision contained in section 630 of the Act is a penal provision and therefore must be subject to a strict construction and there is no room for intendment.
It is submitted that on a true construction the scope and effect of the section was limited to such property of the company which was wrongfully obtained by an officer or employee of the company.
b of sub section.
1 for the contention that cl.
b does not stand by itself but is inter connected with cl.
In essence the submission is that sub section.
1 of section 630 of the Act makes it an offence where any officer or employee of a company wrongfully withholds possession of 175 such property of the company.
Secondly it is contended that the legislature never intended to include past officers and employees of a company within the ambit of section 630 of the Act which provides for prosecution of an officer or employee of a company for wrongfully withholding the property of the company inasmuch as it has used different languages where it was so intended namely in sections 538 and 545.
The entire argument of the learned counsel is based upon the judgment of the High Court of Calcutta in Amritlal Chum s case.
I of section 630 of the Act which defeats the very purpose and object with which it had been introduced.
wrongfully withholds possession of it after the termination of his employment.
The section is in two parts.
Sub section.
a namely where an officer or employee of a company wrongfully obtains possession of any property of the company during the course of his employment to which he is not entitled.
This is the function of cl.
a and although it primarily refers to the existing officers and employees it may also take in past officers and employees.
In contrast cl.
That appears to be one of the functions of cl.
It would be noticed that cl.
b also makes it an offence if any officer or employee of a company having any property of the company in his possession knowingly applies it to purposes other than those expressed or directed in the articles and authorised by the Act.
1 of section 630 of the Act.
The whole object of enacting sub section.
a into cl.
There is also no warrant for the construction placed by the High Court of Calcutta on the words any such property  occurring in cl.
b relate to any property of a company as mentioned in cl.
NG Chaudhuri J speaking for himself and GC Chatterjee J held that the opening words of sub section.
1 of section 630 namely if any officer or employee of a company  qualify the acts of delinquency  specified in clauses a and b thereof.
a of section 6301 was referable to existing officer or employee of a company while cl.
b was wide enough to include former or past officer or employee of the company inasmuch as on a plain reading of the section the two clauses do not permit different interpretations as suggested.
b as taking in the property mentioned in cl.
a ie property wrongfully obtained.
The reasoning of the learned Judges does not bear scrutiny and renders cl.
which is an offence under section 630lb of the Act as rightly pointed out by VS Kotwal J in Harkishan Lakhimal Gidwani vs Achyut Kashinath Wagh supra.
The petitioner there was the General Manager of a company known as the English Electrical Company of India Limited a company incorporated under the having its registered office at Calcutta.
He had been allotted the premises of a flat approximately 3500 square feet in area located at Mayfair Gardens Little Gibbs Road Bombay.
He had been inducted into the flat only by virtue of his capacity as the General Manager of the company s branch office at Bombay but the company allowed him to retain the same on humanitarian grounds for a short period after his retirement to enable him to find alternative accommodation.
b even though cls.
a and b are separated by the word or  which must in the context in which it appears be read as and  and so construed must mean withholding of property wrongfully obtained by an existing officer or employee.
Kotwal J.
On a careful analysis of section 630 held that the provisions of the section apply not only to the present officers and employees of the company but also to past officers and employees and observed It is held that the features and deductions which flow logically and inescapably on an analysis of section 630 are that i Clause a of the section is self contained and independent of cl.
b with the capacity of creating penal liability 4 embracing the case of an existing employee or officer of the company.
iii The entitlement of an officer to the property of the company is contingent on the right and capacity of the officer by virtue of his employment which is transformed into the actual possession of the property and the duration of such right would be co terminus with the terms of employment.
While the existence of the capacity right and possession would be during employment the withholding may be even after the termination of the employment and though the possession as it precedes the act of retention or withholding may be rightful in the past affording an 179 Opportunity to withhold the withholding may be wrongful as in the present case.
 The learned Judge Ashok Agarwal J observes that that has been the consistent view of the High Court and has referred to the subsequent decisions of Khatri j J and Kurdukar J.
PSS Petition dismissed.
