It further goes on to state that the licensee shall not under any circumstances be allowed to use the premises for the residential purposes or any other purpose save and except specified therein.
The agreement further recited that the licensor shall have the full right to enter upon the premises and inspect the same at any time.
It was recorded by the court with the expression BC a term of some ambiguity as explained later that the appellant was not claiming protection as a sub tenant under the Rent Act but only the subtenancy as such and therefore it was recorded that as agreed BC .
The learned Judge noted that the only point that arose for consideration was whether the appellant proved that he was a sub tenant as such or not.
It is interesting to note that in the judgment of the Small Cause Court and also of the High Court at several places the expression BC was used this is intriguing as we find that it intrigued Vaidya J because he stated in his judgment dated 9th of December 1975 what the expression BC was meant by Court.
The learned Judge recorded further that it was practice in the Court of Small Causes Bombay of using the expression 1063 BC.
In July 1967 the appellants 1064 filed an application for eviction under section 41 of the .
The contention of the respondent that he was a tenant was negatived by the Small Cause Court Bombay.
This Court allowing the appeal held that in order to get the advantage of section 15A of the Bombay Rent Act the occupant must be in occupation of the premises as a licensee as defined in section 54A on the 1st of February 1973.
It was futher held that a person continuing in occupation of such premises after revocation of the licence was still liable to pay compensation or damages for its use and occupation.
It was further held that filing an application under section 41 of the 1065 might in certain circumstances have the effect of putting an end to the licence if it was subsisting on the date of its filing.
It was observed that the finding of the High Court that the respondent was in occupation of the premises under a subsisting licence was wholly wrong and suffered from serious infirmities of law and fact and deserved to be set aside.
The High Court disallowed the special civil application under Article 227 of the Constitution on 17th of November 1980 and that is the judgment impugned in this appeal.
The learned Judge rejected the contention of the appellant that he was a tenant and having found that the period of licence had come to an end he passed an order of eviction against the appellant.
The High Court affirmed the decision of this Court and upheld the order of the Court of Small Causes and ordered eviction.
To put precisely if an interest in immovable property entitling the transferee to enjoyment was created it was a lease if permission to use land without exclusive possession was alone granted a licence was the legal result.
NPV Appeal dismissed.
