YS Chitale.
The High Court set aside this conclusion of the trial court.
The main ground which was before the High Court was as to whether the provisions of UP Urban Buildings Regulation of Letting Rent and Eviction Act 1972  Act  for short will be applicable to these proceedings in view of the fact that although the premises were let out in June 1976 but as the assessment was made on October 1 1976 the provisions of the Act referred to above will not apply for 10 years from October 1 1976 and therefore the suit could be decreed as the protection available under this Act will not be available to the tenant.
If it could be passed on anyone of the grounds mentioned in Section 20 clause 2 of this Act in support of this contention the learned counsel placed reliance on decisions in Om Prakash Gupta etc.
vs Dig Vijendrapal Gupta etc.
 11982 3 SCR 491 and Vineet Kumar vs Mangal Sain Wadhera  On the other hand learned counsel for the respondent contended that the rights of parties will be governed on the basis of the date on which the suit was filed and it was contended that if on the date on which the suit was filed by the respondent the provisions of this Act were not applicable then merely because the proceedings have been pending for all these years it could not be contended that as now 10 years elapsed the decree could not be passed.
Learned counsel further contended that in the decision in Vineet Kumar s case supra on which reliance has been placed by learned counsel for the appellant the Firms Amar Naath Basheshar Dass s case supra has not been referred to and decision in Vineet Kumar s case supra is a judgment by a Bench of two Judges.
Learned counsel for the appellant contended that the decision in 161 Firms Amar Nath Basheshar Dass s case supra will not be applicable to the present case as in that case this Court was considering the language of a notification issued under the East Punjab Act exempting buildings from the operation of the Act for five years and the view taken by this Court in that decision is based on the language of the notification issued whereas in view of the language of Sections 39 and 40 of the Act which is applicable to the present case that view is not possible and it is because of this that in Vineet Kumar s case supra this Court took the view that if during the pendency of the proceedings 10 years have elapsed the tenant will be entitled to the benefit of the provisions of the Act.
It was contended that in this decision the Court was concerned with the provisions of Section 2 of the Act itself.
1086 has been crossed now the period of exemption has come to an end and therefore the appellant is entitled to the benefits thereof.
 A perusal of this provision will clearly indicate that the new buildings constructed have been exempted from the operation of this Act for a period of 10 years.
This period of 10 years have to be computed in the manner from the date as indicated in Explanation 1 and it was contended by learned counsel for the respondents that it will be the date on which the first assessment was made and so far as this question is concerned it is also concluded by a decision of this Court in Om 163 Prakash Gupta s case supra where it has been clearly held while interpreting Sec.
2 Explanation I of this Act that if there is an assessment made then the date of completion of the building the date from which 10 years are to be computed will be the date on which the first assessment was made.
2 sub clause 2 quoted above.
But apart from it the contention advanced by the learned counsel for the appellant was that because of the language of Section 39 and 40 even if the matter is pending in this Court and 10 years have elapsed appellant will be entitled to the benefit of the provisions of this Act because according to him the appeal will be a continuation of the suit and therefore the advantage will be available.
Pending suits for eviction relating to buildings brought under regulation for the first time In any suit for eviction of a tenant from any building to which the old Act did not apply pending on the date of commencement of this Act where the tenant within one month from such date of commencement or from the date of his knowledge of the pendency of the suit whichever be later deposits in the court before which the suit is pending the entire amount of rent and damages for use and occupation such damages for use and occupation being calculated at the same rate as rent together with interest thereon at the rate of nine cent per annum and the landlord s full cost of the suit no decree for eviction shall be passed except on any of the grounds 164 mentioned in the proviso to sub section 1 or in clauses b A to g of sub section 2 of Section 20 and the parties shall be entitled to make necessary amendment in their pleadings and to adduce additional evidence where necessary Provided that a tenant the rent payable by whom does not exceed twenty five rupees per month need not deposit any interest as aforesaid It is pertinent to note that this Section applies to those suits which were pending on the date of the commencement of this Act.
Admittedly this Act came into force on 15th July 1972 and therefore if the suit was pending on that date it is only then that the provisions of Section 39 will come to the assistance of the tenant appellant.
Admittedly this suit was not pending on the date on which this Act came into force.
It is clear that provisions of Section 40 will come to the rescue of the appellant tenant only if the suit from which revision or appeal arose was pending on the date of commencement of this Act ie 1571972 and therefore it could not be contended that the present revision petition or the appeal either to the High Court or the appellate authority arose out of suit which was pending on the date on which this Act came into force.
Admittedly the suit itself was filed much after the coming into force of this Act.
In this view of the matter therefore in our opinion even this contention of learned counsel for the appellant could not be accepted.
It is well settled that the rights of the parties will be determined on the basis of the rights available to them on the date of the suit but in Vineet Kumar s case supra this Court took the view that if during the pendency of the proceedings 10 years have elapsed the tenant is entitled to the protection under the Act and in coming to this conclusion the Court also considered the language of Section 39 of the Act and it observed The appellant in the present case only seeks the protection of the new Rent Act which became applicable to the premises in question during the pendency cf the litigation.
Section 20 of the new Rent Act provides a bar to a suit for eviction of a tenant except on the specified grounds as provided in the section.
a to sub section.
The restriction on the right of a landlord to evict a tenant has been provided for in this Act under Section 20 and the language of Section 20 is also significant.
 This clearly indicates that the restriction put under Section 20 is to the institution of the suit itself and therefore it is clear that if the provisions of this Act applies then no suit for eviction can be instituted except on the grounds specified in the sub sections of this Section.
We therefore direct that the decree for eviction shall not be executed upto 3 1st March 1988 on the appellant filing a usual undertaking within four weeks.
SL Appeal dismissed.
