MKD Namboodary for the Petitioner in SLP Civil N o 6998 of 1988.
SM Ashri and Mahabir Singh for the Respondents.
The Judgment of the Court was delivered by K JAGANNATHA SHETTY J.
He was incharge of preparing the pay bills and other bills of the work charg ed employees of the project.
A bogus identi ty card in the name of Ashok Kumar TNo.
The said fictitious identity card was used by o ne Suraj Singh cleaner T No 210 K of Beggi Tunnelling Div i sion for the purpose of withdrawing the pay of Ashok Kuma r.
While Suraj Singh by impersonation was receiving the pay of Ashok Kumar he was recognised by the Cashier since he kn ew him personally.
He also prepared a bogus identity card in the name of the abo ve Shri Ashok Kumar and initiated it below the signatures of issuing officer and this identity card Was used by Sh ri Suraj Singh Cleaner Token No 210 K Boggi Tunnelli ng Division at the time of attempting to receive the pay of Shri Ashok Kumar from the Cashier.
The report of e n quiry was forwarded to the competent authority who aft er giving an opportunity of being heard dismissed the respon d ent from service.
The other two persons were let off wi th minor punishments of withholding two or three future incr e ments in their pay scales.
Consequentl y the said writ petition stood transferred to the Tribunal by operation of section 29 of that Act.
The Tribunal observed Since the applicant had.
access to the records which 24 were fabricated at the relevant time the Inquiry Officer h ad come to the conclusion that the applicant was the mast er mind behind the scheme to defraud the Project.
In the intere st of 25 justice it is necessary to modify the punishment awarded to the applicant.
There will be no order as to costs.
T he respondents shah comply with this order within four mont hs from its receipt and pay all consequential benefits to t he applicant.
The Tribunal however h as held that the respondent was guilty of entering the name of Ashok Kumar in the pay roll of May 4969.
The service matters are of 26 persons appointed to the public service and posts.
Section 27 provides for execution of orders.
15 and Joint Administrative Tribun al under sec.
Section 27 provides for finality of t he orders of the Tribunal.
Mr Ashri learned counsel for t he respondent however justified the discretion exercised by the Tribunal in awarding the lesser punishment.
Court to consid er whether that ground alone would have weighed with the a u thority dismissing the public servant.
Where the person without enquiry is di s missed removed or reduced in rank solely on the basis of conviction by a criminal court the Tribunal may examine t he adequacy of the penalty imposed in the light of the convi c tion and sentence inflicted on the person.
If the penal ty impugned is apparently unreasonable or uncalled for havi ng regard to the nature of the criminal charge the Tribun al may step in to render substantial justice.
Any sympathy or charitable view on such officials wi ll not be conducive to keep the streams of administration pu re which is so vital for the success of our democrary.
