From the Judgment  Order dated the 27101979 of the Madras High Court in Crl.
A No 4 of 1977.
This appeal is directed against the judgment dated 27101979 of the High Court of Madras con firming the conviction of the appellant under section 161 I PC and under section 336 52 read with section 51d of the Prevention of Corrup tion Act.
PW 3 the Principal of the training school issued exhibit P 2 show cause notice to the PW 1 Venkataswamy the canteen contractor as to why his licence for running the canteen should not be cancelled.
This was on the basis of a complaint made by the appellant that the food served in the canteen was substand ard.
The appellant had taken food in the canteen for two days and being dissatisfied discontinued the practice before the notice was issued.
On 21101975 the appellant is stated to have pressed the demand to PW 1.
was guilty.
It was also urged that the appellant being new in the office could exert little influence on the Principal and the whole story is therefore improbable.
The recovery of the currency notes from the appellant proves the guilty conduct of the appel lant in view of the presumption arising under section 41 of the Prevention of Corruption Act which has not been rebutted.
The appellant has reiterated the contentions before us.
It cannot therefore be said that there had been consistent explanation for the appellant.
PW 3 the Principal has averred in unequivocal terms that Ex.
P 2 memo had been issued on the basis of the complaint received from the appellant that on getting the explanation from PW 1 he on 18101975 itself passed orders and closed the file.
The order made was not disclosed to PW 1 and till 22101975 the file itself was kept by the appellant in his personal custody.
He had thereafter received the amount of Rs 100 from PW 1.
The burden resting on the accused person in such a case would not be as light as it is where a presumption is raised under section 114 of Evidence Act and cannot be held to be discharged merely by reason of the fact that the explanation offered by the accused is reasonable and probable.
The words unless the contrary is proved  which occur in this provision make it clear that the presumption has to be rebutted by proof  and not by a bare explanation which is merely plausible.
It is accordingly dismissed.
