From the Judgment and Order dated 32.
The Judgment of the Court was delivered by RANGANATHAN J.
1.
Counsel state that the facts in all these appeals are identical and that the only facts neces sary or atleast on record before us on the basis of which the issue us is to be decided are these Each of the appellants petitioners hereinafter referred to compendi ously as assessees  is a registered dealer in the State of Haryana.
He purchased certain raw materials in the State without paying tax thereon in view of the provision con tained in section 24 of the Act.
He then manufactured certain goods in the State with the aid of said raw materials.
He then sold the manufactured goods to dealers who in turn exported those goods out of India.
The writ petitions have been filed directly in this Court in view of a learned single Judge of the High Court having decided the issue against the assessees as early as 2511.
1980 in CWP 122780 which was also affirmed by a Division Bench later 2.
Section 2e a Originally section 2e defined export  to mean the taking out of goods from the State to any place outside it otherwise than by way of sale in the course of inter State trade or commerce.
 b Act 44 of 1976 added at the end of the above definition the following words wef.
141976 or in the course of export out of the territory of India.
 b Act 13 of 1989 amended the Explanation by inserting in it after the words section 9 the words or section 24.
c Act 1 of 1990 has amended the above Explanation retrospectively to say that the words but the purchase value of the goods liable to tax under section 9 or section 24 shall be included shall be omitted and shall be deemed always to have been omitted with effect from 275.
So we have to proceed on the basis that the underlined words never were there in el.
p of section 2.
The 1990 Act also inserted an Explanation 6 to the clause wef 313.
 348 111.
Section 6 Section 6 the charging section read as under 6.
Incidence of taxation 1 Subject to other provisions of this Act every dealer whose gross turnover during the year immediately preceding the commencement of this Act exceeded the taxable quantum Defined in section 7 shall be liable to pay tax under this Act on all sales and purchases effected after the coming into force of this Act.
b section 6 was amended by Act I of 1990 to read as follows with retrospective effect from 275.
349 Provided that this sub section shall not apply to a dealer who deals exclusively in goods specified in Schedule B 2 Every dealer to whom sub section 1 does not apply shall be liable to pay tax on all sales and purchases effected on the expiry of thirty days after the date on which his gross turnover during any year first exceeds the taxable quantum.
The first amendment was to insert after the open ing words where a dealer the words liable to pay tax under this Act.
 These amendments were effective from 141976.
9479 and added a proviso.
The exclusion of milk was decided to be dropped and so all that this amendment did was to roll both clauses b and bb into one clause reading thus 4.
Amendment of section 9 of Haryana Act 20 of 1973 For clauses b and bb of sub section 1 of section 9 of the principal Act the following clause shall be substituted namely b purchases goods other than those specified in Schedule B from any source in the State and uses them in the State in the manufacture of any other goods and either disposes of the manufactured goods in any manner otherwise than by way of sale in the State or dispatches the manufactured goods to a place outside the State in any manner otherwise than by way of sale in the course of inter State trade or commerce or in the course of export outside the territory of India within the meaning of subsection 1 of section 5 of the Central Sales Tax Act 1956or.
V Section 24 section 24 is the next section relevant for our purposes.
These provisions read thus.
It also omitted the proviso to the said clause.
It reads 14.
As a result of section 53 such penultimate sales become export sales falling beyond the purview and competence of State legislatures.
