In Appeal No 260 58 a further question arose whether in the case of 259 that assessee the year ending June 30 1949 was the previous year for the assessment year 1950 51 with the result that it should be assessed under the Indian Income tax Act of 1922.
In C A No 25958 the assessee is a public limited company incorporated in the State of Cochin with branches in that State as well as in what was British India and in Travancore State.
In C A 26058 the assessee is a private limited company with its registered office in the former Cochin State.
The assesse made a profit in Travancore State and incurred a loss in the State of Cochin and sought to deduct this loss from the profit of Travancore State thus showing a net profit of Rs 2643.
Ordinarily the effect of an excepting or a qualifying proviso is to carve something out of the preceding enactment or to qualify something enacted therein which but for the proviso would be in it and such a proviso cannot be construed as enlarging the scope of an enactment when it can be fairly and properly construed without attributing to it that effect.
But it has been held that a section framed as a proviso to a preceding section may sometimes contain matter which is in substance a fresh enactment adding and not merely qualifying that which goes before.
It was argued on behalf of the Revenue that this 1  37.
2  258.
The Privy Council in Arunachalam Chettiar vs Commissioner of Income tax1 held that this section was meant for a set off of profits arising under different heads and not where profits and losses had to be adjusted if they arose under the same head.
Thus the Privy Council emphasised that the object of section 241 was to allow a set off of profits against losses arising under different heads and Only in such cases could recourse be had to section 241.
This Court in Anglo French Textiles Co Ltd vs Commissioner of Incometax Madras 1 again emphasised that distinction in the following words  Next a set off under section 241 can only be claimed when the loss arises under one head and the profits against which it is sought to be set off arises under a different head.
The territory of a proviso therefore is to carve out an 1  59 2   493.
It has to operate in the same field and if the language of the main enactment is clear it cannot be used for the purpose of interpreting the main enactment or to exclude by implication what the enactment clearly says unless the words of the proviso are such that that is its necessary effect.
Vide also Corporation of The City of Toronto vs Attorney General for Canada 1.
It is significant that in sections 213 and 5 of the Indian Act of 1918 corresponding to sections 215 and 6 of the Indian Act of 1922 the word used was income  which in the latter Act was expanded into  income profits and gains .
Thus the mere use of the words loss of profits or gains to be set off against profits and gains would not be sufficient to restrict the scope of the proviso to the profits and losses arising under the head business in the two territories i e British India and the Indian States.
31901 AC 26.
Appeals dismissed.
