Appeal No 101 of 1959.
Appeal by special leave from the judgment and order dated November 8 1957 of the Deputy Custodian General Evacuee Property Now Delhi Revision Petition No 17 R55 of 1955.
Achhru Ram and K L Mehta for the appellants.
BK Khanna and T M Sen for the respondent No 1.
NS Bindra and A G Ratnaparkhi for the respondents Nos.
March 15.
During the pendency of this application he died and after his death the application was continued by the appellants.
A revision petition preferred by the appellants against the order of the Assistant Custodian was dismissed by the Additional Custodian on August 20 1952.
During the pendency of the revision application the Additional Custodian for the State of Punjab cancelled the allotment of fourteen quasi permanent allottees of the village Karodian in the same district on the ground that these persons were entitled to allotment of suburban land a had been wrongly fitted in the village Karodian.
Acting suo motu the Additional Custodian made an order on October 31 1952 cancelling the order of allotment of land in the village Raikot made in favour of the appellants in the year 1949 and instead allotted to them land in Karodian in substitution of the lands at Raikot and of the lands allotted to their father.
As a result of this order the allotment of Karodian land made in favour of the appellants automatically stood cancelled.
By the order dated November 8 1957 the Deputy Custodian General dismissed the appellants  application.
In that case the Court has held that the powers of the Custodian General to deal with matters of this kind have been taken away by the  and that these powers now vest in another authority and that there is no provision for continuing the pro ceedings which had been commenced under the  but had not been concluded.
333 provides that on the publication of the notification under sub section 1 the right title or interest of any evacuee in the property specified in the notification shall immediately stand extinguished and that property shall vest absolutely in the Central Government free from all encumbrances.
But the consequence of the publication of the notification by the Central Government under section 121 of the with respect to any property or a class of property would be to divest the Custodian completely of his right in the property flowing from section 8 of the  and vest that property in the Central Government.
Sub section.
Sub section.
2 of section 16 empowers the Central Government to appoint such officers as it deems fit or to constitute such authority or corporation as it deems fit for the purpose of managing and disposing of the properties forming part of the compensation pool.
1 of section 19 of the 1954 Act are to prevail notwithstanding anything contained in any other law for the time being in force.
a of this section and therefore they would be entitled to the benefits conferred by this section provided they satisfied all the other requirements of this section express or implied.
Even assuming that the order of the Custodian cancelling the allotment in their favour was erroneous there will be no difference in the result because what is essential is the facts of holding and possession of the land on the date of the notification.
Finally Mr Achhruram referred to section 17 of the 1954 Act and to r 102 of the Rules framed thereunder and said that the powers of the managing officers appointed under the Act are confined only to properties which are entrusted to them for management and not with respect to any other property.
Sub section.
1 provides that managing officers and managing corporations will perform such functions as may be assigned to them under the Act.
Sub section.
2 provides that subject to the provisions of the Act and the rules made thereunder a managing officer or a managing corporation may among other things take such measures as he or it considers it necessary or expedient for the purpose of securing administering preserving managing or disposing of any property in the compensation pool entrusted to him or it etc.
His contention appears to be that there is nothing to show that this property was entrusted to a managing officer.
He cannot therefore be permitted to make out a new case at this stage of argument.
He then says that this rule restricts the powers of a managing officer or a managing corporation in the matter of cancellation of allotment in the sense that it permits cancellation only on certain specified grounds and therefore it cannot be said that section 191 of the Act is completely in conflict with section 10 of the in so far as the question of cancellation of allotment is concerned.
d of r 102 permits the managing officer or managing corporation to cancel allotment for any other sufficient reason to be recorded in writing.
Appeal dismissed.
