Appeal No 52 of 1957.
Appeal from the judgment and decree dated April 22 of 1953 of the Patna High Court in Appeal from Original Decree No 162 of 1946.
March 22.
By diverse transfers the interest of Samanata vested in Bagdigi Kujama Collieries Limited.
bThat the area encroached upon by the defendants be ascertained and the defendants be directed to vacate the same.
cThat a permanent injunction be issued against the defendants restraining them from encroaching upon the plaintiffs  coal land and cutting and removing coal therefrom.
dThat an enquiry be made and the quantity of coal cut and removed by the defendants from the plaintiffs  coal land as also the quantity of the coal rendered unworkable be ascertained and a decree for the value thereof by way of damages be granted to the plaintiffs against the defendants.
As the plan is a part of the lease deed it is clear from the plan that the northern boundary of the leasehold of Samanta is the said line.
But a perusal of exhibit I shows that there is no reference in regard to the western boundary to revenue records.
But learned counsel for the appellant contended that the finding is vitiated by the burden of proof having been wrongly thrown on the appellant.
But the question is whether they have adduced evidence which had the effect of shifting the onus of proof to the appellant.
502 worked by the appellant by open quarry system.
He denied that he had any knowledge of the said two facts.
After noticing the words in the last column of the article the learned Judges proceeded to observe thus  The starting date of limitation in the case of conversion is the date when the person who has the right to possession first learns of the act of conversion.
 Adverting to the burden of proof the learned Judges observed There is nothing in the pleadings which would show precisely at what period tile plaintiff or the plaintiff s agent which is the same thing became aware of the sale and its wrongfulness that is to say became aware of the fact of conversion.
503 onus of proof may shift to the defendant.
But to say that no duty is cast upon the plaintiff even to allege the date when they had knowledge of the defendant s possession of the converted property and that the entire burden is on the defendant is contrary to the tenor of the article in the Limitation Act and also to the rules of evidence.
 In Talyarkhan vs Gangadas 3 Rangnekar J formulated the legal position thus The onus is on the plaintiff to prove that he first learnt within three years of the suit that the property which he is seeking to recover was in the possession of the defendant.
 We accept the said observations as representing the correct legal position on the subject.
504 took us through the correspondence that passed between the parties and the Mining Department in 1932.
But it does not prove that the respondents had knowledge of the fact that the appellant had encroached upon any portion of their coal mines.
But the courts found from Commissioner s maps that in the encroached portion there were only underground workings and that the quarries were mostly outside the encroached area.
Appeal dismissed.
