630 631 of 1971.
Appeals by Special Leave from the Judgment and order dated the 19 1 1970 of the Andhra Pradesh High Court in Tax Revision Cases Nos 46 and 47 of 1969.
Of course it is very difficult to identify a taxable commodity merely by the use to which it may be put.
Nevertheless it appears that the entry under consideration links the taxable object with its general or ordinary use.
It was pointed out that the Sales Tax Appellate Tribunal the final departmental authority under the Act had allowed an application for adducing expert evidence to determine the question whether arc carbons manufactured by the appellant company could be covered by the entry under consideration.
It however appears that before further evidence could be taken at the appellate stage on the subject a decision of the Andhra Pradesh High Court in the State of Andhra Pradesh vs Srimathi Nidmarthi Saraswathi Devi1 was brought to the notice of the Tribunal.
In the High Court two decisions cited on behalf of the appellants were Deputy Commissioner of Commercial Taxes Madhurai Division Madhurai vs Ravi Auto Stores2 and State of Madras vs Indian oxygen Ltd 3.
It was held in these cases that they were only copper rods which were melted by electrical power in the process of welding.
Neither the use of the term electrode to describe them suggesting a connection with electricity nor their utilisation in a process involving application of electrical power could convert them into electrical goods as contemplated by the entry in the Madras Act.
For instance in entry No 5 the expression occurs at the end as follows Photographic and other cameras and enlargers films and plates paper and cloth and other parts and accessories required for use therewith.
It is not enough to show that the article can be put to other uses also.
It is its general or predominant user which seems to determine the category in which an article will fall.
2 1970 26 STC 87.
3 1970 26 STC 428.
4 1971 27 STC 45.
564 part and accessories of motor vehicles.
Entry No 2 relating to refrigerators air conditioning plants covers also component parts thereof.
Again entry No 3 for wireless reception instruments and apparatus includes electrical valves accumulators amplifiers and loud speakers and spare parts and accessories thereof  .
Of course even where an entry relates to parts manufactured for use for a particular kind of instrument of gadget only the article manufactured to serve as a part of a particular kind of apparatus would not cease to be covered by the intended entry simply because a purchaser makes some other use of it.
A sense in which the word accessory is used is given in Webster s Third New International Dictionary as follows all objects or device that is not essential in itself but that adds to the beauty convenience or effectiveness of something else.
Other meanings given there are supplementary or secondary to something of greater or primary importance additional any of several mechanical devices that assist in operating or controlling the tone resources of an organ Accessories are not necessarily confined to particular machines for which they may serve as aids.
It will be noticed that the entry we have to interpret includes parts as well as accessories which are required for use in projectors or other cinematographic equipment.
VPS Appeals dismissed.
