270 of 1955.
DAS ACTG.
A rule was issued by the High Court but eventually on the 24th August 1955 the High Court Chagla CJ and Desai J discharged the rule.
a Section 462 of the Indian Income tax Act which is impugned before us runs as follows 46.
Article 21 guarantees that no person shall be deprived of his personal liberty except in accordance with procedure established by law.
As long as those sec tions stand no complaint can be made of infringement of article 21 for those two sections constitute a procedure established by law.
Article 14 is invoked in two ways.
All that the sub section directs the Collector to do is to proceed to recover the certified amount as if it were an arrear of land revenue that is to say he is to adopt the procedure prescribed by the appropriate law of his State for the recovery of land revenue and that in thus proceeding he is under the proviso to have all the powers a Civil Court has under the Code.
A Collector in the State of Madras in recovering the certified amount of income tax has to proceed under section 48 of the Madras Revenue Recovery Act 1864 Madras Act II of 1864.
All that it says is that the certified amount of income tax is to be recovered as if it were an arrear of land revenue and there its operation ends.
897 If the State laws are discriminatory that vice cannot be imputed to section 462.
114 900 of public demand prevailing in that State Here the defaulters are classified on a territorial or geographical basis and this basis of classification has precisely the same correlation to the object of the Indian Income tax Act as it has to the object of the different Public Demands Recovery Acts.
Adoption of an existing machinery devised for a particular purpose cannot if there be no vice of unconstitutionality in the machinery render it unconstitutional if it is made to subserve a purpose closely akin or similar to the purpose for which it bad been devised.
As already stated under section 46 2 the Collector on receipt of the certificate from the Income tax Officer has to proceed to recover the certified demand as if it were an arrear of land revenue.
A cursory perusal of the two sections will show at once that the procedure prescribed by section 13 of the Bombay City Land Revenue Act 1876 for the recovery of arrears of land revenue was harsher and more drastic than the procedure laid down in section 157 of the Bombay Land Revenue Code 1879 in that a defaulter residing in the City of Bombay could be kept in detention for a day for every rupee of the arrears which might considerably exceed the maximum period of six months which is the period 904 limited by the Code of Civil Procedure for the detention of a judgment debtor in civil jail.
 This amendment is nothing less than an enactment of a new provision.
 is that this application must be dismissed.
1 906 CHANDRASEKHARA AIYAR J I agree rather reluctantly.
