Appeal by special leave from the judgment and order dated the 9th August 1955 of the Bombay High Court in Criminal Application No 726 of 1955.
April 24.
By Order and in the name of the Governor of Bombay.
1The order of detention was mala fide.
385 4The claim of State that no particulars of the grounds could be furnished in public interest is unsustainable and in any case mala fide.
bOn the same day a search was carried out by the police also at his residence at Mahim but nothing was found.
cImmediately following the searches the appellant was taken into illegal police custody and interrogated and physically assaulted and threatened.
2 When one Joaquim Carlos a Portuguese soldier 386 attached to Goan forces was arrested on a charge of entering Indian territory without the requisite authority the appellant rendered professional assistance to him and obtained an order of release on bail from the Chief Presidency Magistrate Bombay which was foiled by the police by removing him away to Sawantwadi before the requisite sureties could be obtained at Bombay.
But on appeal filed by the appellant before the Sessions Judge the conviction was set aside and retrial ordered.
3Between April 1955 to June 1955 there occurred certain incidents which were inspired and instigated by the members of the Goan Action Committee who were agitating against Portuguese hold over Goa.
2If you wish to make a representation against the order under which you are detained you should address it to the Government of Bombay and forward it through the Superintendent Arthur Road Prison Bombay.
3You are also informed that you have a right to claim a personal hearing before the Advisory Board and that you should communicate to Government of Bombay as soon as possible your intention of exercising or not exercising that right.
2He is collecting intelligence about the security arrangements on the border area and making such intelligence available to the Portuguese authorities.
3He is carrying on these activities with the object of causing further deterioration in the relations between the Portuguese Government and the Indian Government over the question of the Goan National Movement.
But having regard to the nature of the alleged activities of the appellant it is not unlikely that no more could be gathered or furnished.
Assuming however that the grounds furnished in this case are open to the challenge of vagueness the further question which arises is whether the validity of the order of detention can be sustained by reason of the claim in public interest of non disclosure of facts made by the Under Secretary to the Government of Bombay by means of his affidavit filed in the High Court.
1The right to be furnished grounds of detention as soon as may be and 2The right to be afforded the earliest opportunity of making a representation against his detention 1  184 391 which implies the right to be furnished adequate particulars of the grounds of detention to enable a proper representation being made.
A faint suggestion has been made in the course of the arguments before us that the decision not to disclose particulars is mala fide and that such mala fides has to be imputed in a case where no particulars are at all furnished.
All the contentions raised before us fail and this appeal is dismissed.
