From the judgment and decree dated April 21 1969 of the Allahabad High Court in First Appeal No 80 of 1964.
b of clause I of Article 133 of the Constitution granted by the Allahabad High Court against its judgment and decree dated April 21 1969 disposing of appeals out of a suit for declaration and possession.
He asserted that Shivshanker Yati possessed no personal property.
He alleged that Mahant Shivshanker Yati owned personal properties which included the properties in village Amauli that he was the chela of Mahant Shivshanker Yati and the Amauli properties had passed to him under a will executed by the Mahant.
First Appeal No 80 of 1964 was filed by Kedar Nath Chaubey  Uma Shanker Yati against the declaration that the Amauli properties were owned by Math Sauna or the deity and that Sadashiv Yati was in possession thereof as Mahant and Sarbarakar.
663 There is reason to believe that Mohant Shivbaran Yati Mohant Shivpher Yati and Mahant Shivshankar Yati were not celibates and had been grihasthas and were entitled to possess enjoy and acquire personal property.
His personal property on his death included cash sovereigns and gold besides two fixed deposits with the Bank of Bengal of Rs 45000.
He had also inherited the personal property of Mahant Shivbaran Yati who owned three private properties in village Shiv Dass in the district of Banaras.
He was granted a succession certificate by the District Judge Ghazipur in respect of the two fixed deposits made by Mahant Shivpher Yati in the Bank of Bengal.
In respect of both properties the revenue records mentioned the name of Mahant Shivshankar Yati and not that of the Math or the deity.
As has been observed there can be no presumption either way.
All the facts and circumstances must be taken into consideration and on a balancing of the entire evidence it has to be determined whether the property can be said to belong to the Math or deity or is the personal property of the Mahant the burden of proof resting on the party who makes the claim.
In our judgment the High Court is right in the view that the Amauli properties constitute the personal property of Uma Shankar Yati and do not form part of the properties of the Math Sauna or of the deity Sri Thakur Gokarneshwar Mahadeoji.
PBR Appeal dismissed.
