Dr YS Chitale V G Shanker KL Hathi Ms Sadhana DK Chhaya MK Arora and Mrs H Wahi for the appellant.
352 T section Krishnamoorthi Iyer KR.
Choudhry and KS.
Choudhary for the respondents.
By the said Judgment and decree the High Court of Andhra Pradesh had reversed the Judgment of the learned Subordinate Judge Masulipatam dated 19th November 1964 dismissing the suit of the plaintiffs respondents against the appellant.
He had filled a proposal for insurance for Rs 50000 on 27th December 1960.
Cheque for Rs 300 was encashed by the appellant on 29th December 1960.
Cheque for Rs 220 was dishonoured three times and finally encashed on 11th January 1961.
As mentioned hereinbefore the deceased died on the day following ie on 12th January 1961.
353 On the 10th January 1964 the plaintiffs filed the suit in the court of Subordinate Judge Masulipatam.
A report described as All the Friend s report was duly sent to the appellant with regard to that proposal and all the preliminaries were completed and it was further alleged that the deceased was assured and told by the local agent and the Field officer of the Corporation that the payment of the first premium would amount to the acceptance of the proposal and advised the deceased to pay the first premium in full.
In the premises it was said in the plaint that there was a concluded and valid insurance contract between the deceased and the appellant Corporation and that the insurance contracted commenced on 11th January 1961 being the date of the receipt of the balance towards premium by the Corporation.
During the trial before the learned Subordinate Judge five different issues were raised.
He also produced ex.
B 4 the review slip prepared by the Branch office Guntur and sent to the Divisional officer Masulipatam.
In his deposition he had stated that the Divisional Manager was the competent authority for accepting the proposal for Rs 50000.
He further stated that the amount would be transferred into the first premium register after the proposal was accepted and the risk covered.
He had produced the account books namely deposit account book and the first premium account book of the Branch office at Guntur.
He had further stated that the proposal form was sent from the office at Guntur to the Divisional office at Masulipatam and exhibit B 1 to B 4 and B 8 were sent in this connection.
He further stated that according to the financial powers Standing order it was the Divisional Manager who was competent to accept a proposal for Rs 50000 exhibit B 13 is the copy of the Standing order.
He stated that the endorsement marked as exhibit B 14 was initialled by him.
He further stated that the letters DM  were also written by him indicating that the papers should go to the Divisional Manager on exhibit B 4.
He reiterated that the order of acceptance would not be communicated to the party if all the formalities were not complied with this policy he stated was not accepted.
Chapter III of the Standing order dealt with the powers of the different authorities for inter alia Underwriting and Revivals of Policy .
He held that as per the prospectus of Life Insurance Corporation of India the risk under the Corporation policy commenced on the date of receipt of the first premium in full or the date of acceptance whichever was later and the second instalment of the premium falls due on a date calculated from such date of commencement of risk.
Considering the evidence and the averments the Learned Subordinate Judge came to the conclusion that the accounts do not show the position alleged by the plaintiffs respondents that the amounts paid were appropriated towards the premium and the Trial Court was of the opinion that encashing of the cheques and the want of any further action to be done by the deceased did not themselves create a contract of insurance between the deceased and the Corporation.
Being aggrieved by the said decision the plaintiffs respondents field appeal in the High Court.
In coming to this conclusion the High Court relied on the alleged adjustment and the endorsement of the review slip recommending that the proposal may be accepted made on the relevant file by the Assistant Divisional Manager.
In our opinion the High Court was in error in appreciating the facts and the evidence in this case.
He had stated that the purpose of review slip was to enable the Divisional Manager to asses the risk and take a decision.
Acceptance must be signified by some act or acts agreed on by the parties or from which the law raises a presumption of acceptance.
 Though in certain human relationships silence to a proposal might convey acceptance but in the case of insurance proposal silence does not denote consent and no binding contract arises until 360 the person to whom an offer is made says or does something to signify his acceptance.
Having regard to the clear position in law about acceptance of insurance proposal and the evidence on record in this case we are therefore of the opinion that the High Court was in error in coming to the conclusion that there was a concluded contract of insurance between the deceased and the Life Insurance Corporation and on that basis reversing the judgment and the decision of the learned Subordinate Judge.
In the facts and circumstances of the case there will be no order as to costs in this Court.
