2 The Court trying the offence may also order such officer or employee to deliver up or refund within a time F to be fixed by the Court any such property wrongfully obtained or wrongfully withheld or knowingly misapplied or in default to suffer imprisonment for a term which may extend to two years.
 The only question involved in this special leave petition is as to the scope and effect of sub section.
1 of section 630 of the Act.
1 of section 630 of H 172 the Act the High Court of Calcutta in Amritlal Chum vs Devi Ranjan Jha  Anr held that it refers only to the existing officers and employees of a company.
a viz property of a company wrongfully taken possession of by a present officer or employee of the company.
1 of section 630 must be interpreted to mean not only the present officers and employees of a company but also to include past officers and employees of the company.
1 of section 630 which provide for the launching of a prosecution against an officer or employee of a company for wrongful possession of such property under cls.
a and b of sub section.
1 of section 630 and for the recovery of such property by the issue of process under sub section 2 also extends to past officers and employees of the company and whether the Court trying the offence has the power to issue a process under sub section.
2 against such officer or employee.
b of sub section.
1 for the contention that cl.
b does not stand by itself but is inter connected with cl.
1 of section 630 of the Act makes it an offence where any officer or employee of a company wrongfully withholds possession of 175 such property of the company.
I of section 630 of the Act which defeats the very purpose and object with which it had been introduced.
1 by clauses a and b creates two distinct and separate offences.
a namely where an officer or employee of a company wrongfully obtains possession of any property of the company during the course of his employment to which he is not entitled.
a and although it primarily refers to the existing officers and employees it may also take in past officers and employees.
b also makes it an offence if any officer or employee of a company having any property of the company in his possession knowingly applies it to purposes other than those expressed or directed in the articles and authorised by the Act.
1 of section 630 of the Act.
1 of section 630 is the preservation of the property of a company by the creation of two distinct offences by clauses a and b which arise under different sets of circumstances and it would be rendered nugatory by projecting cl.
a into cl.
b as applicable to such property of a company possession of which is wrongfully obtained by an officer or employee of the company ie refers to the whole of cl.
1 of section 630 namely if any officer or employee of a company  qualify the acts of delinquency  specified in clauses a and b thereof.
a of section 6301 was referable to existing officer or employee of a company while cl.
b as taking in the property mentioned in cl.
a ie property wrongfully obtained.
b of section 630 l wholly redundant.
b even though cls.
a and b are separated by the word or  which must in the context in which it appears be read as and  and so construed must mean withholding of property wrongfully obtained by an existing officer or employee.
Kotwal J.
a as regards penal consequences squarely covering the case of a past employee or officer.
 In Govind T Jagtiani vs Sirajuddin section Kazi supra Kanade J fol lowed the critical analysis of section 630 made by Kotwal J as above and observed that the entitlement of an officer to the property of the company and the duration of such right would be co terminus with the terms of employment and the right would stand extinguished with the termination to the employment giving rise to an obligation to hand over the property back to the company and observed If the property is held back the retained possession would amount to wrongful withholding of the property of the company.
 The learned Judge Ashok Agarwal J observes that that has been the consistent view of the High Court and has referred to the subsequent decisions of Khatri j J and Kurdukar J.
