one lakshminarayana iyer a hindu brahmin who owned considerable properties in the tirunelveli district died on 13th december 1924 leaving him surviving a widow ranganayaki and a married daughter ramalakshmi.
ramalakshmi had married the plaintiff and had a number of children from him.
they were all alive in december 1924 when lakshminarayana died.
before his death he executed a will on 16th november 1924 the construction of which is in controversy in this appeal.
by this will he gave the following directions after my lifetime you the aforesaid ranganayaki amminal my wife shall till your lifetime enjoy the aforesaid entire properties the outstandings due to me the debts payable by me and the chit amounts payable by me.
after your lifetime ramalakshmi ammal our daughter and wife of rama ayyar avergal of melagaram village and her heirs shall enjoy them with absolute rights and powers of alienation such as gift exchange and sale from son to grandson and so on for generations.
as regards the payment of maintenance to be made to chinnanmal alias lakshmi ammal wife of my late son hariharamayyan my wife ranganayaki ammal shall pay the same as she pleases and obtain a release deed.
ranganayaki entered into possession of the properties on the death of her husband.
on 21st february 1928 she settled the maintenance claim of lakshmi ammal and obtained a deed of release from her by paying her a sum of rs 3350 in cash and by executing in her favour an agreement stipulating to pay her a sum of rs 240 per annum.
ramalakshmi died on 25th april 1938 during the lifetime of the widow.
none of her children survived her.
a prayer was made that the widow be restrained from alienating the other properties in her possession.
on the 19th september 1945 an ad interim injunction was issued by the high court restraining the widow from alienating the properties in her possession and forming part of her husband s estate inspite of this injunction on the 27th september 1945 she executed two deeds of settlement in favour of the other defendants comprising a number of properties.
the plaintiff was allowed to amend his plaint and include therein a prayer for a declaration in respect of the invalidity of these alienations as well.
it was averred in the plaint that ramalakshmi obtained a vested interest in the suit properties under the will of her father and plaintiff was thus entitled to maintain the suit.
the main issue in the suit was whether the widow took under the will an absolute estate or an estate like the hindu widow s estate and whether the daughter s interest therein was in the nature of a contingent remainder or whether she got in the properties a vested interest.
the subordinate judge held that the widow took under the will a limited life interest and not an absolute estate or even a widow s estate under hindu law and that the daughter got there under a vested interest in the properties to which the plaintiff succeeded on her death.
the question as to the validity of the alienations was left undetermined.
during the pendency of the appeal the widow died on 14th february 1948.
the high court by its judgment under appeal affirmed the decision of the trial judge and maintained his view on the construction of the will.
the decision of the appeal thus turns upon the question whether the testator s intention was to give to his widow ail ordinary life estate or an estate analogous to that of a hindu widow.
the court s primary duty in such cases is to ascertain from the language employed by the testator what were his intentions keeping in view the surrounding circumstances his ordinary notions as a hindu in respect to devolution of his property his family relationships etc.
in other words to ascertain his wishes by putting itself so to say in his armchair.
he wished to make his daughter a fresh stock of descent so that her issue male or female may have the benefit of his property.
it is significant that the testator did not say in the will that the daughter will enjoy only the properties left indisposed of by the widow.
this suggestion in the surrounding circumstances attending the execution of this will can not be sustained.
in our opinion even if that suggestion is accepted that for the limited purposes mentioned in the will the widow could alienate this power would fall far short of the powers that a hindu widow enjoys under hindu law.
we therefore hold that the estate conferred on ranganayaki ammal was more like the limited estate in the english sense of the term than like a full hindu widow s estate in spite of the directions above mentioned.
she had complete control over the income of the property during her lifetime.
according to jarman jarman on wills the law leans in favour of vesting of estates and the property disposed of belongs to the object of the gift when the will takes effect and we think the daughter got under this will a vested interest in the testator s properties on his death.
it was strenuously argued by mr k section krishnaswami iyengar that lakshminarayana iyer was a brahmin gentleman presumably versed in the sastras living in a village in the southernmost part of the madras state that his idea of a restricted estate was more likely to be one analogous to a hindu woman s estate than a life estate a understood in english law wherein the estate is measured by use and not by duration and that if this will was construed in the light of the notions of lakshminarayana iyer it should be held that the widow got under it a hindu widow s estate and the daughter got under it a contingent remainder in the nature of spes and on her death there was nothing which could devolve on the plaintiff and he thus had no locus standi to question the alienations made by the widow.
this rule of construction by analogy is a dangerous one to follow in construing wills differently worded and executed in different surroundings.
vide sasiman v shib narain 491.
the restraint against alienation was repugnant to both a life estate and a widow estate and was not therefore taken into account.
the fact that the gift over was a contingent bequest was by itself taken as a sure indication that the preceding bequest was that of a widow s estate.
the following remarks in the privy council decision in nathu ram mahajan v gangayabai 1938.
such casual observation made in respect of a will couched in entirely different terms can not afford much assistance in the decision of the case.
at page 193 of the report it was observed as follows the question therefore arises did he intend to confer only a life estate or a daughter s estate.
the words used in favour of the grandsons seem to indicate that the estate conferred on the daughter was not a life estate because there is no direct gift in favour of the grandsons but on the other hand what he says is that through his daughter the estate shall pass to his grandsons.
reliance was next placed on maharaja of kolhapur v sundaram iyer 1925 i l r 48 mad.
that was a case of a government grant on the special terms set out therein and the question arose as to the nature of the grant.
there it was said that the widows of sivaji raja got the gift of a life estate very much resembling the ordinary estate of a hindu widow and with all the incidents of a widow s estate except the liability to be divested but nevertheless a life estate rather than an estate of inheritance.
in a suit by the respondent against his grandmother the daughter of the testator for a declaratory order preserving unmolested his future right and title to the said lands it was held that the daughter took an estate subject to her daughters succeeding her.
rani dhun kaur should not take an absolute estate but that she should be succeeded in her estate by her two daughters.
these observations are unexceptionable but it may also be pointed out that it is open to a hindu to confer a limited life estate on his widow or even a larger estate than a widow takes as an heir and that in every case he may not confer upon her by will a hindu widow s estate which she would otherwise get by inheritance.
the question in every case can not be determined merely on the theory that every hindu thinks only about a hindu widow s estate and no more.
the learned counsel for the respondent followed the line adopted by mr krishnaswami iyengar.
in the first instance he placed reliance on a decision of the madras high court in ratna chetty v narayana swami chetty 19i4 26 m l j 616.
bhagwati devi v chowdry bholonath thakur 1874 75 2 i a 256.
chunderbutti his wife was in these terms the remaining milkiut and minhai estates together with the amount of ready money articles slaves and all household furniture i have placed in the possession of mst.
chunderbutti thakurain my wife to be enjoyed during her lifetime in order that she may hold possession of all the properties and milkiut possessed by me the declarant during her lifetime and by the payment of government revenue appropriate the profits derived therefrom but that she should not by any means transfer the milkiut estates and the slaves that after the death of my aforesaid wife the milkiut and household furniture shall devolve on girdhari thakur my karta adopted son.
the subordinate judge held that chunderbutti got an estate for life with the power to appropriate profits and girdhari got a vested remainder on her death.
the high court took a different view and held that chunderbutti took the estate in her character as a hindu widow.
there was a clear prohibition forbidding the widow to make any transfers of the milkiuit estates and the slaves.
reference was also made to a decision of the bombay high court in lallu v jagmohan 1898 i l r 22 bom.
when i die my wife named suraj is owner of that property.
mr krisbnaswami lyengar on the other hand contended that the absence of any words in the will restricting her powers of alienation and putting a restraint on them suggested a contrary intention and that the daughter s estate was described as coming into being after the estate of the widow and was not conferred on her simultaneously with the widow and this connoted according to the notions of hindus a full hindu widow s estate.
appeal dismissed.
