whether the appellant herein and his father had sublet the premises in question in or about 1960 in terms of section 131e of the bombay rents hotel and lodging house rates control act1947.
hereinafter called the rent act is the question involved in this appeal by special leave from the judgment and order of the high court of gujarat dated 21st of august1979.
in order to decide this question it is necessary to decide the scope and ambit of section 292 of the rent act.
the appellant claimed to be the tenant in respect of the two premises which are quite adjacent to each other one of which is involved in this appeal.
the respondent is the landlord of the two premises and these were situated at raikhad ward ahmedabad.
weaving works and according to the terms of tenancy suit premises were leased for manufacturing cloth in the name of ahmedabad fine.
we are concerned in this appeal with only one of the premises which was involved in suit no 553 of 1969 it is not in dispute and it never was that the premises was being used by bharat neon signs firm being the defendant no 2 in the original suit.
at the time of the institution of the suit the defendants nos 2 to 5 were admittedly the partners.
the said partnership deed records six persons who were to run the business in manufacturing and selling bharat neon signs tubes.
on or about 24th of october1960.
another partnership deed being exhibit 69 came to be executed among the six persons and the father of the appellant girdharlal.
but thereafter when the partnership deed exhibit 69 was executed the appellant and his father joined the firm with an agreement to share profits only and their share was fixed at 0 03 paise in a rupee.
there is a third partnership deed exhibit 70 which showed that the deceased tenant girdharlal had died on 1st of february1961 and so by the remaining seven partners with same terms and conditions a new partnership deed being exhibit 70 was executed on 22nd.
nos 34 and 5.
the main question in issue in this appeal as well as before the high court in revision was whether there was a genuine partnership at the appellant was a partner.
it is true that since after 4th of october1960 the partnership firm was carrying on business in the premises in question.
this view is now concluded by the decision of this court in madras bangalore transport co west v inder singh and others1986 3 s c c 62 1986.
indlaw sc 748.
the trial court in the instant appeal held that there was subletting.
there was an appeal before the court of small causes bombay and by judgment and order delivered by the court of small causes bombay on 18th of august1977it was held that the learned trial judge had erred in passing a decree for possession on the ground of subletting change of user and breach of terms of tenancy.
he has stated further that the suit premises were to be used for business and he could use it for any business and he joined in partnership with defendants nos 2 to 5 somewhere in 1961 to prepare neon signs and the defendants nos 2 to 5 were his partners and doing business in the suit premises.
these facts were accepted that there was a partnership.
this was set aside in appeal.
the court of small causes came to the conclusion on an analysis of the evidence before it and the terms of the three partnership deeds referred to hereinbefore that there was a genuine partnership in law which was acted upon.
whether there was a partnership or not may in certain cases be a mixed question of law and fact in the sense that whether the ingredients of partnership as embodied in the law of partnership were there in a particular case or not must be judged in the light of the principles applicable to partnership.
the first question therefore is what is a partnership.
that has to be found in section 4 of the indian partnership act1932it says partnership is the relation between persons who have agreed to share the profits of a business carried on by all or any of them acting for all emphasis supplied.
section 6 of the said act reiterates that in determining whether a group of persons is or is not a firm or whether a person is or is not a partner in a firm regard shall be had to the real relation between the parties as shown by all relevant facts taken together.
the following important elements must be there in order to establish partnership1 there must be an agreement entered into by all parties concerned2.
the agreement must be to share profits of business and 3 the business must be carried on by all or any of the persons concerned acting for all.
the partnership deeds were there entitling the petitioner to share in the partnership.
the clause of the partnership deed provided that there should be a fixed percentage of profit to be given to the partner appellant no 1 the appellant was not to share the losses.
the appellate court had considered the partnership deeds.
one point was emphasised by mr mehta learned counsel appearing for the respondents that the original first partnership deed did not mention the appellant or his father as a partner.
though the decree in the dissolution suit was not binding in these proceedings inter se between the parties as partners it is a piece of evidence which can not be wholly ignored.
there is nothing inherently illegal or improbable making a provision of such a type.
in the eye of law such a clause is really non sequitur or neutral proving neither the existence nor non existence of a genuine firm.
the first partnership deed which is exhibit 114 is dated 13th october1960 it recited that the partnership firm should be presently started at ahmedabad and the same should later be started in another city.
exhibit 69 at page 136 of volume ii of the paper book is a partnership deed wherein girdharlal the father of the appellant no 1 and the appellant no 1 joined as partners.
however on account of the death of khristi girdharbhai chimanlal on 1 2 61 and other reasons the said partnership was dissolved from 8 9 61 thereafter we the parties from the first to seventh part have after purchasing at its cost price all the debts and dues goods stock etc together with goodwill of the dissolved partnership started manufacturing and selling of neon signs tubes in partnership from 9 9 61 we the parties of all the seven parts execute the deed of the said partnership to day.
2 the work to be carried out by our partnership is of manufacturing and selling neon signs tubes and of obtaining orders therefore.
3 whatever moneys that may be required to be invested in our partnership are to be invested by the parties of the first second third fourth and seventh parts out of us and the interest at the rate of 712 per cent per annum has to be paid for the moneys that may be invested in this partnership.
there was nothing intrinsically wrong in law in constituting a partnership in the manner it was done.
it was contended by mr mehta that there was no agency reading the partnership deeds as we have read that conclusion does not emanate from position appearing debiting the fixed amount payable to the appellant in the expenses account which also is not inconsistent with partnership.
the high court on a reappraisal of these very evidence came to the conclusion that the partnerships were camouflages and were not acted upon and in fact and in reality the partnership firm was a sub tenant of the appellant herein.
the question is can the high court do so in law.
this court in hari shankar v rao girdhari lal chowdhury1962 1 suppl.
scr 933 1961 indlaw sc 157 had to consider section 351 of the delhi ajmer rent corntrol act1952.
the said section reads as follows 351.
the high court may at any time call for the record of any case under this act for the purpose of satisfying itself that a decision made therein is according to law and may pass such order in relation thereto as it thinks fit.
it was held in the majority judgment by hidayatuiiah j as the learned chief justice then was that though section 35 of the delhi and ajmer rent control act was worded in general terms but it did not create a right to have the case re heard.
unless the statute conferring the right to appeal limits the re hearing in some way.
the expression according to law in section 35 of the said act referred to the decision as a whole and was not to be equated to errors of law or of fact simpliciter.
kapur j who delivered a separate judgment however observed that the power under section 351 of the said act of interference by the high court is not restricted to a proper trial according to law or error in regard to onus of proof or proper opportunity of being heard.
this view had also been expressed in the decision of this court in puranchand v motilal1963.
supp 2 s c r 906 1962 indlaw sc 455.
it was observed that under section 392 of the said act the high court could interfere in second appeal only if there was a substantial question of law.
in phiroze bamanji desai v chandrakant m patel ors 1974 3 scr 267 1974 indlaw sc 282 the question involved was whether there was reasonable and bona fide requirement of premises for personal use and occupation as also the question of greater hardship under the bombay rent act and the ambit and scope of the power of section 293 of the said act with which we are concerned came up for consideration.
there the learned judge relying on section 292 of the said act held that the revisional power with which the high court was vested under section 292 was not merely in the nature of jurisdictional control.
it extended to corrections of all errors which would make the decision contrary to law.
the power according to the learned judge was of the widest amplitude to pass such orders as the court thought fit in order to do complete justice.
in the instant case the basic question is whether keeping in background the partnership deeds referred to hereinbefore and the facts that came to light was there partnership or not.
sharing of profits and contributing to losses were not the only elements in a partnership existence of agency was essential and whether there was a partnership or not is a mixed question of law and fact depending upon the varying circumstances in different cases.
and it was a possible view to take.
the suit for possession is accordingly dismissed.
appeal allowed.
