this appeal is directed against the judgment and order of the high court of gujarat dated 28 2 1986 allowing the respondent s writ petition and quashing order of discharge from service and directing his reinstatement in service.
the respondent joined service as technical assistant with the gujarat state electricity board hereinafter refined to as the board he was promoted to the post of deputy engineer.
while he was posted at surat as deputy engineer he was transferred to ukai subdivision under the order of the superintending engineer dated 29th march1974 pursuant to the order of transfer he was relieved from his duties at surat on 30th march1974 to enable him to join at ukai.
he made representation to the additional chief engineer for cancelling his transfer order on the ground that his mother aged 70 years was ailing and it would cause great inconvenience to him if he was required to join at ukai.
his representation was rejected and he was directed to join at ukai but he did not do so instead he filed a civil suit at baroda challenging validity of the order of transfer.
meanwhile the chief engineer by his order dated 27th may1974 discharged the respondent from service with effect from 31st march1974 in accordance with service regulation no 113 the respondent challenged the validity of the order of his discharge from service by means of a writ petition under article 226 of the constitution before the high court of gujarat.
a learned single judge of the high court quashed the order of termination on the findings that the order of discharge was issued m violation of the basic principles of natural justice as no opportunity was afforded to the respondent before discharging him from services under regulation no 113.
the learned single judge granted a declaration in respondent s favour holding the order void and illegal but having regard to recalcitrant attitude of the appellant and his continued conduct of disobedience of the orders of his superior authorities he refused to grant consequential reliefs regarding reinstatement or payment of back wages.
this appeal came up for hearing before us on 28th january1988 and on that day.
sh b k mehta advocate appearing for the appellants and sh.
the hearing was adjourned to enable sh.
vimal dave to obtain instructions from the respondent.
the appeal came up for hearing before us on 16 2 1988 when another counsel appeared to argue the appeal on behalf of the respondent on merits.
we refused to hear the counsel as we had already completed hearing.
thereupon the respondent himself appeared in person and sought permission to make his submissions personally.
thereafter the case was listed several times but no written submissions were filed instead the respondent adopted an unusual course by sending an application by post expressing his no confidence in us with a prayer to transfer the case to some other bench.
vimal dave learned counsel appearing for the respondent to obtain instructions as aforesaid.
no government servant or employee of public undertaking has legal tight for being posted at any particular place.
transfer from one place to other is generally a condition of service and the employee has no choice in the matter.
transfer from one place to other is necessary in public interest and efficiency in the public administration.
if the order of transfer is not stayed modified or cancelled the concerned public servant must carry out the order of transfer.
in march1974 he was transferred from surat to ukai.
he was relieved from his duties at surat on 30th march1974.
chief engineer who discharged the respondent s services exercised his power under service regulation no 113which runs as under 113 the continued absence from duty or overstay m spite of warning to return to duty shall render the employee liable to summarily discharge from service without the necessity of proceedings under the gujarat electricity board conduct discipline and appeal procedure.
march 301974 to may 271974.
the division bench of the high court held that no warning as contemplated by service regulation no 113 had been issued to the respondent nor he had been afforded any opportunity of showing cause before the impugned order of discharge was passed and consequently the order of discharge was null and void being contrary to service regulation no 113 itself.
in determining the question whether any warning was given to the respondent it is necessary to refer to the sequence of events and the correspondence which ensued between the appellants and the respondent.
on march 291974 the superintending engineer of the board issued the order transferring the respondent from surat to ukai on 30 3 1974 the respondent was relieved from surat and directed to join his duty at ukai but the respondent did not join his duty at the new place of posting.
in this situation the superintending engineer by his letter dated 18th april1974 directed the respondent to show cause as to why action should not be taken against him for disobeying the order of transfer and also for unauthorised absence from duty in breach of service regulation.
no 113 the letter is as under gujarat electricity board o m division nana varchha road surat.
to shri a s pohani junior engineer ukai 37gurunagar society near jakat naka surat 3.
sub transfer from surat to ukai.
i ve engineer o m surat copy f w c s to.
but even thereafter the respondent did not join his duties.
ultimately the chief engineer of the board took action against the respondent and discharged him from service with effect from 31 3 1974 by his letter dated may 271974.
the aforesaid documents leave no room for any doubt that the respondent was reminded of his failure to join his duties at ukai and he was further reminded that his unauthorised absence had exposed him to disciplinary action.
this finding is wholly misconceived.
a warning need not be in any particular form.
the object and purpose of the warning as contemplated by the regulation is to remind the delinquent employee that his continued unauthorised absence from duties was liable to result in discharge of his service.
the substance of the superintending engineer s letter dated 18th april1974 which was admittedly served on the respondent contained warning to the respondent which fully met the requirement of regulation no 113.
therefore even if the letter dated 24 4 1974 was not served on the respondent the order of discharge as contemplated by regulation no 113 is sustainable in law.
apart from denying the postal endorsement the respondent placed no material before the court in support of his pleading.
the burden to rebut the presumption lies on the party challenging the factum of service.
the respondent acted in an irresponsible manner in not complying with the order of transfer which led to his discharge from service in accordance with the service regulation.
we accordingly allow the appeal set aside the order of the single judge as well as division bench and dismiss the respondent s petition.
the respondent has been paid a sum of rs 104170 towards salary under the interim orders of this court.
now since the order of discharge is held to be valid the amount paid to the respondent is liable to be recovered from him but having regard to the facts and circumstances of the case and the hardship which could be caused to the respondent we direct the appellant not to recover the amount already paid to the respondent.
appeal allowed.
