the accused appellant has been held guily of of fences punishable under section 302 and section 3762f of indian penal code.
while the learned additional sessions judge made a reference to the high court for confirmation of death sentence under section 366 cr.
p c the appellant preferred an appeal putting in issue his conviction and sentence.
the criminal reference and the criminal appeal were heard by a division bench of rajasthan high court.
the two learned judges constituting the division bench differed in their opinion.
in the opinion of the other learned judge the prosecution evidence was sufficient to sustain the conviction as recorded by the trial court though the case was not one of those rarest of rare cases as would warrant death sentence being awarded to the appellant.
in view of the difference of opinion the learned acting chief justice assigned the case for hearing by a third judge under section 392 of cr.
in the result the high court has declined the confirmation of death sentence but upheld the conviction on both the charges found proved and dismissed the appeal laying challenge to the conviction subject to modification in the sentence by substituting sentence of life imprisonment for death sentence under section 302 ipc.
the accused appellant has filed this appeal by special leave.
at about 7 a m on 19th march 1991 kishori lal pw4 informed bd pw2 the unfortunate father of s that dead body of a girl was lying near mohalla basera on the outskirts of village kotputli.
bd rushed to the place only to find that the dead body was of none else than his own daughter section blood was oozing out from her mouth and private parts.
a noose was also found around her neck.
at 7 25 a m on 19 3 1991 first information report was lodged by bd at police station kotputli.
slides of vaginal swab were prepared for cyto chemical analysis for blood and seminal stains.
the accused was arrested on 3 4 1991 on suspicion.
he was a grown up male of 21 years and capable of performing sexual intercourse.
human semen was detected on underwear.
the prosecution case depends on circumstantial evidence.
the pieces of circumstantial evidence which have been found proved and held as forging an incriminating chain against the accused are as under i last seen together ii abnormal conduct of the accused iii recovery of underwear and baniyan which was found to be stained with semen and blood group b which is also the blood group of the deceased iv false plea of alibi and v accused absconding since the date of offence.
we would proceed to examine each of the pieces of incriminating circumstantial evidence so as to find out if each one of the circumstantial evidence is proved individually and whether collectively it forges such a chain of incriminating circumstances as would fasten the guilt on the accused beyond by shadow of reasonable doubt.
in dhananjoy chatterjee v state of west bengal 1994 2 scc 220 1994 indlaw sc 1743 wherein one of us dr a s anand j as his lordship then was spoke for the bench.
this court held as under in a case based on circumstantial evidence the circumstances from which the conclusion of guilt is to be drawn have not only to be fully established but also that all the circumstances so established should be of a conclusive nature and consistent only with the hypoth esis of the guilt of the accused.
from the evi dence of shalu pw7 such an inference can not be drawn.
the fact remains that the testimony of shalu pw 7 aged 4 years even if taken at its face value does not constitute such a circumstance as to draw an incriminating inference against the accused and connect him with the crime.
abnormal conduct of accused kalu ram pw5 stated that two or three days after the date of dead body of s having been found.
the accused was told by the witness that the punishment could be 20 or even 40 years of imprisonment or imprisonment for life.
thereafter the wit nesses went to see movie in the cinema hall.
santosh pw9 did not support the version of kalu ram and was declared hostile.
harish chand sharma pw21 stated that between 19th and 25th march 1991 the accused subhash was called at the police station several times for making enquiries.
any person even if innocent and not connected in any way with a gruesome crime which had recently occurred and was talk of the town if called by police and interrogated as a suspect would be scared and be apprehensive of the likelihood of his being implicated in the crime.
iii recovery of underwear stained with blood and semen strangely enough the underwear and baniyan though discovered and seized on an information given by the accused and on his pointing out apparently on a statement recorded under section 27 of the evidence act have not been produced and exhibited in the court.
there is not investigation directed towards finding out and no evidence worth its name collected and adduced in the court to show that the underwear and baniyan were of the accused.
so far as the underwear is concerned the investigation suffers from another infirmity also.
blood sam ple of the accused was not collected and therefore not grouped.
no evidence is available to show as to what was the blood group of the accused and therefore the possibility of blood on the underwear being of the accused himself can not be and is not ruled out.
sc 765 1980 indlaw sc 47.
therein a charge under sections 376 and 302 ipc was sought to be substantiated on circumstanctial evidence.
this court held that the presence of blood stain of b group measuring 0 5 cm.
b group is not uncommon group of blood and no effort was made to exclude the possibility that the blood of the accused belonged to the same group.
as regards the dried stain of semen on the appellant s under pant the court observed that the accused was a grown up man of 30 years and no compelling inference could arise that the stain was caused during the course of the sexual assault committed by him on the victim girl.
in the present case the age of the accused was about 21 years at the time of the incident.
false plea of alibi.
the accused appears to have been engaged as a causal not regular gate keeper at hira moti a local talkies.
this piece of evidence was put to the accused during his statement under section 313 cr.
p c and in reply he stated galat hai not correct.
the purpose of asking questions during examination under section 313 cr.
the accused may or may not avail the opportunity for offering his explanation.
the plea of alibi postulates the physical impossibility of the presence of the accused at the scene of offence by reason of his presence at another place.
v absconding of the accused was the accused absconding at all.
grave injustice has been done to the accused by holding it as a fact that the accused was absconding after the date of the incident and then treating the so called absconding as a piece of incrimi nating circumstantial evidence against the accused.
according to harish chand sharma the accused was arrested on 3 4 1991 vide exbt.
if the accused was arrested at behror there is no reason why the memo of arrest should not have been prepared at village behror.
conclusion.
thus none of the pieces of evidence relied on as incriminating by the trial court and the high court can be treated as incriminating pieces of circumstantial evidence against the accused.
we are left with circumstance No 3 only i e recovery of underwear and baniyan stained with semen and human blood group b which alone in the fact and circumstances of the case discussed hereinabove can not form basis of conviction of the accused appellant for the offence charged.
conviction of the accused appellant under sections 302 and 3762f of indian penal code is set aside.
he is acquitted of the charges framed against him.
he shall be set at liberty forthwith if not required to be detained in connection with any other offence.
appeals allowed.
