leave granted.
interpretation of the provisions of s 461b of the trade and merchandise marks act1958 hereinafter called and referred to for the sake of brevity as the said act is involved herein.
the factual matrix of the matter which is not much in dispute is as under.
an ex parte order of injunction was passed on 19 12 1985 against the defendant appellant herein to the following effect.
the plaintiff shall comply with the requirements of order 39 rule 4 of the code of civil procedure.
indisputably during the proceedings in the above suit m s.
it claimed user of the said mark since 1963 and sought for rectification of the register by expunging the expression circulation and centrifugal pumps from the specification of goods.
may1965 in class 7 in respect of flour mills circulating and centrifugal pumps coupling for machines pulleys included in class 7and valves parts of machines in the name of pooran chand jain and kailash chand jain trading as jain industries1166phatak.
ganga ram anil kumar hufsunil kumar and sumitra rani trading as thukral mechanical works railway road sirhind punjab are registered as subsequent proprietors of this mark as from 30th may1986 by virtue of agreement dated 30th may1986 and.
the registration of the aforesaid trade mark has been renewed from time to time and will remain in force for a period of a seven years from 13th.
appellant s counsel appeared on that date and inter alia contended that presently it was the registered owner of the trade mark which was sought to be cancelled.
the learned judge directed recording of statements of the learned counsel in this behalf pursuant whereto the same were recorded which reads as under c o 9 of 1986.
statement of shri k l aggarwal counsel for petitioner without oath.
statement of shri hemant singh counsel for m s thakural mechanical works without oath.
i have no objection if the petitioner is permitted to withdraw this petition with permission to file a fresh petition on this very cause of action.
registrar of trade marks under section 4656 and 107 of the trade and merchandise marks act1958 for rectification of entry relating to the registered trade mark no 228867 in class 7 after.
trade mark no 228867 in.
the said m s jain industries however was not impleaded as a party therein.
c the defendants shall maintain proper accounts of the sale of centrifugal pumps under the trade mark field marshal and shall file them in court as and when directed.
correctness or otherwise of the said order has not been questioned.
the said order of the division bench is under challenge in this appeal.
the permitted use of a trade mark shall be deemed to be used by the proprietor thereof and shall be deemed not to be used by a person other than the proprietor for the purposes of s 46 or for any other purpose for which such use is material under this act or any other law.
section 56 power to cancel or vary registration and to rectify the register  1.
on application made in the prescribed manner to a high court or to the registrar by any person aggrieved the tribunal may make such order as it may think fit for cancelling or varying the registration of a trade mark on the ground of any contravention or failure to observe a condition entered on the register in relation thereto.
indisputably the scope of the provisions for removal from register in terms of s 46 and 56 of the act stand on different footings.
for the purpose of appreciation of the rival contentions we may notice the findings of the board as also the high court.
the high court on the other hand opined it was not anybody s case before us that m s jain industries.
if thukral did then it can not be said that there was no bona fide use thereof by its proprietor.
that is m s jain industries.
the meantime as a result of the ex parte ad interim injunction granted on 19th december 1985 by this court in suit no 2408 of 1985there was no question of thukral using the trademark field marshal till the injunction was vacated on 19th january1988.
the act was enacted to provide for the registration and better protection of trademarks and for the prevention of the use of fraudulent marks of merchandise.
m s jain industries got itself registered and obtained periodical renewal thereof as is required under the act.
first respondent withdrew the application against m s jain industries.
the prayer in the application was to take off the registered trade mark from the register in respect of centrifugal pumps goods so far as the registration made in favour of the appellant is concerned.
it is in the aforementioned situation we are called upon to determine the meaning of the words for the time being occurring in s 461b of the act.
madhav rao jivaji rao scindia bahadur of gwalior h h maharajadhiraja.
maharana shri bhagwat singhji bahadur of udaipur v union of india and anr air 1971.
sc 530 1970 indlaw sc 300 para 88 to mean by the use of the expression for the time being in cl 22 of art 366.
it confers an exclusive right of use of the trade mark in relation to the goods in which the trade mark is registered.
the same is an assignable right in terms of s 36 of the act whereas an unregistered trade mark is not.
indisputably it would be the registered proprietor.
it therefore can be taken away only when the conditions laid down therefor are satisfied.
allegation of trafficking is a serious one.
the non user for a long time would disentitle a registered proprietor from renewal of the registration.
whether s 461b read with s 48 of the act would bring within its purview not only a registered proprietor but also the proprietor who had otherwise acquired a right would depend upon the facts and circumstances of each case.
in kabushiki kaisha toshiba v tosiba appliances co ors 2008 8 scale 354 2008 indlaw sc 1395this court held we do not find any force in the aforementioned submission.
sub s 3 covers a case falling within cl b and not the cl a thereof.
the trade mark for which registration is obtained is used intermittently.
in kabushiki kaisha toshiba this court relied upon hardie trading ltd anr.
v addisons paint chemicals ltd 2003 11 scc 92 2003 indlaw sc 756 in our opinion the phrase person aggrieved for the purposes of removal on the ground of non use under s 46 has a different connotation from the phrase used in s 56 for canceling or expunging or varying an entry wrongly made or remaining in the register.
prima facie therefore appellant has been held to be the registered owner of the trade mark.
we may at this stage notice that in law of trade marks by mr k c kailasam while commenting on s 47 of the trade marks act1999 to which our attention has been drawn by mr sudhir chandra it is stated.
this clause corresponds to s 46 of the existing act and provides for removal of a trade mark from the register on the ground of non use.
under s 461it is proposed to clarify that the five years period will start from the date on which the trade mark is actually entered on the register.
it seeks to enhance the period of moratorium of use of the registered trade mark from one month to three months so as to prevent speculative assignment.
thus a case of speculative assignment is specifically required to be made out.
such an application may be maintainable in terms of s 56 of the act but strictly not in terms of s 461b thereof and that too in the absence of the original registered proprietor.
we are not satisfied with the explanation offered by the first respondent that it gave up the case of non use of the registered trade mark against m s jain industries on the basis of statement made by the learned counsel for the appellant firstly because consent does not confer jurisdiction secondly because want andor lack of jurisdiction on the part of the tribunal can not be waived as if any order is passed without jurisdiction the same would be a nullity and thirdly because the cause of action even according to the first respondent in his application before the high court was different.
it only consented for grant of liberty in favour of the first respondent for filing of an application for the self same cause of action.
the question of maintainability of the second suit is absence of the registrant proprietor was not and could not have been the subject matter of consent at that stage.
its non user and rectification of the register could not in the aforementioned situation have been tagged with the cause of action if any against the appellant.
the second contention of mr that the appellant was an infringer of the trade mark is again a question of fact.
the board could not while exercising its jurisdiction under s 461bof the act proceeded on the basis of such presumption.
it is not correct that no cause of action survived against jain industries.
in the suit only the competing right of the first respondent qua the appellant can be determined and not a right against m s such a right can not be determined in a proceeding under s 461b of the act which is restricted to non user of the registered trade mark.
two interpretations of the said provision s 461b are possible.
as it takes away somebody s right it deserves strict construction.
it does not provide for a sun set law.
whether the registered proprietor of the trade mark had taken recourse to trafficking or not must be determined in an appropriate proceeding.
a title to a trade mark derived on assignment as provided for under the act can not be equated with a defective title acquired in any other property as admittedly on the date of assignment the right of the registered trade mark was not extinguished.
our attention has again been drawn to a passage from law of trade marks geographical indications by shri k c kailasam wherein the judgment of the tribunal has been criticized in the following terms from the above legislative intent it would seem that the period of non use of the trade mark is to be reckoned continuously from the date of its registration.
in the case of american home products corporation v mac laboratories pvt ltd.
if that be so any registered proprietor could easily defeat an application for rectification by assigning the mark to some other person to have a fresh period of 5 years from the date of assignment and thus effectively frustrate the very object of the provision in s 471a and b further it is to be noted that an assignment is subject to the provisions of the act and any rights vested in any other person see.
if his title is not extinguished by reason of a provision of a statute for non user of the trade mark for a period of five years any assignment made shall be valid subject to such situation which we have noticed in paragraph 25 supra.
for the views we have taken we are of the opinion that the impugned judgment can not be sustained.
appeal allowed.
