yakshagana is a form of ballet dance.
it has its own heritage.
indisputably dr kota shivarama karanth for shortdr.
karantha jnanapeeth awardee who was a novelist play writer essayist encyclopediationist cultural anthropologist artist writer of science environmentalist.
he developed a new form of yakshagana.
he was a director of the appellant institute.
on or about 18 6 1994he executed a will in favour of the respondent.
these prasangas are i bhishma vijaya ii nala damayanthi iii kanakangi or kanakangi kalyana iv abhimanyu or abhimanyu vada v chitrangadha or babruvahana kalaga vi panchavati and vii.
ganga charitha.
plaintiff respondent admittedly claimed copyright in respect of literary and artistic works in her favour in terms of clauses 11 and 12 of the said will dated 18 6 1994which read as under 11 since i left the house suhasa i have been living in a specially built house manasa of smt.
malini mallya who has built it with borrowed money at her cost.
she had joined my service as copyist and later she secured an employment in life insurance corporation of india.
and in this occasion i must also acknowledge with gratitude that she diligently cared and nursed my wife leela karanth during her prolonged illness till her last day.
such painstaking service in this direction has brought to light several of my hitherto untraced forgotten and unknown writings and thereby giving them extended or renewed lease of life.
whatever she may earn thereby shall be her exclusive income and property.
no one else shall have any right or claims for the same 12 from time to time i have distributed among my children all gold and silver jewels and ornaments and other valuables which were gifted to me by my friends and admirers.
and i have distributed all copper and bronze vessels and utensils among my children while leaving my former home suhasa keeping only bare essential and necessary things and articles.
whatever movable properties books fittings furniture utensils etc belonging to me into this house manasa and my car and cash money in hand after my death shall go to smt.
no one else shall have any claim or right over the same.
malini mallya alone.
4 directing the defendants to pay future interest on rs 15000 at 15 p a till payment of the entire amount.
rajiv dhavan learned senior counsel appearing on behalf of appellants in his usual fairness conceded.
ii dr karanth has made substantial changes in the original traditional form of the yakshagana dance.
i keeping in view of the findings of the learned trial judge it ought to have been held that no cause of action arose against the appellants in this case as the institution had performed the said dance at new delhi in the memory of dr karanth without charging any fees.
mr g v chandrashekhar learned counsel appearing on behalf of the respondent on the other hand would support the impugned judgment.
the copyright act1957 for shortthe act was enacted to amend and consolidate the law relating to copyright.
section 2 is the interpretation section.
section 2c defines artistic work to mean i a painting a sculpture a drawing including a diagram map chart or planan engraving or a photograph whether or not any such work possesses artistic quality.
ii a work of architecture and iii any other work of artistic craftsmanship.
for the purposes of this clause communication through satellite or cable or any other means of simultaneous communication to more than one household or place of residence including residential rooms of any hotel or hostel shall be deemed to be communication to the public section 2 ffa defines the word composerin relation to a musical work to mean the person who composes the music regardless of whether he records it in any form of graphical notation.
section 2h defines dramatic work to include any piece of recitation choreographic work or entertainment in dumb show the scenic arrangement or acting form of which is fixed in writing or otherwise but does not include a cinematograph film.
section 2o defines literary work to include computer programmes tables and compilations including computer databases.
section 2qq defines performer to include an actor singer musician dancer acrobat juggler conjurer snake charmer a person delivering a lecture or any other person who makes a performance.
section 13 which occurs in chapter iii of the act provides that subject to the provisions thereof and the other provisions of the said act copyright shall subsists throughout india in the following classes of works that is to say a original literary dramatic musical and artistic works b cinematograph films and c sound recording.
section 17 of the act deals with first owner of copyrightin terms whereof subject to the provisions of the act the author of a work shall be the owner of the copyright therein.
proviso d appended thereto states that in the case of a government work government shall in the absence of any agreement to the contrary be the first owner of the copyright therein.
sections 2223 and 521ai and l of the act which are relevant for our purpose read as under.
in the case of a literary dramatic musical or artistic work other than a photographwhich is published anonymously or pseudonymously copyright shall subsist until sixty years from the beginning of the calendar year next following the year in which the work is first published.
provided that where the identity of the author is disclosed before the expiry of the said period copyright shall subsist until sixty years from the beginning of the calendar year following the year in which the author dies.
for the purposes of this section the identity of an author shall be deemed to have been disclosed if either the identity of the author is disclosed publicly by both the author and the publisher or is otherwise established to the satisfaction of the copyright board by that author.
before adverting to the submissions made by the learned counsel for the parties we may notice the issues framed in the suit which are i does plaintiff prove that late dr shivaramaji karanth had acquired copyright in respect of seven yakshagana prasangas and also in respect of yakshagana dramatic or theatrical form i e bhishma.
has the plaintiff became entitled to the said right under the registered will dated 18 06 1994.
we must however notice that the provisions the act make a distinction between the literary work and dramatic work.
keeping in view the statutory provisions there can not be any doubt whatsoever that copyright in respect of performance of dance would not come within the purview of the literary work but would come within the purview of the definition of dramatic work.
we however do not mean to suggest that any act of literary work will be outside the purview of the will dated 18 6 1994 our exercise in this behalf was only for the purpose of clarifying the provisions of the act with reference to the findings arrived at by the high court.
costumes choreography and direction by dr karanth the appellants can do so only in accordance with the provisions of the copyrights act1957 in view of copyright in seven prasangas vesting with the plaintiff.
the courts while passing a decree for permanent injunction would avoid multiplicity of proceedings.
in r g anand vs m s delux films ors 1978.
4 where the theme is the same but is presented and treated differently so that the subsequent work becomes a completely new work no question of violation of copyright arises.
7 where.
it is manifest that unlike a stage play a film has a much broader prospective wider field and a bigger background where the defendants can by introducing a variety of incidents give a colour and complexion different from the manner in which the copyrighted work has expressed the idea.
yet again in eastern book company ors vs d b modak anr 2008.
1 scc 12007 indlaw sc 1341this court held the copyright act is not concerned with the original idea but with the expression of thought.
copyright has nothing to do with originality or literary merit.
copyrighted material is that what is created by the author by his own skill labour and investment of capital maybe it is a derivative work which gives a flavour of creativity.
the copyright work which comes into being should be original in the sense that by virtue of selection coordination or arrangement of pre existing data contained in the work a work somewhat different in character is produced by the author.
on the face of the provisions of the copyright act1957we think that the principle laid down by the canadian court would be applicable in copyright of the judgments of the apex court.
the high court in our opinion should have clarified that the appellants can also take the statutory benefit of the provisions contained in clauses ai and l of sub section 1 of section 52 of the act.
section 52 of the act provides for certain acts which would not constitute an infringement of copyright.
when a fair dealing is made inter alia of a literary or dramatic work for the purpose of private use including research and criticism or review whether of that work or of any other work the right in terms of the provisions of the said act can not be claimed.
similarly appellant being an educational institution if the dance is performed within the meaning of provisions of clause i of sub section 1 of section 52 of the act strictly the order of injunction shall not apply thereto also.
appeal dismissed.
