accused pathan hussain basha was married to pathan haseena begum now deceased on 23rd june2002 at guntur.
it was an arranged marriage.
at the time of marriage it was promised that a dowry of rs 25000 besides other formalities would be paid by the side of the wife to the husband.
out of this amount a sum of rs 15000 was paid at that time and it was promised that the balance dowry of rs 10000 would be paid in the month of october2002upon which the marriage was performed.
the father of the bride could not pay the balance amount within time because he lacked the resources.
the accused pathan hussain basha his father pathan khadar basha and mother pathan nazeer abi forced her to get the balance amount of dowry.
despite such pressure she was not able to get that money from her family.
it is the case of the prosecution that for non payment of dowry the accused persons harassed the deceased and subjected her to cruelty.
she was unable to bear the cruelty to which she was subjected by the accused persons.
subsequently lw 3 pathan basheerunnisa sent her grandson pathan inayatullah khan lw 4 to the house of the parents of the deceased to inform them about the incident.
however upon medical examination by the doctor she was declared brought dead.
lw 1lodged the report which was registered by sri k srinivasarao lw 16the sub inspector of police.
the fir was registered under section 304b and section 498a of the indian penal code1860 for short the ipc thereafter investigation was conducted by one shri p devadass lw 17 he inspected the site from where he recovered and seized the saree that had been used for hanging.
this was done in the presence of lw 10 and lw 11shaik ibrahim and mohd ghouse respectively.
thereupon the body was sent for postmortem examination through constable p venkateswara reddy lw 15 lw 17p devdass also took photographs of the scene 3 lw 13dr.
m madhusudana reddy conducted autopsy over the body of the deceased and prepared post mortem certificate giving the cause of death as asphyxia as a result of hanging.
on 16th february2003at about 5 p m.
investigating officer arrested all the three accused persons.
they faced the trial and were convicted by learned sixth additional munsif magistrate guntur for committing an offence under sections 498a and 304b ipc.
they were committed to the court of sessions guntur division guntur for such an offence.
p c m o 1 shall be destroyed after expiry of appeal time.
the high court of andhra pradesh vide its judgment dated 26th october2006while allowing the appeal in part convicted accused nos 1 and 2 for the aforementioned offences however acquitted accused no 3namely pathan khadar basha.
first and the foremost we must consider what is the evidence led by the prosecution to bring home the guilt of accused.
accused were charged with offences under sections 498a and 304b of the ipc the fir in the present case was lodged by lw 1who is the father of the deceased.
according to this witness on 23rd january2002the marriage of his daughter was solemnised with accused pathan hussain basha and he had accepted to give rs 25000 in marriage.
he had called his son in law accused no 1to his house as per custom at that point the accused demanded a ceiling fan.
the accused asked for rs 1000 with a ring for the deceased.
his daughter after the ramzan festival had informed him that the accused persons were harassing her and were even beating and abusing her.
the statement of this witness i e lw 1 is corroborated by lw 3 and lw 7.
after bringing the soaps she went to the house of the accused persons and found that the accused was absent and the deceased was hanging on one side of the room.
according to him the accused persons used to harass the deceased primarily for non payment of the amount of dowry as a result of which she was forced to commit suicide.
she had informed her parents of the ill treatment and the cruelty inflicted on her for non giving of dowry.
february2003 the witnesses including lw 1 have stated that for the first few months they were happy but thereafter there were quarrels between the accused and the deceased.
11 alongside insertion of section 304 b in ipc the legislature also introduced section 113 b of the evidence act which lays down when the question as to whether a person has committed the dowry death of a woman and it is shown that soon before her death such woman had been subjected by such person to cruelty or harassment for or in connection with any demand for dowry the court shall presume that such person had caused the dowry death.
12 explanation appended to section.
section 304 b ipc is read together with section 113 b of the evidence act a comprehensive picture emerges that if a married woman dies in unnatural circumstances at her matrimonial home within 7 years from her marriage and there are allegations of cruelty or harassment upon such married woman for or in connection with demand of dowry by the husband or relatives of the husband the case would squarely come under dowry death and there shall be a presumption against the husband and the relatives.
besides examining the ingredients of the provision it would also be necessary for us to examine the meaning and connotation of the expressions dowry deathsoon before her death and in connection with any demand for dowry as appearing in the said section.
secondly that soon before her death she had been subjected to cruelty or harassment by the husband or any of the relatives of the husband for or in connection with any demand for dowry then such a death shall be called dowry death and the husband or the relative as the case may be will be deemed to have caused such a death.
the explanation to this section requires that the expression dowry shall have the same meaning as in s 2 of the act.
12 the definition of dowry under s 2 of the act reads as under 2 definition of dowry.
the object being that everything which is offending at any time i e at before or after the marriage would be covered under this definition but the demand of dowry has to be in connection with the marriage and not so customary that it would not attract on the face of it the provisions of this section.
at this stage it will be appropriate to refer to certain examples showing what has and has not been treated by the courts as dowry.
this court in ran singh v state of haryana2008 4 scc 700 2008 indlaw sc 120 held that the payments which are customary payments for example given at the time of birth of a child or other ceremonies as are prevalent in the society or families to the marriage would not be covered under the expression dowry.
again in satvir singh v state of punjab20018 scc 633 2001 indlaw sc 224.
the customary payments in connection with birth of a child or other ceremonies are not covered within the ambit of the word dowry.
s 4 of the act is the penal section and demanding a dowryas defined under s 2 of the act is punishable under this section.
they must be understood in their plain language and with reference to their meaning in common parlance.
but even the rule of strict construction requires that the provisions have to be read in conjunction with other relevant provisions and scheme of the act.
however the expression would normally imply that there has to be reasonable time gap between t he cruelty inflicted and the death in question.
thus the cruelty harassment and demand of dowry should not be so ancient whereafter the couple and the family members have lived happily and that it would result in abuse of the said protection.
the expression demand for dowry will have to be construed ejusdem generis to the word immediately preceding this expression.
dowry is something which existed in our country for a considerable time and the legislature in its wisdom considered it appropriate to enact the law relating to dowry prohibition so as to ensure that any party to the marriage is not harassed or treated with cruelty for satisfaction of demands in consideration and for subsistence of the marriage.
there being no rebuttal thereto there is no occasion to interfere in the judgments of the courts under appeal.
accused pathan hussain basha and pathan nazeer abi have rightly been found guilty of the offence by the courts.
appeals partly allowed.
