the appellant raju.
chandra prakash accused no 2 has filed criminal appeal no 589 of 2014 the appellant smt.
shashi tripathi accused no 1 has filed criminal appeal arising out of special leave petition criminal no 3737 of 2014.
he lodged a first information report f i r on 25 11 2003 at about 2045 hours.
bhavna was dead.
there were numerous injuries including incised wounds on bhavna none on shashi.
after registration of the crime inquest was conducted over the dead body of bhavna on 26 11 2003 post mortem was conducted by dr naresh tiwari and dr m deodhar who gave their report which is marked as exhibit p18 spot map was prepared by the inquiry officer io bloodstained cloth of accused shashi tripathi was taken into possession along with broken bangles bloodstained cement mortar and plain cement mortar were also taken into possession.
shashi tripathi mahesh and binu.
chandra prakash were arrested on 29 11 2003 a bloodstained knife was taken into possession.
devendra choubey was taken into custody on 22 12 2003 and a suzuki motorcycle was also taken into possession.
a test identification was conducted by the executive magistrate in the sub jail bemetara on 13 12 2003 a similar identification parade of raju.
devendra choubey was conducted on 26 12 2003 after his arrest.
after committal the trial court framed charges u s 302 read with ss 34 and 120b of the ipc the prosecution examined 32 witnesses.
according to the prosecution the accused shashi tripathi is the step mother in law of deceased bhavna tripathi.
bhavna was married to her step son jitendra kumar in july2003 shashi tripathi used to be annoyed with bhavna tripathi on account of some domestic dispute.
dr m deodhar who conducted the postmortem opined that cause of her death was neurogenic and hemorrhagic shock.
the injuries found on person of the deceased were as follows external injuries 1 incised wound on left scapular region of size 3 cm x 1 cm 2 incised wound on left scapular region of size 4 cm x 1  cm.
x 1  cm 3.
one incised wound on left auxiliary region on the posterior auxiliary region of size 3 cm x 2 cm x 3 cm.
4 incised wound on lower costal region left of size.
3  cm x 2 cm x 1 cm 5 incised wound on lower costal region right side on right epigestic region of size 3  cm.
x 3 cm with punctured wound 6 incised wound over right costal region of size 3 cm x 2 cm x 1 cm.
7 incised wound on right supra mammary region near middle of size 4 cm x 1 cm x 1  cm 8 incised wound on right supra mammary region lateral aspect of size 3 cm x 1  cm x 1  cm 9 incised wound on radial aspect of left forearm near wrist joint of size 2.
cm x cm x  cm 10 incised wound on forearm left hand radial side dorsal aspect on lower 23rd region 11 incised wound on left forearm middle l3rd region radial side and posterior aspect of size 2.
x 3 cm lobe was cut and there was 3 cm punctured wound.
liver kidney and spleen were pale.
the sole eyewitness was a boy of 13 years of age anil kumar pw 21who worked as a servant with the family.
he participated in the identification parade which was held in sub jail bemetara and identified the accused persons in the court by touching them.
he deposed before the court that shashi didi accused brought him to village jevra from bilaspur.
jitendra is her step son and the deceased bhavna is the wife of jitendra.
she resided with shashi didi.
his brother shivendra studies at calcutta.
he referred to bhavna as bhabhi.
about the assault he deposed that devendra caught bhavna and chandra prakash attacked her with knife 3 to 4 times and she fell down.
the incident occurred in the courtyard and shashi didi was present in the passage.
mahesh the fourth accused was standing outside the house.
the accused chandra prakash had threatened him not to disclose anything about the incident to anyone.
thereafter all the three accused fled from there.
this deposition clearly implicates accused nos 12 and 4 the picture that emerges is that shashi tripathi caused bhavna to be killed and for this purpose engaged chandra prakash accused no 2 and raju.
the prosecution has found it difficult to pinpoint the motive but shashi tripathi s husband dr sharda prasad tripathi pw 1 deposed before the court that she tried to create a hindrance in the marriage of his son jitendra since she wanted her daughter abhilasha to marry him however he went ahead with the marriage of jitendra to bhavna whereupon shashi tripathi remained silent.
he was brought to the house by shashi tripathi accusedwho apparently took care of him and sent to school and gave him food and residence.
this serves to satisfy the investigating officers of the bona fides of the prosecution witnesses and also to furnish evidence to corroborate their testimony in court.
it is for this reason that the identification parades in this case seem to have been held under the supervision of a magistrate.
the persons required to identify an accused should have had no opportunity of seeing him after the commission of the crime and before identification and secondly that no mistakes are made by them or the mistakes made are negligible.
the observations of this court undoubtedly lay down the correct law and we have no reason to doubt them.
in his deposition he specified the details of the part which the accused played with reasonable particularity.
in such a situation it is considered a safe rule of prudence to generally look for corroboration of the sworn testimony of witness in court as to the identity of the accused who are strangers to them in the form of earlier identification proceeding as observed by this court in budhsen s case 1970 indlaw sc 136 supra.
sc 367 1982 indlaw sc 63 the facts and circumstances of the cases are however different and it is not necessary to consider those cases in detail while dealing with the present case.
9 scc 696 2012 indlaw sc 343.
mahesh did not even act as a guard he did not prevent anil kumar pw 21 from entering the house.
having regard to the role attributed to him and the absence of incriminating factors we find that it is not safe to convict mahesh of the offence of murder with the aid of ss 34 and 120b.
we therefore hold that the accused mahesh accused no 3 in criminal appeal no 867 of 2013 is innocent and the conviction against him is set aside.
