on or about 23rd of august1963.
the military estate officer secunderabad of.
in this appeal we are concerned with the claim for compensation for the said acquisition by one abdul khader who was a flower picker.
tenancy and agricultural lands act1950 being.
act no xxi of 1950.
hereinafter called the andhra pradesh act.
sub s 2 of s 34 of the said act also deals with to be deemed to be a protected tenant in respect of any landfor certain purposes.
s 35 of the said act deals with decision on claims and stipulates by sub s 1 of s 35 of the said act that if any question arises whether any person and if so what person is deemed under s 34 to be a protected tenant in respect of any land the landholder or any person claiming to be so deemed may within one year from the commencement of the act apply in the prescribed form to the tahsildar for the decision of the question and the tahsildar shall after enquiring into the claim or claims in the manner prescribed declare what person is entitled to be deemed to be protected tenant or as the case may be that no person is so entitled.
s 36 of the said act deals with the recovery of possession by protected tenant.
s 37 deals with persons not entitled under s 34 to be deemed in certain circumstances as protected tenants.
s 38 of the said act deals with right of protected tenant to purchase land.
s 39 deals with right of protected tenants to exchange lands.
s 40 of the said act makes rights of protected tenant heritable.
sub s 3 of s 40 of the said act provides that if a protected tenant dies without leaving any heirs all his rights shall be so extinguished.
it is necessary also to note the provisions of s 99 of the act.
it is as follows 99 bar of jurisdiction 1.
save as provided in this act.
no civil court shall have jurisdiction to settle decide or deal with any question which is by or under this act required to be settled decided or dealt with by the tahsildar tribunal or collector or by the board of revenue or government.
no order of the tahsildar tribunal or collector or of the board of revenue or government made under this act shall be questioned in any civil or criminal court.
s 102 of the said act stipulates that the act shall not apply to certain lands and areas and provides inter alia as follows 102 nothing in this act shall apply to lands leased granted alienated or acquired in favour of or by the central government or the state government a local authority or a cooperative society.
it is relevant at this stage to refer to certain provisions of the central act to consider the controversy involved in this appeal the central act was enacted giving power for requisitioning and acquisition of immovable property for union purposes.
s 3 of the said act gave power to requisition immovable property.
s 4 of the said act empowers taking possession of requisitioned property.
s 5 deals with rights over requisitioned property.
s 6 deals with the power of release from the requisitioning.
s 7 authorises the central government where it is of the opinion that it is necessary to do so to acquire requisitioned property.
s 8 deals with principles and method of determining compensation either for requisitioning or acquisition of the property and inter alia provides for appointment of an arbitrator in certain contingencies in case there was no agreement for determining compensation.
i suspect that somebody has tampered the register and entered the name of sri mohd abdul khader.
separate enquiry in this connection is going on in this office to know under what circumstances such entry has been made and copy also issued without knowledge of the tahsildar.
1the learned single judge vaidya j held inter alia as follows whether the petitioner abdul khader is a protected tenant or whether he has any prima facie interest in the suit property are matters entirely within the sole jurisdiction of the arbitrator who has to be appointed under s 8 of the central act.
on or about 19th of april1972.
he held further that khasra pahani which is the basic record of occupancy period after spot inspections does not find the name of abdul khader and further held that all entries except this entry in the protected tenancy register prepared under section 37a of the andhra pradesh act was supported by an enquiry.
in civil revision petition no 1006 of 1972 which was filed by abdul khader as against others justice r ramachandra raju of the andhra pradesh high court on or about 19th august1974 held that abdul khader was not a protected tenant and directed deletion of entry made in the final record of tenancies as a spurious one.
claim petition was filed by the appellant before the arbitrator claim petition was also filed by abdul khader claiming 60 of compensation as a protected tenant.
despite the objection exercising the jurisdiction of the arbitrator to go into the question of protected tenant the arbitrator held that abdul khader was a protected tenant.
aggrieved by the aforesaid award the appellant claiming as one of the owners of the property filed a statutory appeal to the high court.
in the meantime abdul khader filed an application on or about 21st of october1984 for adducing additional evidence to mark kaulnama dated 2nd of december1950 for the first time and oubuliatnama dated 2nd december1950 as exhibits in deciding the protected tenancy rights.
on or about 22nd of april1985.
dr chitale learned counsel for the appellants submitted that the high court should be directed to consider the issues relating to the jurisdiction of the arbitrator appointed and functioning under the requisitioning and acquisition of immovable property act195 i to decide whether a person is protected tenant of an agricultural land or not in the light of ss 99 and 102 of the andhra pradesh telangana area.
other c m ps were filed for clarification of the second part of the order dated 19th august1985 and this court on 29th november1985 in cmps.
in the judgment under appeal which is directed against the award made by the arbitrator formulated the following four issues  1 what is the value of the land 2 who are entitled to the compensation amount 3 whether abdul khader is a protected tenant of sail gulshan of the area 19 02 guntas excluding the land of buildings wells etc and 4 what share is to be apportioned to successors of sail nawaz jung.
kowlnama executed in favour of shaik hussain was not filed.
abdul khader on december 31950 was filed and was marked as exhibit c 1 the document recited permitted to utilise garden fruits flowers and mango.
in this background the court addressed itself to the question whether abdul khader was a protected tenant or not entitled to 60 of the compensation.
no document was filed to show that abdul khader was declared by the revenue courts as a protected tenant.
aggrieved by the aforesaid decision the appellants being the successor of the owner of the land in question is in appeal before us.
shri shanker ghosh learned counsel for the appellant urged that under the said andhra pradesh act it was mandatory under s 99 read with s 102 of the said act in conjunction with the definition of s 2r of the act for the revenue authorities to decide whether abdul khader was a protected tenant or not.
he had claimed rights of a protected tenant.
on behalf of the appellant it was submitted that there was a complete bar for any civil court to go into the question whether abdul khader was a protected tenant and as such the arbitrator and the high court had no jurisdiction to decide this question.
according to the appellant inasmuch as whether abdul khader was a protected tenant had not to be settled by the collector or the tribunal the arbitrator and the high court were in error in going to that question.
by the scheme of the central act compensation was payable to persons who had interest in the land acquired.
determination by the revenue authorities and non determination is not conclusive or decisive.
it is clear that s 102 of the andhra pradesh act mentions that after acquisition the act was not to apply in respect of certain land.
it was the observation of the revenue authorities that it was spurious.
he had jurisdiction to do so.
in that view of the matter we are unable to accept the challenge to the award.
furthermore under s 99 of the andhra pradesh act the bar was not against the arbitrator but against a civil court.
in determining the amount of compensation payable to abdul khader under the central act his interests in the property had to be determined.
in another context the high court of andhra pradesh enunciated the position that it was necessary to determine the interest of the persons claiming compensation.
it might appear that a fruit pucker gets 60 of the compensation while the owners get only if that is the law.
