p c the third learned judge has on an independent appreciation of evidence recorded his own findings upholding the conviction of the accused on both the charges framed against him and thus agreeing with one of the two learned judges constituting the division bench in conclusion.
the accused appellant has filed this appeal by special leave.
kumari s a young child aged about 5 years was last seen at about 4 p m on 18th march 1991 and thereafter she did not return home.
at about 7 a m on 19th march 1991 kishori lal pw4 informed bd pw2 the unfortunate father of s that dead body of a girl was lying near mohalla basera on the outskirts of village kotputli.
bd rushed to the place only to find that the dead body was of none else than his own daughter section blood was oozing out from her mouth and private parts.
a noose was also found around her neck.
at 7 25 a m on 19 3 1991 first information report was lodged by bd at police station kotputli.
offence was registered under sections 302 and 376 ipc.
the dead body was sent for post mortem examination which was performed at 9 30 a m on the same day by a medical board of three doctors.
it was found that the victim was brutally ravished and thereafter killed.
according to the medical opinion the probable cause of death of s was shock produced due to vaginal trauma and rupture of post fornix along with asphyxia due to ligature around the neck.
all injuries found on the person of the victim could be around 6 of 24 hours old prior to the time of post mortem examina tion.
the clothes were removed from the dead body and seized.
slides of vaginal swab were prepared for cyto chemical analysis for blood and seminal stains.
the accused was arrested on 3 4 1991 on suspicion.
on 4 4 1991 he was medically examined.
he was a grown up male of 21 years and capable of performing sexual intercourse.
the clothes so recovered were sent to forensic science laboratory.
human semen was detected on underwear.
p30 of forensic science laboratory human blood of group b was detected on the underwear.
the accused was challaned and charge sheeted for the offences as already stated hereinabove.
it is not necessary here to extensively deal with the evidence adduced by the prosecution.
suffice it to observe that there is no direct evidence connecting the accused with the offences charged.
it needs no reminder that legally estab lished circumstances and not merely indignation of the court can form the basis of conviction and the more serious the crime the greater should be the care taken to scrutinize the evidence lest suspicion takes the place of proof.
she stated that accompanied by phukla another young girl a cousin of hers and s the deceased she had gone to purchase balloon from the shop of goma.
from the evi dence of shalu pw7 such an inference can not be drawn.
the fact remains that the testimony of shalu pw 7 aged 4 years even if taken at its face value does not constitute such a circumstance as to draw an incriminating inference against the accused and connect him with the crime.
pw9 had gone to see a movie in a cinema hall where the accused was employed as a gate keeper.
the accused was told by the witness that the punishment could be 20 or even 40 years of imprisonment or imprisonment for life.
santosh pw9 did not support the version of kalu ram and was declared hostile.
harish chand sharma pw21 stated that between 19th and 25th march 1991 the accused subhash was called at the police station several times for making enquiries.
any person even if innocent and not connected in any way with a gruesome crime which had recently occurred and was talk of the town if called by police and interrogated as a suspect would be scared and be apprehensive of the likelihood of his being implicated in the crime.
placed in such situation if a villager unaware of the law happens to ask a person who he feels knows the things better than what he himself does as to what would be the period of incarceration to be suffered by any person for such an offence the impulse for inquiry may be outcome of a feeling of nervousness or mere inquisitiveness such an enquiry is not necessarily suggestive of the working of a criminal mind.
insofar as baniyan is concerned it has no stains of any type on it and therefore its discovery and seizure is meaningless and irrelevant.
so far as the underwear is concerned the investigation suffers from another infirmity also.
blood sam ple of the accused was not collected and therefore not grouped.
no evidence is available to show as to what was the blood group of the accused and therefore the possibility of blood on the underwear being of the accused himself can not be and is not ruled out.
sc 765 1980 indlaw sc 47.
b group is not uncommon group of blood and no effort was made to exclude the possibility that the blood of the accused belonged to the same group.
as regards the dried stain of semen on the appellant s under pant the court observed that the accused was a grown up man of 30 years and no compelling inference could arise that the stain was caused during the course of the sexual assault committed by him on the victim girl.
in the present case the age of the accused was about 21 years at the time of the incident.
on his arrest he was subjected to medical examination and found to be a potent and capable person.
p c and nowhere suggested during cross examination of prosecution witnesses that at the time of the incident he was at a place wherefrom he could not have reached the place of the offence on the date and at the time of its commission.
the accused appears to have been engaged as a causal not regular gate keeper at hira moti a local talkies.
p c and in reply he stated galat hai not correct.
the accused may or may not avail the opportunity for offering his explanation.
the accused did not avail the opportunity and stood short by simply stating that the statement of cinema owner was not correct.
literal meaning of alibi is elsewhere.
in law this term is used to express that defence in a criminal prosecution where the party accused in order to prove that he could not have committed the crime charged against him offers evidence that he was in a different place at that time.
see law lexicon p ramnath iyer second edition p 87.
grave injustice has been done to the accused by holding it as a fact that the accused was absconding after the date of the incident and then treating the so called absconding as a piece of incrimi nating circumstantial evidence against the accused.
according to harish chand sharma the accused was arrested on 3 4 1991 vide exbt.
p21 at behror which is a place situated at a distance of about 30 35 kms.
from village kotputli where the incident had taken place.
if the accused was arrested at behror there is no reason why the memo of arrest should not have been prepared at village behror.
at least this fact should have been mentioned in the memo of arrest even if the same was prepared at village kotputli.
in shankarlal gyarasilal dixit s case 1980 indlaw sc 47 supra this court cautioned human nature is too willing when faced with brutal crimes to spin stories out of strong suspicions.
before parting with the case we would like to place on record an observation of ours touching an aspect of the case.
there are clueless crimes committed.
such offences put to test the wits of an investigating officer.
he is acquitted of the charges framed against him.
he shall be set at liberty forthwith if not required to be detained in connection with any other offence.
