3 and 4 are diploma holders in civil engineering.
rs 63 per day for the degree holders and rs 52 50 per day for the diploma holders.
on or about 17 3 1997 however they began receiving a salary of rs 1500 per month.
if no then to which relief they are entitled and what directions should be given to the employer.
2whether it is valid and proper for not giving equal salary to these sub engineers like other sub engineers in accordance with the equal work.
all the employees have been working in the establishment of the respondents for last 5 6 years.
aggrieved by and dissatisfied with the said award the respondent authority herein filed a writ petition before the madhya pradesh high court indore bench which was marked as writ petition no 1188 of 1997.
by reason of the impugned judgment dated 26 4 2000 the said writ petition was allowed.
despite the same the high court went into the question of applicability of the said act and held that the 1961 act and the 1963 rules had no application.
before the high court various documents were produced by the appellants herein to show the nature of their employment but the same had not been taken on records by the high court.
as regard application of the doctrine of equal pay for equal work it was held to be not applicable as the appellants were not entitled to absorption or classification in terms of the 1961 act and the 1963 rules.
it was urged that the expression clear vacancies has to be read in the context of period for which the concerned workman was required to work namely six months.
dr dhawan would furthermore contend that the findings of fact had been arrived at by the labour court that the appellants of civil appeal no 337 of 2002 were appointed by the authority and not only their work was being taken in the project but also in other works and thus mere posting of the appellants to the said project would not disentitle them from the benefit of the said act.
the learned counsel would urge that a seniority list was also drawn up and an employment code was assigned to each one of the appellants from which fact the nature of their employment should be judged.
the learned counsel would submit that the sufficient materials were brought on records to show that vacancies were available and as the appellants worked for a period of more than six months they became permanent employees in terms of the act.
it was further contended that as the respondents despite direction to produce documents including the offers for appointment did not produce the same an adverse inference should have been drawn against them by the high court.
as regard the claim of equal pay for equal work the learned counsel would urge that the high court has failed to consider the same in its true perspective.
mr v r reddy learned senior counsel appearing on behalf of the respondents on the other hand would contend that indisputably the appellants were engaged by the respondent authority but such appointments were made for the purpose of the project financed by oda.
our attention was also drawn to the application dated 22 10 1991 filed by one o p mandloi before the chairman of the indore development authority disclosing his educational qualifications and enclosing therewith the mark sheets and degrees obtained by him in civil engineering and also secondary school examination certificate to show his date of birth.
sd c e o 23 10 91.
furthermore from the reliefs claimed it would appear that the appellants had inter alia prayed for continuance of their services by the indore municipal corporation which knocks off the very basis of their claim.
employees shall be classified as i permanent ii permanent seasonaliii.
probationers iv badlies v apprentices and vi temporary.
12 of the constitution of india.
it is also not in dispute that the respondent authority has been constituted under madhya pradesh nagar tatha gram nibesh adhiniyam 1973 adhiniyam section 47 whereof mandates that all appointments to the posts of officers and servants included in the state cadre mentioned in section 76 b of the development authority services must be made by the state government and the appointments to the posts of officers and servants included in the local cadre in the said services by the concerned town and country development authority.
it is also not in dispute that the state government in exercise of its rule making power conferred upon it section 85 of the adhiniyam has made rules known as m p development authority services officers and servants recruitment rules 1987.
indisputably the conditions precedent for appointment of the officers and servants of the authority as contained in the service rules had not been complied with.
the answer thereto must be rendered in negative.
regularisation can not be claimed as a matter of right.
an illegal appointment can not be legalized by taking recourse to regularization.
the constitutional scheme which the country has adopted does not contemplate any backdoor appointment.
a state before offering public service to a person must comply with the constitutional requirements of articles 14 and 16 of the constitution.
ajay kumar 1997 4 scc 88 1997 indlaw sc 833 jawaharlal nehru krishi viswa vidyalaya jabalpur m p vs.
bal kishan soni and others 1997 5 scc 86 1997 indlaw sc 928.
in a umarani vs registrar cooperative societies and ors.
jt 2004 6 sc 110 2004 indlaw sc 606 a three judge bench of this court of which we were members upon taking into consideration a large number of decisions held although we do not intend to express any opinion as to whether the cooperative society is a state within the meaning of article but it is beyond any cavil of doubt that the writ petition will be maintainable when the action of the cooperative society is violative of mandatory statutory provisions.
in this case except the nodal centre functions and supervision of the cooperative society the state has no administrative control over its day to day affairs.
it was therefore impermissible for the state to direct regularization of the services of the employees of the cooperative societies.
such an order can not be upheld also on the ground that the employees allegedly served the cooperative societies for a long time.
vs state of jammu kshmir ors.
jt 2004 8 sc 531 2004 indlaw sc 729 a division bench of this court opined no person illegally appointed or appointed without following the procedure prescribed under the law is entitled to claim that he should be continued in service.
in this situation we see no reason to interfere with the impugned order.
in dr a k jain and others etc.
1987 indlaw sc 28778 this court did not lay down any law.
in hindustan shipyard ltd 1996 indlaw sc 3441 supra this court also distinguished the said decision.
in niadar and another vs delhi administration and another 1992 4 scc 112 1988 indlaw sc 244 again no law has been laid down.
by reason of the provisions of the said act application of standard standing orders to undertakings has been provided in terms whereof the matters to be provided in the standard standing orders have been specified.
1 continue in force as if they were made under this act.
the 1961 act provides for classification of employees in five categories.
the 1973 act as noticed hereinbefore clearly mandates that all posts should be sanctioned by the state government and all appointments to the said cadre must be made by the state government alone.
even the appointments to the local cadre must be made by the authority.
had the appointments of the appellants been made in terms of the provisions of the adhiniyam and rules framed thereunder the respondent authority was statutorily enjoined to make an offer of appointment in writing which was to be accepted by the appellants herein.
the 1973 act or the rules framed there under do not provide for appointments on ad hoc basis or on daily wages.
the 1961 act itself shows that the employees are to be classified in six categories namely permanent permanent seasonal probationers badlies apprentices and temporary.
grant of such ticket was imperative before permanency could be so claimed.
but in absence of any conflict in the provisions of the said act the conditions of service including those relating to recruitment as provided for in the 1973 act and the 1987 rules would apply.
if by reason of the latter the appointment is invalid the same can not be validated by taking recourse to regularization.
for the purpose of regularization which would confer on the concerned employee a permanent status there must exist a post.
no case was made out by the appellants herein in their statements of claim that they became permanent employees in terms thereof.
presumably the appellants were aware of the statutory limitations in this behalf.
furthermore the labour court having derived its jurisdiction from the reference made by the state government it was bound to act within the four corners thereof.
it could not enlarge the scope of the reference nor could deviate therefrom.
a demand which was not raised at the time of raising the dispute could not have been gone into by the labour court being not the subject matter thereof.
the labour court in absence of any pleadings or any proof as regard application of the 1961 act and the 1963 rules had proceeded on the basis that they would become permanent employees in terms of order 2ii and 2vi of the annexure appended thereto.
for the purpose of obtaining a permanent status constitutional and statutory conditions precedent therefor must be fulfilled.
the distinction although appears to be attractive at the first blush but does not stand a moment s scrutiny.
in a umarani 2004 indlaw sc 606 supra this court held that once the employees are employed for the purpose of the scheme they do not acquire any vested right to continue after the project is over.
see also karnataka state coop.
amar singh and others 2003 5 scc 388 2003 indlaw sc 331.
the high court in our opinion was right in arriving at the conclusion that the appellants were not entitled to be regularized in service.
it is accepted at the bar when the endorsement on the application filed by om prakash mondloi was shown that the appointment letters were not issued.
in absence of any pleadings the appellants could not have called for any document to show that the provisions of the 1961 act and 1963 rules would apply.
the application calling for the production of the documents was for the years 1987 to 1992.
the above burden having not been discharged and the labour court having held so in our opinion the industrial court and the high court erred in basing an order of re instatement solely on an adverse inference drawn erroneously.
presumption as to adverse inference for non production of evidence is always optional and one of the factors which is required to be taken into consideration in the background of facts involved in the lis.
in the instant case the industrial tribunal did not draw any adverse inference against the appellant.
it was within its jurisdiction to do so particularly having regard to the nature of the evidence adduced by the respondent.
for the purpose of invoking the said doctrine the nature of the work and responsibility attached to the post are some of the factors which were bound to be taken into consideration.
no material was placed before the high court as to the nature of the duties of either categories and it is not possible to hold that the principle of equal pay for equal work is an abstract one.
for the reasons aforementioned we do not find any merit in these appeals which are dismissed accordingly.
there shall however be no order as to costs.
