and i hereby direct that you be tried on the above said charge by this court.
prakashi devi was examined as pw 1 she reiterated what was recorded in the fir that the appellant came into the house around 11 30 pm and broke the bulbs that he came again around 00 30 am and touched her daughter in law sheela devi and when her daughter in law woke up and raised an alarm the appellant ran away.
in her cross examination prakashi devi stated that she has five sons that only her husband and one son named mahavir were staying with her that the other four sons were married and were not staying with her that on that night her husband was away in the fields and her son mahavir was also not present in the house.
however when confronted with her statement recorded in the fir she admitted having stated that when the appellant had come first time at around 11 30 pm and broke the outside bulbs her son woke up and went out of the house.
her daughter in law sheela devi gave evidence as pw 2 and stated that she was married to one jaibir who worked in the military services that at 11 to 11 30 pm the accused scaled the door and broke the bulbs in the verandah of her house that when she identified the accused and raised an alarm the accused ran away that again he came around 00 30 am by scaling the door and caught her hand and that when she raised an alarm and when her mother in law woke up he ran away.
it was elicited in her cross examination that the accused did not go towards her mother in law nor say anything to her mother in law that she used to come to the village where her in laws were residing only when her husband came home and that the house of her father in law was surrounded by the houses of his brothers and their sons.
pw 2 also stated that she did not know the particulars of the dispute between the accused and her in laws.
pc and sentenced him for rigorous imprisonment for six months and a fine of rs 1000 in default thereof simple imprisonment for one month.
that order is challenged by the accused.
one of the contentions urged by the accused before the appellate court and high court was that the charge against him was that he attempted to outrage the modesty of prakashi devi pw 1 whereas the evidence was to show that he attempted to outrage the modesty of her daughter in law sheela devi.
he contended that as the charge levelled against him was not proved and as he was not required to defend himself against a charge that he assaulted and outraged the modesty of sheela devi he ought to have been acquitted.
it was held that mentioning the name of prakashi devi instead of the name of sheela devi in the charge was an error that did not prejudice the accused.
in willie william slaney vs state of madhya pradesh.
air 1956 sc 116 1955 indlaw sc 80 this court explained the concepts of prejudice to the accused and failure of justice thus 6 before we proceed to set out our answer and examine the provisions of the code we will pause to observe that the code is a code of procedure and like all procedural laws is designed to further the ends of justice and not to frustrate them by the introduction of endless technicalities.
if he does if he is tried by a competent court if he is told and clearly understands the nature of the offence for which he is being tried if the case against him is fully and fairly explained to him and he is afforded a full and fair opportunity of defending himself then provided there is substantial compliance with the outward forms of the law mere mistakes in procedure mere inconsequential errors and omissions in the trial are regarded as venal by the code and the trial is not vitiated unless the accused can show substantial prejudice.
now here as in all procedural laws certain things are regarded as vital.
disregard of a provision of that nature is fatal to the trial and at once invalidates the conviction.
others are not vital and whatever the irregularity they can be cured and in that event the conviction must stand unless the court is satisfied that there was prejudice.
it hardly matters whether this is because prejudice is then patent or because it is so abhorrent to well established notions of natural justice that a trial of that kind is only a mockery of a trial and not of the kind envisaged by the laws of our land because either way they would be struck down at once.
other violations will not be so obvious and it may be possible to show that having regard to all that occurred no prejudice was occasioned or that there was no reasonable probability of prejudice.
in still another class of case the matter may be so near the border line that very slight evidence of a reasonable possibility of prejudice would swing the balance in favour of the accused.
courts have to administer justice and justice includes the punishment of guilt just as much as the protection of innocence.
neither can be done if the shadow is mistaken for the substance and the goal is lost in a labyrinth of unsubstantial technicalities.
broad vision is required a nice balancing of the rights of the state and the protection of society in general against protection from harassment to the individual and the risks of unjust conviction.
every reasonable presumption must be made in favour of an accused person he must be given the benefit of every reasonable doubt.
if all these elements are there and no prejudice is shown the conviction must stand whatever the irregularities whether traceable to the charge or to a want of one.
in adjudging the question of prejudice the fact that the absence of a charge or a substantial mistake in it is a serious lacuna will naturally operate to the benefit of the accused and if there is any reasonable and substantial doubt about whether he was or was reasonably likely to have been misled in the circumstances of any particular case he is as much entitled to the benefit of it here as elsewhere but if on a careful consideration of all the facts prejudice or a reasonable and substantial likelihood of it is not disclosed the conviction must stand also it will always be material to consider whether objection to the nature of the charge or a total want of one was taken at an early stage.
but these are matters of fact which will be special to each different case and no conclusion on these questions of fact in any one case can ever be regarded as a precedent or a guide for a conclusion of fact in another because the facts can never be alike in any two cases however alike they may seem.
2001 indlaw sc 19904this court considered the meaning of the expression failure of justice occurring in s 464 of cr.
one of the cardinal principles of natural justice is that no man should be condemned without being heardaudi alteram partem but the law reports are replete with instances of courts hesitating to approve the contention that failure of justice had occasioned merely because a person was not heard on a particular aspect.
act1989 the magistrate committed the case to sessions court which was specified as a special court under the act.
ipc that matter was considered u s 465 of the code and not relevant on the facts of this case.
as noticed above in this case the charge was that appellant committed trespass into the house of prakashi devi for assaulting prakashi devi and assaulted the said prakashi devi and outraged her modesty.
an accused can not be punished for committing an offence against y when he is charged with having committed the offence against x and the entire defence of the accused was with reference to charge of having committed offence against x.
illustration e u s 215 of the code as contrasted from illustration d under that section throws some light on this issue.
e a was charged with murdering haidar baksh on the 20th january1882and khoda baksh who tried to arrest him for that murder on the 21 st january1882 when charged for the murder of haidar baksh he was tried for the murder of khoda baksh.
applying the guidance offered by the said illustrations and the legal principles evolved by this court the position will be as follows.
he did not attempt to meet the case made out in the trial that the offence was against sheela devi.
