leave granted in slp crl.
shashi tripathi accused no 1 has filed criminal appeal arising out of special leave petition criminal no 3737 of 2014.
sharda prasad tripathi is the husband of accused shashi tripathi.
on 25 11 2003when pw 1 dr.
sharda prasad tripathi came home from his clinic found that his daughter in law bhavna tripathi has been murdered.
he lodged a first information report f i r on 25 11 2003 at about 2045 hours.
he deposed in court that on 25 11 2003when he returned home he found servant anil kumar pw 21 was weeping.
after registration of the crime inquest was conducted over the dead body of bhavna on 26 11 2003 post mortem was conducted by dr naresh tiwari and dr m deodhar who gave their report which is marked as exhibit p18 spot map was prepared by the inquiry officer io bloodstained cloth of accused shashi tripathi was taken into possession along with broken bangles bloodstained cement mortar and plain cement mortar were also taken into possession.
shashi tripathi mahesh and binu.
chandra prakash were arrested on 29 11 2003 a bloodstained knife was taken into possession.
devendra choubey was taken into custody on 22 12 2003 and a suzuki motorcycle was also taken into possession.
devendra choubey was conducted on 26 12 2003 after his arrest.
a sealed packet containing hair found in the grip of the deceased and another sealed packet containing bloodstained cloth of the deceased were taken into possession vide exhibit p35.
according to the prosecution the accused shashi tripathi is the step mother in law of deceased bhavna tripathi.
bhavna was married to her step son jitendra kumar in july2003 shashi tripathi used to be annoyed with bhavna tripathi on account of some domestic dispute.
she engaged the other accused for murdering bhavna.
bhavna was murdered on 25 11 2003 at about 1830 hours in the house where she resided with shashi tripathi.
there is no dispute that bhavna s death is homicidal.
dr m deodhar who conducted the postmortem opined that cause of her death was neurogenic and hemorrhagic shock.
cm x cm x  cm 10 incised wound on forearm left hand radial side dorsal aspect on lower 23rd region 11 incised wound on left forearm middle l3rd region radial side and posterior aspect of size 2.
internal injuries brain membrane pale lungs trachea pale punctured wound on right and left lungs of size 2 cm x 1 cm2  cm and 1 cm.
incised wound was also present on the right lobe of size 3 cm x 13 cm x 3 cm.
liver kidney and spleen were pale.
he participated in the identification parade which was held in sub jail bemetara and identified the accused persons in the court by touching them.
jitendra is a doctor resided and practiced at khamaria whereas his wife resided at jevra.
his brother shivendra studies at calcutta.
he referred to bhavna as bhabhi.
the incident occurred in the courtyard and shashi didi was present in the passage.
after the assault chandra prakash went to the tv room where shashi didi had kept some money in a rubber band on the table.
it is obvious that accused nos 2 and 4 did not enter the house to commit a robbery and had a single mission namely to kill bhavana.
he was brought to the house by shashi tripathi accusedwho apparently took care of him and sent to school and gave him food and residence.
merely because he has been some time in the company of the police at the police station his testimony can not be discarded as untrue.
it is not possible for us to accept this contention.
in any case the period between the arrest and the identification parade was not large enough to constitute inordinate delay.
state of u p 1970 2 scc 128 1970 indlaw sc 136 where this court made the following observations 7 now facts which establish the identity of an accused person are relevant u s 9 of the indian evidence act.
it is accordingly considered a safe rule of prudence to generally look for corroboration of the sworn testimony of witnesses in court as to the identity of the accused who are strangers to them in the form of earlier identification proceeding.
identification proceedings in their legal effect amount simply to this that certain persons are brought to jail or some other place and make statements either express or implied that certain individuals whom they point out are persons whom they recognise as having been concerned in the crime.
it is for this reason that the identification parades in this case seem to have been held under the supervision of a magistrate.
generally speaking the magistrate must make a note of every objection raised by an accused at the time of identification and the steps taken by them to ensure fairness to the accused so that the court which is to judge the value of the identification evidence may take them into consideration in the appreciation of that evidence.
in his deposition he specified the details of the part which the accused played with reasonable particularity.
in such a situation it is considered a safe rule of prudence to generally look for corroboration of the sworn testimony of witness in court as to the identity of the accused who are strangers to them in the form of earlier identification proceeding as observed by this court in budhsen s case 1970 indlaw sc 136 supra.
state of u p 1987 3 scc 331 1987 indlaw sc 28887and mohd abdul hafeez vs.
sc 367 1982 indlaw sc 63 the facts and circumstances of the cases are however different and it is not necessary to consider those cases in detail while dealing with the present case.
he did not even act as a guard because when the witness anil kumar pw 21 came to the house he was not even stopped by the accused from entering the house.
the learned counsel for mahesh accused no 3 relied on several decisions of this court in suresh sakharam nangare vs.
9 scc 696 2012 indlaw sc 343.
on a careful conspectus of the facts and the law we are of the view that the prosecution has failed to prove the guilt of mahesh beyond reasonable doubt.
he was merely seen by the witness as standing outside the house when the witness came home.
mahesh did not even act as a guard he did not prevent anil kumar pw 21 from entering the house.
no weapon was seized from him nor was any property connected with the crime seized.
his bail bonds stand cancelled and sureties are discharged.
