this appeal with special leave is directed against the judgment and order of the labour appellate tribunal of india in a dispute regarding the workers claim for bonus.
it paid 24 3 per cent.
below those obtained in 1948.
there was moreover indiscipline amongst the workers and production suffered.
there was a strike in the month of october and the mills were closed for nearly a month.
as a result of all these circumstances the appellant suffered a trading loss of rs 502563 1 10.
a sum of rs 250000 being the excess reserve for taxation was written back and a sum of rs 1001871 13 5 being the amount of reserve transferred from the investment account was also brought in.
was paid to the ordinary shareholders.
the industrial dispute which thus arose was referred for enquiry and recording of an award to the regional conciliation board textile kanpur.
the respondent thereupon appealed to the labour appellate tribunal which substantially agreed with the industrial court on questions of fact as well as the general position in law but imported considerations of social justice and treating this as a special case where social justice would demand that labour should have bonus for the year where for that very year capital had not only a reasonable return but much in excess of that allowed the appeal and directed the appellant to pay to the workmen bonus at the rate of annas 4 per rupee within six weeks of their decision.
both the industrial court as well as the labour appellate tribunal found as a fact that there was a trading loss of rs 502563 1 10 during the year 1949 and also.
that the dividend of 2434 per cent.
the question which therefore arises for our consideration is mainly whether the workers are entitled to the payment of a bonus in spite of the employer having worked at a loss during the year and incidentally whether the workers have any right title or interest in the reserves and the undistributed profits of the previous years.
the primary meaning of the word bonus according to the definition given in the new english dictionary is a boon or gift over and above what is nominally due as remuneration to the receiver and which is therefore something wholly to the good.
corpus juris secundum volume xi at page 515 ascribes the following meanings to the word bonus an allowance in addition to what is usual current or stipulated a sum given or paid beyond what is legally required to be paid to the recipient something given in addition to what is ordinarily received by or strictly due to the recipient and adds it has been said to carry the idea of something uncertain and indefinite something which may or may not be paid depending on varying circumstances and under particular conditions has been said to imply a benefit accruing to him who offers it and an inducement to the offeree.
the word bonus has however acquired a secondary meaning in the sphere of industrial relations.
it is classified amongst the methods of wage payment.
vide encyclopaedia britannica volume iii page 856.
the pocket part of the corpus juris secundum volume xi under the heading as compensation for services quotes the following passage from attorney general v city of woburn 317 mass 465 the word bonus is commonly used to denote an increase in salary or wages in contracts of employment.
the same would ripen into a legally enforceable claim.
this position was recognised in sutton v attorney general 1923.
though there is an element of bounty in it the bounty if granted is given for good reasons of national policy.
i do not see why this does not fall within the definition of trade dispute just as much as a dispute as to the rate of wages or salary.
it is thus defined by webster.
d l r 25 233.
but in both cases it is something in addition to or in excess of that which is ordinarily received.
there are however two conditions which have to be satisfied before a demand for bonus can be justified and they are 1 when wages fall short of the living standard and 2 the industry makes huge profits part of which are due to the contribution which the workmen make in increasing production.
2 l l j 247as.
on the paid up capital.
a return on the working capital at a lesser rate than the return on paid up capital.
the surplus that remained after meeting the aforesaid deductions would be available for distribution as bonus.
it is therefore clear that the claim for bonus can be made by the employees only if as a result of the joint contribution of capital and labour the industrial concern has earned profits.
bonus is not a deferred wage.
because if it were so it would necessarily rank for precedence before dividends the dividends can only be paid out of profits and unless and until profits are made no occasion or question can also arise for distribution of any sum as bonus amongst the employees.
this case was negatived by the industrial court as well as the labour appellate tribunal both of whom held that the working of the appellant during the year 1949 had resulted in a loss.
whereas the industrial court declined to grant the respondent any relief because the working of the appellant during the year had resulted in a loss the labour appellate tribunal made a special case for the respondent in spite of its concurrence with that finding of the industrial court.
as at present advised a claim for bonus which had been rested on profits earned should ordinarily be determined on the basis of the profits earned in the year under claim and that the scale of bonus should be determined on the quantum of profits earned in the year.
it however observed but in our opinion that should not be the universal rule.
the labour appellate tribunal did not accept the contention of the respondent that bonus should be linked to dividends nor did it rest its decision on the respondent having a right title and interest in the reserves and the undistributed profits of the appellant.
linking of bonus to dividend would obviously create difficulties.
because if that theory was accepted a company would not declare any dividends but accumulate the profits build up reserves and distribute those profits in the shape of bonus shares or reduce the capital in which event the workers would not be entitled to claim anything as and by way of bonus.
no further claimed payment of bonus out of those reserves or undistributed profits can therefore survive.
the ratio which applies in the case of the shareholders who acquire the right title and interest of their predecessorsin interest does not apply to the labour force and the fact that the shareholders get a dividend by transfer of funds from the reserves and undistributed profits of the previous years would not entitle the workers to demand bonus out of those funds if the working of the industrial concern during the particular year has resulted in a trading loss.
mr isaacs the learned counsel for the respondent.
indeed the full bench of the labour appellate tribunal evolved the abovequoted formula with a view to dispensing social justice between the various parties concerned.
this contention can be shortly answered by referring to our decision in bharat bank ltd delhi v employees of the bharat bank ltd delhi 1950 s c r 459 1950 indlaw sc 48 where we held that the industrial tribunals were tribunals within the meaning of article 136 and further that article 136 has vested in this court exceptional and overriding power to interfere where it reaches the conclusion that a person has been dealt with arbitrarily or that a court or tribunal within the territory of india has not given a fair deal to a litigant.
vide dhakeswari cotton mills ltd v commissioner of income tax west bengal 1954 indlaw sc 213.
the appeal will accordingly be allowed with costs.
