the appellant had filed a suit on october 24 1942 for the recovery of rs 2 lakhs and interest thereon from the date of suit and for costs originally against the state of travancore now the state of kerala the respondent and three others who however were not made parties in the appeal before the high court.
it has alleged in the plaint that the plaintiff appellant was wrongfully dispossessed from 160 acres of land along with the improvements which had been effected by him and as the state had appropriated those improvements without any right or title thereto he claimed the value of those improvements.
in the bona fide belief that the lands belonged to the illom.
it was stated that according to the practice prevailing in the erstwhile state of travancore the cultivators could enter into unoccupied waste lands belonging to the janmies with the object of cultivating and improving them and as they held the lands under them by paying rent the consent of the jemies to such occupation was implied.
126 of 1096.
january 1918 in the district court at quilon for a declaration of its title to those properties.
in that suit the appellant after his application for registration was rejected sought to get himself impleaded but that application also was rejected.
thereafter the suit filed by the illom was dismissed on 28 6 1109 february 10 1934.
an appeal against it was dismissed on september 27 1943.
o s 156 of 1103 m e 1927 28 a d in the district court at quilon against the respondent to establish his right and title to the said 160 acres and in the adjoining cherikkal lands in his possession.
in that suit an injunction was prayed for in respect of 100 acres of the property involved in the suit but the prayer was rejected.
the high court issued a commission for inspecting the properties and the commissioner in his report part 13 of ext.
a rubbers state and a large number of other valuable trees like jack trees mango trees coconut trees etc.
it appears that as there was no injunction restraining his dispossession in l c case.
thereafter the suit out of which this appeal arises was filed against the government on october 24 1942.
there were other allegations also but it is unnecessary for purposes of this appeal to refer to them.
the rest of the claim was dismissed.
it pointed out that the plaintiff appellant had applied to get himself impleaded on 0 s No 126 of 1096 m e but his application was rejected and after that suit was dismissed the appellant again applied for registry but that was also rejected.
in the circumstances the question that had to be considered was whether without an order of forfeiture being passed the respondent could forfeit the improvements.
on this issue it was held that no notice of forfeiture of trees.
the high court accepted the finding of the trial court on issue.
12 6 1094 the petitioner knew that the land was government land and had then applied for assignment of the land.
an order his right to the value of those trees had to be adjudged and paid.
in its view these words take in what is familiarly known in law as emblements which according to black 's.
law dictionary mean such products of the soil as are annually planted served and saved by manual labour as cereals vegetables grass maturing for harvest or harvested etc but not grass on lands used for pasturage.
in this view it held that compensation for trees which are to be dealt with under the general law can not be decreed in favour of a mere trespasser who had no rights therein.
appellant be allowed to remove them after his dispossession.
apart from this contention towards the end of his argument the learned advocate for the appellant sought to make out a fresh case namely that as the appellant was not served with a notice to quit as required under section 9 of the act but was forcibly evicted without giving him an opportunity of cutting and taking away the trees etc.
from the lands from which he was evicted he would be entitled to claim compensation for the improvements made by him.
we have earlier adverted to ext.
registration in his name on the basis that it was government land.
forfeiture under this section shall be disposed of as the division peishkar may direct.
an eviction under this section shall be made in the following manner namely by serving a notice on a person reported to be in occupation or his agent requir ing him within such time as the division peishkar may deem reasonable after receipt of the said notice to vacate the land and if such notice is not obeyed by removing or deputing a subordinate to remove any person who may refuse to vacate the same and if the officer removing any such person shall be resisted or obstructed by any person the division peishkar shall hold a summary enquiry into the facts of the case and if satisfied that the resistance or obstruction still continues may issue a warrant for the arrest of the said person and on his appearance may send him with a warrant in the form of the schedule for imprisonment in the civil jail of the district for such period not exceeding 30 days as may be necessary to prevent the continuance of such obstruction or resistance provided that no person so committed or imprisoned under this section shall be liable to be prosecuted under sections 176 179 and 181 of the travancore penal code in respect of the same facts.
in these circumstances the question that would arise for determination is whether the trees come within the description of other product raised on the land.
the same dictionary gives the meaning of the word product as follows product with reference to property proceeds.
yield income receipts return.
the products of a farm may include the increase of cattle on the premises.
even under this definition product can not mean anything which is attached to the land like trees.
it may however include the fruit of the trees.
this view of ours is supported by the case of clark and another v gaskarth 8 taunt 431.
that was a case of a trespass for breaking and entering the closes of the plaintiffs and tearing up digging up cutting down and carrying away the plaintiff 's trees plants roots and seeds growing on the closes.
notice of this trespass was given to the defendant.
the question before the court was whether the plaintiffs were entitled to recover against the defendant damages caused to them by cutting down and carrying away the plaintiffs trees.
the court rejected the contention that the trees and shrubs could be detrained and held that the word product in the eighth section of the statute did not extend to trees and shrubs growing in a nurseryman 's ground but that it was confined to products of a similar nature.
in our view therefore trees are not included within the meaning of other products raised on the land in section 9 of the act and there is therefore no obligation on the government to give notice of forfeiture under that section.
we have already agreed with the trial court and the high court that the appellant was not a bona fide trespasser.
the case of vallabdas narainji v development officer bandra a i r 1929.
both the assistant judge and the high court negatived the claim of the appellant.
the board however agreed with what was apparently the view of both courts in india that under the circumstances of this case as already set forth by the law of india which they appear to have correctly interpreted the government officials were in possession not as mere trespassers but under such a colour of title that the buildings erected by them on the land ought not to be included in the valuation as having become the property of the landowner.
in support of this contention he has referred us to the leadings contained in paragraph 3 of the plaint in which it is stated the improvements effected by the plaintiff have a value of rs 2 lakhs as per the accounts shown below.
as it has now been contended before us.
which belonged to him.
there is nothing stated by him that he had no opportunity to cut trees and take them away.
this defendant submits that after due notice an order of forfeiture has been passed in poramboke case 112 of 11 00 and the plaintiff is therefore not entitled to claim any value of improvements or value of any building.
the issues that had been famed by the trial court also do not refer to this aspect.
no doubt in the evidence of the plaintiff p w 1 states that he was evicted from the lands without giving him an opportunity to remove the improvements and in cross examination he was asked whether he was not given any notice prior to the dispossession and he said that certainly no notice was received.
