three civil appeals stemming from three revision petitions to the high court of orissa under the orissa estates abolition act 1951 orissa act i of 1952 for short the act have reached this court thanks to special leave granted to the appellant who is common in all the cases.
the high court after deciding various issues remanded the cases to the compensation officer under the act after over ruling most of the contentions pressed before it by the appellant.
shri achutananda purohit appellant was the intermediary in respect of vast forests and other lands comprised in the estate of jujumura in the district of sambalpur.
he has argued in person and with passion.
we have listened with patience to all his submissions good bad and indifferent.
with these prefatory observations we proceed to formulate the many points urged and give our findings and reasons one after the other.
of course when there is joint ownership section 24 stipulates that the compensation shall be determined for the estate as a whole and not separately for each of the shares therein.
section 26 has great relevance as it lays down the method of arriving at the gross asset and section 27 has like significance as it focuses on the manner in which the net income from an estate shall be computed by deducting certain items from the gross asset of the estate.
these furnish in bare outline the provisions with which we are directly concerned.
the provisions of section 373 read with section 262.
as admittedly compensation had not been calculated by the date of vesting the compensation officer lost his statutory jurisdiction to do so.
it is this court which by its order dated 10 4 1969 in civil revisions 201 202 and 203 of 1968 conferred new jurisdiction on the compensation officer to deal freshly with the case and therefore notwithstanding anything contained in the act the compensation has to be calculated according to the directions given by the court 2 the court was fully aware of the statutory provision in section 262.
but as the court directed that no further evidence on behalf of the state should be received ext.
a1 is inadmissible in evidence.
3 assuming that in spite of the directions of the court the compensation offi cer is entitled to follow the procedure laid down in section 262bv the expression subject to the approval of the chief conservator of forests does not refer to the appraisement made by the d f o but refers to his appointment.
4 assuming that section 262 b v would have full force what it contemplates is that the appraisement must be made by the d f o and it is subject to the approval by the chief conservator of forests.
6 unlike in case of fisheries etc.
where the actual income is to be included in the gross assets in the case of forests the assumed income and not the actual income is to be included.
the meat of the matter the primary question agitated in the appeal lopping off the fringe issues of lesser import consists in the statutory methodology and functionaries prescribed by the act for quantifying the compensation and the compliance therewith by the statutory machinery in the case of the appellant.
but before examining this essential issue we may dispose of the minor points pressed so that the deck may be cleared for dealing with what deserves to be dealt with.
this gives rationality to the seeming disparity.
point No 8 has only to be stated to be rejected.
law is sometimes blind.
the next point in the reverse order is equally unsubstantial and may be disposed of right away.
the appellant challenges the slab system of compensation provided in the act which awards smaller multiples for estates yielding larger incomes on the score of violation of the fundamental rights under the constitution.
the short answer is that article 313 read with article 312 bars any challenge to the amount of compensation on acquisition by the state subject to compliance with the prescriptions in the said sub articles on the ground that the amount so fixed or determined is not adequate.
this provision directly demolishes the contention of the appellant.
point No 6 in the list of contentions earlier reproduced is also bereft of force and we may make short shrift of it.
here again the flaw in the submission consists in mis reading section 27 of the act which expressly states that the net income from an estate shall be computed by deducting from the gross assets of such estate any sum which was payable by the intermediary as income tax in respect of any income derived from such estate for the previous agricultural year.
no income therefore no income tax and therefore no deduction is the syllogism of shri purohit.
similarly an assumed income tax also has to be worked out and deducted.
the serious question that survives for consideration is covered by the remaining points which more or less overlap.
in the present case the appellant did submit the 'd return to the compensation officer and adduced some evidence to substantiate it.
the divisional forest officer who would make the appraisement will be examined as a witness for the compensation officer and would be subjected to cross examination.
but in such a case the materials must be brought to the notice of the petitioners who would be entitled to cross examine the witnesses connected therewith and may give rebutting evidence.
the compensation case is to be disposed of by the compensation officer within six months from today 104 1969 with intimation to this court.
however what followed is interesting though erroneous.
but he pointed out that the forest officer had omitted to include the income from kendu leaves and added that sum to the income from forests.
we are in agreement with the course adopted by the high court and the reasoning which has prevailed with it.
therefore there is no substance in the functus officio argument.
technicality can be frightened away by technicality.
the true legal drill is.
this will among other things save time.
thereafter the appropriate statutory course will follow.
with these directions and observations we affirm the orders under appeal but while dismissing the appeals direct the parties to bear their costs in this court.
