this appeal by special leave which is directed against the judgment and order dated april 241974 of the letters patent bench of the high court of judicature at madras reversing the judgment and order dated april 191971 of the single judge of that court passed in writ petition no 3822 of 1969 presented u art 226 of the constitution raises a complex but an interesting question relating to the construction of the phrases maternity benefit for the period of her actual absence immediately preceding and including the day of her delivery and for the six weeks immediately following that day occurring in s 51 of the maternity benefits act1961.
act liii of 1961 hereinafter referred to as the act which in view of s 21 of the act is the law applicable even to women workers employed in plantations.
it appears that in october1967subbammal respondent no 2 herein who is a woman worker employed in mount stuart estate hereinafter referred to as the establishmentwhich is carrying on plantation industry was allowed leave of absence by the establishment on the basis of a notice given by her of her expected delivery which actually took place on december 161967 after her delivery the respondent was paid by her employers on account of maternity benefit an amount equivalent to what she would have earned on the basis of her average daily wage in 72 working days falling within twelve week 's of the maternity period.
dissatisfied with this computation the respondent made a representation to her employers claiming maternity benefit for the entire period of twelve weeks under the act i e for 84 days on the plea that a week consisted of seven days.
as against this the respondent pleaded that the computation had to be made not with reference to the actual number of working days but with reference to total number of days covered by twelve weeks i e 84 days.
the single judge of the high court to whom the case was assigned allowed the petition holding that twelve weeks for which maternity benefit is provided for in subs 3 of s 5 of the act must be taken to mean twelve weeks of work and the computation of the benefit had to be made with reference to the actual days on which the woman would have worked but for her inability.
dissatisfied with this decision the establishment has already stated come up in appeal to this court by special leave.
we place on record our deep appreciation of the valuable assistance rendered to us by both of them.
in support of his contention.
cochin v.
inspector of plantation mundakayam.
i c 848  a i r 1975.
sub s 2 of s 2 of the act specifically excludes the applicability of the provisions of the act to any factory or other establishment to which the provisions of the employees state insurance act1948 apply for the time being s 3n of the act defines wages as under 3n   wages means all remuneration paid or payable in cash to a woman if the terms of the contract of employment express or implied were fulfilled and includes 1 such cash allowances including dearness allowance and house rent allowance as a woman is for the time being entitled to.
2 incentive bonus and 3 the money value of the concessional supply of food grains and other articles but does not include.
the above definition it would be noted does not restrict the meaning of the term wages to contractual wages but gives the term a composite meaning covering all remunerations in the nature of cash allowances incentive bonus and the money value of the concessional supply of foodgrains and other articles.
5 right to payment of maternity.
provided that the qualifying period of one hundred and sixty days aforesaid shall not apply to a woman who has immigrated into the state of assam and was pregnant at the time of the immigration.
provided further that where a woman having delivered of a child dies during her delivery or during the period of six weeks immediately following the date of her delivery leaving behind in either case the child the employer shall be liable for the maternity benefit for the entire period of six weeks immediately following the day of her delivery but if the child also dies during the said period then for the days upto and including the day of the death of the child.
in the case of a woman who is pregnant such notice shall state the date from which she will be absent from work not being a date earlier than six weeks from the date of her expected delivery.
6 the failure to give notice under this section s not disentitle a woman to maternity benefit or any other amount under this act if she is otherwise entitled to such benefit or amount and in any such case an inspector may either of his own motion or on an application made to him by the woman order the payment of such benefit of amount within such period as may be specified in the order.
the provisions of s 5 of the act quoted above make it clear that a woman worker who expects a child is entitled to maternity benefit for a maximum period of twelve weeks which is split up into two periods viz prenatal and post natal.
for fixing the average daily wage it has therefore first to be ascertained whether the wages with were paid or were payable to the woman was for time work or for piece work.
after thus finding out the average daily wage the liability of the employer in respect of the maternity benefit has to be calculated in terms of s 5 of the act for both ore natal and post natal period indicated above.
the real though difficult question that calls for determination by us is as to what is the connotation of the term week occurring in sub ss 1 and 3 of s 5 of the act and whether the computation of the maternity benefit prescribed by the act for the a foresaid two periods has to be made taking a week as signifying a cycle of seven days including a sunday or a cycle of seven days minus a sunday which is said to be a wageless day as the act does not contain any definition of the word weekit has to be understood in its ordinary dictionary sense.
in the shorter oxford english dictionary third editionthe word week has been described as meaning the cycle of seven days recognized in the calendar of the jews and thence adopted in the calendars of christian mohammedan and various other peoples.
in webster 's new world dictionary 1962 editionthe meaning of the word week is given as a period of seven days especially one beginning with sunday and ending with saturday the hours or days of work in a seven day period.
a week according to halsbury 's laws of england.
bearing in mind the above mentioned dictionary or popular meaning of the term.
weekwe think that in the context of sub ss 1 and 3 of s 5 of the act the term has to be taken to signify a cycle of seven days including sundays.
thus we are of opinion that computation of maternity benefit has to be made for all the days including sundays and rest days which may be wageless holidays comprised in the actual period of absence of the woman extending upto six weeks preceding and including the day of delivery as also for all the days falling within the six weeks immediately following the day of delivery thereby ensuring that the woman worker gets for the said period not only the amount equalling 100 per cent of the wages which she was previously earning in terms of s 3 n of the act but also the benefit of the wages for all the sundays and rest days falling within the aforesaid two periods which would ultimately be conducive to the interests of both the woman worker and her employer.
in view of what we have stated above we can not uphold the view of the law expressed by the full bench of kerala high court in malayalam plantations ltd inspector of plantations mundakayam ors 1974 indlaw ker 91 supra.
in the result the appeal fails and is hereby dismissed.
although costs have to be paid by appellant to respondent no 2 in terms of the court 's order dated october 301975yet in view of the fact that the said respondent has not chosen to appear at the hearing of the case and mr k n bhat has assisted the court as amicus curiae we direct the appellant to pay rs 1000 to mr bhat as his fee.
appeal dismissed.
