it functions as a consulting organisation and a service industry and does not manufacture any product or carry on trade.
its work force consists of engineers and supervisors and different categories of workmen.
the reference was numbered i t no 292 of 1975.
it was urged that the efficiency bar as a feature of the wage scales should be removed.
the dearness allowance it was claimed should be granted on a slab system.
there was fierce competition also it was asserted from other similar organisations.
the appellant had introduced various pay scales in 1973 and some time later they were revised.
there was no separate dearness allowance until january1977 when it was introduced for the first time.
house rent allowance was also paid.
the need for revising the wage scales was not disputed by the appellant.
wage scale statements were filed by the parties before the tribunal pertaining to several engineering consultancy organisations but.
holding it impossible in the circumstances to apply the principle of industry cum region basis the tribunal turned to a consideration of the financial capacity of the company to bear an additional burden in this connection it proceeded on the footing that the appellant was a separate and independent division of tata sons limited and had no functional integrality with the other divisions.
the particular character of the appellant that it was a service industry and not a manufacturing concern was taken into account and it was observed that unlike a manufacturing business there was little scope for diversification in the case of an engineering consultancy.
nonetheless the tribunal observed there was every reason to expect that the appellant would be able to earn sound profits in the future and the instability in its business activities occasioned by the turbulent political situation in iran would be it was expected compensated by contracts secured in different developing countries.
it decided also that there was no ground for deducting the notional value of gratuity.
the tribunal took note of the elaborate scales of wages already existing in the wage structure of the appellant and decided to modify the existing structure of the scales with flat increases in each category.
it also observed that the category of draughtsmen needed a special increase.
taking into account the circumstance that besides the staff of 306 workmen represented by the union there were several other employees who would also have to be paid the tribunal considered it fair in paragraph 23 of the award to give a flat increase of rs 150 in the category of draughtsmen and rs 100 in the case of other categories.
the revised wage scales the tribunal directed should take effect retrospectively from 1st january1976 it also laid down the principle enabling the actual fitment of the workmen in their respective wage scales as on that date and also provided for the number of increments to which they would be entitled having regard to the period of completed service.
however this is not clearly mentioned anywhere in the award due to accidental slip or omission.
the union prayed that the position may be clarified and the award corrected accordingly.
the same has been made clear in paragraph.
no 23but it appears that the words to each employee after the figure rs 150 were omitted.
similarly the same words to each employee after the figure 100 were omitted.
i do not think that any problem would arise for interpretation of the award.
since the award has been already signed i do not think anything further can be added to this award.
sd k n wani industrial tribunal.
no dearness allowance was paid until the beginning of 1977 and the house rent allowance also was introduced about that time.
they are considerations which can not be ignored.
accordingly the contention raised on behalf of the appellant against retrospectivity of the wage scales must be rejected.
the challenge embodied in the second contention against the amendment of the award is more serious.
in making the application of 22nd.
december1978the union invoked the jurisdiction of the.
the jurisdiction given to the tribunal by rule 31 is closely circumscribed.
it must be a mistake or error amenable to clerical correction only.
to answer the question it is necessary to examine the basis of the award and the intent which flows from that basis.
the terms of reference in the state government 's order required the tribunal to revise the scales of pay and dearness allowance and there was no mention of giving any ad hoc increase in the basic pay of individual workman.
that was the main issue between the parties.
no ad hoc increase to the pay of each individual workman was intended.
it will be noted that the pay scales of different categories were being restructured and the flat increase envisaged there related to an increase in the general pay scales of different categories.
individual workmen were not present to the mind of the tribunal.
the comparative table of existing pay scales and the revised pay scales has been reproduced earlier.
no second flat increase was envisaged at all.
the amendment made by the tribunal has the effect of providing a second increase this time to each individual workmen.
if as the tribunal has stated in the amendment order the increase in paragraph 23 was intended to apply to each individual workmen there is nothing in the body of the award to form the foundation on which the actual figures in the restructured pay scales can be made to rest.
conspicuous by its absence is any reference to a flat increase in the pay of an individual workmen.
in so construing the statement exhibit c 51the tribunal has grievously erred.
on the basis that a sum of rs 150 per month was added to the pay of each draughtsman and a sum of rs 100 was added to the pay of every other workman who belonged to the union staff the financial load would increase to rs 922032  likewise if a flat increase of rs 100 was given to individual workmen of all categories including draughtsmen the increased financial load would total rs 764256  the statement then goes on to indicate that if a flat increase of rs 75 per month were given to individual workmen of all categories the total increase would be rs 578220  again if the flat increase is rs 65 per month to the individual workmen of all categories the additional load would total rs 497772  finally on the basis that the individual draughtsman would be given an increase of rs 75 per month and the individual workmen of other categories rs 50 per month the additional load was calculated at rs 463092  it will be noted that the statement exhibit c 51was prepared on the basis of the employees strength as in december1971 a similar statement was prepared on the basis of the employees strength as in september1978 these statements can not be regarded as evidence that the appellant was cognizant of the intention of the tribunal to provide a flat increase to the pay of each workman.
the evidence contained in the award throughout provides incontrovertible proof that this flat increase was never originally intended in the award.
it is an accepted principle that consent by a party can not confer jurisdiction on a court.
what is without jurisdiction will remain so.
in the circumstances the order of 22nd december1978 is invalid so far as it amends paragraph 23 of the original award.
the corrigendum amending the award in consequence is liable to be quashed.
the second contention of the appellant is entitled to succeed.
i shall now consider civil appeal no 2300 of 1979 filed by the workmen.
it is wrong in principle it is said to provide a fixed dearness allowance.
reference was also made to bengal chemical pharmaceutical works limited v its workmen.
it was open to the tribunal to adopt the position which it did.
it is not possible to maintain one part of the award and supersede another.
accordingly the appeal filed by the workmen must fail.
civil appeal no 2300 of 1979 is dismissed.
there is no order as to costs.
the application was as follows in the above reference your honour was pleased to pass an award on 20th december1978.
the union therefore prays the honourable tribunal to clarify the position and correct the award accordingly.
on this application the advocate for the employer company made the following endorsement submitted to whatever this honourable tribunal desires to do.
the primary and basic question considered by the industrial tribunal in making the award dated december 201978 was the question of revision of the wage scales.
nor can it be doubted that fitment into the revised pay scales is certainly a part of the revision of pay scales.
this in our opinion is elementary and fundamental to the jurisdiction of the industrial tribunal in revising wage scales.
the question is what should be the extent of such burden.
the copy of the letter dated july 231973alongwith.
the annexures from the company to the director general posts telegraphs delhi ex.
i will therefore proceed on the ground that the present company can bear the additional financial burden.
finally at the end of paragraph 21.
the tribunal said in view of this position the company can easily bear some burden that might fall as a result of the upward revision of the wage scales.
the question is to what extent the relief should be given to the employees.
the tribunal then considered the question whether draftsmen should get a higher flat increase and the question whether the existing scheme of dearness allowance should be revised.
the tribunal then observed the flat increase of rs 150 in the category of draftsmen and rs 100 in the case of the other categories would be fair.
if the pay of an employee does not coincide with any step in the revised pay scale and falls between two steps in the reclassified pay scales the basic pay of that employee shall be fixed at the step higher in the revised scale.
ii employees who have completed 4 years of service as on 1st january19762 increments.
all other employees with more than one year 's service shall be given one increment.
since there was to be a flat increase of rs 150 and rs 100 in the case of draftsmen and other workmen respectively the revised wage scale had necessarily to commence with figures rs 150 and rs 100 above the existing wage scales.
the application before the tribunal was filed under rule 31 of the bombay industrial disputes rules 1957which is as follows.
a board court labour court tribunal or arbitrator may at any time suo moto or on an application made by any of the parties concerned may correct any clerical mistake or error arising from an accidental slip or omission in any proceedings report award or as the case may be decision.
we are unable to see how it can be held to be otherwise.
we are not impressed with the submission of the learned counsel for the company that the corrigendum was in effect a fresh award.
we therefore see no ground for quashing the order dated december 221978 of the tribunal.
while we find lot of force in the submission of shri v m tarkunde learned counsel for the workmen that dearness allowance linked to cost of living index is ordinarily the best and the most scientific method of computing dearness allowance it can not always be said that an illegality warranting interference under article 136 is committed if some other method is adopted.
in the result both the appeals are dismissed without any order as to costs.
the order of the court was as follows.
in view of the opinion of the majority both the appeals are dismissed and there is no order as to costs.
