it was just the other day that our brothers ranganath misra and m m dutt jj had to give directions in a case vincent panikurbangara v union of india where a public spirited litigant had complained about the unscrupulous exploitation of the indian drug and pharmaceutical market by multinational corporations by putting in circulation low quality and even deleterious drugs.
in this group of cases we are faced with a different problem of alleged exploitation by big manufacturers of bulk drugs.
the problem is that of high prices bearing it is said little relation to the cost of production to the manufacturers.
order 1970 and was not included in the schedule to that order.
after the 1979 drugs prices control.
the manufacturer applied for fixation of price at rs 8500 per kg.
the government however fixed the price at rs 1810 per kg.
profiteering by itself is evil.
it is a menance which had to be lettered and curbed.
one of the principal objectives of the essential commodities act 1955 is precisely that.
t must be remembered that article 39b enjoins a duty on the state towards securing that the ownership and control of the material resources of the community are so distributed as best to subserve the common good.
the essential commodities act is a legislation towards that end.
order 1970 and later the drugs prices control.
order 1979 were made.
armed with authority under the drugs prices control.
before we turn to the terms of the drugs prices control.
we start with the observation price fixation is neither the function nor the forte of the court.
we concern ourselves neither with the policy nor with the rates.
but our examination will stop there.
we will go no further.
we will not deluge ourselves with more facts and figures.
the court will of course examine if there is any hostile discrimination.
that is a different cup of tea altogether.
in the case of parliamentary legislation the proposition is self evident.
it is true that with the proliferation of delegated legislation there is a tendency for the line between legislation and administration to vanish into an illusion.
but this is only a bread distinction not necessarily always true.
that is not ruled out.
adjudication is determinative of the past and the present while legislation is indicative of the future.
it is a direction of a general character not directed against a particular situation.
it is intended to operate in the future.
it is conceived in the interests of the general consumer public.
such situations may arise when the owner of property or goods is compelled to sell his property or goods to the government or its nominee and the price to be paid is directed by the legislature to be determined according to the statutory guidelines laid down by it.
in such situations the determination of price may acquire aquasi judicial character.
otherwise price fixation is generally a legislative activity.
we do not agree with the basic premise that price fixation primarily affects manufacturers and producers.
those who are most vitally affected are the consumer public.
the cases to which we shall now refer will perhaps elucidate what we have tried unfelicitously to express.
in shree meenakshi mills ltd v union of india 1974.
1973 3 scc 435 1972 indlaw sc 334 and premier automobiles ltd v union of india 1972.
it was observed the control of prices may have effect either on maintaining or increasing supply of commodity or securing equitable distribution and availability at fair prices.
the producer must have an incentive to produce.
the producer should not be driven out of his producing business.
if price increases it becomes injurious to the consumer.
there is no justification that the producer should be given the benefit of price increase attributable to hoarding or cornering or artificial short supply.
the case of premier automobiles was distinguished on the ground that the decision was rendered by invitation and on the agreement of the parties irrespective of technical and legal questions.
the court quoted with approval a passage from secretary of agriculture v central reig refining company 330 us 604 stating suffice it to say that since congress fixed the quotas on a historical basis it is not for this court to reweigh the relevant factors and per chance substitute its notion of expediency and fairness for that of congress.
nevertheless the criterion adopted must be reasonable.
chandrachud j speaking for the court approved the observation of beg cj.
in saraswati industrial syndicate.
he observed we think that unless by the terms of a particular statute or order price fixation is made a quasi judicial function for specified purposes or cases it is really legislative in character in the type of control order which is now before us because it satisfies the tests of legislation.
in new india sugar works v state of uttar pradesh 1981 2 scc 293 1981 indlaw sc 217 there was an indication though it was not expressly so stated that the question of observing natural justice did not arise in cases of price fixation.
the former had said there is no doubt that a minister or any other body in making legislation for example by statutory instrument or by law is not subject to the rules of natural justice bates v lord hailsham of st marylebone supra  any more than is parliament itself edinburgh and dalkeith rv v wauchope per lord brougham 1842 8 cl f 700 720 british railways board v pickin 1974 1.
all er 609.
the latter had said there is no right to be heard before the making of legislation whether primary or delegated unless it is provided by statutes.
it was held.
the procedure for the imposition of the tax is legislative and not quasijudicial.
the right to object however seems to be given at the stage of proposals of the tax only as a concession to requirements of fairness even though the procedure is legislative and not quasi judicial.
it is an order for a compulsory sale.
when such a compulsory sale is required to be made under section 32f the question naturally arises what is the price to be paid for the commodity purchased.
section 33c provides for the ascertainment of the price.
it is further prescribed that different prices may be determined from time to time for different areas or for different factories or for different kinds of sugar.
xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx x as a federal court has recently pointed out there is no bright line between rule making and adjudication.
that is its purpose and end.
an adjudication on the other hand applies to specific individuals or situations.
the hathi committee noticed that in a country like india where general poverty and the wide disparities in levels of income between different sections existed it was particularly important to emphasise the social utility of the industry and the urgent need for extending as rapidly as possible certain minimum facilities in terms of preventive and curative medicines to the large mass of people both urban and rural.
order 1979 was made.
it was as follows.
on the basis of cost analysis in respect of those units maximum prices may be prescribed and all other units may be free to fix their prices within this ceiling.
paragraph 2a of the drugs.
formulation is defined as follows formulation means a medicine processed out of or containing one or more bulk drugs or drugs with or without the use of any pharmaceutical aids for internal or external use for or in the diagnosis treatment mitigation or prevention of disease in human beings or animals but shall not include i any bona fide ayurvedic including sidha or unani tibb systems of medicine ii any medicine included in the homoeopathic system of medicine 865 iii any substance to which the provisions of the drugs and cosmetics act 1940 xxiii of 1940 do not apply.
the distinction between an essential bulk drug included in the schedule and a bulk drug not so included in the schedule which was made in 1970 drugs prices control.
order was abandoned in the 1979 order.
bulk drugs were however broadly divided into indigenously manufactured bulk drugs imported bulk drugs and hulk drugs which were both manufactured indigenously as also imported.
free reserve itself is separately defined.
paragraph 4 is thus in the nature of an exception to paragraph 3.
retention price by its very definition pertains to individual manufacturers.
paragraph 10 prescribes a formula for calculating the retail price of formulations.
m u means make up referred to in para.
e d means excise duty.
paragraph 11 explains what mark up means.
paragraph 12 empowers the government to fix leader prices of formulations of categories.
i and ii specified in the third schedule.
paragraph 14 contains some general provisions regardingprices of formulations.
paragraph 15 empowers the government to revise prices of formulations.
bulk drugs constituting categories.
i and ii are enumerated in the first schedule.
bulk drugs constituting category iii are enumerated in the second schedule.
formulations constituting categories i ii and iii are enumerated in the third schedule.
to be furnished.
he urged that relevant information was required to be furnished and was indeed furnished by all the manufacturers in the prescribed form as required by paragraph 34 of the drugs prices control order.
it was only thereafter that notifications fixing the prices were issued.
if that was not done the remedy would become illusory.
nothing in the scheme of the drugs prices control.
order induces us to hold that price fixation under the drugs prices control.
order is to be made for the purposes of fixing the maximum price at which a bulk drug may be sold with a view to regulating its equitable distribution and making it available at a fair price.
however the interests of the manufacturers are not to be ignored.
the enquiry contemplated by paragraph 3 of the drug prices control.
order is an enquiry of the former character.
on the question of the scope of a review the learned counsel for the respondents invited our attention to vrajlal manilal co v union of india anr 1964 7 scr 97 1964 indlaw sc 194 shivaji nathubhai v union of india ors 1960 2 scr 775 1960 indlaw sc 430 maneka gandhi 1978 2 scr 621 1978 indlaw sc 212 swadeshi cotton mills 1981 2 scr 533 1981 indlaw sc 349 and liberty oil mills.
1984 3 scr 676 1984 indlaw sc 326.
in swadeshi cotton mills it was observed that in cases where owing to the compulsion of the fact situation or the necessity of taking speedy action no pre decisional hearing is given but the action is followed soon by a full post decisional hearing to the person affected there is in reality no exclusion of the audi alteram partem rule.
it is no adaptation of the rule to meet the situational urgency.
8 excluded the application of the principles of natural justice.
the court pointed out that it would be impermissible to interpret a statutory instrument to exclude natural justice unless the language of the instrument left no option to the court.
it may also be questioned on any ground on which a subordinate legislation may be questioned such as being contrary to constitutional or other statutory provisions.
it may be questioned on the ground of a denial of the right guaranteed by article 14 if it is arbitrary that is if either the guidelines prescribed for the determination are arbitrary or if even though the guidelines are not arbitrary the guidelines are worked in an arbitrary fashion.
there is no question before us that paragraph 3 prescribes any arbitrary guideline.
it was however submitted that the guidelines were not adhered to and that facts and figures were arbitrarily assumed.
there was no justification for the grievance that particulars were not furnished.
as already stated by us manufacturers of bulk drugs who claim to be affected by the drugs prices control.
indeed we find that the hearing given to the manufacturers is often protected.
we think that the question has to be decided with reference to the definition of free reserve in paragraph 2g of the control order and not on any assumed principle of accountancy.
b bad debts and provisions.
c donations and charities.
d loss gain on sale of assets.
e brokerage and commission.
f expenses not recognized by income tax authorities salary prequisities advertisements etc.
g adjustments relating to previous years.
similarly where expenses have been legitimately incurred and allowed by income tax authorities there was no justification for excluding those items of expenditure from the cost.
we do not agree with the submission.
there may be many items of business expenditure which may be allowed by income tax authorities as legitimate expenses but which can never enter the cost of production.
we do not see any force in the submission.
but as we perceive the public interest it is necessary that the price of formulation should be fixed close on the heels of the fixation of bulk drug price.
it is difficult to agree with these propositions.
but it does not follow that the notification fixing the maximum price must necessarily be struck down as obsolete by the mere passage of time.
we therefore confirm till further orders the interim order made by us on april 20 1981.
their interests have in no way been taken care of.
we do not agree with this submission.
though we see considerable force in the submission of shri diwan we think that the circumstances of the instant cases do justify the exercise of our discretion to condone the delay.
two important features have weighed with us in condoning the delay.
