this appeal is directed against the judgment and order of the high court of gujarat dated 28 2 1986 allowing the respondent 's writ petition and quashing order of discharge from service and directing his reinstatement in service.
the respondent joined service as technical assistant with the gujarat state electricity board hereinafter refined to as the board he was promoted to the post of deputy engineer.
while he was posted at surat as deputy engineer he was transferred to ukai subdivision under the order of the superintending engineer dated 29th march1974 pursuant to the order of transfer he was relieved from his duties at surat on 30th march1974 to enable him to join at ukai.
a division bench of the high court dismissed the appeal preferred by the appellants but it allowed the respondent 's appeal.
sh b k mehta advocate appearing for the appellants and sh.
vimal dave advocate appearing for the respondent were fully heard.
we expressed our view in the court and suggested to mr vimal dave counsel for the respondent that if he agreed the original writ petition of the respondent could be dismissed without directing him to refund the amount which he had already been paid by the appellants in pursuance to the orders of the high court and of this court as during the pendency of the appeal.
the hearing was adjourned to enable sh.
vimal dave to obtain instructions from the respondent.
we refused to hear the counsel as we had already completed hearing.
we refused to accede to his request as oral heating had already been completed and the matter had been adjourned only to enable the respondent 's counsel to obtain instructions.
the respondent lost his service as he refused to comply with the order of his transfer from one place to the other.
there is no dispute that the respondent was holding a transferable post and under the conditions of service applicable to him he was liable to be transferred and posted at any place within the state of gujarat.
the respondent had no legal or statutory right to insist for being posted at one particular place.
in fact during the tenure of his service in the board the respondent had been transferred from one place to another place several times.
in march1974 he was transferred from surat to ukai.
the distance between the two places as was stated before us during the hearing of the case is less than 50 kms.
he was relieved from his duties at surat on 30th march1974.
but he did not join at ukai till the impugned order of discharge was issued on may 271974 the.
march 301974 to may 271974.
the division bench of the high court held that no warning as contemplated by service regulation no 113 had been issued to the respondent nor he had been afforded any opportunity of showing cause before the impugned order of discharge was passed and consequently the order of discharge was null and void being contrary to service regulation no 113 itself.
in determining the question whether any warning was given to the respondent it is necessary to refer to the sequence of events and the correspondence which ensued between the appellants and the respondent.
in this situation the superintending engineer by his letter dated 18th april1974 directed the respondent to show cause as to why action should not be taken against him for disobeying the order of transfer and also for unauthorised absence from duty in breach of service regulation.
dated 18th april1974.
to shri a s pohani junior engineer ukai 37gurunagar society near jakat naka surat 3.
sub transfer from surat to ukai.
superintending engineer geb utran.
by that letter respondent stated that he was waiting for the decision of his representation made for reconsideration of his transfer from surat to ukai and therefore the question of his remaining on unauthorised leave was misconceived.
but even thereafter the respondent did not join his duties.
the division bench of the high court has held that since no warning was issued to the respondent action taken under service regulation no 113 was not in accordance with law.
this finding is wholly misconceived.
a warning need not be in any particular form.
the registered cover containing the letter dated 24 4 1974 was returned back by the postal authorities with an endorsement that the addressee refused to accept the same.
the respondent 's case was that no such registered letter was tendered to him by the postman nor he ever refused to accept the same.
we do not agree with the view taken by the division bench.
therefore even if the letter dated 24 4 1974 was not served on the respondent the order of discharge as contemplated by regulation no 113 is sustainable in law.
but even otherwise the division bench committed error in holding that the board had raised the question of service of the letter dated 24 4 1974 for the first time before the division bench in the letters patent appeal.
there is presumption of service of a letter sent under registered cover if the same is returned back with a postal endorsement that the addressee refused to accept the same.
no doubt the presumption is rebuttable and it is open to the party concerned to place evidence before the court to rebut the presumption by showing that the address mentioned on the cover was incorrect or that the postal authorities never tendered the registered letter to him or that there was no occasion for him to refuse the same.
in the instant case the respondent failed to discharge this burden as he failed to place material before the court to show that the endorsement made by the postal authorities was wrong and incorrect.
we are therefore of the opinion that the letter dated 24 4 1974 was served on the respondent and he refused to accept the same.
in view of the above discussion we therefore hold that the respondent 's failure to join his duties at ukai resulted in unauthorised absence and his failure to join his duties in spite of the repeated reminders and letters issued to him constituted sufficient valid ground for taking action under regulation no 113 we further hold that before issuing the order of discharge the respondent was not only warned but he was also afforded an opportunity to explain as to why disciplinary action should not be taken against him.
we accordingly allow the appeal set aside the order of the single judge as well as division bench and dismiss the respondent 's petition.
there would be no order as to costs.
