this civil appeal by special leave is directed against the judgment and decree dated 29th november1977 rendered by a single judge of the gujarat high court in second appeal no 348 of 1973which arose out of regular civil suit no 921 of 1966 filed in the court of joint civil judge baroda civil court by the appellant herein as plaintiff against respondents 1 and 2 herein.
defendants 1 and 2 for redemption of suit properties which were mortgaged as security for certain monies borrowed by the plaintiff from defendant l under two deeds of mortgage executed in the year 1961.
plaintiff filed the suit for redemption of the said mortgages in the year 1966 defendant 2brother of defendanti had been joined in that suit on the allegation that the latter was put in possession of mortgage properties by the former subsequent to the coming into existence of the mortgages.
it was also claimed therein that they had become owners of the said properties when the plaintiff in the year 1962 sold those properties to defendant 1 by receiving a sum of rs 4400 as consideration for the sale.
the civil court notwithstanding the defence of the defendants taken in their written statements that the suit had to be stayed for obtaining the finding on their claim of tenancy under the bt al act framed the issues in the suit on the basis of the pleadings of the parties and after trial recorded its findings thereon.
such findings were firstly that the defendants had failed to prove that the suit properties were sold in favour of defendant l subsequent to the giving of security of those properties in his favour under the mortgage deeds secondly that the defendants had failed to prove the past tenancy of the suit properties on its view that what was pleaded by them in the written statements was tenancy prior to the date of filing of the suit and thirdly that the mortgages of the suit properties were mortgages by conditional sale.
on the basis of findings so recorded by the civil.
court it also made a preliminary decree in favour of the plaintiff for redemption of the suit properties.
al act as it stood before its amendment at the time of filing of the suit and as it stood after its amendment after the filing of the suit.
consequently the learned single judge set aside the judgments and decrees of the trial court and the appellate court relating to the issue of tenancy raised by the defendants in the suit and remanded the case to the civil court trial court directing it to refer the issue of such tenancy to the mamlatdar baroda for his determination and to stay all further proceedings in the suit till he got the finding from the mamlatdar on that tenancy issue and thereafter to proceed to dispose of that suit in the light of that finding and the other findings recorded by the appellate court district judge.
no controversy is raised in this appeal as regards the findings of the civil court that the deeds of mortgage executed by the plaintiff in respect of the suit properties were mortgages by conditional sale.
in any event it was not the case of the plaintiff that defendant l was a tenant of the suit properties and hc surrendered his possession of the suit properties either expressly or impliedly and the possession so obtained by the plaintiff was re delivered to defendant l in pursuance of the mortgages by conditional sale executed in his favour.
even otherwise it was argued by him that the civil court before whom the plaintiff had filed the suit for redemption of the suit properties could not have driven the plaintiff to the forum of mamlatdar merely because the defendants had raised the plea that they were tenants of the suit properties agricultural lands.
in this regard support was sought from the decision of this court in raizada topandas and another v m s gorakhram gokalchand 1963 indlaw sc.
however learned counsel appearing for the defendants respondents sought to refute the arguments advanced on half of the plaintiff appellant.
bombay tenancy and agricultural lands act1948bombay tenancy and agricultural lands act1948.
85a i.
we shall now proceed to deal with the aforesaid questions.
question 1.
merger takes place when a lesser estate is merged or drowned in a greater estate.
lease hold held by a tenant or a lessee being a lesser estate and the right of reversion of the landlord lessor being a higher estate the lessee 's lease hold right in respect of the property merges in reversion when that right of reversion i e.
in the present case as has already been pointed out by us the plaintiff appellant did not claim that the defendants or any of them were in possession of the suit properties as tenants and there was a surrender by them of the possession either expressly or impliedly as would make the court to come to the conclusion that the possession of the suit properties with the defendants was surrendered by them pursuant to the mortgage by conditional sale executed in their favour.
if that be the position there can be no bar for the defendants to claim the right to continue in possession of the suit properties as tenants under the bt.
al act even if the plaintiff could obtain a decree for redemption of the suit properties which relief was sought in the suit.
the decision of this court in shah mathuradas case 1976 indlaw sc 400 supra and g appalaswamy case 1984 indlaw sc 314 supra sought to be relied upon by learned counsel for the appellant plaintiff in support of his arguments that there was a merger of the leasehold right of the tenant in the suit properties when he took mortgages of those properties from the landlord as would deny him the right to continue in possession of those properties as a tenant instead of supporting his argument would go against it as we shall presently point out.
this court held that the mortgage deed established beyond doubt that there was no subsistence or continuation of lease in that there was delivery of possession by the tenant to the landlord immediately before the mortgage and redelivery of possession to the tenant of the premises made by the landlord was pursuant to the mortgage as a mortgagee and not as a tenant.
secondly this court held that the appellant was not entitled to retain after redemption possession of the mortgage property by reason of his previous right to be in its possession as a tenant.
in the present case as we have pointed out earlier when no surrender of possession of the suit properties had taken place before the coming into existence of mortgages in favour of the lessor mortgagor when no redelivery of possession had been given pursuant to the mortgage to the tenant the decision under consideration can be of no assistance to the appellant.
since the following observations in the said case confirm the view we have taken on non merger they can be excerpted for a merger to arise it is necessary that a lesser estate and a higher estate should merge in one person at one and the same time and in the same right and no interest in the property should remain outside.
in the case of a lease the estate that is in the lessor is a reversion.
in the case of a mortgage the estate that is outstanding is the equity of redemption of the mortgagor.
coming to g appalaswamy case 1984 indlaw sc 314 supra which considered the question whether a sitting tenant who took property by a possessory or usufructuary mortgage in his favour was liable to deliver physical possession upon redemption to the mortgagor.
former lessor this court dealing with the said question said that all depends upon whether there was an implied surrender of the lessee 's rights when the usufructuary mortgage was executed in his favour by the lessor mortgagor and only if an implied surrender of lossee 's rights could be inferred then the mortgagor would be entitled to have delivery of physical possession upon redemption but not otherwise.
dealing with the question of non merger this court approved the ratio of the decision in shah mathuradas 1976 indlaw sc 400 supra thus in our view there can be no merger of a lease and a mortgage even where the two transactions are in respect of the same property.
it is well settled that for a merger to arise it is necessary that lesser estate and a higher estate should merge in one person at one and the same time and in the same right and no interest in the property should remain outstanding.
question 2.
the rents control actthe court of small causes.
bombay had exclusive jurisdiction in dealing with the suit out of which the appeal had arisen.
the agreement was to remain in force for a period of four years.
the further plea taken in the written statement by the appellants was that as the question involved in the suit related to the possession of premises as between a landlord and his tenant the court of small causes bombay alone had jurisdiction to try the suit.
the appeal in this court had arisen out of the finding recorded on that issue and in dealing with that matter this court had to consider the true effect of sub section 1 of section 28 of the rents control act to find whether it means that a defendant if raises a claim or question as to the existence of relationship of landlord and tenant between him and plaintiff the jurisdiction of the civil court is ousted even though the plaintiff pleaded that there is only exclusive jurisdiction to decide the case with the court of small causes bombay.
if he establishes the correctness of his facts he will get his relief from the forum chosen.
if it is found on a trial on the merits so far as this issue of jurisdiction goes that the facts alleged by the plaintiff are not true and the facts alleged by the defendants are true and that the case is not cognizable by the court there will be two kinds of orders to be passed.
consequently the judgment and order under appeal does not call for our interference.
in the result we dismiss this appeal with costs.
appeal dismissed.
