the three appellants are the state of west bengal in appeal arising out of slp c no 401 of 1993the state fishery development corporation ltd in appeal arising out of slp c no 13516 of 1992 and bansilal farms in appeal arising out of slp c no 13314 of 1992.
the respondents are the members of one sarkar family in the city of calcutta.
the dispute centres around a fishery called nalban fishery.
a suit for partition was filed by one of the co sharers of said sarkar family in the high court of calcutta on 3 9 1955which was registered as suit no 2539 of 1955 the schedule of properties included the disputed nalban fishery.
the appeal to the division bench was preferred against the aforesaid order of dismissal which was registered as f m a no 126 of 1970 the division bench dismissed the appeal by its order dated 5 7 1971 sarkar family moved this court in slp c no 1452 of 1972 by order dated 17 11 1972.
this court dismissed the special leave petition.
the appeal arising out of the petition suit bearing suit no 2539 of 1955 which had been registered as appeal no 200 of 1960 was finally disposed of by the division bench and the said order was assailed in this court in slp c nos 5370 5371 of 1978 the said two appeals arising out of the said two special leave petitions were disposed of by order dated 18 4 1979 on the basis of a compromise arrived at between the parties on intervention of shri ashok sen who appearing for one of the parties but it was indicated in the order that the state 's right in relation to the fisheries will not be affected by the decree in question.
this court further ordered we again wish to re emphasize that the terms of the decree shall not effect the rights of the state of west bengal in any manner whatsoever to the fisheries in question if they have vested in state under the provisions of the west bengal estate acquisition act of 1953 act x of 1954.
the court had also further directed that the collector will be the receiver in respect of the fisheries which has not already been vested in the state and whose possession has not already been taken over by the state.
pursuant to the aforesaid order appointing collector 24 parganas as receiver.
bengal was in fact in possession of the said fishery.
the receiver therefore intimated to the registrar of this court the mistake committed by him in his earlier report and after taking advice from the senior counsel expressed apology to this court for the mistake committed in the earlier report while the matter stood thus in relation to the aforesaid nalban fishery the government of west bengal handed over the possession of the said nalban fishery to the director of inland fisheries state fisheries development corporation for undertaking fisheries development scheme.
the aforesaid corporation issued an advertisement for auctioning the nalban fishery for a boating complex.
mr harish salve the learned senior counsel for the state of west bengal.
s s ray the learned senior counsel appearing for bansilal farms and mr g ramaswamy the learned senior counsel appearing for the state fishery development corporation ltd contended that a compromise decree between the parties in a suit for partition will not in army way affect the rights of the state in respect of the fisheries whether such rights the state acquires by virtue of an order of requisition under the requisition act or by virtue of any other statutory provisions under which the fisheries right vest in the state.
under the circumstances the said receiver rightly intimated this court about the mistake committed by him and re delivered possession of nalban fishery to the state of west bengal.
the calcutta high court both the learned single judge as well as the division bench committed serious error of law in directing the receiver to take possession of nalban fishery from the state of west bengal and deliver the vacant possession of the same to the members of the sarkar family.
gupta also contended that the order of the high court of honourable mr justice deepak kumar sen dated 23 9 1980 directing the receiver to allow m s ghose and saha surveyors to make proper demarcation in the nalban fishery dividing the same in two lots and thereafter carry out the directions of the supreme court in respect thereof has become final the same not having been challenged by the state of west.
that the tank fishery vested with the state of west bengal.
in view of the rival submissions at the bar the first question that arises for consideration is whether in the suit for partition amongst the members of the sarkar family which was ultimately disposed of by a compromise decree in this court nalban fishery had been allotted to some members of the sarkar family and whether such decree would affect the rights of the state and bind the state of west.
it is also not disputed that the state of west bengal though was not a party to the suit but in course of proceeding before this court by an order of the court the said state of west bengal was impleaded as a party.
the suit ultimately no doubt was disposed of on the basis of a compromise arrived at between the parties but the court took sufficient care in disposing of the appeals on the terms of compromise by observing that the state has substantial interest with regard to fisheries rights covered by the litigation and nothing in the decree will not affect the rights of the state of west.
further while directing the receiver to handover possession of the various fisheries covered by the final decree to the parties to whom they have been allotted under the decree this court also protected the interest of the state by observing we made it quite clear that this will not in any manner prejudice or affect the right of the state to its claim over the fisheries under the west bengal acquisition act 1955 west bengal act 1 of 1954 or under any other statute.
bengal ca nt be bound down by the so called allotment of fisheries in favour of some members of the sarkar family under the compromise decree in question.
the next question that arises for consideration is whether the receiver appointed by this court was at all entitled to take possession of the nalban fishery pursuant to the order of this court or the nalban fishery could not have been taken possession by the receiver and therefore the second receiver rightly corrected the mistake committed by his predecessor.
the successor receiver in the circumstances therefore was fully justified in bringing it to the notice of this court by giving a second report indicating therein that his predecessor had erroneously taken the possession of nalban fishery which is in contravention of the directions of this court dated 18 4 1979 and for which the receiver offered his unconditional apology.
the receiver appointed by a court is an officer of the court.
the next question that arises for consideration is whether the order of honourable mr justice deepak kumar sen dated 6 10 1980 would operate as res judicata since the state did not challenge the same.
does not in any way take away rights of the state of west.
bengal which is otherwise protected by the supreme court while passing the compromise decree.
the direction of the learned single judge on the other hand is to carry out the directions of the supreme court in respect of the nalban fishery.
in view of our earlier conclusion that the rights and interest of the state of west bengal was not in any way be affected by the so called partition and allotment of the nalban fishery inter se amongst the members of the sarkar family the said order dated 63 10 1980 passed by the learned single judge of the calcutta high court will not stand on the way of the state in claiming and putting forth its interest and right over the nalban fishery.
the contention of mr gupta appearing for the respondents therefore cannot be sustained.
the next question that arises for consideration is what is the effect of the amendment to the west bengal land reforms act which was amended in the year 1986 but with retrospective effect.
since we have been informed that the writ petition challenging the amended act is still pending in the calcutta high court we may observe that our conclusion hereunder in relation to applicability of the amended provisions of the west bengal land reforms act so far as nalban fishery is concerned would be subject to the constitutionality itself to be decided by the high court in the pending writ petition.
in view of our aforesaid conclusions the impugned directions of the learned single judge as well as of the division bench are set aside and these appeals are allowed.
there will be no order as to costs.
order accordingly.
