the accused appellant has been held guily of of fences punishable under section 302 and section 3762f of indian penal code.
the trial court sentenced the appellant to death under section 302 ipc and to undergo rigorous imprisonment for life and pay a fine of rs 10000 in default of payment to undergo further r i for 3 years under section 3762f ipc.
while the learned additional sessions judge made a reference to the high court for confirmation of death sentence under section 366 cr.
the criminal reference and the criminal appeal were heard by a division bench of rajasthan high court.
the accused appellant has filed this appeal by special leave.
a noose was also found around her neck.
offence was registered under sections 302 and 376 ipc.
the inves tigation commenced.
it was found that the victim was brutally ravished and thereafter killed.
the vaginal injuries clotted blood and injuries to post fornix were indica tive of rape having been committed on the victim.
the clothes were removed from the dead body and seized.
slides of vaginal swab were prepared for cyto chemical analysis for blood and seminal stains.
the accused was arrested on 3 4 1991 on suspicion.
on 4 4 1991 he was medically examined.
there was no injury on his private parts or on any other part of body.
the clothes so recovered were sent to forensic science laboratory.
according to report exbt.
human semen was detected on underwear.
the prosecution examined 21 witnesses in all.
it is not necessary here to extensively deal with the evidence adduced by the prosecution.
suffice it to observe that there is no direct evidence connecting the accused with the offences charged.
the prosecution case depends on circumstantial evidence.
this court held as under in a case based on circumstantial evidence the circumstances from which the conclusion of guilt is to be drawn have not only to be fully established but also that all the circumstances so established should be of a conclusive nature and consistent only with the hypoth esis of the guilt of the accused.
it needs no reminder that legally estab lished circumstances and not merely indignation of the court can form the basis of conviction and the more serious the crime the greater should be the care taken to scrutinize the evidence lest suspicion takes the place of proof.
in dhananjoy chatterjee 's case 1994 indlaw sc 1743 supra the decision of this court in sharad birdhichand sarda v state of maharashtra 1984 4 scc 116 1984 indlaw sc 432 was relied on.
she stated that accompanied by phukla another young girl a cousin of hers and s the deceased she had gone to purchase balloon from the shop of goma.
it is this testimony which has been relied upon by the trial court as also by the high court as the evidence of last seen together.
the witness is a child witness of very tender age and examined in the court almost a year after the date of the incident.
we have very carefully read the statement of this witness.
there is nothing in her statement to suggest that what she is narrating in the court is the story of a day soon before the date and time of the incident or the date on which dead body of s was found.
from the evi dence of shalu pw7 such an inference can not be drawn.
there is something mysterious about the discovery of shalu as a witness to the incident.
s has died.
the third girl who was with s and shalu has not been examined either in the court or during investigation.
harish chand sharma the investigating officer was specifically asked how the name of this witness came to his knowledge during investigation.
abnormal conduct of accused kalu ram pw5 stated that two or three days after the date of dead body of s having been found.
he and santosh.
pw9 had gone to see a movie in a cinema hall where the accused was employed as a gate keeper.
thereafter the wit nesses went to see movie in the cinema hall.
during cross examination kalu ram stated that the accused was his neighbour previously known to him.
it appears that to begin with the death of s was a blind murder and the police was clue less about the likely offender.
he did not remember and was therefore not in a position to tell how many number of times the accused subhash was called for interrogation or making enquiries.
however the accused was not detained and was sent back.
placed in such situation if a villager unaware of the law happens to ask a person who he feels knows the things better than what he himself does as to what would be the period of incarceration to be suffered by any person for such an offence the impulse for inquiry may be outcome of a feeling of nervousness or mere inquisitiveness such an enquiry is not necessarily suggestive of the working of a criminal mind.
what happened to these clothes is not known.
insofar as baniyan is concerned it has no stains of any type on it and therefore its discovery and seizure is meaningless and irrelevant.
so far as the underwear is concerned the investigation suffers from another infirmity also.
blood sam ple of the accused was not collected and therefore not grouped.
sc 765 1980 indlaw sc 47.
another circumstantial evidence relied on was that a stain of semen was found on the under pant of the accused.
in diameter on the appellant 's pant and of a dried stain of semen on his under pant were circumstances for too feeble to establish that the appellant raped or murdered the victim.
in the present case the age of the accused was about 21 years at the time of the incident.
false plea of alibi.
p c and nowhere suggested during cross examination of prosecution witnesses that at the time of the incident he was at a place wherefrom he could not have reached the place of the offence on the date and at the time of its commission.
what is being treated as the plea of alibi by the trial court and the high court is this.
this piece of evidence was put to the accused during his statement under section 313 cr.
literal meaning of alibi is elsewhere.
in law this term is used to express that defence in a criminal prosecution where the party accused in order to prove that he could not have committed the crime charged against him offers evidence that he was in a different place at that time.
the plea of alibi postulates the physical impossibility of the presence of the accused at the scene of offence by reason of his presence at another place.
see law lexicon p ramnath iyer second edition p 87.
v absconding of the accused was the accused absconding at all.
according to harish chand sharma the accused was arrested on 3 4 1991 vide exbt.
p21 at behror which is a place situated at a distance of about 30 35 kms.
from village kotputli where the incident had taken place.
though the accused is alleged to have been arrested at behror but the memo of arrest was not prepared at behror it was prepared at village kotputli.
thus he was always available to the police.
there is no evidence adduced by the prosecution to hold that soon after the date of the offence the accused was found missing from his residence or the place of his employment and was not available though searched at the place or places where normally he ought to have been.
in shankarlal gyarasilal dixit 's case 1980 indlaw sc 47 supra this court cautioned human nature is too willing when faced with brutal crimes to spin stories out of strong suspicions.
there are clueless crimes committed.
such offences put to test the wits of an investigating officer.
the ends which the administration of cirminal justice serves are not achieved merely by catching hold of the culprit.
the appeals are allowed.
conviction of the accused appellant under sections 302 and 3762f of indian penal code is set aside.
he is acquitted of the charges framed against him.
appeals allowed.
