these two appeals involve identical questions and therefore are disposed of by this common judgment after noticing the factual position so far as they are relevant.
the appellants question correctness of the judgment rendered by a division bench of the madras high court which held that the withdrawal of benefits extended to the appellants as subsidy was in order.
the appellants questioned legality or the g o ms No 989 dated 1 9 1988 directing discontinuance of purchase tax exemption in case of mills which exceeded the ceiling of rs 300 lakes during the period of five years and government letter dated 28 12 1988 which made the aforesaid g o ms No 989 of 1 9 1988 operative retrospectively from 1 4 1988.
the state questioned correctness of the judgment before the high court which as noted above held the g o ms and the govt.
letter to be valid reversing the conclusions arrived at by the tribunal.
the judgment forms subject matter of challenge in these appeals.
in support of the appeals the primary stands raised by the appellants are.
the doctrines of promissory estoppel and legitimate expectation were applicable to the facts of the case.
in any event before withdrawal of the benefits no opportunity of hearing was granted.
the appellants were taken by surprise by production of materials which were not even disclosed to the appellants.
in other words there was clear violation of the principles of natural justice.
in any event the retrospective withdrawal of the benefit on the basis of an executive decision is impermissible.
in fact the government of tamil nadu vide g o ms.
No 1294 dated 24 10 1975 granted exemption from purchase tax on sugarcane in favour of sugar mills established in co operative and public sectors in the form of annual subsidy equivalent to purchase tax on sugarcane.
the commercial productions were started in case of appellants in c a No 86062002 i e ponni sugars erode ltd v govt.
on 22 1 1986.
the high court recorded the following findings on the factual aspects.
no inducement was made in the government orders to establish the units.
the respondents have not acted on the basis of the government orders for establishing the units.
the order granting subsidy can be withdrawn in public interest.
the government has exercised their right to modify the scheme in the interest of public revenue.
the stand taken by the present appellants before the tribunal and the high court was rejected.
estoppel is a rule of equity which has gained new dismensions in recent years.
a new class of estoppel has come to be recognized by the courts in this country as well as in england.
therein the court ruled that the principle stated in high trees 's case supra is that where one party has by his words or conduct made to the other a promise or assurance which was intended to affect the legal relations between them and to be acted on accordingly then once the other party has taken him at his word and acted on it the party who gave the promise or assurance can not afterwards be allowed to revert to the previous legal relationship as if no such promise or assurance had been made by him but he must accept their legal relations subject to the qualification which he himself has so introduced even though it is not supported in point of law by any consideration but only by his word.
all e r 657 1955 1 w l r 761.
so far as this court is concerned it invoked the doctrine in indo afghan agencies 's case 1967 indlaw sc 411 supra in which is was inter alia laid down that even though the case would not fall within the terms of section 115 of the indian evidence act 1872 in short the evidence act which enacts the rule of estoppel it would still be open to a party who had acted on a representation made by the government to claim that the government should be bound to carry out the promise made by it even though the promise was not recorded in the form of a formal contract as required by article 299 of the constitution.
see century spinning co v ulhasnagar municipal council air 1971.
sc 1021 1970 indlaw sc 341 radhakrishna v state of bihar air 1977.
in the backdrop let us travel a little distance into the past to understand the evolution of the doctrine of promissory estoppel.
this principle has been evolved by equity to avoid injustice.
it is nether in the realm of contract nor in the realm of estoppel.
if any concession has been given it can be withdrawn at any time and no time limit should be insisted upon before it was withdrawn.
in kasinka trading and anr v union of india and anr.
1995 1 scc 274 1994 indlaw sc 2183.
the doctrine of legitimate expectation has an important place in the developing law of judicial review.
it is generally agreed that legitimate expectation gives the applicant sufficient locus standi for judicial review and that the doctrine of legitimate expectation to be confined mostly to right to a fair hearing before a decision which results in negativing a promise or withdrawing an undertaking is taken.
see union of india and others.
v hindustan development corporation and others air 1994.
sc 9981993 indlaw sc 1085.
a question whether the impugned action is arbitrary or not is to be ultimately answered on the facts and circumstances of a given case.
but there has to be a word of caution.
something overwhelming must appear before the court will intervene.
that is and ought to be a difficult onus for an applicant to discharge.
the courts are not very good at formulating or evaluating policy.
on the contrary curial views of policy have been subjected to stringent criticism.
the point to note is that the thing is not unreasonable in the legal sense merely because the court thinks it to be unwise.
if it is a question of policy even by ways of change of old policy the courts can not intervene with the decision.
in a given case whether there are such facts and circumstances giving rise to legitimate expectation would primarily be a question of fact.
as was observed in punjab communications ltd v union of india of others air 1999 sc 1801 1999 indlaw sc 1548 the change in policy can defeat a substantive legitimate expectation if it can be justified on wednesbury reasonableness.
how significant is the statement that today is tomorrows yesterday.
the present is as we experience it the past is a present memory and future is a present expectation.
for legal purposes expectation is not same as anticipation.
it is a well meant caution.
the caution particularly in the changing scenario becomes all the more important.
as noted above the ultimate test is whether on the touchstone of reasonableness the policy decision comes out unscathed.
reasonableness of restriction is to be determined in an objective manner and from the standpoint of interest of the general public and not from the standpoint of the interests of persons upon whom the restrictions have been imposed or upon abstract consideration.
in determining whether there is any unfairness involved the nature of the right alleged to have taken infringed the underlying purpose of the restriction imposed the extent and urgency of the evil sought to be remedied thereby the disproportion of the imposition the prevailing condition at the relevant time enter into judicial verdict the reasonableness of the legitimate expectation has to be determined with respect to the circumstances relating to the trade or business in question.
see parbhani transport co operative society ltd v regional transport authority aurangabad and others air 1960.
sc 9011960 indlaw sc 472 shree meenakshi mills ltd v union of india air 1974.
article 166 of the constitution deals with the conduct of government business.
the said provision reads as follows 166.
conduct of business of the government of a state 1 all executive action of the government of a state shall be expressed to be taken in the name of the governor.
further is no particular formula of words required for compliance with article 1661.
a constitution bench in r chitralekha etc.
while clause 1 is in relation to the mode of expression clause 2 lays down the ways in which the order is to be authenticated.
similar view was expressed in m s pawan alloys and casting pvt ltd meerut etc.
v u p state electricity board and others air 1997.
sc 3910 1997 indlaw sc 1364 and in sales tax officers and anr.
v shree durga oil mills and anr.
1999 1 scc 573 1997 indlaw sc 1219 it was further held that the government could change its industrial policy if the situation so warranted and merely because the resolution was announced for a particular period it did not mean that the government could not amend and change the policy under any circumstances.
in view of the factual position recorded by the high court that at the point of time the appellants units were set up and the commercial production started there was no assurance or promise.
the doctrine of promissory estoppel had no application to the facts of the case at that stage.
we find no substance in the plea that before a policy decision is taken to amend or alter the promise indicated in any particular notification the beneficiary was to be granted an opportunity of hearing.
such a plea is clearly unsustainable.
the question of legitimate expectation arises according to the appellants after the benefits were granted by the concerned g o ms.
as noted above no specific grounds or reasons were indicated to justify the withdrawal in the affidavits filed before the tribunal or the high court as the case may be.
as the correctness of factual basis justifying withdrawal is in issue fair play certainly warranted grant of opportunity to the appellants to present its side of the picture.
the high court has not dealt with the issue.
the same also needs to be examined.
above being the position decision of the high court by placing reliance on the files to hold that the withdrawal was justified is not tenable in law and in the fitness of things the high court should hear the matter afresh and taken decision on those two issues.
we direct that the state government if it so chooses shall file its further counter affidavits before the high court within six weeks from today indicating the reasons which warranted the withdrawal of the benefits extended.
the plea of the appellants regarding legitimate expectation shall be considered by the high court in the light of materials to be placed by the respondents by affidavits as directed above.
we make it clear that we have not expressed any opinion on the factual aspects except indicating the principles underlying legitimate expectation.
whether the same is permissible in law has to be decided by the high court.
to the aforesaid limited extent the matter is remitted to the high court for fresh consideration.
the appeals are disposed of accordingly without any order as to costs.
appeals disposed of.
